[{"Title":"The Opposite of Pleasantville","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Did you ever notice that if you were to show a film to after dinner friends, all too often what you bring out is a work that might not make a list of your personal top ten favorite movies? This is one of those films. Very postwar early 50's, but a 1950's Donna Reed would have been lost in. It truly is the opposite of Pleasantville.Hubert Selby's dark vision of the common man is woven around several characters in a Brooklyn neighborhood. A factory worker called Big Joe is played by Burt Young. Instinctively brutal yet pathetically naive, he wanders through his Brooklyn neighborhood functioning at the most elemental level reinforced only by an inherited value system to which he is single-mindedly loyal. Jennifer Jason Leigh plays a whore whose timeline for thoughts of her future stretches out only several hours. She gets by in life rolling drunks whose tolerance for liquor is less than hers, or giving sex to those who outlast her. A soldier soon to be shipped out takes her to Manhattan for his last few stateside days and falls in love with her. Tralala (Leigh's character) recognizes the attendant lust but has no clue about the implications of his love. As she sees him off, the Lieutenant hands her an envelope. Tra's face lights up as her vision of the order in life (she gives him sex, he has a good time, he gives her money) seems to have been reaffirmed. When the envelope turns out to contain a lengthy love letter she doesn't become angry or disappointed, just confused.In addition to Leigh and Young, powerful performances are turned in by Jerry Orbach (the corrupt union boss), Stephen Lang (the closet homosexual strike-line foreman), Stephen Baldwin (a street punk), Ricki Lake (Big Joe's very pregnant daughter), and Alexis Arquette (the teen-age transvestite).The soundtrack is excellent and unobtrusive and Uli Edel's direction insightful. You need a strong stomach to watch it and quite a bit of dedication to find it, but it's well worth the effort. "},{"Title":"A GEM OF A MOVIE!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"38 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Last Exit to Brooklyn is a great flick.  It's brutal, dark, funny as heck at times, and in the end uplifting.  Watching this movie it was hard to imagine this was based on a book from the 50's.  A book which explores homosexuality, prostitution, sexual confusion would seem to be almost unheard of subjects in the uptight, Leave It To Beaver 1950's.  People who put down this film don't know what they're talking about.  The author of the book this movie was based on said himself he thought this was one great adaptation of his novel.  And he was sure right.  Folks who can handle the dark, brutal films of David Lynch, the Coen Brothers and Tarantino, Scorsese, Kubrick, Hartley and Fosse will dig this movie.  But if You've Got Mail is your idea fo a great rental, you won't like it a bit.  It's just as well, a lot of great, cool films aren't for everyone. "},{"Title":"Inspired, epic vision of a dark world  is an unacknowledged classic","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember my intense eagerness to see this film. I wasn't entirely sure why at the time but when I finally saw it in 1990 I was devastated and soon addicted to this sad tale of city life spiralling out of control.  Its a film with an epic quality and a grand, sweeping style that turns the city scape into a character in itself. This was Uli Edel's (as he was then known) classic and it remains  a remarkably strong film.  Its not pretty and doesn't hold back in revealing the light and dark of its characters.  Brutal it may be, but there is something vital and alive seething in this movie with anger and pain. Its source is Hubert Selby Jr's  novel. I believe its a superior adaptation.The film is based around a union strike which threatens to cripple the city of Brooklyn in the 1950s. The film focuses several characters; Harry, the troubled union leader struggling to come to terms with his desires for other men and his  gender-bending lover against the anger, aggression and hypocrisy of  the era; a woman, TraLaLa, who sells her body for money but finds herself committing the ultimate crime of her profession by falling for a client - an army man destined to hurt her; a family with a daughter pregnant out of wedlock; a gang of aimless young men hungry  for trouble; and a young teen looking for love in TraLaLa.Its a film full of fascinating performances which reinforce the greatness of this film. Jennifer Jason Leigh burst into the spotlight with her startling performance as TraLaLa. She embodies the role with unceasing honesty and vigour. It is her  late scenes in the film which rip at the heart, especially when she finds compassion in an unlikely source at the worst of moments.  Her portrayal doesn't seek sympathy - on the contrary Jennifer Jason Leigh gets deep inside the cruel and manipulative character to reveal the hope beneath without a false note. Peter Dobson, Stephen Baldwin are a brilliant combination as the thugs and Alexis Arquette is remarkable as their taunted worshipper, Georgette.  Ricki Lake, Sam Rockwell and Stephen lang also excel in a great ensemble film.I can still picture vividly the majesty and intensity of the strike  riot and the water spraying at the wire fence as strikers confront the police.There are many great scenes such as this which combined with striking performances and an unflinching script and score make Last Exit to Brooklyn a modern masterpiece. This is a highly underrated film, mainly because of the view that the subject matter is too seamy, grotesque and extreme. And there is no doubt this is a confronting, violent and provocative film experience. Unfortunately, because of this widely heralded view, many people are missing out on an unacknowledged classic. Don't miss out. "},{"Title":"A brave attempt at difficult material","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After being blown away by the film version of Requiem for a Dream, I recently began reading some of Selby's books. I started with The Room and moved on to Last Exit to Brooklyn. Tonight I watched the film.I think it's very unfortunate that people have criticized it here for exactly the qualities that make it unique compared to most American films. Yes, it's dark, and yes, there are not always clear resolutions to every character's part of the story. Those are qualities present in Selby's book and it would have been a shame for the filmmakers to abandon them, just as it would have been a shame for Aronofsky to cave to the pressures to find a happier ending for his film of Requiem...As a reader of the book I think those negative comments are even more misguided, because the screenwriter did quite a bit to try to make the material more accessible for the viewing audience. He intertwined what are essentially separate stories (the book is more like a collection of short stories around related themes than a traditional novel), and found what was probably the happiest ending possible given the material. The book doesn't end on the relief of the end of the strike, but finishes with an amazing coda that contains characters like Abraham, a man who spends money on clothes and his car but won't cough up to buy vitamins for his malnourished children.My one big complaint about the screenplay was the treatment of Harry Black's character. In the book he is a largely ineffectual blowhard who is laughed at by almost everyone around him, but in the film he is almost heroic at times, leaping into the middle of the confrontation at the picket line. I think his descent is more credible in the book, but Selby was also able to get inside Harry's head on paper in a way that's difficult to translate into film.Overall I think this film is a very excellent adaptation of extremely difficult material, and I recommend it to anyone who is willing to watch a story about the pain and suffering that happens in everyday life without the Hollywood gloss. "},{"Title":"A Dark and Impressive View of the Other Side of North America in the 50's","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In 1952, a panoramic view of the other side of North America is presented through the life of different characters and their dramatic stories, having Brooklyn in common. Tralala (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is a prostitute, connected with a violent street gang composed of small time crooks. They swindle most of Tralala clients, stealing their money. She meets a young lieutenant from Idaho, who falls in love with her. The labor union is on strike against the employers, placing picket against the trucks and protesting in front of the factory. American soldiers are again fighting in another war, this time against Korea. Maybe the only missing point in this film is the declared racism of those times. This sad, depressive and violent movie is another great work of Uli Edel, mainly known by `Christiane F'. The cast has amazingly performances, and the scene when Tralala is raped by dozens of men in an abandoned car is one of the most strong I have ever seen in a movie. I agree with the words of IMDB User Comments `Great film, but not a piece of entertainment'. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) `Noites Violentas no Brooklin' (`Violent Nights in the Brooklyn')  "},{"Title":"Powerful drama","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Last Exit to Brooklyn (1989) is based on the book by Hubert Selby Jr. about a group of working class during a labour strike in early 1950's in the gritty streets of Brooklyn. German Uli Edel directed this and Desmond Nakano wrote the screenplay. Stephen Lang plays Harry Black, the leader of the strike unit and Jennifer Jason Leigh is Tralala, a lost soul who works as a hooker for the various soldiers and other drunken males that use the services of the hookers drinking beer and acting dirty. The film explores the forms of love and how desperate we are for it, because living without it is not too easy or even possible as it belongs to being a human being.The film opens with a line from the Bible which thickens the theme of the film and the above thing I wrote. Soon we get introduced to the main characters who don't seem to be too happy. Harry doesn't care about his wife and child but seems to be very attracted by a sensual and very attractive transvestite who lives with other transvestites in their own apartment while the straight prostitutes are mainly in the streets. This relationship between Harry and the transvestite(s) is very great and emotional and depicts the nature of love and caring as it doesn't always involve just different sexes together. Just watching Harry's eyes when he first sees his new interest in the street shows how powerful cinema can be without one single word.Another important character is of course Tralala and she is also involved in the film's harrowing and almost unbearably sadistic and ugly end scene that finally (or what happens after that) makes the film a very strong experience. She is completely lost even though she meets a nice sailor who truly falls in love with her even though Tralala doesn't understand it at once. She understands it during the end scene as well as the meaning of the crying boy she first gets to meet during the act. Last Exit to Brooklyn explores love and caring between human beings and how strong it can be. Tralala wouldn't survive without the motorcycle boy, or she would live the rest of her life in pure emptiness and void. The film handles also violence and weak human nature desperate for sex and other of his instincts. The violence is very harsh and off putting and the film's view of life is dark to say the least. Violence is here as unjustified and brutal as in real life, too, and maybe that's why so many seem to dislike the film and its honesty saying it is unpleasant and repellent. The sets are very impressive and the atmosphere in this film is all the time like the actors could any minute start singing and dancing their lines! This creates also a very strong feel of danger and clock ticking as the workers and strikers wait for the decision by the authorities and it is like it is night all the time. The film feels like a depiction of the world's last day that still may not be the last but no one knows it yet for sure.Equally great with the photography and sets is the music by Mark Knopfler. The beautiful theme is played during the film restrainedly and it makes the strong events and situations even stronger, as always a great soundtrack does. The very conclusion is pretty optimistic and again the music makes it look even brighter and hopeful. Some characters didn't manage to learn before it was too late, but at least those who did have a chance for a better tomorrow.The major negative sides in the film are in the occasional restlessness as the writer tried to give us more information than it was necessary. I mean mostly the scenes involving Burt Young character's family tragedy with all its screaming and shouting and crying. These scenes are not too powerful but more irritating as they could have been different. The characters' motivations are not always clear and sometimes they seem to develop too fast. What they tried to express through screaming and horrible noise should have been done more aesthetically and with the tools of the art and much more effectively.Last Exit to Brooklyn is a powerful, challenging and at the end, beautiful film about the most important and universal things in life and about humanity, and it is also a great film visually. This is very powerful drama and only few steps from being a nearly perfect masterpiece. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Violent slice-of-life that lingers in the memory","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Working class life in 1950's Brooklyn is disrupted by a strike.One of these films that seems about nothing in the explaining (the ups and downs of the roughhouse working-class), but is a very powerful piece in the watching and highly recommended.The film reminded me of an X rated version of American Graffiti where people go about their ordinary lives, but somehow, we become fascinated. While actually shot in West German (when there was one) there are too many real NY character actors for us to notice. There is fair amount of stupidity and leaching. The male hustler and the whore stick in your mind longer, but the working class morals of all the characters are well observed. Certain scenes actually play no real role in the plot, but add to the feel of time and place.A lot of people will be shocked by this movie. It is brutally frank and at times violent, but it is never just put there for entertainment. This is an adult picture dealing with adult themes and adult lives. I found it quite hard to watch at times myself, but I think it is an important film and no insult to the classic Selby book which inspired it. "},{"Title":"The Honeymooners It Isn't","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Harry, Stephen Lange the union shop steward who's in good with the president of the dock workers union, Boyce, Jerry Orbach,In that he has a union expense account which he uses to finance his secret life. Married to his wife Mary, Maria Danziger, Harry goes out to expensive bars and nightclubs with high-class transvestites that he picks up.Seeing that Harry is abusing that privilege Boyce stops it and makes Harry pay back the money that he took from the union treasury out of his paycheck. Sick and depressed Harry gets himself drunk one night and tries to have his way with one of the local neighborhood boys. Which leads to the boys friends brutally beating Harry to the point where he was within an inch of his life from being dead and ending up being literally crucified in an empty back-lot; This is the level of brutality in this movie. A violent brutal and at the same time shockingly honest movie about life in Brooklyn New York circa 1952. During a long and savage dock strike on Brooklyn's heavily industrialized Bush Terminal waterfront. The film is truly disturbing with a shocking and vicious gang rape inter-cut with a baby shower for one of the unions members Big Joe, Burt Young, daughters child at the local union hall. These are just two of many such jolting scenes in the movie. An excellent cast with Stephen Lang, as the union shop steward who's problems are more then just the job that he has on the docks. With Jennifer Jason Leigh, as the bar girl who likes to date and then roll servicemen with the help of her friends to get their money and ends up paying for what she did in more ways then one. With Jerry Orbach as the feisty and two fisted union president who sticks to his guns and in the end gets what he wants for himself and his union members and many many more good actors and the parts that they play in the movie.Last Exit to Brooklyn is a very hard movie to watch but if you want a film with brutal realism and fine acting and photography as well as a story that will grip you right from the start and hold on to you long after the movie is over this is it. "},{"Title":"Emotionally draining... in a really good way","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The way the golden era really was. The statement on the state of the 1950s presented in Last Exit is shocking, enlightening, and well supported by beautiful performances of an ensemble cast. Jennifer Jason Leigh as Tralala, a hooker WITHOUT a heart of gold (for a change) and Burt Young as a union hard hitter coming to terms with his sexuality are most notably inspiring. Excellent direction and a powerful script make Last Exit emotionally draining, and compelling.  "},{"Title":"a more violent time","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having been born in NYC during the late fifties it was important for me to read, see and finally own Last Exit To Brooklyn. Our household was always a violent and unhappy one. None of us lived in the streets like the characters in the film but the violence from there was definitely reflected in our day to day life. Heartwrenchingly faithful to the mood and sentiment of Hubert Selby's important novel I am continuously surprised at how films like this are overlooked in a larger, classic sense. This is not a pleasant film. The German direction and influence put me in mind of Fassbiner's Berlin Alexanderplatz. There was a similar grotesque as well as aesthetic beauty that I found to be very compelling. Most of all, however, I was remarkably impressed by Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance. She gave us the flip side of Marylin Monroe, the antithesis if you will. I'm pretty sure that she has not, as yet, received Oscar recognition and am puzzled how her performance in Last Exit did not get her a nod. This film come highly recommended.  "}{"Title":"A shattering slice of life","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of Leigh's best performances in a role that seemed to be written for her. You are rooting for her or ANYONE among the denizens of the strikebound Brooklyn docks to find a way to a better life but at the same time know that no one will make it. The Pieta like still-life after the climatic was a wonderful comment on both the content of the movie itself and the searing quality that some art can have.It is on my list of most depressing movies, which includes The Damned, The Pawnbroker, The Night Porter. "},{"Title":"Well, that was depressing","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The picture of an innocent 1950s promulgated by films of the time was thoroughly refuted with the book Last Exit to Brooklyn, which portrayed a world of sex and violence that would ring just as true if written about the present age. It was a dark book, and the movie is appropriately downbeat. It is a movie with no especially good people. Some of the people are likable, but even the likable ones are not really good people; some are criminals, thugs and users, some are more foolish and selfish and clueless (and at least one was made nicer than in the book).The movie is done very effectively. There are some memorable scenes, and Jennifer Jason Leigh gives yet another memorable performance mixing, as usual, intense character and clothes removal.I didn't think it was a great movie, but if I were more prone to dark, hopeless movies, as I was when younger, perhaps I would think so. It's certainly interesting. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece from Uli Edel","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a great film and one that I was not expecting to like. The dark subject matter may not be appealing to some but movie lovers will have to give props to the storytelling, the visually haunting look and the magnificently transparent performances. Watching this movie gave me the feeling like I was in Brooklyn in the 50's watching the other side of Leave It to Beaver. Classic films like Last Exit To Brooklyn stay in ones mind forever. That is the best complement that I can give to this movie. I wonder why the director has not done more feature film work cause this film is on the level of the greats. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best scripts EVER written...pure and simple.  The idea of a story, where it operates completely on a subtextural level, forming an overall landscape of sin and redemption without the characters themselves even realizing it, is off the scale.  People who say this film is meaningless probably wear tee-shirts with Meg Ryan's picture on the front. I'm not knocking Meg Ryan or the person wearing the shirt...it's just a connection. I also don't agree that the story has no ending.  It has a wonderful ending. Seeing Tralala, after what she just put herself through, finally respond to someone's genuine compassion, is a remarkable thing.  The story operates on the same level as many Selby stories do, of characters so devoid of faith or hope that they don't recognize how close they are to having what they want or just appreciating the potential in what they have, and that mistake causes their undoing (in Stephen Lang's case) or their uncovered possibilities of grace (Jennifer Jason Leigh).  In the end a new life (Burt Young's grandson) is brought into the world, and a new family formed by people who did recognize and do the right thing moves forward in the world. It's majestic. "},{"Title":"Exit to hell, a reality, in one of Brooklyn's best","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" LETB is one of those great 1990 films that stay in my mind, up there with The Cook, The Thief, His Wife And Her Lover, Wild At Heart, the uncompromising and brilliant Goodfellas and Do The Right Thing, to name a few. What interests me more, is it's director, when you consider what he made before and after this film, the unfair latter of these titles, named as one of 93's worst. Set in Brooklyn, 1952, we flip through the lives of many characters, in their bored, going nowhere town. And what characters we meet, in still what appears, a film that has it's sleazy and shock for the thrill of shocking moments, and be warned some scenes are confronting. The movie could be seen like that, but doesn't mean it's not true. Jennifer Jason Leigh is fantastic here, top notch, as the towns popular hooker, who works a deal with the town's bad boys, to snag horny, but oblivious men, at the moment, sailors, soldiers, to lure them sexually, then knock 'em over, dividing the moolah between them. These punks, some of them real pigs, with no respect for women, especially Stephen Baldwin's character, who personally, I found quite repulsive, work at the bottle plant, whatever, where a a strike begins. One of them is forced to marry a fat women, he knocked up. We have the local real 'out there' homosexual, who dresses up in woman's clothing, a character again I found repulsive, as in his manner. There's the head manager of the plant, Stephen Lang, great, a married man, who can't come out of the closet, his last tragic scene, one of the most memorable in the film. We have a young, I guess geek type guy, drooling over and obsessing with Leigh, while trying to get his bloody motorcycle up and running. The gang bang scene with Leigh, was shocking but this guy coming to her rescue, alleviated the shock and truly made this scene a moving and poignant one, where just viewing this part again, after about twenty years, almost had my eyes tearing up. It's one of the most touching scenes I've ever experienced. LETB is about struggling and pitiable characters, it's title ringing true. Despite their ugly and repulsive traits, we do feel for them, where the reality here, the uglyness for them, is that this is as probably as good as it's ever gonna get for them. That's what's tragic. This enthusiastic effort does seem one, held by some juicy shock moments and themes, but you can't deny, the powerful impact this movie serves, bringing with it stand up performances, especially from Leigh and Terranova's Lang. The music by Knophler is great, but the other music, isn't bad either, one tune familiarly sounding in it's start, to that one in Rumble Fish, if you can remember. "},{"Title":"As Hard-Hitting as a Baseball Bat...","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mark Knopfler's beautiful and melancholy score paints a haunting and pained picture, over this, an extremely hard-hitting drama, superbly directed by Uli Edel.For 1989, its release date and set around Brooklyn in the 1952, this is as strong as films got. The C word, rape scenes, florid homosexuality and sexual violence - from a novel (by Hubert Selby jnr) that was initially banned under the Obscene Publications Act.So, why watch it? There's a sense of brooding beauty about it, in the same way that West Side Story had flawed characters, in so many conflicts, within their own community and incomers, such as military servicemen, at night, looking for a great time. Enter busty, platinum blonde and cocky Jennifer Jason Leigh, who gets men in bars buying her drinks, leads them out for some 'fun' and then her mates bash him round the head with a bottle. Grabbing the money, they're just those hoodlums from west Side...just older, doing worse things.Stephen Lang, meanwhile, is the shop steward for a union, that's called its dockside workers out. He's raking in on expenses, for things he doesn't even need. He's got a wife and baby, but leaves them at night to go out with Regina (actually, Reginald) a camp gay and his bitching transvestite buddies.As you can see, this is strictly for adults and no, I haven't read the book. A friend I lent the DVD to, who's read all manner of literature, from the classics to strong stuff like this, just said Wow.It's a memorable and distinctive film. Not one that's known, either commercially, or infamously. It doesn't seem to get bundled up with the likes of Natural Born Killers or A Clockwork Orange. Maybe cos it has a heart; a survivoral instinct that's most apparent in the Italian families in the film, headed by Burt Young, who of course played Paulie, Rocky Balboa's wheezing training aide, in the Rocky movies.My Universal release has a fine transfer and is quite cheap, especially secondhand. So, if you want something pretty edgy, but with a heart and a pulse, this could end up in your player. "},{"Title":"Good, if not perfect.  A film with sincerity and a Soul","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Actually, contrary to the other review I read, I thought the film provided too much resolution to a film that needed little.  The almost upbeat closing seemed out of keeping with the nature of the film... is there anything inherently wrong with a film that allows characters to be forgotten or to live meaningless lives?  I was genuinely surprised by the performances of the lead characters... very good performances... particularly from Leigh (normally the hallmark of a mediocre film)... a disturbing film that allowed itself to be disturbing... "},{"Title":"Selby's Brooklyn resembling a hell on earth where love struggles to exist amongst the human chaos. Driven by dialogue that is almost poetic amongst the brutality","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hubet Selby Jr's debut novel Last Exit to Brooklyn caused major controversy when it was first released in the 1960s. It was the highlight of an obscenity trial in Britain, as it was deemed pornographic trash, and was almost banned. Told in an unconventionally way of writing, the novel is divided into different segments with connecting stories and characters - we have a gang of violent young thugs, a prostitute, a factory worker leading a brutal strike who realises that he is homosexual, a transvestite, and finally, the novel's coda takes place over a 24 hour period in a tenement building. German director Uli Edel brings Selby's masterpiece of the dark side of the human psyche to life in all it's brutal and devastating glory.1952, Brooklyn. America is at war in Korea, and the dark, grim streets of night-time Brooklyn are crawling with soldiers from the Brooklyn Army base. Three soldiers have the misfortune one night to wander onto the scene of a quarrel between Tralala, a prostitute, and Vinnie, a young violent man just released from prison who's the leader of a gang of switch-blade wielding sociopaths. The soldiers jeer Vinnie and Tralala, and end up getting the hell beaten out of them when Sal, Al, Freddy and the rest of the gang come to Vinnie's aid. Watching all of this in a run-down office is Harry Black, the leader of the gruelling strike against the factory that employs most of the men in the neighbourhood. The bitter strike has been going on for six months now. Harry neglects his wife and baby son and stays in the office drinking, and he invites Vinnie's gang over to join him most nights. Harry is fighting inner-demons. He is a closet homosexual, and becomes attracted to a gang of transvestites which include Georgette, who is in love with Vinnie. Tralala hangs around with Vinnie's gang and works with them - she lures customers into alley ways and car parks where Vinnie, Sal and Freddy beat and mug the customers. Tralala later begins to show affection towards a young officer who is falling in love with her. But with the war, their time is short. Also, one of the factory workers organises a 'shot-gun' wedding when one of the young men in the neighbourhood impregnates his teenage daughter.These souls, twisted and evil you could say, wander the streets in what resembles a hell on earth if ever there was one. Uli Edel does an amazing job in capturing the brutality, atmosphere and dialogue of Selby's novel and putting it on screen. The assembled cast was wonderful; they all play each character really well and some of them even demand our sympathy and get it - Harry, probably the most heartbreaking character in the film, as well as the tragic Tralala and Georgette, the 'fairy'. Like the novel, the film is very violent and disturbing. The harsh, depressing atmosphere never lets up, and there's never any light at the end of the tunnel, except for the final scene which is a change from the novel. The tenement building segment at the end of the novel was left out here, which is understandable, although I would have liked to have seen the black man Abraham brought to life from that segment. Overall, it's a very faithful adaptation down to the point that most of the lines are directly from the book.Stephen Lang is amazing as Harry Black. Next to Jennifer Jason Leigh, I'd say his performance is the greatest in the whole film. Leigh is superb as Tralala, and these performances are backed equally great performances by Burt Young as Big Joe, Peter Dobson as Vinnie, and Stephen Baldwin in a sleazy and hard role as Vinnie's right-hand, switch-blade wielding man Sal. Also amongst the cast is Jerry Orbach as the union president, Sam Rockwell as Al, John Costelloe as Tommy and Ricki Lake as Donna.The make-up and cinematography are excellent and really serve to create a very realistic 1950's Brooklyn - which from this looks more to be the American Nightmare than the American Dream. Despite how gruesome and cruel many of the characters are in this, we can't help but generate sympathy for them. A lot of them, after all, are not much different than us. Selby's characters have been crushed by their surroundings and the poverty and violence that exists all around them. Many of them reach terrible ends before they can realise the bad road they are travelling on. A very disturbing but humane film. "},{"Title":"ugly, intense","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The lives of a group of working class during a labour strike in early 1950's Brooklyn.  Thoroughly unpleasant film portrays 'real' side of 1950's America in brutal contrast to familiar Ozzie and Harriet images.  Fine performances abound. More a collection of loosely connected stories than a movie. (Rating A-minus) "},{"Title":"Great film, but not a piece of entertainment","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       This is one of those films that was critically acclaimed, but almost unheard of except for the most critical of movie buffs. The movie is set in 1952 in Brooklyn, an almost unforgivable atmosphere of violence, hatred, rape, prostitution, unfulfilled desires, transexuals, etc. There's not a single redeeming character in the movie, except for an innocent, down to earth Army officer from Idaho that falls in love with Jennifer Jason Leigh's character, who is a prostitute. The sets for this movie are fascinating, it resembles sort of A Clockwork Orange type of future, with a 1950's setting. Very European too, as it was made by the director of Christiane F, a German film about teenage prostitutes and heroin addicts in Berlin. "}{"Title":"Last Exit to Brooklyn","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Multi-melodrama set in the 1950s Brooklyn during a long-term strike.Virtuoso recreation of a notorious book; an exuberantly stylish, brilliantly acted, harrowing, violent social drama with a somewhat inaccurate but stimulating feel of period and place. It constantly takes both the eye and the mind even at its most unattractive. "},{"Title":"An underrated gem that stays faithful to Selby's novel.","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hubert Selby, Jr's controversial novel Last Exit to Brooklyn is a classic and is transferred to the big screen brilliantly by underrated German director Uli Edel. The film stays very faithful to the novel about, possibly, the lowest form of humanity that occupy the decaying streets of Brooklyn in the 1950s; brilliant cinematography giving the film a real sense of high class despite the modest budget. The movie takes place during a bitter factory strike and follows many characters and how their lives intersect. The acting is first rate, with Jennifer Jason Leigh (brilliant as usual) and Stephen Lang (now a cast member of the biggest grossing film in Hollywood history!) taking all the plaudits respectively as Tralala, the hooker with a hart of ice, money is all she knows and cares for; and Harry Black, the repressed homosexual leader of the strike. Indeed, very good all round which surprises me a little that this gem has fallen under the radar. This should've received some recognition from the Academy Awards (in an ideal world, eh?) but I guess the violence put some people off. Such a shame. "},{"Title":"epic.","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is a raw version of what is out in the real world.Excellent version of true street dramas.Powerful cast.True classic.A must have for your collection.Its touches parts of life that people don't like to talk about.Harry the union rep,i think is the most animated role in this movie.His love for the union and his desire for cross dressing men is sad prison of his life.Not knowing who he is or what he wants.Set in the blue collared steel mill town of Brooklyn ,not much money,no work,no direction for the towns younger adults.Bordem becomes a way life.The problem is which exit and when do they take it.There is no second chance .Your exit could be the last "},{"Title":"Moving dark film","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you like Dark City, the Crow et.al... you might like this film.Several stories are being told.  The main two are of a whore and a secretly gay man.I found the scene where the camera goes over the gay man's newly born child and over to where he lay in bed, and his wifes hand touches his shoulder, and you see his eye... this look....   That's the moment you know he's gay and trapped in a straight life.I found the movie to be extremely dark.  Extremely depressing.  I guess that's why I liked it so much.Oh.. and the theme music is absolutely wonderful throughout. "},{"Title":"A good translation of Selby, Jr.'s masterpiece.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Uli Edel ('Christiane F.') directed this adaption of Hubert Selby Jr.'s classic collection of intersected short-stories set in Brooklyn in the early Fifties...The film, which as Darren Aronofsky's recent 'Requiem for a Dream', captures Selby's harsh worldview- and his compassion for his characters no matter how low they sink...The film takes the separate stories, 'Another Day, Another Dollar', 'The Queen is Dead', 'Strike', 'Tralala' et al and weaves them together. This manages to yoke the disparate elements together in a cohesive whole (though an approach similar to Kieslowski's 'Dekalog'- where characters from other episodes appear in the background- would have been interesting)...This film is harsh, the previous comments on 'Last Exit' seem to be shocked at the film's content- what did the viewer think a film by the director of 'Christiane F' of a novel by Hubert Selby Jr. would be like????...To believe that Georgette would be mourned by his/her friends- they aren't friends- they just occupy the same zone...And to complain there is no end- well, it's simple- there is no end for the occupants of this slum. This is their last exit. If it's nice rounded, mannichean stories you want (replete with closure)- check out a Tv-movie or 'Star Wars' or some Disney. This film, as the book doesn't intend to give closure; it is not entertainment...The performances are great- Stephen Lang and Jennifer Jason Leigh especially (note also a cameo by Hubert Selby Jr. as the taxi driver who runs over Georgette- he also cameos as a prison guard taunting Tyrone in 'Requiem for a Dream'). The film visually is amazing, capturing a slum life of tenements that recall 'The Tin Drum' and 'Once Upon a Time in America'. Despite the period detail, this could be seen as any slum in any time period in any country. The soundtrack by Mark Knopfler is his best work, though his 'Cal' and 'Local Hero' scores were also very good...Uli Edel takes a novel in the modernist mode of John Dos Passos ('The Big Money') and James Joyce ('Ulysses') that uses a technique all-seeing and very cinematic in itself. It takes the dialogue and sentiments of Selby's book and translates it succesfully into cinematic form. As with Cronenberg's 'Naked Lunch' & 'Crash' and Kubrick's 'Lolita', it takes a controversial text that has been 'banned' in some countries and deemed 'unfilmable' and proved the opposite to be the case...When has cinema ever been designed to be 'uplifting'?- read The Bible or a self-help book if that's what you want. The film/story may be bleak- but it is truthful. Unfortunately the protaganist's lives are not 'all a dream' and the actuality of the nightmare is inescapble. To be a rounded-individual, one must consider the other side of life. The characters aren't 'bad'- they just 'are'. There is very little written on this film or Selby Jr., hopefully in time both will escape lazy cult classification. "},{"Title":"Melodramatic to the point of satire.","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  So, after reading all the glowing reviews, I'll offer a different view I felt the movie to be not very involving, oddly devoid of emotion and melodramatic to the point of satire. Filled to the brim with clichés too....Really convincing art direction etc., but at times very badly acted/directed/written.Considering the content, it *should* have been grim and disturbing, but really wasn't at all. Haven't read the book, but have read The Willow Tree and liked it, and seen Requiem for a dream and loved it.8/10 for the Art Direction etc., 5/10 for the rest.  "},{"Title":"Mean-spirited look at gutter-trash politics at their worst","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a pretty nihilistic movie with seriously unlikable hateful characters all screwing over and hurting each other just to feel some sort of power and sometimes just to feel something at all besides the isolating despair of their own squalor. That being said it still manages to be a compelling film that is somehow fascinating. The only character in the film that finds some sort of happiness is soon destroyed by those around him and is ground into the literal filth of his own environment that represents the hopeless moral depravity they all live in. Even his misguided attempt at happiness, more ambitious than most of the characters, is ultimately doomed by the fact that his only power to pursue it is based upon covering up a hate crime for the wrong people, people that inevitably turn on him when his inner vulnerability at finally almost reaching happiness at one point, make him an easy target and thus a threat to their use for him as an enforcer of their hateful enterprise. The low-life gang- bang at the end of the movie where Jennifer Jason Leigh takes on dozens of dirty drunken half-conscious men, one after another, in a fit of emotional and sexual devastation after the profundity of an intimate social rejection levels even her own venomous hate is a show-stopping finale. This movie has no redeeming qualities thematically, do not expect any answers, except to reject all those that it parades in front of you as the damned who have succumbed to the ugly hatefulness of their brutal social conditioning as a result of their co-dependency in striving for power in all the wrong ways. For that alone it should be watched. The only weakness any of the scum-sucking characters have is the one they all share, the one they all want and hunt but ultimately involuntarily kill instead of embracing, the kindness and love from others which only helplessly intensifies their self-hate for not being able to stop themselves from dreaming of something better despite the fact that they know they are doomed and that the idea of real love itself is a more injurious painful affliction against them than any physical crime they could commit against another. God and the conditions he has allowed people to live in are truly shown as evil in this. Written by the guy who wrote Requiem for a Dream. "},{"Title":"viewer discretion advised","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sometimes a strong warning can be the best recommendation for a difficult movie, and here's a perfect example beginning with a vicious back alley beating of a wayward sailor and ending, 100 minutes later, with a marathon gang rape of drunken whore Jennifer Jason Leigh. It took more then 25 years for Hubert Selby Jr.'s controversial novel to reach the big screen, but maybe the most surprising fact about this uncompromising adaptation is that it was made at all.Selby's title says it best this truly is the end of the line, a dead-end world with no hope for escape. The pessimism of the novel may be softened on screen by the distance now from its 1952 setting, but the claustrophobic atmosphere is no less compelling, not unlike a dark cousin to 'American Graffiti', transplanted to a midnight wasteland of frustrated libido and labor unrest. The film is not without a certain gutter pathos, but even with a semi-optimistic ending it's not something to approach lightly. "},{"Title":"The good old days were not always so good ...but this movie was great !","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent movie. When people talk about the good old days. They typically refer to Brooklyn. Brooklyn the fairy tale town or so it seemed. Back in the 40s and 50s Brooklyn was for a lack of a better word called 'utopia'. At least that was an illusion. This movie dispels that myth and at times it may come across tasteless. I wont say how,don't want to spoil your viewing experience.It is necessary for this movie to bring out that point. I did not just watch a movie , I had a reality check of the place I was born .. shortly after the time period= 1963. This movie was a history lesson that showed the other-side of Brooklyn in the 50s. Not everyone stood on their doorstep listening to the Brooklyn Dodger games on radio while drinking a lemonade. Not everyone was connected like a small town in Iowa ,dropping in on each other unannounced but were welcome. This movie pounded that point and pounded that point ... well you get the picture. Just a well done movie , that makes me realize that if the good old days were not really so good maybe the future wont really be so badheard that in a song once. The movie showed the other-side of AMERICANA.The acting though not great was acceptable. I feel this is an important movie and should be released on DVD. "},{"Title":"ugly","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The lives of a group of working class during a labor strike in early 1950's Brooklyn. Thoroughly unpleasant film portrays seamy underside of 50's America in contrast to familiar Ozzie and Harriet images. Fine performances abound. However, loosely connected stories make the film appear fragmented. (Rating A-minus) "}{"Title":"Some fear what is not spelled out","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently read a review on this film that stated the lack of closure Edel offered for the film's central characters was evidence of his failure to make good film for the sake of being artistic and stood for this movie being nothing more than a depressing piece of sludge.  This analysis is exactly why movies like the Perfect Storm continue to get funded.  This film is clearly one of the most depressing films I have ever seen, yet it is the lack of closure that drives the central themes of desperation arising from human cruelty and ignorance.  The art of good cinema is the presentation of themes in such a manner that sparks thought and reflection in the viewer. The savage imagery of Last Exit does just that without any voice overs, jump edits to other characters reacting in horror to what you just viewed etc. Solid film making from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Grim, depressing, shoddy film","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The thing that bothered me most about the film was the fact it had not one likable character.The acting was terrible, Stephen Lang is laughable in his part as a gooky eyed union leader who finds out he wants the same sex so much that he acts like a pathetic loser, trying desperately to be with a stuck up, snotty nosed, superficial, vampire looking gay man, all the while neglecting his child and wife.The film fails BIG time because I actually despised the douche bags on strike, and cared not one bit when they finally get work at the end of the film.Jennifer Jason Leigh is detestable as a sleaze bag of a hooker who robs naive Naval men while they are drunk.We have 'Uncle Pauly' from Rocky playing the same role here, a fat, foul mouthed, rude, unlikeable greasy buffoon.There's also a role played by a Baldwin brother who I cant stand.Need I go on? Where is the story? Where? Its 102 mins of scumbags acting like scumbags. Great. What a movie! Not.Don't bother watching this film, its bleak and has no meaning to it what so ever. "},{"Title":"Terrible and uninspired directorial job","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was drawn to this movie, curious to see how they have adapted Hubert Shelby's brutal novel. I thought that a literary piece of such depth, with a rich tapestry of characters, horrid situations, and social critique could not translate into a bad movie. I was wrong.This flick is a terrible movie experience, not for its content, but for its form. Director Ulrich Edel executes, in my sincere opinion, a terrible directorial job that does no justice to the original book. No wonder Edel is a TV director; this movie looks and feels like a bad made for TV flick. Some of my views on this bomb (**spoilers ahead**)- Lack of directorial creativity. The scenes are slow, feel slow, look poorly shot, and barely ever move from an anchored position. The only liberty they take is in the cinematography area, with a nice dark tone. Other than that, the movie has the same technical creativity as a TV soap-opera.- All the actors do a terrific job at portraying these miserable characters. The problem is that the adaptation does not tackle a basic element in the development of the plot MOTIVATION. All these characters move around like robots, without a clear motivation for their action. They seem to do things out of the blue, like robots, for no reason at all. Edel misses every opportunity to enrich character development by not exploring the character's motivations, and by avoiding developing each character's personality to its full extent.This lack of character development is blatant on Tralala. Jennifer Jason Leight does a great job playing this trashy prostitute, but her alcohol-induced decision to let the sailors violate her is not explained. It looks extremely stupid, as we see this character doing this out of the blue. This is a clear example of poor character development.The movie also has many secondary, token characters that do nothing, feel nothing, and add nothing to the plot. I would have liked to learn more about Harry's wife, for instance, and the interaction between the two. That's another missed opportunity.Edel only approaches character development with Harry and his fixation with his gay lover, only to screw it up at the end, not clearly explaining -again- his motivations. The thugs are also a joke in their lack of development.- The soundtrack is one of the worst I've ever experienced. Terrible job by Mark Knopfler. I seriously expected more from the former leader of Dire Straits, but his job in this movie is seriously lacking. At times, like in the battle between the union workers and the police, the music seems totally disconnected from the movie. It also feels completely poor and anachronic; I could swear the whole soundtrack was made with a Casio toy keyboard. It distracts from the actual action.- The book adaptation by Desmond Nakano is so literal that eliminates the point of the story. It feels as if they tried so hard to keep the action-by-action storyline in the book, that they forgot to actually develop the characters and, once again, explain their actions and motivations.I seriously can not recommend this movie, not even to a Shelby fan, because it can ruin the original book. It's a very uninspired effort in adapting the novel, and shows very little creative input.  "},{"Title":"Depressing yes, but good","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree that this film is depressing.  It brings out a lot of issues for viewers.  I think, maybe, that's what it was intended to do.  The self destruction of the young prostitute was heart wrenching.  More than the plot, I enjoyed the costume design.  "},{"Title":"Should be great but falls flat","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This should have been a great film, but somehow becomes merely 'very good' to me. The performances are very good, Selbys story is beyond excellent and is faultlessly executed, Everything about this film is spot-on but, somehow, it failed to draw me in to the point where I could get any empathy with the characters. These were just people going about their business in a shitty world, people who remained strangers to me.Maybe a touch of brightness or humour somewhere would have provided the contrast to make the blackness stand out, Without that it was dull. Far from boring, just dull.Having got that off my chest I must say that it is still a very good film. The stories are intense, worth 11/10. The characters are well acted, score 9/10, the scenery is well shot and very atmospheric, again worth 9/10. However, I feel I can only rate it at 8/10. "},{"Title":"TV stands for more than Television","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If we were to consider a movie as a long line of pretty images, then the creation known as Last exit to Brooklyn is by far more than that. It's not the picture or the sound or the performance by itself, it is a skillful composition of every building block that take the viewer into a particular social structure where probably not a soul on earth would want to be by their own free will.This movie intertwines threads of every social class known to men except the boring rich upper class and displays the importance of influence that each social group has on each other. Everyone has dreams but that same person is chained to his or her own position in time and space. Getting out seams to be the grand desire. But getting out doesn't necessarily mean the promised land. Just achieving their goals will do the trick. Small insignificant hopes and dreams, manifested in material or emotional break trough are related to everyone in the community that really does not want you to succeed. The subconscious desire is to keep each other down in the gutter and to escape their mind frames, escape the reality, escape the facts. Each in it's own way the cast fight the odds and one could know that outcome is insignificant.But what does that mean to us in relation to what that same thing means to them? There are no easy answers and... well there are no answers at all. The agony of everyday leads to agony of broken dreams and desires.See the movie and see what reality holds for these individuals, no matter how they decide to cope with situations, they all win. But the prizes may vary. Well worth the time to rent this disc and see this creation. It is not a fairytale, neither easy to digest. But it does leave deep consequences on the happy and relaxed viewer which is the main attribute of this creation. Not being affected by it means a serious lack of neurotransmitters in the brain. "},{"Title":"Great Book, Good Movie","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are a lot of really wonderful and talented actors in this film and they all do a good job but over all this movie pales in comparison to the book it is based on. The book is a great and edgy and dark story with great characters and a very interesting and engaging story that is hard to put down. So it's not too much of a surprise that like usual the movie can't compete with the book, I kind of wish I saw the movie first because I bet then I really would have liked the movie more. The book is always better than the movie (well almost anyway) and when you have to take that book and turn it into one and a half hours or two hours or even more than that it is still hard to do. It just couldn't fit on the screen. Good movie with great performances but it doesn't compare to the book. "},{"Title":"Tra-La-La (and The Killing of Georgie, Part I)","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A startling trip into the lower-class bowels of the fourth largest city in the world, circa 1952. This is the film version of Hubert Selby Jr.'s unrelentingly pessimistic 1964 novel Last Exit to Brooklyn. In the film medium, the material makes a sideways, but successful, impression; this is an exceptional drama. There are many great sub-plots, and performances; but, mainly, the film focuses on the character stories involving beautiful young prostitute Jennifer Jason Leigh (as Tral), and striking bisexual union leader Stephen Lang (as Harry Black).Writer Selby has said, Sometimes, we have the absolute certainty that there's something inside us that's so hideous and monstrous that, if we ever search it out, we won't be able to stand looking at it. But, it's when we're willing to come face to face with that demon, that we face the angel. Selby's brutal, heart-wrenching treatment of its characters would not have been as successful a film without an extraordinary look at the angel face referred to in his quote. In a scene not in the book, young Cameron Johann (as Spook), who has a teenage crush on Ms. Leigh, happens upon her drunken figure, after she is nearly raped to death. She is resurrected by his tear-stained face, and realizes her fling with soldier Frank Military (as Steve) provided fulfilling sexual intimacy. The scene implicitly offers salvation to Mr. Lang, who, after attempting sex with an underage boy, has been crucified. Still, the film can't shed some dock-time, for rancid sexual one-sidedness.Director Uli Edel, cinematographer Stefan Czapsky, editor Peter Przygodda, and musician Mark Knopfler are award-worthy. Jennifer Jason Leigh won several well-deserved awards, but no Oscar; and, there are at least five performances worthy of a Best Supporting Actor nomination. From the central roles, to the smallest walk on player; this film is an example of ensemble acting at its best. Its shocking content must have put off a lot of viewers, at the time; yet, Last Exit to Brooklyn succeeds because its violence is not mindless.********* Last Exit to Brooklyn (1989) Uli Edel ~ Stephen Lang, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Peter Dobson, Cameron Johann "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!!!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A RARE piece of intelligence, and American film. One of the finest movies ever made. A timeless classic. Sadly underestimated and overlooked though in its time (circa late 80's/early 90's when released). The characters are true-to-life, the acting so convincing you begin to feel their emotions, the directing as if by the author of the book himself, and the cinematography to linger in your mind long after watching it. It is really a story of characters. A story that becomes the reminder of how true and passionate human emotions really are. Many have called the book and movie depressing, but I don't. I find it an honest portrayal and experience into the lives and loves of the American lower-class. "},{"Title":"A sadistic picture of poverty in Brooklyn","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My true fascination is the social community, and this lured me into watching the film Last exit to Brooklyn. Its theme is supposed to be related to trade unions, and in addition the scenery of Brooklyn portrays the dismal life in the poorest quarters. In such living conditions the people are thrown back into a state of eternal insecurity, where relief is only possible through strong social relations. The concurrence of misery and solidarity is one of the factors that turned the film Saturday Night Fever into a smashing hit. So Last exit to Brooklyn potentially had the requisites to produce a classic movie. Unfortunately the result is in my opinion highly unsatisfactory. The nasty point is that the makers have deprived the inhabitants of the quarter of normal human traits, and depicted them as inferior and mean creatures. The living conditions are admittedly tough, because the stage is located in the red light district, in the vicinity of an army or navy base. Among the main characters are pimps, female and male prostitutes and forthcoming prostitutes, and a shady union official. In this dissolute environment it is almost impossible to preserve ones human integrity. It reminds of Tony Manero in Saturday Night Fever or Norma in the film Norma Rae, where at first they seem incapable of forming durable relations. However, in Last exit to Brooklyn the characters are without hope. The pimps are not only violent, but plainly sadistic. The union official rapes his wife, and she loves it. Dissatisfied, he becomes bisexual and spends the union funds in brothels. His boss is involved in the criminal underworld, and pays criminals to burn down a recalcitrant firm (similar things happen in Hoffa, and the scene also reminds of On the waterfront. Hollywood doesn't line unions). The forthcoming hooker surrenders to a huge serial lay. The events are twisted to such a degree, that they lose their credibility (even as excesses). In Europe the trade unions have always been devoid of criminality. In the USA the situation may have been different, because the unions were only loosely integrated in social movements, and business in the age of the robber barons was itself a criminal environment. Nevertheless, it seems likely that occurrences like in Hoffa and On the waterfront were the rare exception. And the red light districts usually maintain certain moral codes in order to keep life bearable (except perhaps in drugs-infested environments). Thus the viewer gets the impression that the makers of Last exit to Brookluyn are actually motivated by sadistic inclinations. Indeed there is a substantial part of the film industry, that preys on sadistic and deviant emotions, notably in the USA and Asia. They even have some commercial success (business rarely has a conscience), which may be due to human feelings of despair and exhaustion. In my opinion such products, which glorify a violent and merciless attitude and offer no perspective, are worthless. Last exit to Brooklyn seems to be devoid of any educational or enriching message (or am I missing something?). I suggest that you spend your time on better movies, which are available in abundance. If you like social films, for instance about unionism, consider seeing my other reviews. "}{"Title":"Last Exit to Brooklyn","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Last Exit to Brooklyn' is an icon of a film which I strongly recommend as one of the most special films one could ever hope to watch.It is a brilliant adaption of the controversial book of interconnected stories depicting low life in 1950's Brooklyn by Hubert Selby Jr., which was the subject of an obscenity prosecution at the Old Bailey in London in the 60's. The trial Judge stated that he became depraved by simply reading this book, but the defence won on appeal!The film is as moving as the book. Jennifer Jason Leigh is perfect as Tralala,and the scene of her walking down the pavement flanked by uniformed police officers going to stop an affray is priceless. All the other actors are superb. The scenery and colour is magnificent, as is the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Unrelenting bummer going nowhere","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know much about film-making, but good movies have to tell some sort of a story...your characters have to start and complete their journey.  In Last Exit to Brooklyn they may, but its not in any satisfying way, and I'm not meaning a happy ending, just ANY ending.Last Exit to Brooklyn, set in 1952 Brooklyn during a very brutal labor strike, sets a number of story threads in motion.  Most involve some of the most unlikeable characters to ever walk across a movie screen.  But Last Exit to Brooklyn fails to bring these stories to any conclusion...it leaves some of them dangling with no ending, or blasts off into some bizarre stratosphere for an artistic ending.Two cases in point, and they contain spoilers.A sad transvestite character (an important character in the film), is struck by a car and killed.  And that's it for him in the movie....he's gone for good, erased from everyone's memory..no reactions from his friends, enemies, lovers....nothing.In another thread the stupid, clueless, and secretly gay strike leader, having been rejected by labor, his gay lover, and found out by the neighborhood thugs, gets stomped by the thugs.  The closing scene to the beating shows the streets of Brooklyn, and the streetlights are very, very similar to those of Nazi death camps...and the scene drags on and on and on...and the camera pans down to the body of the labor leader, and he's been crucified.....ppppuuuulllleeeeeez.  And of course that's it for him too....brain erasure.....gone.Bottom line....no matter what the reviewers originally said in 1989 about this film....this movie is a depressing piece of sludge.  Avoid it.  And if you don't be forewarned, it really deserves an NC-17 rating for massive amounts of physical, emotional and sexual brutality...don't even let the teenagers watch. "},{"Title":"if you were moved by Requiem for a Dream","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented this film because I remembered that it was written by hugh selby, who also wrote Requiem for a Dream and I was curious.  I loved Requiem for a Dream , and thought it was one of the most amazing and disturbing movies I've ever seen.  Last Exit to Brooklyn is well, familiar territory.  The same storytelling techniques are present, characters who you like, and become heartbroken as they try to fulfill their quests for happiness in terrible, scary manners.  The stories take a character, put him at a high point and then bring him crashing down.  Take for instance, the secretly gay Strike leader who is living high on the hog, charging a storm to the Union office and buying fancy champagne for his newfound lover.  He returns home and finds himself out of work.  He returns to his lover and finds that his lover doesn't want him without money.  So he goes home and tries to sexually assault an adolescent boy.  and is subsequently beaten (to death? it's not clear).  But this is the type of emotional assault that the story inflicts upon us.  It is almost Altmanesque in it's weaving of separate stories, but it never quite reaches the level of Altman.  I'm sure that I was affected by seeing Requeim for a Dream before this film, as it annoyed me to what extent the story is manipulated and plotted to allow each of it's characters to have the most horrible and distressing endings possible.  The movie itself is a very good one.  But for me the problems emerge in the story.  I didn't believe that the down on his luck strike leader would have tried to molest the young boy.  It didn't seem to have been previously indicated anywhere in his nature.  I wanted to know more about the gay character, Georgette, who for some reason runs out of her house screaming and is mowed down by a car.  Anyone who's seen the Celluloid Closet knows that killing off your gay character is a needless and trite way to deal with them.  It would have been much more fascinating to have delved into Georgette's story more completely.  But anyway.  The best part about the movie is the overall sense of dread and terror and looming nightmarish quality about the streets and scenes in general.  Brooklyn is painted as a nightmarish community where the code of the street is the only law.   "},{"Title":"If you love hopelessness, and I do...","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Last Exit to Brooklyn (1990) It's 1952. We are in a very lower class working neighborhood of Brooklyn. A factory strike is on. Can things get any worse? Yes, they can. This is one of THE bleakest, most pathetic, depressing stories about free humans of all time. The sets, the scoring, the acting (esp. by Jennifer Jason Leigh), the script... are great - in the sense that they all add up to one powerfully hopeless story. Think On the Waterfront but not so happy.  "},{"Title":"I guess it's worth a rental","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Plenty of violence and some disturbing scenes will leave you thankful you never lived that lifestyle. The plot of the movie states a hooker that fell in love with her date, to me it was more the other way around. She went along with him hoping to get a big pay day as he left for his duty in the services. Somehow I was hoping for some more character development on the guy who was fired as the shop stewart. His willingness to throw is life away for a transvestite was right outta left field from what I was expecting when watching this movie. Good movie for checking out with the girlfriend on a nothing to do night. "},{"Title":"Unrelentingly grim","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fine performances and art direction do not a good movie make.  This movie is so grim and depressing, I could feel absolutely no joy at the happy ending involving the union strike.  The attempts at humor involving Lake's pregnancy are absolutely disastrous, and any movie involving a Baldwin brother already has a strike against it.  On a positive note, Lang is still one of America's great underrated actors, he alone almost makes this worth keeping in the VCR.  I give this a 4. "},{"Title":"All But The Sickest Critics Justifiably Panned This Movie","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"12 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When this was released, I thought this was one of the most profane films ever made. However, thanks to Martin Scorcese and a few other filmmakers like him, there have been mainline films worse, language-wise, than this....but this is a pretty brutal assault on one's ears. Hey, I can take a lot of it, but this got ridiculous. In the first six minutes alone, I heard a half-dozen usage's of the Lord's name in vain plus an untold number of f-words. I wonder how many people walked out of the theater watching this in 1990? I couldn't have been the only one.Not surprisingly, some of the feature actors included Jennifer Jason-Leigh, Burt Young, Jerry Orbach and Rikki Lake. Since this film, Stephen Lang seems to have improved his image, at least playing the Godly Stonewall Jackson in Gods and Generals. Lang's role here is just the opposite perhaps the worst trashy person in the film and a character who falls in love with a transvestite by the end of the film.Depressing, gloomy, semi-pornographic, repulsive these are just a few of the adjectives people used - even some Liberal critics - in describing this story, which is painted even worse in the novel. Of course, some of the better-known critics, all extreme Libs, praised the movie. However, they were the only ones. Most critics were disgusted, as well almost all of the paying public. It's unbelievable that anyone could praise filth and garbage like this.Trust me on this there are no good, likable characters in this entire movie. This is a mean, sick film one of the worst of the modern era. That is, unless you enjoy seeing child abuse, drug abuse, teen prostitutes, on and on - two straight hours of nothing but atrocities and just plain evil people. No thanks. "},{"Title":"One for the PC fascists","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This 'gritty slice of life' set in Brooklyn in the 'fifties is a dishonest and cowardly film.  You'd have to have read Selby's novel to be aware of this.  Shame on you, Mssrs. Edel and Nakano!  SPOILER ALERT What bothered me the most was putting racial epithets in the mouths of the off-duty soldiers prior to the vicious beating they receive. It wasn't in the book, and therefore, totally gratuitous.  Perhaps the point was to tweak the viewers, whether black or white, so that we'd believe they deserved what was coming to them.  If so, it didn't work for me.  I felt I was being ripped off by this attempted manipulation. On the other hand, they completely left out the episodes in the book involving 'Old Abe,'the black guy who fawns over his Cadillac between sexual bouts with his 'bitches,' an ugly and embarrassing racist stereotype, if ever there was one.  In short, what Edel, Nakano, and no doubt Selby himself (who probably wanted to forget about the Old Abe' episodes) give us is a censored and politically correct version of the novel -- your average Hollywood based-on-a-book movie, in other words.  So, whatever merits or faults this film may have, let's have no more blather about its 'gripping honesty.' "},{"Title":"Laughable Antiquated Morality","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hubert Selby Jr. gave us the book Requiem For A Dream and co-wrote the screenplay to Aronofsky's movie of it. That movie succeeded on every level by delivering an intimate, and unbiased portrait of the horrors of the characters lives and the vices that destroyed them. Last Exit To Brooklyn still has the vice and the multiple characters living sad lives, but it hardly does them the same justice Aronofsky did.The film seems laughably anti-gay at times. Especially when in the film homosexuality equals death. One gay character gets stoned, is launched skyward by a speeding car, and lands dead on the pavement. Another is crucified and still more are simply beat up. Another exaggerated piece of shock value, that might actually have been compelling if it were done well, are scenes of the union workers literally doing battle with the strike-breakers. Who'd have thought a drama about Brooklyners would feature action sequences and truck explosions?The director, Uli Edel has a skill level like that of a TV director, but he is far below the cut for real movies. The film is clunky that can't even seem to settle on a genre. Lake is given a useless role that any mannequin could have filled and Baldwin only seems to know how to look stupid in his equally meager part. And then comes Jennifer Jason Leigh as our lead, a loathsome hooker named Tralala (believe it or not, I'm not joking). Her performance is nothing great and the fate of her character is dirty to say the least. Poor use of color and composition make it look cheaper than it is, and also takes the real edge off the more provocative bits. A failure.  "},{"Title":"Not complete movie","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie is more about the union. The book focuses entirely on the over weight prostitute who is gang raped to the point of death on a dirty mattress in back of a local Brooklyn bar. The whole book is about the prostitute who sure isn't described looking like the beautiful Jennifer J Leigh. Why does Hollywood do this? The book that shocked the world was truly shocking. I am suppose to fill up ten lines in order to tell you that I suggest you read the book to understand the true horror of the well written piece. The movie is just another union story. Whoever decided to cut up the main part of the text is a butcher. Please read the book. If it is out of date, someone will have it on EBay "}{"Title":"I never thought I would ever say this, but...","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just too many incidents of violence.The film goes from one scene to another, and in nearly every one violence erupts.Now I am not one who is shocked by violence, and to me a film without a fight in it has something missing. But, please, not one after another. My reaction was not shock or horror, it was Here we go again. There is some semblance of a story in between the scenes of violence, but two thirds of the way through the film I had switched off completely, and couldn't wait for the end.If this is the best the film makers can do, they should find something else to do with their miserable lives, like making shoes or delivering mail. "}]