[{"Title":"A Film That Is Truly For All Mankind","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I saw this film at a very, very young age and I suspect that it is the reason I developed a heavy interest in space exploration. I recently saw this again for the first time in many years since all I had was a vague recollection of it. And after watching many times since then I have no problem saying that this is one of the best documentaries ever made.One must give the film's director, Al Reinert, at a ton of credit for his work. Who else could have come up with the brilliant notion behind this film? Who would have thought of taking footage from all of the Apollo missions (and a couple of the Gemini missions) and combining them with the words of the men who went where no one had (or has since) gone before? (Apologies for paraphrasing Star Trek) The genius of this film is that it shuns away from traditional documentary styling. Instead of compiling facts on one mission and having a well known actor/actress do the narration, the film lets those who went tell the story. Who else is better qualified? They might not be professional actors, but the astronauts don't need to be. It is the power of the events they describe that is the main reason for their presence. They are a powerful voice in this story.In many reviews I have read, I have seen complaints about the mixing of footage or the use of footage out of its context (a Gemini reentry used for the TLI burn for example). Yes the mixing is nowhere near subtle and is, thus, blatantly obvious. But it is my feeling that this mixing was necessary. The only way to get across the story of Apollo's achievement to the average person was to mix the footage. Does it really matter in the end? I mean by that this the film isn't about a single mission to the Moon. No, the power of Apollo lies not in each mission, but in the overall effect of the Apollo program. This film is about the journey of Apollo, the effect in had on the astronauts, and the effect it had on us all.If there is one element of this film that really stayed with men it was the music. It is among the most beautiful and haunting things you will ever here. Brian Eno does a marvelous job of conveying the mystery and majesty of both space and the Moon. This is one of those scores who really have to hear to believe.For All Mankind, perhaps better then anything else out there, demonstrates the power of humanity in space. For one to really appreciate this film it needs to be seen on a large screen in surround sound. Only then can one appreciate both the film and the power of the Apollo legacy. This is the first film I've seen that I recommend to everyone. This is a film that is truly For All Mankind. "},{"Title":"If only I could have afforded a laserdisc player","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I won't reiterate all of the praise of this film except to say that if I had just few more spare dollars when it was released on laserdisc, I would have bought a laserdisc player just for this title (and 2001). Fortunately years later I've already purchased a DVD player and For All Mankind has finally been released on that format.To me the defining moment of this film is the lunar lander slowly returning to the command module. At first we only see the cratered surface of the Moon moving below at incredible speed. Then we see a tiny motionless speck above it. Was it a defect in the lens? Of course not. It's the lunar lander slowly returning from the surface. It seems to take much longer than it really does because there are no cuts and no narrator explaining what we already know we're seeing. There's only a dot turning into a space ship. What more could you add to this amazing sight?  "},{"Title":"Fantastic, essential viewing. A real gem.","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I taped this off British TV in 1989 or 1990, and could never understand why nobody I speak to has ever heard of it! Even real space enthusiasts have not seen or heard of this wonderful film. Even today it remains unavailable on DVD except in the USA (buy an import from Amazon, well worth it!).Quite simply there is no better way to tell the story of such a unique and special journey than in the words of those who undertook it. Here we have the live radio transmissions between the astronauts and Houston, reminiscences from the astronauts a decade or so after and no interference from any professional actor/narrator. There is footage even the most obsessed space enthusiast will not have seen, especially the 8mm film shot by the astronauts themselves. This film presents, in a mere 80 minutes, the story of the Apollo missions from pre-launch preparations though the journey, their time on the surface of the moon to the take-off from the moon and safe return to earth. The views are as majestic as any on the earth, all accompanied by soft and appropriately ethereal music. Why this hidden gem of a film is not constantly being broadcast on a documentary channel or even entertainment stations is totally beyond me - and also beyond those I have shared the DVD with. Seek out this film and watch it. As a friend said to me, why is it we can walk into any shop and buy row upon row of rubbish and we cannot buy this, which shows a real achievement of mankind. "},{"Title":"Easily One of the Best Documentaries of the 20th Century","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Without repeating all the good comments that have been mentioned by earlier reviewers, I will add what is unique for me.1.  When Reinert wonderfully builds up the tension for the liftoff, it is more than a crescendo of power when those Saturn 5 rocket motors blast to life!  I've had the film on VHS tape for about 10 years, and I still enjoy knocking the socks off of first time viewers when the surround sound system is allowed give its all as it shakes the house.  If there were ice chunks on the outside of my house, they would surely shatter and fall just as they did from the rocket body as it slowly left the pad.  UNBELIEVABLE!  I once read that the Apollo rocket, if it all exploded at one time, would equal 80% of the Hiroshima atomic explosion in WW2.  Imagine sitting atop that 31 story tall monster awaiting your fate on the launchpad.2.  Eno's music- just can't say enough superlatives about this soundtrack. Like good art, there is plenty there to continue to pique your interest for years.  He is a gift to all mankind for his work on this soundtrack, but that is just the beginning.  He's been doing that high level of work for decades!GREAT FILM!!! "},{"Title":"Found this film through Eno's album...","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I've been a fan of Brian Eno's work for years, and have cherished the album entitled Apollo Atmospheres and Soundtracks. The album is the commissioned soundtrack for this compilation documentary of the NASA Apollo missions. What a harmony of the arts this is. The stark NASA footage coupled with the hauntingly soothing score create a fascinating marriage of techniques and styles. Although the music editor overused certain tracks over others, the subtlety of Eno's music prevents it from becoming repetitive. A pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"Great to watch again and again!","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  The only thing I would criticize is that the movie is not longer! The music (I think Brian Eno composed it) fits well, quite ambient, never overpowering and helps take the viewer along with the astronauts. What a wonderful beginning, with President Kennedy's speech that the U.S. wants to reach the Moon.... And the words that follow are told only by the astronauts, not by some earth-based narrator that would over-dramatize without knowing what the experience of space travel involves. I've searched for this movie since I rented it on laserdisc years ago, and now I find it's being released in DVD! If you can buy it, it's worth purchasing.  "},{"Title":"Our Promise to Jack","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This was effective for this viewer. Usually what that means in cases like this is that it made me cry. The hook is that it reviews its subject through the eyes of the astronauts. I was wary of this. I got involved in the program later, during the beginning of the shuttle era and even then the astronauts were pretty much there only to have been taken there. They were chosen &#151; some of them &#151; for how good they looked on newsprint. The magic of the program and its heroes were a few visionaries and an army of competent engineers. Yet it was effective because we see the story through the eyes of witnesses. There role here is simply as witness, and if you were alive during this time, you will be impressed at how it affects you.There were all sorts of paths that could have been followed in this. The quest of man to explore; the mysteries of the unknown; the vast game being played by two enemies to demonstrate superiority of ideology; the hidden weapons programs.They cover all these slightly except that last, and that's excusable because these witnesses saw none of that. But the story that dominates is the Kennedy one. Its hard to imagine today, but we loved our president and he deserved it. He was intelligent and articulate. His advisers came off not as louts or bullies, but men (and a few women) smart enough for difficult times. He was the Peace Corps president. Kennedy promised to go to the moon and return without consulting anyone at NASA, and riding on the crest of a national enthusiasm for science and hardware. The nation really was engaged. And then he was killed, and with our rising self-doubt (Vietnam, race) we decided that as a people we owed it to him, or what he stood for. So when it happened, and the world watched, re affirmed the man and what he stood for. It was a good feeling, not pride as much as wonder about who we discovered ourselves to be.This will evoke that same feeling again, the original tears, followed by tears of disappointment at the massive collapse of esteem which followed. A serious of botched opportunities to be worthy of the accomplishment.Its an effective documentary in that regard, all the more so since everything was designed to be photographed, and was. If you really want to learn of this program, you need to go elsewhere, But this delivers on the promise.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Twenty years after the first manned moon landing, there came the best documentary about Apollo, and by extension, the space program that I've ever seen!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Nothing I can say could possibly do this documentary justice, but I'm going to try anyway.  One of the greatest (in more than one sense) and most profound of human endeavors that has ever been undertaken is the effort at spaceflight.  The most notable achievement is the landing and return of humans to the Moon.  This documentary recaptures the awe and wonder I felt (and still feel today) when I watched the landing.  Nominated for Documentary Feature, it should have won (or at least tied).  As good as Common Threads was and is, for For All Mankind not to have won says more about the Academy and present-day society's fixation on now and its indifference to both yesterday and tomorrow.  In a disposable society where creativity is less honored than timliness and for whom all too many, the past is what they had for breakfast, twenty years may as well be two thousand.  Sic Transit Gloria (Thus Passeth Glory).  Most, most highly RECOMMENDED!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent from an educational point of view.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  This movie is a very valuable resource regarding space education. As someone who works in the education field for the Hansen Planetatrium, we are always trying to interest the public in space sciences. Unfortunately, anyone who is 27 years old or younger has never seen anyone actually walking on the Moon. If it weren't for Apollo 13 most of the Elementary and Secondary aged kids wouldn't even know about the missions to the Moon.  . Much less, the Gemini, Mercury, Altas, Skylab and other programs that preceded the Shuttle.   "},{"Title":"sadly diminished on smaller screens","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" In a project almost more ambitious than the Apollo program itself, Al Reinert distills six million feet of NASA film footage and over 80 hours of taped interviews into a glorious 90- minute flashback to the ultimate achievement of our time the manned exploration of another world. The film condenses all ten Apollo moon shots into a single flight, using only the genuine sights, sounds, and impressions experienced by the astronauts themselves along the way, from the tension and exhilaration of lift off to the joy (and inconvenience) of zero gravity, and from the loneliness of deep space to the wonder of stepping foot on an alien world. Seeing the footage for the first time on a big screen can be a revelation; it's a thrilling, vicarious journey across a new threshold in human evolution, providing both an argument for the continued human exploration of the cosmos and a timely reminder of how precious life on our own planet is. "}{"Title":"So far away","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Watched it again last night, on the 35th anniversary of man's first walk on the moon. No need to reiterate what others have said here - it's simply a masterpiece, one of the finest, most moving documentaries ever made (especially compared to the half-witted hysterical polemics that pass for the form these days).It's sobering to think that the deeds recounted in this film are almost forgotten now. The Apollo program is arguably the pinnacle of human achievement, yet yesterday's anniversary passed with hardly a rememberance. I mentioned it to my wife, and she expressed skepticism that the moon landings ever took place! (to her credit, she watched the documentary with me). I consider myself fortunate to have lived in this time and in this place, and had the chance to watch as my countrymen, on behalf of all mankind, took our first, tentative steps on another world.   "},{"Title":"Excellent montage!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I've always been a fan of space exploration (which incidentally helped fuel my star trek addiction, but that's another story) and this film is certainly very informative.Far be it for me to pontificate over this excellent and informative piece of film, go rent it instead. Or buy it even.Brian Eno's music adds a really effective other worldly atmosphere to this film. (I even went and bought the album! Apollo by Brian Eno if anyone's interested).You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Closest many of us will get to the Moon","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Who knew that practically everything the lunar astronauts did, both in and outside of the spaceship, was captured on film -- including, in at least one subtle sequence, defecating into a plastic bag? And there is plenty of voice-over here from the courageous space pioneers themselves, as they talk about the rigors and wonders of traveling a quarter-million miles to our nearest neighbor in space.The images in this pastiche-style documentary are dazzling -- no wonder the astronauts say they spent much of their time simply gazing at Mother Earth. And some of their statements really make you think. Can you imagine traveling all that distance and seeing nothing between Earth and its satellite but the blackest void? The cosmic travelers contemplate the emptiness of space and the mysticism of conducting an unprecedented experiment for mankind.Most of us won't live long or get rich enough to become space tourists, but perhaps this cosmic travelogue is the next best thing. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in the world.","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" A security actor I knew who was also a police officer introduced me to this film. I didn't like the man, but respected his recommendation, and can truly say that this is one of the best movies I've ever seen. It is truly a moving and profound documentary about us as a species stepping forward to literally see new horizons.The thoughts and emotions that are evoked are palpable in this film. No matter where we go, we bring ourselves with us. This film is testament to that truism, and and the astronauts interviewed in this program are there to show us our own reflections through their experiences of travelling to a world beyond.They take us with them as they embark on one of the greatest voyages since Odysseus crossed the Mediterranean, since Erik the Red and the prehistoric fisherman hugged the northern shores across the northern Atlantic, since the Chinese Star Fleet or the immortal Columbus on his way to discover riches for Queen Isabella. The world in question? The moon. Our moon. Our regolith covered gray neighbor who perpetually shows us one side, and creeps in and out of our shadow every thirty days, twelve times a year. We are there with the astronauts sharing their thoughts, feelings, and other impressions and recollections as we see them galavant and work in the reaches of far Earth orbit and into lunar orbit.See it.It is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"An awe-inspiring documentary about an awe-inspiring achievement","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I will just quote an e-mail message I sent to a film maker friend of mineI have to tell you about this movie I've been watching on iPlayer. It was on BBC4 last week. Maybe you've seen it, it's For All Mankind about the Apollo missions, produced and directed by Al Reinert.What is remarkable about it &#x96; and has a parallel to your work &#x96; is the way it tells the narrative, weaving and compressing all the Apollo missions into one 'storyline' starting on Earth, going to the moon and back again.There is no narrator, just voiceovers by various astronauts who travelled on the moon, including Neil Armstrong and Eugene Cernan, and the 'radio' voices of the astronauts and Mission Control from the recordings of the missions.It is a superb piece of documentary film making. And the way the music is used, I can't find words to describe it. There are tracks from 'Apollo' the album of ambient soundscapes by Brian Eno. The music that keeps recurring is the ethereal and moon-like 'An Ending (Ascent)' and it is utterly spine chilling particularly at the very end. Phew, it really gets to me!I'm a great admirer of Brian Eno, and saw him interviewed by Tony Wilson at In The City in 2000.I think I will buy a DVD copy, as I just want to own it and replay it loads of times!I think every documentary film maker should watch it!Thanks,Aidan "},{"Title":"Amazing Historical Footage","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This film had some of the most extensive, most well restored Apollo footage I have ever seen.Not having been around in the 1960s to see much of this footage firsthand, I was astounded by some of the videos and insights portrayed by this film. To see the Apollo 11 astronauts goofing around and playing cassette tapes that had been custom made for them by their favorite artists is pretty awesome. This is a must-see for any big Apollo or space buff.Seeing from some other reviews that incorrect footage is mixed to information about different missions doesn't really hurt the picture. Many of the different Apollo launches looked similar. It is hard to tell from the outside what each ship's mission was, so that does not detract from the film.Hopefully we will have more footage from the moon in the near future as we proceed back into outer space to gain more knowledge through exploration like the early explorers that can be heard and seen in this film. "},{"Title":"Praise for NASA documentary","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  `It feels just like it sounds,' says astronaut Ken Mattingly as Apollo 16 roars off the launch pad, ice crystals shattering an avalanche across the rocket's skin, the engines shouting lava.From 1968 to 1972, there were nine manned flights to the moon, all as part of the Apollo space program. Twenty-four men made the round trip. Twelve walked on the moon. They brought back six million feet of footage. Director Al Reinert condensed the NASA films, dubbed in his interviews with the astronauts, and mixed in Brian Eno's weightless score. The result is the Oscar winning For All Mankind. And despite its many players, cosmic tableaus, venue shifts, malfunctions, space walks, and varied narrators, the film runs seamlessly. Reinert abridged all the moon shots into one eighty- minute trip. Not a simple mission in its own right.What attains is a kind of  spiritual velocity.`If the glass breaks or the computers quit, you're not going to get back home. We had a lot of time to think about that,' says Apollo 12 astronaut Alan Bean while the camera drifts through the command module.Minutes pass wordlessly. Reinert lets the footage speak for itself; staging, landing, earthrise appear ineffably beautiful. Set off by the intense black of space, the colors glow. Someone muses about the serenity of space travel. All goes quiet until suddenly the speakers crackle to life.`Houston, we've had a problem here. The fuel cell's disconnected, buss overload in 1 and 2. Main buss A and B are out. Everything in the world just dropped out.We are venting something into space.' What little footage there is from the Apollo 13 malfunction is enough to make me wonder why Ron Howard bothered re-shooting.`You get ready to land on the surface. Then you look up, and there's that old moon growing fast, filling up the hatch window as you're drifting into its shadow. 2001 stuff,' says Apollo 14's Stuart Roosa.From countdown to splashdown, not a moment passes without some scenic revelation, some eerie silence, some prayer, some pride. Through it all, the cameras capture details within details.An audio track on the dvd features commentary by Reinert and Apollo 17's Eugene Cernan, who sounds more like a poet than a pilot, which fits. Only a poem could express in words the tranquility, honor, and wonder of this fine documentary.  "},{"Title":"One of a Kind","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I own about a dozen documentaries covering the moon landings, being someone who remembers the endeavour from Apollo 8 onwards (collecting the newspaper clippings and building my plastic Saturn V) and this is easily the most watched in my collection. The atmospheric soundtrack allied with the voice-overs from the actual Apollo astronauts and flight controllers raise this above the others, giving a real insight into how it felt to be creating history. It's a great shame that some reviewers have seen fit to mark down this film because it doesn't do what the majority of the other documentaries do. For All Mankind is one of a kind and all the better for that. "},{"Title":"Apollo's creed","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Unlike David Sington with 'In The Shadow Of The Moon' 18 years later, 'For All Mankind' director Al Reinert doesn't address conspiracy theories about faking the moon landings. He doesn't need to, he's just sat through 6 million feet of film from the Apollo and Gemini missions. He has watched President Kennedy's speech about putting a man on the moon in which he makes clear that the technology for doing this has not even been invented yet. He has seen the tragic deaths of the crew of Apollo 1 in a roaring fireball in a test before they even got off the ground. He has seen footage of touchdowns and take-offs from the lunar surface. He has heard hours of detailed communications between astronauts and the ground crews. There is no need to waste screen time in addressing idiots. It reminds me of seeing a protest against Scientology in Edinburgh; to me, Scientology is so ridiculous that to protest against it gives it a weight that it doesn't deserve. Interestingly, Reinert also doesn't waste screen time on most of the things that 'In The Shadow Of The Moon' would take up; the cold war, the fighter pilot backgrounds of the Apollo crews. That film takes a more conventional all-around documentary approach, with close-up talking heads whose names and missions are restated on-screen each and every time they speak. With this film there is none of that, in fact it's often difficult to decipher who is speaking and which particular mission footage is from, or even if the voice and the footage are from the same flight.The different missions are instead merged together in a single sequence, beginning on the launch pad, all the way into orbit, lunar landings, reconnaissance on the surface, take-off and return. Each mission was essentially the same as any other from Apollo 11 onwards, with the exception of Apollo 13 which blew an oxygen leak and had to be abandoned. The drama of that situation is massively underplayed here, there are none of the great sweeping strings moments, we have only highly professional men doing highly specialised jobs... at least until we get out of earth's gravitational field.What follows from this point is the strength of 'For All Mankind'. Everyone has heard about the cold war, beating the Russians, the whole world watching on TV as Neil Armstrong comes down the ladder. Our sense of wonder was in looking at them, their sense of wonder was in looking at what they could see and experience directly. As soon as the gravity departs, these ultimate professionals become children again, spinning torches in zero gravity, bouncing around on the moon singing tum ti tum ti tum.., playing country music on tape recorders, listening out for college football scores. We even see astronauts messing around so much that they go sprawling on the ground, only to end up scolding each other for getting so dirty.Not telling us exactly what is going on, or who is speaking, or exactly what you are watching can be frustrating, but it allows us a view of events free from the context of politics, nostalgia, even personality at times. Dave Scott of Apollo 15 stands looking upon the Moon's hilly terrain and observes I realise there's a fundamental truth to our nature... Man must explore. Absinthe minds will enjoy the sense of wonder that comes from seeing people on the surface of another world, far increased over most film representations by being real footage with real people.Even so, there is a little directorial dishonesty, or artistic license depending on how you want to look at it. Scenes from Gemini are inserted to appear like those from Apollo. Kennedy's opening speech has a word dubbed, altered from for the progress of all people to for the progress of all mankind, in order to better suit the purposes of the film. Understandable, perhaps, but why fiddle it? Similarly a memorable audio clip describing how the Moon was perfectly lined up ahead of the space shuttle as it stood on the launch pad is accompanied by a clip showing this. The only problem is that this footage did not exist - it was created for the film by pasting a photo of the Moon over the command module, now in a museum. Again, understandable, and seeing the Moon through that window alongside the description is indeed memorable. but when you find out that it was created and inserted it's a bit of a let down, like finding out that the Ramones legendary live album 'It's Alive' was largely re-recorded in a studio afterwards.What isn't at all a let-down is the Brian Eno soundtrack, whose eerie ethereality keeps you in mind of the dimensions of space as compared to the delicate tin can of the lunar lander modules. The fragility of these vehicles is best summed up by the little windows, which look almost impossibly delicate given that one small breach would mean near-instant death for all on board. Amidst the euphoria and clowning, Eno retains and carries our sense of delicacy and amazement. "},{"Title":"Filmed on location &#x85;","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The movie is a documentary, a chronicle of about nine NASA missions to the moon from 1968 to 1972, including the near disaster of Apollo 13 (Houston, we had a problem here.). It is not important that there is not a great focus on any one particular space mission. After all, even if not exactly alike, the trips were similar. But how about those brave men, sitting atop a 300+ foot spaceship longer than the height of the Statue of Liberty . . . waiting for the rocket motors to blast-off . . . a big candle indeed! To make this wonderful movie, director Al Reinert mulled over six million feet of film and taped more than 80 hours of NASA interviews. Editor Susan Korda must have had much work to do.It all began in 1962 with President Kennedy's famous Texas speech. We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard. We had a supporting array of brilliant engineers at Houston. Our achievement was monumental.The film offers no professional narrative, no texts, and no talking heads. None of those are needed. Instead the story is told by Houston and the astronauts themselves. The footage speaks for itself. And it is beautifully set to music by Brian Eno. An astronaut plays Frank Sinatra's 1964 rendition of Fly Me to the Moon. How apropos! Later we hear The eagle has landed. What an experience walking and hopping on the moon, rock hunting, securing the American flag! One of the astronauts tests Galileo's Law of Falling Bodies using a hammer and a feather. The Italian physicist was right! The film is dedicated to the 14 men and women who died. They include four Russians on two Soyuz missions, and the three astronauts who died in that terrible Apollo I fire in January 1967. Also there were the seven who perished in the Challenger in January 1986.I noticed that the end movie credit of Santo and Johnny Farina's 1959 top instrumental hit reads Sleepwalking instead of Sleep Walk. But the movie version is the cover by Lee DeCarlo (who was also the film's post-production sound supervisor) and also Peter Manning Robinson. Maybe this version was renamed; it certainly does sound like the original Farina tune.For All Mankind is recommended for everybody! "}{"Title":"One Vision and Dream","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" If you've loved, dreamt big, and witnessed death, this film might be for you.I've seen my share of films, and only a mere handful of them have transported me the way Al Reinert's For All Mankind (1989) does; enthralled me, elated me, stopped me in my tracks. The most extraordinary thing is that albeit films like Zerkalo (1975) directly address the cinematic function of dreams and memories in fictional terms, it is this film that most evocatively makes me see the insatiably curious child in myself, gazing at the sky, seeing the stars at night, wondering about the vastness of space, the insignificance of one's own existence in the grand scheme of things, both in space and in the great ocean of time. And at the same time, there's deep consolation in this otherwise bittersweet notion that after a mere instance we're gone. We live and dream and hope, and die, and our lives are very much like the deep blue marble seen from space by the astronauts, against the endless abyss of incomprehensibly vast darkness and nothingness. As said by one astronaut in the film, the Earth seems to give the dark space life; truly, then, the darkness of death gives meaning to the fleeting moment of life we as individuals experience here.Brian Eno's music is integral, opulent, and words don't do it justice. The images, and the way they are structured with the sounds, have to be experienced. We're lucky to have the film on Blu-ray in a superb transfer (Criterion has released it in Region A and the Masters of Cinema in Region B, using the exact same transfer).Some have criticized the lack of transparency in the narrative, making it difficult to distinguish between the different missions, but I don't see it as a problem at all. On the contrary, I find the narrative transparent enough, framed with Kennedy's dream, realized in the successes and failures of the Apollo program. The film therefore sees all the missions shown as the actualization of one vision and dream. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review For All Mankind","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Yes, it's strangely surprising that the next DVD I would pop in the player would be NASA related as well. The previous was mission specific, looking back at the Apollo 13 mission, but this documentary by Al Reinert consists of many first hand account as well as rarely seen footage caught by various moon-bound astronauts over the series of successful Apollo missions.And it isn't really surprising that the astronauts all have a film camera with them when they blasted off into space. After all, who better than to record some never seen before visuals, either en route to the way up to outer space, or to the lucky few who got to land on the moon, the view from out there looking back on Earth. They become filmmakers in documenting their lives too living inside a cramped space craft, to bring to us some National Geographic moments of the lunar surface, and plenty of picturesque shots of our planet.Covering the viewpoints of multiple astronauts, most have confessed that it's easy to get distracted by the view from up there. You get to listen to their thought process, and plenty of unseen footage of the surface that while on one hand fascinating, on the other it may be a bit monotonous because frankly, there's nothing up there except miles and miles of rock and dust. You can tell the enthusiasm of all the astronauts as they frolic around in tumbles and falls, thrilled by the 1/6 gravitational pull, with the nagging fear that should they spring a leak in that suit because of a sharp edge, it'll mean instant goodbyes. If you'd think it's all grim and serious there, then this documentary would change your mind. "},{"Title":"What a movie about going to the moon was meant to be","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I found this movie remarkable since instead of focusing on the technical and scientific achievements, it focused much more on the experience of going to the moon.I can't remember all the details of this movie, but came away moved by the wonder of it all.The documentary leaves breathing room so that the experience can be understood and doesn't crowd it out with facts.  The ambient music by Brian Eno also enhances the otherworldliness and wonder. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" An aspect of this film that lends it uniqueness, is that it is, in a sense, a pure documentary- just the images and words of those involved. It has no political nor philosophical; agenda. Too much agitprop has infected documentaries of recent years. A Certain Kind Of Death is perhaps the only recent documentary I can think of that trusts its audience to this extent. Susan Korda, the film's editor, also deserves notice. It is truly rare that in any film (fictive or documentary) editing plays such a key role, but this is one, and it is not in the length of the particular scenes and how they are edited, but in which images and scenes are in the film, and what other ones (and words- culled from hours of astronaut interviews) they are juxtaposed with. A really great job, and not a wasted second in the film, right from the opening shot of President John F. Kennedy's tossing down of the gauntlet in a speech at Baylor University to the final shots of the missions in flight. Brian Eno's score is also noteworthy.Of course, the only negative thing concerning this film is nothing of its own doing; it is the waste of decades since. Cernan, in the commentary, speaks of sometimes feeling that President Kennedy actually reached into this century, and forcefully willed NASA to the moon decades ahead of time, and I am forced to agree. The tepidity of the public to intellectual and artistic pursuits is only emphasized by witnessing folk, from not too long ago, who treated such ideas as ideals to be cherished and nourished, not dismissed. The moon landing is one of those rare instances where a single act literally changed mankind's view of itself, yet, it did not change enough of it to fundamentally better us all. That fault is society's, not the men and women who achieved this monumental thing. And hats off to Al Reinert for taking up a task even NASA did not feel a need doing, and doing it so well. Simply put, whether a fan of Criterion, documentaries, history, or science, this DVD is one of the few essential films to treasure and explore. If only those political hacks who fund NASA understood exploration and the value of knowledge, perhaps we'd already have had our Martian Apollos and Armstrong. One can still dream little boy dreams now and again, eh? "},{"Title":"very good doc,yet i was still disappointed","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" i enjoyed this 80 minute or so documentary chronicling all of the Apollo missions,including the Landing on the moon.yet it didn't have as much of an impact as i had hoped or expected.it's a well done film in all aspects.it looks great and sounds great,and the musical score is nice.there are some great shots of space and the moon,as well as the Earth from the moon.the clothing style of the guys at Mission Control(with their ill fitting shirts,and bad fashion sense)are amusing,as are the scenes of them smoking.for an 80 minute doc,this actually covers a lot of ground.i just wish it had been longer.for me,For All Mankind is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great topic, annoying style","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I followed the Apollo program closely and have seen much footage. I prefer a straightforward presentation of material, not this highly augmented stuff. I find the music and the sound effects added to the film annoying. Especially bad is the incoherence created by mixing film from different flights, and even using the audio from one while showing the video from another. For example, use of the spacewalk from earth-orbital flight Apollo 9 gives the impression it was done on the way to the moon, and the flight director says 'get back in' they add to the soundtrack is from Gemeni 4! The flights were dramatic enough, distortion to improve them isn't necessary! The extra material on the DVD is interesting, including commentary by Alan Bean on his paintings. He comments on many details about the experience you don't normally hear, like his suit's ankle joints were more comfortable than the knee joints. "},{"Title":"Uninformative and slow","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" I typically enjoy documentaries about the original moon missions, but I was quite disappointed when I watched For All Mankind. I have to ask, where is the documentary aspect? Most of this film was nothing but slow, boring video shot by the original astronauts with annoying music playing in the background. They don't explain anything, the closest they come to narrating any of this is every five minutes or so, someone makes a short 15 second comment, but that's basically it.I think the History Channel did a much better job with their documentary Failure Is Not An Option, it was 100 times better than this, simply because they combined the video from the moon missions with good narration and interviews with the original astronauts and mission control staff.In my opinion, For All Mankind was nothing more than a collection of the moon astronaut's home videos. It's hard to believe this was made by National Geographic, because it has the quality of a homemade film. "}]