[{"Title":"What happened?!","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"44 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child, the fifth installment in the Nightmare on Elm Street series and the worst sequel ever in the series, even worse than A Nightmare on Elm Street 2. I was lucky enough to get the Nightmare on Elm Street DVD box set for my birthday and I watched all the sequels. The dream child was the worst without a doubt, I was surprised too since they were doing so well with the last two sequels. But I guess they just lost the charm, the story was just ridicules and I wasn't happy with where it went. Alice just became more annoying, she's not Nancy or Kirsten, so her carrying this film on her own didn't work for me. Freddy is also loosing his scare, this was just getting a bit silly.Alice is back and she's carrying a child, she couldn't be happier with her life. But Freddy is also back and he's not going to be too light on her since she defeated him so easily in the fourth movie. But anyways, he wants her child and to be born into the world again. Did you ever wonder if Freddy had parents too? Well that's what A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child investigates and Alice soon finds out what Freddy's childhood was like and that maybe that's the one thing that can defeat him.A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child is just all in all a bad movie and an insult to the series. I don't think anyone could be happy with this sequel. Just the story was really silly, I mean it could have possibly worked, but once again, it was just executed the wrong way. I know that if you're looking to see the sequels for the Nightmare on Elm Street series, you should watch it, but I really wouldn't recommend it, it's not worth it, at least in my opinion.3/10 "},{"Title":"More of A Soap Opera Than Horror.","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not saying this is a bad movie like most people say, but if you look at it real closely; you will see this installment has the most drama than the others. Besides PART 7. Director Stephen Hopkins and (female) writer Leslie Bohem provide a great dramatic story with perfect comic timing by FREDDY KRUGER(Robert Englund).Alice(Lisa Wilcox) and Dan(Danny Hassell) have been living like king and queen since the battle with FREDDY. All of that is about to change, because FREDDY is using their unborn baby, Jacob(Whitby Hertford), dreams to kill those close to her. The only person who can help her is the rest of her remaining friends and FREDDY's mother, who body has been missing since the birth of FREDDY.Now the plot sounds like an average horror movie, but it's not. What most people complain about is how slow moving it is and not few people are killed like the other installment. This movie not about that at all, it's more on the human side than horror. Of course, you have those excellent one liners from FREDDY. So watch if your in for a horror/drama. "},{"Title":"Creepy and Underrated Sequel","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" On the day of her graduation in Springwood High School and after having sex with her boyfriend Dan Jordan (Danny Hassle), Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox) has a dreadful nightmare with Amanda Krueger (Beatrice Boepple) on the night that she was mistakenly locked up in the asylum with one hundred maniacs and then with Freddy Krueger's rebirth. During the night, while Dan is in the graduation party in a swimming pool with their common friends Yvonne (Kelly Jo Minter), Mark Grey (Joe Seely) and Greta Gibson (Erika Anderson), Alice calls him and Dan leaves the party and drives his truck to meet Alice at her job. However he is attacked by Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) and crashes against a large truck instantaneously dying. The shocked Alice goes to the hospital and finds that she is pregnant of Dan's son. When Greta is killed by Freddy during a dinner party, Alice becomes intrigued since she was not sleeping in both occasions; therefore Freddy could not have used her dreams to reach Dan and Greta. Sooner Alice concludes that Freddy is using her baby's dreams to kill her friends, and she decides to seek out Amanda to learn how she could defeat and destroy Freddy Krueger.A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child is the fifth part of this classic movie and is a creepy and underrated sequel. This is the movie of the franchise that uses the greatest number of impressive gruesome special effects. The deaths are very creative, like the one in the comic book or the attack of the motorcycle and one of the scariest scenes is when Alice is dressed like Amanda and surrounded by the crazy guys in the saloon of the mental institution. The beauty of Lisa Wilcox gives a great contrast with the ugliness of the beast Freddy Krueger. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Hora do Pesadelo 5 O Maior Horror de Freddy (The Hour of the Nightmare 5 The Greatest Horror of Freddy) "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Never mind Freddy's return is never explained, this installment has terrific effects, and style to burn with Robert Englund giving it his all, but this series is getting old fast. In this entry, Freddy (Englund) is trying to control the unborn child of part four's survivor and murdering all her friends in the process. The black and white sequence is a highlight. Unrated; Extreme Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations, Profanity, and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"And the series gets even worse...","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The series began suffering with the fourth movie, but this one really sent the series down hill. The acting is horrible. Only Robert Englund delivers a good performance. Not easy considering how pathetic this movie makes Freddy. Instead of the dark and scary villain, he's become a wise cracking jerk. The story is poor, making little sense. More details about Freddy's past come to light, but it really doesn't make a difference. The movie is also not very scary. The makers of this movie just opt for a lot of gore. The special effects try to fix the movie's many problems, but they don't. You'd think they would know when to quit, but yet another sequel followed. Thumbs down on this one. "},{"Title":"Special-Effects Great; Story Stinks","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Some of the best, if not the best, special effects in the seven-part Nightmare On Elm Street series were featured in this movie. They are good and they are clever. The teens in here are still annoying and profane but not to the degree they are in most of the Freddy films. There are some real hotties in here, too. The ridiculous part is that all these teens look about 25 years old (which they probably are). Robert Englund (Freddy) has some funny lines, as he did in a most of these movies and the movie is well-photographed.My problem with the story, and almost of them actually, is the theology which has always been so stupid, but I tolerated it through all of the films. But here, to a show a book in the beginning of the film that says Christian Mythology, is a real cheap shot and going too far. This pagan propaganda was heavy in this film, which is really only worthwhile for the inventive special-effects. "},{"Title":"Watchable in a style-before-substance way.","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy, who survived being destroyed be the 'dream master', is now attempting to be reborn through the dreams of Alice's as-yet unborn baby. Alice starts having nightmares concerning Freddy's mother, his place of conception and what he looked like before he was cremated by avenging parents.The '5' I have given this film is only so high because of the dark, imaginative special effects, the atmospheric soundtrack and because of Robert England who is at his wisecracking best (even though the comic-book portrayal of Freddy leaves the film abut as scary as an episode of Postman Pat. Everything else about this film stinks, from the lousy, couldn't-care-less acting to the often tedious storyline and the irritating characters. Reviews at the time of this film's release claimed you needed an IQ of less than 20 to enjoy it. Perhaps they were being generous. "},{"Title":"Freddy a father? Sure, why not?","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" By 1988, it seemed that audiences couldn't get enough of Freddy Krueger. The first three films made a lot of money, which led to merchandising up the wazoo. He was a household name and it was only the beginning. 'The Dream Master' was the most successful of the series up to that point. So naturally the folks at New Line got started on the next chapter. It came less than a year after 4 and didn't perform as well as what came before. All these years later though, it actually holds up well.Pros A great and creepy opening sequence. Above average performances. One of the best scores in the series. A welcome return to a darker atmosphere. Nicely done effects. Eye-popping production design. Creative death scenes. Some cool ideas, such as how Freddy gets to his victims this time. Moves at a good pace.Cons Like the last film, this one's plot is real thin. Brings up some serious issues, then drops them. Though shown less, Freddy isn't as scary as in the earlier films.Final thoughts Like 'Halloween 5,' this sequel was rushed into production after it's predecessor's success. Had they given the audience a longer break from Ol' Freddy, it may have done better at the Box Office. Despite this and it's faults, this installment is one of the series' strongest. From the spectacle, to the likable cast, to the darker tone and the chilling score it's a treat. Too bad they had to blow it with the next one, but that's another story.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"children can do anything...","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Obviously, they wanted to have Freddy come back yet again. This time, he murders people through the dreams of an unborn baby. You read that right AN UNBORN BABY! I never knew that unborn babies can dream, but apparently they can. As for the murders themselves...well, let's just say that the doll scene was something else! I would imagine that Robert Englund is probably proud to be remembered as that claw-handed slasher. Granted A Nightmare On Elm Street The Dream Child isn't exactly the most creative movie ever, but it's still neat for what it is. Needless to say, there are some silly one-liners. And yet, there were even sequels after this one... "},{"Title":"The series sinks a little lower","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the success of Part 4, another sequel was a natural move.  However they should have stopped it before it began.  Alice, having survived Part 4 finds herself pregnant and it seems Freddy is using her unborn child to get at his victims, which of course are Alice's friends.  Strange Nightmare movie, very heavy on religious imagery and bad acting.  The special effects are good, but the movie itself is not.   "}{"Title":"Super Freddy Scene Was Borderlind Unwatchable","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street 5 The Dream Child was the worst Freddy Krueger film I've seen yet.To start off on a good note, though, I liked the cinematography. In fact, I really thoroughly enjoyed the cinematography. It's not often that the cinematography is the best aspect of a picture, but it is here.The director was weird, though. I mean, I could tell he had a little bit of skill with the regular scenes, but the dream sequences were done incredibly poorly. Usually the best parts of the films, these dream sequences were incredibly poorly conceived. I know that the filmmakers were trying to blend the dreams with reality as in the first film, but they ended up being so goofy that it became entirely too obvious what was a dream and what wasn't. Something else about the dream sequences that bothered me in the first film Freddy would cut the characters and they would get cut in real life. Whatever happened to that? Instead the dreams just lead to random accidents in real life.The acting in this movie is even worse than last time. Once again, I liked Lisa Wilcox's pretty face, but her acting is awful. All of them have shitty acting. Even so, the actor who played the character of Mark was interesting. He wasn't very good (though better than the other actors), but he was the only actor who seemed interested in bringing out the more intriguing aspects of his character. These characters aren't much to be interested in. They're dull and not very intelligently designed. Oh, god, Freddy. What have they done to you? You keep getting more puns put into your dialogue, but now he's being put into bizarre costumes and corny setups. I need to watch the first film again so I can take him seriously again. Robert Englund has even stopped trying, a sign that this series has hit rock bottom. I remember reading that this was Englund's least favorite film. And I can easily see why. The Super Freddy scene was borderline unwatchable.I think the worst part must be the dialogue. This is really among the worst dialogue I've ever heard. I straight up hated the words coming out of the actors' mouths, and I think it was part of the reason the acting itself was so bad. I cannot imagine these lines coming out well. On the other hand, every time the director has regular scenes outside of the dreams, he is able to set up the scenes fairly well. Like I said, he has a bit of skill. Albeit he's not brilliant, but he had potential. Until the dream sequences. But if he had a decent screenplay, his ability might have taken the film somewhere.Visually, the film isn't even attractive. Apart from the cinematography, there's nothing in the effects or set design that would make this film pleasant to look at. It's just an ugly looking film. I was far more interested in the movement of the camera than the images on the screen.Yeah, the sh***y effects seal the deal for me. A Nightmare On Elm Street 5 The Dream Child sucks.1/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Best of the Series","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think think movie is underrated because the horror is more insidious and psychological rather than blatant gore. Alice Johnson is a strong heroine who picks up where Nancy Thompson was, regrettably, forced to leave off. No one can ever be Nancy, but Lisa Wilcox's Alice is a hallmark of Nancy's greatest attributes yet also manages to be unique and intriguing. The movie is claustrophobic, and by making the struggle between Alice and Freddy internal, it is all the more compelling. Granted, the supporting characters, with the exception of Yvonne, are pedestrian and stereotypical. This is definitely a movie for fans of a determined, ingenious heroine. "},{"Title":"Good FX, poor story","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child may be the weakest of the series.**SPOILERS**After graduating from High School, Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox) decides to go to Paris for the summer with her boyfriend Dan (Danny Hassle), but her nightmares about Freddy Kruegar (Robert Englund) still haunt her. A new set of nightmares about a woman named Amanda Kruegar (Beatrice Boepple) giving birth to Freddy make her question whether she dreamed them or not. While her friends Yvonne, (Kelly Jo Minter) Mark (Joe Seely), Dan and Greta (Erika Anderson) are partying at the school when Dan gets a call from Alice to come get her. While driving to get her, Freddy attacks and kills him in a motorcycle accident. When she says that Kruegar is the source, no one believes her. Once she learns that she's pregnant, she becomes even more distraught. As Freddy begins killing her friends one by one, Alice comes to believe that Freddy has invaded her unborn child's dreams to come back into the world and enlists Amanda to help her fight her son.The Good News The movie does open with a bang. Alice walks into the shower after a night of sex, and gets distracted by the brown gunk bubbling up from the bottom of the shower. Investigating, she finds nothing, then is attacked by the surging water from the shower-head. Becoming trapped in the shower, she tries to break free, but then is paralleled into a dream world. We then get a few small, pretty good jumps about Freddy. It is a great way to start a movie. I do have to admit that Freddy's deaths are very creative for a fourth sequel. The motorcycle of death sequence is easily the best, but the comic book scene is also quite imaginative. Both feature great special effects and new ideas, hallmarks of the series. The special effects are perhaps the best part of the movie. Freddy's rebirth is the best part, being an atmospheric scene with lots of things crashing around Alice in the middle of a room that feature Freddy appearing at the end. Even though the story isn't a very good one for this type of series, it provides a ton of opportunities for some jumps. By having Alice know of Freddy's reappearance for a long time, it gives her the ability to see Freddy in different places and convince her she is going insane. By having Freddy appear in new places around her and scare her, his appearance also scares us. The way to finally kill him is pretty creative, and I'm surprised this wasn't thought of before.The Bad News This is mainly thought of as the FX entry in the series, and by and far they are right. Whereas the first one was mainly based around the suspense and shock, the second on remaking the story with a few twists, the third one being a continuation of the first one and the fourth one based around the comedy of Kruegar, the fifth one is mainly used as an excuse to show off the elaborate special effects. They all look very good and it looks like a lot of money was spent on the effects, but effects driven films, to me, are basically hollow, since once you've seen the film once and you've got a handle on the story, it doesn't do anything on repeated viewings. Effects films can only go as far as the quality of the effects, but here the weak story is the major defect. Kruegar's resurrection is handled with great care and thought, but it goes nowhere and doesn't make any sense as to why Kruegar would go after Alice. Is it because he's trying to get back at Alice for the last time, or is it because he knows he can come back through her when her child is born? It's never really explained why, and that's a weak part of the story. Another part that seems off is the humor. Freddy does off give a few good quips, but perhaps the humor is a bit blacker than in previous or subsequent films, with part six being the funniest, then comes part four in terms of comedy. A few of them are pretty good, but most are simply confusing as too why they are included. These are simply eye-rollers and aren't as clever as some of his far better quips.The Final Verdict Even though this is a bit more FX driven than other entries, the quality of the other entries is so great that this fine entry is considered the weakest. The FX is pretty impressive, but the surrounding story is a bit weak. That aside, it is a bit better than you may think and deserves a chance from other Nightmare fans.Rated R Graphic Violence, some language, a brief, not well seen sex scene, and brief shadowy Nudity "},{"Title":"Not The Best Sequel, But It's Not Horrible","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fifth Elm Street movie is considered by a lot of fans and viewers to be one of the more malignant of the sequels, but while this is not the greatest Elm Street movie or even the greatest horror movie, it's not as terrible as people keep thinking it is.The difference between Part 5 and the other sequels is that it tries to use the darker atmosphere of the first movie and combine it with Freddy's hammy tendencies from the later films, especially Part 4. The atmosphere has a dreamlike quality to it and the lighting works to try and match it, especially combined with more Gothic architecture as seen in the abandoned halls of Westin Halls and Alice's return to the dream church. There are some elements, such as the opening dream sequence of Amanda Krueger's gang rape and Racine Gibson's dinner party, that have a slight Tim Burton-esque feel to them. The labyrinth which combines all the previous dreamscapes comes right out of M.C. Escher.There's also the focus on characters, with this having the smallest body count of the Elm Street movies because there's slightly more analysis on Alice's new friends before they die. We already know about Dan, but we're treated to views of Greta's unhealthy dynamic with her mother treating her like a doll and a brief shot of her mourning over a character's death by herself, which does not lead directly to another death scene. This is unique because, in the Elm Street series, whenever they focus on a character mourning it almost always leads into another conflict. Alice on her part has grown significantly since Part 4 and no longer spends her time with Krueger simply standing there horrified. We're also shown that Alice's father has sobered up since the last film and turns into one of, if not the most, competent and alert parent figure in the whole series even if he's not aware of Krueger's presence.Then there are the death sequences, even more elaborate than Part 4's and so creepy they've yet to release an unrated DVD edition.As for the problem areas, we have Krueger talking with a throaty growl, almost as if he's underwater, his wise-cracking attitude once again coming across as clichéd and annoying, the crude stop-motion sequences such as the fridge and Alice's fight with Krueger, and the ending where once again Alice requires someone else's assistance.So, again, while this isn't the best sequel, it's still worth a try. And you can find the uncut deaths on Youtube, though the quality may vary. Hope this helps. "},{"Title":"Trash is mercifully short","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The return of Alice (Lisa Wilcox) and Robert Englund, our heroine from A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master, serves as little inspiration for another poor sequel. Director Stephen Hopkins begins the film with some promise, and the opening scenes are okay. Yet it does not take long for the film to become trashy, and we soon find A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child delivering the usual schlock-horror.The film is very predictable, very un-exciting and often very ridiculous. However, do not despair, for it has one certain plus! It is very short, thank goodness.Wednesday, June 24, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"I wasn't disappointed","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Some people complain that they don't like the plot of this movie. Actually I think that it was good enough and the idea that Freddy Krueger is striking through the sleeping mind of Alice's unborn child was pretty clever. OK, some acts of the characters were ridiculous, but I wasn't expecting them to be clever, because I've watched this film only to see some great visuals and murder scenes, so I wasn't disappointed. If you liked previous parts, then you just have to watch this one, because I doubt that by watching these movies you really care about plot. One of the characters is a huge comic-book fan and I think it's pretty predictable what's going to happen to him. "},{"Title":"Absolutely the worst in the series","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is so incredibly bad, that I almost felt sick watching it.  Up until this point, the other installments had at least one good thing about it.  Part 1 was suspenseful and gory.  Part 2 was off beat and entertaining.  Part 3 was interesting with great effects.  Part 4 had great music, good special effects, and a new entertaining Freddy Krueger.  Part 5 is more boring than anything I've ever seen before.  Alice, a much prettier blond, from Part 4 is back with her boyfriend Dan.  At parts, this supposed Elm Street installment turns into a daytime soap.  The newer characters seem harsh, and even that sweet Alice has a chip on her shoulder.  Freddy seems to be completely out of this one.  He looks tired, and doesn't seem to be as gruesome.  His one-liners seem out of place and different, where as in Part 4 they could be pretty funny.  Leslie Bohem's story never gets off the ground and Stephen Hopkins' direction is so bad, that it makes my grandmother look good!  The whole plot of this movie is ridiculous and unrealistic.  It's also confusing and pretty stupid.  Avoid Part 5 at all costs! "},{"Title":"i don't understand why people like part 4 better?","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part four was the brightest and least dark of the whole series. in the dreamchild freddy was darker again and the whole film had a menacing Gothic feel to it. the score was awesome and the atmosphere downright scary to me.the script is also well written with an in depth story, unlike part 4 that was just thrown together at the last minute.the ending in part 5 was one of the best of the series as well, with amanda taking freddy back into her womb. this movie is full of spiritual symbolism as well.Why do people not like this one? is it because they were simply told not to like it by friends or could it be that many people are too simple minded to enjoy something that has more depth and has a lot of symbolism?don't get it. "},{"Title":"A dying effort","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one is just like the 6th movie. The movie is really bad. It offers nothing in the death department. The one-liners are bad and are something that shouldn't be in a NOES movie. Freddy comes off as a happy child in the whole movie. Lisa Wilcox is still the only thing that makes this one worth while. The characters are extremely underdeveloped. All in all better than the 6th one, but still one the worst movies of the series. My rating 2/10   "},{"Title":"Kids... always a disappointment.","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" By the time A Nightmare on Elm Street had rolled around to this, part five, Freddy Krueger had long stopped being a scary bogeyman. He was now a figure of fun, a purveyor of one line quips, while the makers were desperately trying to come up with new ideas in which to have the pizza faced Krueger still exist, and thus have more films for him to be in...Here we are sold the idea that a foetus can dream, so not only do we get a horror staple of sex being bad for you, but it lets Freddy (Robert Englund) back in the fold - in this another garbled screenplay. Cue friends of the pregnant Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox) being stalked and offed by the old stinky green and red jumper killer.It's all very frenetic and cartoonish, with gore replacing scares. There's a little ingenuity with some of the kills, such as a comic book section that has a good thought process, but once the laughable finale arrives - cuz - like - love conquers all - then you may be digging out parts 1 & 3 to remind yourself how good this series used to be. 5/10 "}{"Title":"The worst movie in the franchise","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child, another sequel was in the works, but instead of waiting a few years to release it, it was immediately fast-tracked and released a year earlier.The plot is really stupid. The plot picks shortly after the events of The Dream Master, this film involves Freddy using Alice's unborn child, Jacob, to resurrect himself and find new victims. The spirit of Amanda Krueger returns, revealing that Freddy was conceived when she, a nun working in a mental asylum, was accidentally locked in a room with 100 maniacs and raped thousands of times. Amanda Krueger convinces Jacob to use the powers he was given by Freddy against him, which gives her the chance to subdue Freddy long enough for Alice and Jacob to escape the dream world.The acting is both good and bad, but the only ones to mention is Robert Englund as Freddy Kreuger and Lisa Wilcox as Alice Johnson. The only performances kind of worth mentioning is Kelly Jo Minter as Yvonne, Erika Anderson as Greta and Danny Hassle as Dan. Also, the child who plays Jacob is Whitby Hertford is also kind of worth mentioning, but even then their performances is incredibly over the top.The dialogue is a little bit difficult to follow, but it is also easy to fully understand, but the editing can get a little awkward in a few areas. I also think the other thing kind of worth mention is the visual effects, which were impressive for 1989 and is still enjoyable today.The musical score by composer Jay Ferguson and he really does a great job with vocalization and it is really cool. The soundtrack is really cool and the rap / hip-hop songs are very awesome and amazing. The cinematography by Peter Levy is just cool and it has a Gothic feel to it, which some stuff being in the blue color scheme in a few scenes.The costume design and production designs are just spectacular and awesome in this face. The make-up effects for Freddy Krueger and it is really scary and intense as hell, but also really spectacular and very cool.My favorite nightmares are the comic book nightmare, the eating nightmare, the motorcycle nightmare and the swimming pool nightmares.Overall, with A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child, I hate it. It's not the best in the franchise, but it could have been worse and I do mean worse. My rating is 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"More screams and dreams.","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are more screams and dreams as Part V of the Nightmare series rolled around, a story where Alice (Lisa Wilcox) finds Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) taunting the sleeping mind of Alice's unborn child and wants to be reborn into the world through the baby.It's more of the screams, dreams and mangling with some gross and graphic scenes, especially that containing images of the Dream Child. These gross-out scenes are supposed to make the movie scarier, but it does really wear out afterward as the series progresses. There is really not much character development, suspense and thrilling sequences. It's basically a continuation of the same kids vs. the re-returning Freddy Krueger element, with only the baby scenes offering a different plot device.At 89 minutes, it is not an extremely long movie and you might get entertained by a few of the Dream Child plot scenes. Overall, it's a very average horror movie.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Another Disappointing Sequel In The Series. But Somewhat Decent Also.","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Nightmare 4 i thought there would be another great sequel to be made i was wrong. I'm glad they got a few actors to come back from Nightmare 4 to appear in this one. And i'm glad they got Robert Englund to come back as Freddy once again. But they tried to make this sequel dark and scary again but failed miserably. OK here are my dislikes to the film. First off the body count is three what three really they could've made a larger body count but apparently that didn't happen. That's one of the main things that bothers me the most. Also Mark's death scene is the main death scene that irritates me the most. First off what were they thinking having Mark get killed in a comic book like death. What the hell were they thinking? That's a really stupid idea just like the death scene of Spencer in Freddy's Dead. However this one is a lot better than Freddy's Revenge and Freddy's Dead and somewhat disappointing and somewhat decent. "},{"Title":"A very weird mess.","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK I'll admit it. I liked A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 4. It had it's flaws, but it was enjoyable and had some cool dream sequences. While this one isn't as bad as some people make it out to be, it still isn't good. This movie really wasn't scary. The only parts that managed to scare me was the kids singing Freddy's song (Although that always scares me.) and the shower scene was kind of scary. Most of the dream scenes were weird and not in a good way like the dinner scene and some of them were unintentionally funny like the driving scene. I'm usually not the guy to complain about pacing, but I thought it was really off in this movie and it made the movie feel longer than it actually was. I also thought that Freddy Kreuger was a laughing stock in this movie. His wisecracks worked much better in the previous movie. You might think my rating is kind from someone who is a fan of the series, but it never really crosses the line of bad. The special effects weren't bad and it at least tries to be creative although the most creative scene was the comic book one and I still laughed at that one. Also the unintentional humor made me keep my rating. I would actually recommend this to fans of the series because it is so weird that you just have to see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Freddy starts phoning it in...","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" And by this time in the franchise, Freddy has pretty much gotten to a meme established in the third movie.Lisa Wilcox is back as Alice, who gets pregnant by her boyfriend, and Freddy uses the unborn fetus as a route back into the real world to kill her friends. (This, of course, would be a new batch of friends since her old batch of friends were killed in Part IV, and barely merit a mention in this one.) So we get Freddy doing his thing, killing people in themes of things they like, such as the Comic Book Nerd and the Aspiring Model, while the teens (played by 20 year olds, of course) find the thing to take Freddy out because the last four things that took him out worked so well. Or not.Englund seems to be putting less of an effort into this one, just going with the special effects, which are pretty good for 1989. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare 5 continues with the story of Dan and Alice from part 4 and Freddy's back story from part 3. Alice starts having nightmares of Freddy's mother Amanda and the story of how she was raped by 100 maniacs. Freddy is once again reborn, this time through her dreams of his birth. Dan is unfortunately murdered and soon after that we find out that Alice is pregnant. That of course sets up the title of Dream Child. Alice starts seeing a little boy named Jacob who tells her he is having bad dreams. The little boy is eventually revealed to be Alice's baby and he is the one dreaming of Freddy causing more of Alice's friends to be killed off.In addition to Freddy living through the child's dreams, we also get a back story involving Amanda Krueger who was a nun before her death. She was raped by 100 maniacs while working at a mental hospital. We saw Amanda in Nightmare 3 of course when Neil kept seeing the nun on the hospital grounds. Nightmare 5 does well with the back story, but falls flat on keeping my interest. It isn't that it moves a slow pace like part 2, but there are very little scares and funny parts for a Freddy flick. In a Nightmare sequel, if you aren't at least funny, then you better be somewhat scary. This sort of falls flat on both accounts. It's more of a story than an actual action/horror film.It's a disappointment when you compare to 3 and 4 for sure. I like the continuation of the Alice storyline and I like the idea of the Dream Child, but this one never peaked my interest. Still it's not all that bad.6/10 "},{"Title":"Look in your dreams! It's Superfreddy!","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Coming off the highest grossing entry in the Nightmare series, part 4, it was going to be tough to follow-up. In director Hopkins's defense, I applaud him for going in a different direction, despite not making a, well, killing at the box office.A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child brings Freddy back mostly to the dark and scary path he once took. Sure there were some funny moments and lines from Freddy (you could probably cut the humor/quotes from #4 down to a 1/3), but for the most part, they made a darker less comedic nightmare than #4.Alice returns from #4, actually her, her father and her boyfriend Dan, all the surviving members of #4. Surprise, Freddy's back, but Alice doesn't know how (yet) that he's all around her when she's awake. And she's out of control from her dreams.Of course, she has a new slate of friends, or victims, and Freddy's getting them one by one in a tad bit creative ways. (Only one really stands out &#x96; Superfreddy, and the rest ho-hum, comparatively speaking to the first entries in the series.) He's using Alice's (and Dan's) unborn child, somehow and Alice and gang must both believe in the man of their dreams before they're all bumped off.Though this wasn't the worst in the series, by far, it was still a throwaway. Not a must-see in the long franchise. Take the bland friends, or make that boring with barely a pulse for Freddy to stop. Or the copied plot from #3. Or the retreaded Alice from #4.But the score is good, I liked the atmosphere &#x96; dark and strange, especially the tongue-in-cheek finale, and I liked some of Freddy's moments. It's worth a viewing, for fans only. But not repeat viewings.Side Note When I was about 14-15, a friend of mine from Illinois, who used to live with me here in Phoenix, AZ, sent me a gift once. He wouldn't tell me what it was, but I was stoked when I saw a huge, flat cardboard box. It already gave away the contents inside &#x96; something about Freddy. Inside was a stand-up, cardboard clip out &#x96; 6' tall of Freddy, the baby carriage &#x96; it was an ad for the video release of Nightmare 5. I loved that and still have that, roughly 20 years later, even the box it came in. Funniest thing is, and I've heard Robert Englund comment on this, the photo they used was transposed, whereas Freddy's glove appears to be on his left hand when it's always on his right. Oh, well, that just makes it all the more valuable to me. "},{"Title":"Alice in Bland Sequel-land","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You just can't keep a bad guy down. They tried burning him, burying him, altogether forgetting him, but like the good cash-cow he is, Freddy just can't stay down. Hot on the heels of the successful A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master, this fifth installment finds our crispy anti-hero dwelling in the dreams on an unborn child. The unborn child of Alice, survivor of the last film, and seemingly the only way Freddy can still live on -- because babies dream in the womb, right? It's an interesting concept and a unique way of bringing Freddy back for another round, but let's not kid ourselves. The franchise was running out of steam by 1989 (much like the Friday the 13th and Halloween franchises were) and it shows in this film. Despite some truly nightmarish imagery and a few memorable death scenes, A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child doesn't have much else to offer. Director Stephen Hopkins has a good eye for dark, Gothic images, but obviously didn't know how to make a good horror movie, let alone a good Nightmare flick. What this film lacks is both suspense and character development. The previous installments in the series worked well because they had characters that seemed to reflect real-life teenagers and we got to know them as the film progressed. Unfortunately, despite some recurring characters, there isn't much to follow. Before we can even get to know the newest members of the ever-rotating cast, they are picked off before the movie even reaches the midpoint, and none of their deaths involve any suspense, or genuine horror, for that matter. Now, one of the film's strengths is that, despite the lack of tension, the nightmares in this film are quite nightmarish. Save for an A-Ha video re-hash, you will walk away from this film remembering it's stark, uninviting visuals. It's all style over substance, however, and it's easy to see why even New Line decided to put their money-maker to rest in the following film, even if it was temporary. A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 is worth watching for the Freddy enthusiast, but is one of the weaker entries in the series, and sorry folks, but the series gets worse before it gets better.......next stop Freddy's Dead "},{"Title":"No, please...no more","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, this is the low point of the series right here. THIS movie. Alice returns yet again, along with Dan Jordan, her dad and blah blah blah. There were hardly any memorable characters in this movie. My favorite (and probably only likable one) was Mark. He seemed to be the only reason I would pay attention to the story...oh yes, the storyline was TERRIBLE. It was like a soap opera...with Freddy. SO much drama. Do not watch this movie for the story all you fans of Nightmare on Elm Street, you will regret it. The best part of this movie had to be the kills (however few they were). There were well done and were probably the only reason I forced myself to keep watching this well-dressed junk. OK, enough about this movie...my brain hurts trying to keep it clean. 5/10...such a disappointment to the series "},{"Title":"Well... I liked it!","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" However, I should warn people that I'm in the minority when it comes to the latter Nightmare on Elm Street movies. The first one was a classic (and pretty scary). However, as the series went on, the main villain (Freddy Kruger) got less and less scary and more and more funny. This turned a lot of people off the franchise, yet I still enjoy it.If you don't know much about the story then Part 5 is probably an odd place to start. It follows the pretty samey formula of 'dream demon' Freddy Kruger, as he stalks another load of teenagers in their dreams and despatches them in yet more ingenious and gruesome ways.This time Freddy faces his previous teenage nemesis 'Alice' and her new friends, all of which have a single personality type which Freddy will later use in their worst nightmares.I would say that if you like horror films in general you'll like this, but it's not very horrific (although the &#x96; non CGI &#x96; special effects aren't bad here and there. It's no mistake that Robert (Freddy) Englund gets top billing, as he steals every scene. It's more a horror comedy as Freddy delights in spouting of yet more one-liners while he 'works.' If you like your horror 'straight' you may not appreciate this entry. However, if you enjoyed the slightly more 'light-hearted' way Part 4 was done, then you should enjoy this, too. "}{"Title":"He's back and ready to claim a fetus in his greatest enemy... Alice!","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film was great, I loved the whole thing of Freddy trying to get to Alice's baby and to try a way to be born back into our world. I thought that Alice would have died in the last scene with Freddy in it. The child(Jacob- Alice's baby)had been dreaming within Alice's womb and that was how Freddy had been getting to Alice's new friends(all graduates). My favorite scenes were Greta death scene(Freddy feeding Greta her insides), the scene with Freddy and Jacob in the labyrinth(staircases in different directions),the comic book death scene, and the last scene(Alice defeating Freddy with his mommy at her side). But I have a feeling that Alice would return to another film maybe, maybe not. But beware Freddy could come back for you or anyone that lives on Elm Street! "},{"Title":"Underrated...","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Dream Child is a very underrated sequel in the Elm Street series, in my opinion. It gets sort of lost in between the best and the worst of the series, unfortunately. Lisa Wilcox and Danny Hassle both return as our survivors from Dream Master Alice and Dan, who are now a full fledged couple. During the intro credits, we see them participate in some sexual relations, thus resulting in...dun..dun..dun..the gateway for Freddy's Return as Alice is now pregnant.I love the intro for this entry. After the opening credits finish, we see Alice go to have a shower, but the water fills up above her head until we see her come pouring out in to an asylum. And this is where it all began. The place where Freddy's mother was locked in and raped making Freddy the bastard son of a hundred maniacs. We also see Robert Englund making another cameo as himself in the asylum, funny how he just seems to fit right in, actually looking like one of the more disturbed maniacs. This scene also setups the visuals for the rest of the movie which to me are just great, really has a Gothic tone throughout, which really adds to the film overall.We don't actually see Freddy himself till about 20 minutes in after a pretty nice build-up. We finally see him reborn in a Church much like the one where the finale took place in the Dream Master. After Alice chases the Freddy fetus there, he really does make quite an entrance. Unfortunately the make-up in this one and Freddys Dead just arn't up to par. Freddy's burnt skin really starts to look more like plastic rather then sizzled flesh.The deaths in this one are really hit and miss as comedy is incorporated in to each one. Dan's death scene is the perfect example of this. He's pulled in to a dream by his unborn son, and in this dream Freddy takes complete control over his car/motorcycle. Bits of this look fantastic as Freddy burns one of his own arms with some liquor and uses it as a seat belt (now that's messed up) but his constant use of one liners really put a damper on this entire sequence. Bursting out lines like This boy feels the need for speed or Fuel Injection and the worst one Hey Danny, better not dream and drive. But when comparing these to some of the lines in Freddy's Dead, they really don't seem so bad.The worst nightmare is easily the comic one, I'm sure everyone knows just which one I'm talking about. Where Freddy slices up a paper version of one of the characters Mark, oh well, he was a douche anyway. Mark is one of the graduating teens in Alice's new group of friends, since the rest of hers were murdered in the previous installment. Also in this new group is Greta(Erika Anderson as a weight watching model) and Yvonne(Kelly Jo Minter as a non-believing swimming nurse). Greta has one of the better death scenes, where Freddy force feeds her, her own insides from almost a voodoo like doll, really disturbing if you think about it. While Yvonne's character surprisingly survives, but for no good reason, as her character isn't really an important factor at all.The final showdown is excellent as Alice must stop Freddy and take control of her unborn son, as Freddy has been tutoring him and using her dreams to get to others. Alice separates her self from Freddy in some nice special effects work, until Amanda Krueger (Freddy's mother) shows up to finish him off. It's a chaotic finish, but everything seems to come together actually quite well. That is until we see Freddy's glove come bursting out of Amanda's stomach, so you know what means...yup, he shall return.There are so many possibilities and potential sequels that could have come out of this, but unfortunately this is the last we see of our survivors. Yvonne should have been disposed of in the next entry, while the war between Alice/Jacob/Freddy rages on. Missed Opportunity for sure, which makes this the last good Nightmare in the series. I don't really count New Nightmare as a part of it, since it basically takes place in the real world where these are nothing more then movies. No, this is the not the best Nightmare, and No, this is not the worst, but I will say it deserves to be alongside the better ones and is fairly underrated, which is why I am giving this entry a...8/10 "},{"Title":"Freddy doesn't make the cut baby.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing that prevented this flick from being a total disaster were a couple of interesting stylish touches. (Moderate Spoiler Alert) Death by comic is a bit derivative of a scene in Twilight Zone The Movie, which delivers death by cartoon. Still this was handled nicely, especially watching the ink bleed and the color being sapped out.Additionally, there is one other good scene with a demon motorcycle.Having said that, I was glad I got the DVD cheap at a store going out of business sale, because this was pretty awful. I bought Soul Survivors at the same time and both movies were similarly annoying with the constant realizations that you have been watching a dream. However , where Soul Survivors has nothing to redeem it, or have it make any sense, this at least had a couple of stylish notes, referred to above.Interestingly, the DVD lets you go to the 8 'nightmares' where something actually happens, which is the only way to watch this. The scripting between the creative gore moments is rather unbearable.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"1-2 Freddy's coming for you","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was an alright movie.  A lot better than the second one.  I think it could have been better but it still had Freddy's sense of humor and his evil side and that's all I care about.  I like how they continued it from part 4 so people know what is going on.  I've seen all the Nightmare On Elm Street movie and love to watch people get butchered up into little pieces. "},{"Title":"Now brace yourselves, Elm Street fans...","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...and put your pedal to the metal! Alice (Lisa Wilcox) is pregnant and Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) is using her unborn baby as a vehicle to kill her friends Dan (Danny Hassell), Yvonne (Kelly Jo Minter), Greta (Erika Anderson), and Mark (Joe Seeley), and he's taking no chances.On the unedited, unrated VHS version of the movie, you can see Dan being infused with his motorcycle longer, Greta's insides being fed to her, and Krueger shredding Mark to pieces in the comic book sequence and cutting Mark's paper head off. Of course, I haven't seen the unrated version, just the regular version, and I wonder if I get to rent it one day.So, feel the need for speed, folks, feel need to speed up your fan time, because The Dream Child is coming into your dreams for a fuel-injecting drive. "},{"Title":"It was a disaster.","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dream child was awful the acting sucked the characters sucked and it got really weird. Now they have a baby Freddy what I honestly think they didn't cared about what they do at this point. Now this film explores what happened to the charterers at the end of the last film and one of the best kills however happen in this film with the guy being turned into a motorbike.So the plot involves the two main characters form the last film dating and Freddy not being seen. Freddy then returns to torment the main characters now a common theme in the film is a little baby Freddy as seen at the start of the film.Now would I watch Dream child no it is awful it's boring and stupid and lacks substance. "},{"Title":"Quickie Review A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Man, this series got weird. Alice from the previous film begins to have nightmares about Freddy's mother and Freddy himself is attempting to return through the dreams of Alice's unborn child. From here we get weird scenes with a creepy baby Freddy crawling around and his mother coming to Alice in her dreams and telling her to find her remains and put her at rest, or something. Don't ask me why she didn't ask for this in part 3. Oh, and by the way, putting her to rest in the end of the film actually involves just touching her corpse, apparently. So the story isn't Elm Street 5's strong point. But neither is its acting, atmosphere or dialogue. Freddy's make up here is lazy. Englund is still giving it all but what can he do when Kruger has been turned into a wise-cracking baboon? Freddy is not frightening at all in this. The kills were a little goofy, like the comic book one, and they are far better in the unrated edition of the film. A few scenes were interesting enough but some were almost unwatchable, such as the 'Super Freddy' fight scene. Continuity, which was thrown out the window all the way back in the second film, again takes a battering as the film makers try but fail to merge the dream world kills with the real life deaths. Best Scene Dan's death was pretty brutal. But how did he just randomly fall asleep whilst on the bike? "},{"Title":"Sweet dreams, Jacob Daniel","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A year after the events of The Dream Master, Alice is graduating high school and has acquired a whole new set of victims, sorry, friends that apparently don't seem to know who Fred Krueger is, or the fate of her previous friendship circle. There's Greta, an aspiring model, Yvonne a student nurse and swimmer and Mark, a comic book artist. She and her crush from the previous movie, Dan are now not only an item but expectant parents; a fact she doesn't learn until Dan is suddenly killed in a freak accident.After a resurgence in nightmares she becomes convinced that Freddy is responsible for his death, and as her friends start being killed off one by one, it just reaffirms her fears. But as Freddy can only access victims through Alice's dreams, she cannot figure out how he can get to her friends when she is wide awake. That is, until she realises that the nightmares began around the same time as her unborn child's conception...The Dream Child is very similar in tone to The Dream Master and like The Dream Master, this movie is almost completely all fantasy and no horror by this point.Despite the fact that I feel the series had become extremely stale and lacklustre by this point there are aspects of it that I like. For instance, I like how this is the series' nod to the power of maternal love as much of the story not only focuses on Alice's love for her unborn son but on Elm Street's unsung horror heroine, Freddy's tragic mother, Amanda Krueger. The visuals are creative and imaginative as always, and much like Halloween 4 in it's respective franchise, where a child is the villain's main target, there is something very disturbing about watching a psychotic killer manipulate a child-an unborn child, no less-for his own gain. "},{"Title":"Shows that the visuals could've sustained life a lot longer than the narratives","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I feel a good part of the reason for the prolific inconsistencies in quality for a number of slasher franchises in the 1980's can be attributed to two main factors the short release window between films and the constant decision to play musical writers and directors. The demand by studio-heads to spit a new franchised horror film into theaters in or around the fall season was absolutely incredible during this time, and as a result, you got a saturated marketplace that got to see Freddy Krueger, Jason Voorhees, and Michael Myers, sometimes all in the same year, leading to a massive lack of interest and concern by the time the franchises decided to conclude. Then there's the element of these films constantly swapping writers and directors at the end of every film; this particular factor is notable for the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise, which only had one particular writer/director show up to do a film more than once and that was Wes Craven on both the original and the last film Wes Craven's New Nightmare.The combination of these two effects lead not only to a rushed quality with each of these Nightmare sequels, which some can overcome but others cannot, and the element of narrative logic and the interworkings of the world being manipulated to fit the differing needs of the respective writers and directors. The road of the Nightmare franchise has been anything but smooth and comfortable and A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child is the second time the series has effectively pulled itself up from its bootstraps after a slight deviation in quality.The film reinstates its focus on Alice (Lisa Wilcox), the lead from the previous film, The Dream Master, who is now dating Dan (Danny Hassle) from the original film. After going a long period of time without being haunted by Freddy, Alice finds herself nearly drowning when her shower's drain becomes clogged and begins overflowing with water in the opening sequence of the film. This leads to Alice being absorbed into Freddy Krueger's (Robert Englund) vicious and unpredictable dream world once again, with her lucid abilities still unable to save her except for in the nick of time when she transports back to reality. The dreams of Alice and Dan have taken on much more vivid, almost Gothic/Victorian representations of distorted reality, which eventually lead to Alice becoming pregnant with the dream child, who is known as Jacob (Whit Hertford) and seen through Alice's visions. Worried about the safety - and sanity - of her child, Alice works, yet again, to try and stop Freddy before he takes a toll on haunting others, including her fragile son.As stated, A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child takes on a brand new stylistic design that director Stephen Hopkins and cinematographer Peter Levy employ with exquisite detail and frightening buildup. The dream sequences carry a much more detailed and lucid vibe, ranking comfortably alongside Dream Warriors, the third film, for the some of the best of the series. The scene where Freddy manipulates Dan's control and perception whilst driving a vehicle all in the matter of a few minutes winds up being a wickedly effective fright in terms of making the audience feel like the entire scene is out of their control. Also intensely effective is the scene where Alice's friend Greta (Erika Anderson) winds up victim to Freddy's games in a violent, brutal way at a dinner party also works to show off the elaborate dream sequence setups in addition to the amalgamation of Freddy's ability to be both a comical and sinister force.What I formerly saw as a dichotomous approach to Freddy - in a sense where he had to either be unadulterated evil or comical and cheeky - writer Leslie Boehm blends to give us a Freddy we haven't seen before. That is an unpredictable force that exercises both comic and horror tendencies through his ability to spout one-liners and give you the ride of your life in more ways than one whilst trapping you in layered, scary dream sequences that showcase darker imagery than ever before.On these notes, A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child works very well. It disregards the more unbridled, primary comic elements of its former film to continue to assert Freddy's role of being an ugly, menacing character. The story at hand may show signs of the franchise panting and wheezing to an uncertain close, but the costume/set design show that this series had more inventive visual schemes that could've materialized and continued for much longer than the franchise itself did, even in the face of alternative directions and frequently changing writers and directors.Starring Lisa Wilcox, Robert Englund, Danny Hassle, Whit Hertford, and Erika Anderson. Directed by Stephen Hopkins. "},{"Title":"Alright, Krueger... this time it's for keeps!","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy is back with cheesy puns galore in this awful Elm Street sequel that somehow manages to surpass part 4 in the worthless department. The story has Alice from part 4 knocked up by her boyfriend, who's soon killed by Freddy. Long story short, Freddy wants to come back to life as Alice's baby...or something stupid like that. Anyway, this one is notable for adding yet more to Freddy's origin. His mother figures prominently into the plot here. The added backstory is unnecessary. Do we really need to find more reasons for why Freddy is evil? The reasons we had were pretty sufficient, in my view. Anyway, this is a poorly-edited and ugly-looking effort with nothing but unpleasantness from start to finish. Many say this is the worst of the series, and I would agree with that had I not seen Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare. "}{"Title":"A Great Franchise Starts to Slip.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Alice returns in the fifth of the Elm Street films. Alice and Dan are now high school graduates looking to move on and start their adult lives. Alice defeated Freddy in the last movie, right? Wrong!This film is where the series starts to go downhill. There are neat effects, but overall the story is not great. If you like the offbeat humor that Freddy started adopting, then you will enjoy it. Stay tuned at the end of the film to hear Freddy rap with The Fat Boys. Has there been a more eighties sentence than the previous one? Overall, this film is just OK. It is not something you have to watch unless you really want to view the entire series. The characters are not near as likable as in the previous films, and Freddy is much more goofy in this one than in the first four. A once great franchise starts to crack, but it is still campy fun for horror fans. "},{"Title":"Does have interesting ideas, but poorly executed","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I remember when I first saw all the Nightmare On Elm Street movies back when I was a kid, and always thought that this one wasn't very good, well in fact it ranks as one of the worst. But as I've grown up, I've begun to see different aspects of it, okay it's still not a great sequel or movie in fact, but there are some positive notes on this, and it does attempt to add another depth to the story and does boast an interesting idea to the plot, even if it does wear thin.The idea of Freddy using Alice's unborn baby's dreams to kill off her friends, while at the same time attempting to get back into the real world, was well rather different, I must say and does give it a very different feel to the rest of the series, but that is where the first mistake is made and can see why this marked a downward spiral in the series, it just fails to make you connect with the movie itself and again the main focus goes on the effects and visuals, instead of characters and an interesting storyline. But I did like the Gothic tone of this movie though, it was less colourful than the previous entries, but in parts does seem rather stale and bland. Also the deaths aren't as interesting as before, even in its uncut form (apart from one maybe). One of the other positive aspects was that more was given to Freddy's mother's back-story, which was quite interesting, but again like last time, only this time the characters are even less fleshed out and played even more of a back seat to Freddy taking most of the runtime.But the fact that Freddy is given more screen time, only lessens his impact and he becomes even more cartoonish, no fault of his own, down to the weak script. Plus other aspects such as Alice seeing her unborn son at 8 years old in her dream, were rather unbelievable and are never explained, creating another plot hole. Plus the distinction between dream and reality is never really made clear and only adds confusion.Bringing back Alice was one of the only good things to say about this, she is more stronger and confident this time round, and is again very likable and makes a decent female lead. But her friends this time are even more cardboard cut outs and are just simply there to be killed. Kelly Jo Minter is probably the only friend to have some sort of character or any screen time as well and does fine. Danny Hassal was again given nothing to do, and not much added to him and that's why his death failed to have any impact. Erika Anderson had probably the only interesting death scene, in what's one of the stand out scenes, but again not given much screen time. Joe Seeley as the comic book geek, could have been interesting and does have an interesting dream sequence, but let down by a poor climax.All in all this is definitely not the worst in the series, but not far from the bottom beating only 2 other entries. This could have added a whole new twist to the series, but was again like some of the others, just a quick cash in and rushed, which shows in almost all areas, and in the end leads to a disappointing climax. "},{"Title":"Missed by *that* much","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare On Elm Street 5 The Dream child is probably my least favorite of Freddy's films. Why, you might ask yourself. The answer is simple; it has some interesting ideas, but overall is pretty bland . Part 5 takes place just one year after part 4, and revolves around Alice, from part 4, who is now out of high-school and pregnant, and Freddy is using the dreams of her unborn son to get to Alice and her friends; this premise is pretty cool, but the execution is way off. For one, not many of the characters are interesting; Alice was great in the previous film, but here, she's given virtually nothing to do. Her father(who was a drunk in part 4) has put the bottle down and is trying to actually be there for his daughter, I like that idea, but it adds nothing to the story. Alice's boyfriend, Dan dies early on in the film. Alice has two friends that are also only there to die . Yvonne, Alice's other friend is just a skeptic until very late in the film. The climax of the film is forgettable; the writers tried to Make Freddy funny but failed miserably. I have nothing else to say other than I wouldn't recommend this film "},{"Title":"Another suitable if not slightly dry entry in the series","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anyone who goes into a Nightmare On Elm Street sequel thinking they are going to see some great feat of movie making needs their head examined. They are what they are and so far they have been at least mildly entertaining. You could almost carbon copy my review of #4 onto this one because I have a lot of the same things to say. Decent story, decent characters, Freddy is fun and wild as always, the kills are decent, and they have a good continuity throughout from previous instalments and I actually think that's important to a horror series.Lisa Wilcox returns from #4 to headline the cast. She is good and carries the story well and its always good to have a hero return from a previous film. Danny Hassle also returns from #4 only this time him and Wilcox's character are dating and having a child that Freddy wants. He's a little dry at times but the two of them together are good. One of the unfortunate parts of The Dream Child is the supporting cast isn't very good. They are sort of just there for killing fodder and don't really get a lot of depth to their character. Robert Englund is as good as he ever is as Freddy so if you like Freddy than you adore Englund because is terrific as the deranged killer. I might even say that he is just a little more deranged in this film because they really sink into his back story in this one.The Dream Child has a ton of religious imagery and a back story involving Freddy's mother and you have to give them points for at least trying to be a little different in the story. Its a necessary and worthy part of the entire franchise and worth seeing. Director Stephen Hopkins went on to do a lot of Television but he tells the story well in this and manages to keep the series within the realm of what fans love. Is it silly? Sure. Even maybe less gory than previous ones...you can certainly see it getting a little stale but it still isn't bad and still entertains. 7/10 "},{"Title":"It's A Boy!","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Belated Day 16 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.Dorector Stephen Hopkins gives us the 5th Freddy Film With A Nightmare On Elm Street 5 The Dream Child. The film continues to follow Alice played by Lisa Wilcox who is impregnated by Freddy Kruger played again by the wonderful Robert Englund. The films effects are well done and Robert Englund as always does a great job at playing Freddy Kruger. But There is only 1 good dream sequence in the entire movie the other 2 suck, they don't really do a lot with the story and the films actors are okay. I really don't really recommend it but it's not that bad either.Rated R for Strong Bloody Horror Violence And Gore, And Language.1hr 30min/90min.2 uses of the F-word.**/**** "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Spoiler alert.Your kidding,right? What is this garbage? What? The last to sequels were... good! Now... this? Greta's death scene was,gross,Marks death scene was,stupid,Dans death scene was,filthy,just,why? Freddy lost his luster. If you wanna watch a pile of steaming hot barf of load diarrhea garbage,you might want to give this a try.If not,do your self a favor,and blow the CD up.-blows up CD- Now thats how MEN do it.I cant get over how garbage this is, before,Freddy was the bomb, now, he's a stupid burnt dude who has a a daughter that listens to Iron Butterfly thats Alice coopers son! But,thats in Freddys dead...To be reviewedHalloween,Halloween 2,Halloween 3,Halloween 4,Halloween 5,Halloween 6,Halloween 7,halloween 8 "},{"Title":"Don't expect much from this...","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have seen the very first part of this series and no doubt that was a chilling classic.After that I did not see the next three sequels because of the pathetic reviews they received.Somehow I decided to try this part ,and honestly I felt dissatisfied and disappointed.I mean the series is not going anywhere.Its just struck on showing gore without emphasizing on storyline and plot.If we talk about the storyline,this time Freddy is killing teenagers through the dreams of an unborn child.One noticeable thing is the gruesome images and special effect shown in the movie.But at any time I did not feel like witty enough about my decision to watch this movie.There is hardly any scary scene and you can predict everything that comes as movie progresses.In terms of relativity those who have seen all the parts of this series may found the dream child comparatively better. But for others,keep your expectations low while watching this movie,because this movie fall miserably of the standards set by the original one. "},{"Title":"It's a different kind of Elm street movie, but still good","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really liked Nightmare on Elm street 1 through 4, so I was more then ready for part 5.A few characters return from previous installments, which add more continuity to the series. It's (usually) better to have at least one character return in a sequel, so that the audience has something to hang on to.The story develops at a somewhat slower pace then the prequels, but it's an interesting story. There are some strange, new elements that make it a bit unbelievable, but just don't take it too seriously.Robert Englund once again played his role as Freddy Krueger quite excellent. Despite him being the evil demon in the movies, you can't help but start to like the guy...The effects were good. Nothing outstanding nor horribly bad. They just work for the movie.Go watch it if you liked the Elm street movies so far. It's not a bad watch at all. Although it's starting to lose it's charm a little, maybe because we've already seen 4 movies with Freddy? 6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Tried some new things, but forgot to bring a script along","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child is certainly nice to look at. It contains hands down the most impressive special effects of any of the Elm Street movies, apart perhaps from Part IV.Director Stephen Hopkins takes the new humorous Freddy character and puts him into a rather Gothic setting and wastes no time taking us there in the very first scene of the movie with nineteenth century asylums, catholic theology, a rather disgusting birthing, a suggested mass raping, impossible staircases channeling the Labrynth and a suitably dramatic rebirth.And really it's quite nice to look at. From that side of things Hopkins has done a superb job. But the story is weak. Freddy has gone inside Alice and is using the dreams of her unborn son to kill again.There are some nice characterisations, Alice and her father especially, but a premium of characters and therefore deaths. Only three in the whole film. The two deaths to male characters are elaborate and well done, but the murder of Greta is not entertaining in the least and actually quite disgusting.The ending again looks good, but it doesn't really end. Nothing is resolved and the whole storyline with Alice was scrapped for future sequels. So as a film it looks nice, is well acted, but serves no purpose.Worth a look, just not a long one. "},{"Title":"'Freddy Delivers'!!!","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've read some reviews on this movie, and a lot of people don't like it. I honestly didn't think it was too bad! The night before graduation, Dan and Alice are having sex, then the nightmares begin again. Alice is in the shower, then she's transported to the asylum where Amanda Krueger was raped and where Freddy was born. (Robert Englund does another awesome job as Freddy Krueger!) If Alice can find Amanda in the real world, Freddy will die. Freddy is reborn and instead of haunting Alice's dreams, he haunts her unborn baby's dream, mixing reality and the real world. During her dreams, she sees her son, Jacob as a child, trying to help her stop Freddy. There was one cool part when Freddy is on a skateboard, coming after Alice's friend. A gross part for me was when Freddy is making Greta eat a lot of food at the 'rich-people' party her mom is having. Another friend, Yvonne tries to find Amanda while Alice tries to stop Freddy from haunting her child's dreams. If you love the Freddy series, and teenage pregnancies, you'll love A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 5 THE DREAM CHILD!!! "}{"Title":"what i saw was really weird.","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" i haven't seen the movie yet but i have seen Greta die. and in the real world when it shows her dying, it looks like she's doing some sort of dance. and i was like what the hell??!! she had her arms sticking out and bent at the elbow and it looked like she was flapping her arms and choking!!it's pretty funny. and then when Alice is in the kitchen of her house and Greta's head and torso are sticking out of the door and she's trying to help Greta. and then Freddy grabs her and pulls her back in.. so weird..... but her cheeks look fat in the dream world when she's dying. Can't she Swallow???? and i saw Marks death... even weirder. he turned into paper? good idea but yea. and i would like to no if they can dream that they are anything in their dreams, y not just dream that Freddy isn't there? much simpler than dying. but then again it is a horror movie and you cant have horror with out deaths. oh well. but soon i am getting the dream collection box set and i will be able to make further comments. i really hope its good as i thought the 1st and 3rd were but number 2! oh my god. that one was so crap. in the plot of number 7 or 6, it says that Freddy will die if he is pulled into the real world. but he kills the main character's male friend he comes out of the main character and yet he does not die.. pretty weird. "},{"Title":"It's a Boy!","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen Hopkings (The Ghost and the Darkness) steps in to direct the fourth sequel to the 1984 hit Nightmare on Elm Street. The series is showing obvious strain at this point.Freddy, evidently vanquished in Dream Master, is still haunting Alice's dreams. But it's Alice's unborn child that Freddy is using to slaughter all of Alice's friends. The time comes when Alice must do otherworldly battle with the demonic Dream-monster once and for all.The film has a nice, stylistic feel to it but it's apparent this time around the're running out of ideas. But when comic-book fan Mark is sucked into Freddy's world, it makes for a series highlight. "},{"Title":"It's Someone Else's Turn to Milk the Freddy Machine","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This time Stephen Hopkins (Director) and (John Skipp) Writer, try and make some more money out of Wes Craven's once excellent character of Freddy.Now Freddy is attacking people while they are awake through Alice's unborn child's dreams; the characters are now little more than scene fillers for Freddy's murderous antics and the terror really is just laughable.I will always love the character of Freddy, Robert Englund and Wes Craven have ensured he will always be a horror icon; its beyond me why so many sequels made a mockery of him for a quick buck i've just answered my own question there haven't I! 4/10 for this lame sequel (Only Wes Craven can do Freddy movies properly) "},{"Title":"Better than 4 but still does not hold a candle to the original","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rated R for Violence/Gore,Language and Brief Sexuality.Nightmare On Elm Street is my favorite slasher/horror film series.Freddy is one of the coolest horror film villains ever! The first one is definitely the best one because it was original and it has the best storyline.The fourth one was good but not as good as the first.The fifth I think is better than the fourth but still not close to being as good as the first film.Though after NOES 2 Freddy became a cool villain because of his always funny one liners.In this film, the girl who killed Freddy in the last film is back but has dreams about Freddy again.Somehow Freddy found a way into the real world so he could kill people not only in their sleep.Now her and some of her friends have to stop him.Also the girl is pregnant with a child but Freddy somehow is trying to hurt the child from within.The film also has an appearance by Freddy's mother Amanda Kruger.This fifth entry in the series I find is better than the fourth only because of this one scene where Freddy pulls a character named Mark into a comic he is reading and Mark and Freddy battle.Very cool scene and an entertaining slasher/comedy film. "},{"Title":"Enter the nun of a mother","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This fifth episode brings together the story about Krueger's mother already slightly developed in the second episode, and the Christian theme heavily introduced in the fourth episode. The film is still centered on Alice but she is growing older and older. She has finally reached high school graduation time. She has also reached the time when she can have a real boyfriend, spend the night with him and get pregnant from him. But she is a daughter raised by her father who has finally promised to stop drinking his sorrow away. This motherless situation is dictating the new turn in the saga. Alice becoming a pregnant mother before being a full mother she is attracted by this motherly side of the tale, hence she reintroduces Krueger's mother and we can see the time when this mother, still not a mother, is locked up with a hundred insane criminals, and then her being more than menaced. We can see her giving birth to an abomination. And this leads to the death of the father of Alice's child, killed of course by Krueger who makes him practically commit suicide on the road and ram into a truck. Krueger is jealous of Alice's boyfriends. Before the end of the film he will get one more in his claws. But the religious theme is strong all along. Freddy is born within the total destruction of a church, which corresponds to his rebirth in the film. Then his mother, the nun, has to be found, liberated from her walled-in prison for her to fulfill her mission  protect Alice and Alice's child from her own son and undeliver Freddy back into her womb as being his new prison to bring the film to an end. The mother seen as the cause of all this evil and at the same time the one that has to be punished for it forever in order for other people and women and children to be able to live free and unmenaced. That is pushing Eve's original sin and guilt very far indeed. That is pushing Mary's mediating role definitely too far. Even if we can believe it is a cathartic way of getting rid of our guilt and sexist vision, we must admit the treatment is quite rough and more than just plain pungent, in fact definitely violent, terrorizing and lined up inside and outside with the grossest possible visions. Even Alice and her child, conceived out of wedlock and who is going to be born to an unmarried mother and widow, are shown in the best Christian light possible. She will keep the child and raise him the best she can. The last scene of the film is the vision of this baby raised by Alice, her best friend and her father, with the recollection of two young men, one his father, who have died for this child to be born. And sure enough the malediction is not far away. The rhythm of the film and the extremely rapid accumulation of horrifying, terrorizing and gross elements all of them intertwined together and interlaced one into all the others gives that film a real appeal and a deep effectiveness. We can feel terrorized at times and we definitely find the situation, Freddy Krueger and the whole world quite unbearably cruel to authorize such horror to exist in our midst. But frankly why do Alice and her friends go so easily in these bad dreams as if they were masochistically looking for being terrorized ? They should know better. At least we think so, though we follow them in their nightmares not to abandon them in the claws of the monster.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Freddy's abortion...","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare On Elm Street Part 5 opens with our heroes from the 4th movie graduating only to face Freddy when he starts invading Alice (Lisa Wilcox)AKA Dream Master's baby's dreams to which Freddy then uses as a springboard to squash the faceless teenagers who somehow survived the last entry. Nightmare 5 is certainly as silly as it's predecessor but at least this one brings back the surreal nature of the first three movies. Indeed the whole comic-book sequence is pretty stupid (It looks more like AHA's Take On Me video, yes I know, i'm old) then it does a Freddy Krueger scene. However that being said at least this one gives more carnage and goes out of it's way to provide a movie so extreme in absurdity that it just boggles the mind. This is one movie that would freak anyone out who is drunk (or high) as the random imagery is just extremely weird. On the other hand it represents the beginning of the end for the franchise as from what I remember the theaters were far less packed than when I saw the others and for the most part the whole series became not that scary. However as how some slasher movies work due to their atmosphere, this gets by on sheer weirdness factor. It is so strange you just cave in and enjoy the carnage.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"Special effects are the only saving grace","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Freddy Krueger saga was seriously starting to show his age by this point as the series took a shift in a decidedly bad direction. Part 5 is more gimmicky, more self conscious and more dependent on special effects than any previous entry. It's also darker, drearier, more tiresome and more monotonous than the other four films. Lisa Wilcox reprises her role as Alice from Part 4. She's now pregnant and more people begin to die when Freddy (Robert Englund) starts using the dreams of her unborn child to kill off her friends. I don't know if this was intentional on the filmmakers part or not, but the movie takes a decidedly Pro Life stance; Alice learns fairly early on what Krueger is doing but decides to keep her unborn child anyway and her circle of friends end up dying because of it; getting picked off in various ghastly ways that include being turned into a motorcycle, getting force-fed to death and even getting slashed to ribbons after being sucked into a comic book world to do battle with Freddy. So basically many innocent people die because Alice is insistent on not aborting the one baby, which is a highly questionable story point not very well thought out by whoever scripted the film.The special effects and production design are both very good even though the body count is surprisingly low and one of the better dream sequences is an almost direct copy of the M.C. Escher sequence in the first Hellraiser sequel. The story itself plays out like a lame after school special and fails to draw you in or make you care about what happens between the fx scenes. More Freddy mythology about his ghostly nun mother and his conception are added to needlessly complicate things and there's a highly annoying open ending that sets up the next sequel; Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare (1991) which turned out to be even worse than this one.So sad to say The Dream Child is only worth the effort if you are a die hard fan of the series. Otherwise, stick with the original, Part 3 and New Nightmare, which are easily the three superior Elm Street films. "},{"Title":"NeXt Generation","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In this installment of Nightmare on Elm Street, we have Alice who is now graduating High School. She is still with jock boyfriend from the last installment and now her father is in AA. Of course Freddy dashes back in their lives and what do you know, our doll is pregnant. This is not the greatest, but the concept of the evils images with the house on Elm Street and the sketchy songs. This one has future visits from the unborn child. In this one we don't know how Freddy is able to attack them even when they do not dream. It becomes clear when they realize it is the unborn child dreaming.Enjoy this nightmare, even though it is far from the best.Sweet Dreams! "},{"Title":"Daddy Freddy!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie for those of us who just can't get enough back-story to our characters. They probably already knew at this point that the series was coming to an end, so they decided to base this one as much on the past as on the present. See in order to stop the horrible things that's happening in the present, they must undo part of the atrocities that took place back when. In the present Alice and her friends have just graduated high school, and Alice and Dan are planning on traveling around Europe that summer of '89. Those plans are quickly foiled, since Alice finds out that she is pregnant. Again her friends start dying around her, and it's no secret who's behind it. The only question is how he's getting to them, and the answer is inside Alice's belly. It seems that her unborn baby has the same powers as Alice, and he is easy pickings for Freddy. Enter Amanda, Freddy's mom, who informs them of their quest in her usual cryptic way. There's parts of this movie that are really good, and there's parts that are equally bad. The good outweighs the bad by a long way though, and the idea of making it a semi-prequel probably saved the movie as a whole. "},{"Title":"an OK follow up to #4, but not that great compared to the others","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A very blonde (and it suits her better than the red she had in #4) Lisa Wilcox returns as Alice to once more fight the Son of a Thousand Maniacs, Freddy Krueger (the irreplaceable Robert Englund). Indeed, the Son of a Thousand Maniacs rings true in this film, as we are shown how Freddy's mother supposedly became impregnated - by a thousand maniacs. Freddy's origin plays an integral part of the fifth entry in the Nightmare on Elm Street series, as does the notion of birth, as Alice becomes pregnant to the handsome Dan (Danny Hassle - the hottest actor in the entire Nightmare on Elm Street franchise).While #4 was a great film in its own right, #5 is a solid follow on to that entry, but by no means anywhere near as good. That might have something to do with the characters in the film, as one does not find themselves empathising with them very well, aside from Alice and Dan. However, Dan is disposed of far too early in the film, a major disappointment. The only other character worth having any sort of emotion towards is Alice's father, Dennis (Nicholas Mele) who has cleaned up his act since #4.As far as the other teens go, Kelly Jo Minter plays the aggressive and uncharming Yvonne, Joe Seely is simply awful as the geeky Mark, and Erika Anderson shows no emotion in what could have been the most interesting of the supporting characters, Greta, a young woman whose obsessive mother is the bain of her life. In fact, Pat Sturges, who plays her mother Racine, is far more entertaining to watch. The only other actor worth mentioning is Valorie Armstrong, who plays Dan's mother.The film is not a let down though, solid performances from Wilcox, Hassle and Mele are great, and the special effects are terrific. Great cinematography also. So while the character of Alice may not be as interesting as Heather Langenkamp's Nancy, or Patricia Arquette and Tuesday Knight's Kristen, Lisa Wilcox's Alice is still a strong female heroine, and parts 4 and 5 of the Nightmare on Elm Street are solid when watched together. "}{"Title":"More intense than the latter ones","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Is Freddy Krueger(Robert Englund) always up to his old tricks again? Well he has gone further than other slashers would journey to An unborn child. In A Nightmare on Elm Street 5, his new target is Alice Johnson's(Lisa Wilcox) unborn child, named Jacob. After graduation with friends and boyfriend Dan, Freddy has gotten clever in this movie. Very stealthy, but how did Freddy know Alice was having a boy? Then when I saw Dan trying to warn Alice, I liked the part where he tells Dan Better Not Dream and Drive. Only two of the remaining friends help Alice fight the fiendish Freddy. Well one of the learns the hard way about Freddy's existence and the comic book enthusiast and writer fought him well, until Freddy used his imagination against him. That what I call making the final issue. With the help of Amanda(Beatrice Boepple), the two ladies put Freddy directly in his place. This movie gave the good guys the upper hand, and the dual roles of Englund was a also a major factor in the movie. I liked it better than the 1st and 3rd. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Nice 80ies Horrortrip with disturbing images.  Far better than other sequels","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why people think that part 5 is one of the worst of the series. For a sequel it has everything that is needed for a nice horror flick. I mean, the originity and the specialness that noes 1 brought can't be topped, because it was the first one and came up with something that was never seen so if you make a sequel on a movie like this, then you just have to make something out of the dream thing and visualize it in a very fascinating way knowing that people know what the series is about. I think that the dream scenarios where way more fascinating, beautiful and disturbing than in part 4. This scenario and the 101- 80ies special effects give this film the right atmosphere and make worth seeing it. Same counts for part 3. Number two really was a nightmare (what about the dream sequences???) and is the worst of them all besides part 6 and 4... My opinion as a person who thinks that picture and atmosphere themselves are more important than a story in movies like this (because the story was invented, told and finished in part 1!) "},{"Title":"It's a-Boy oh","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Englund returns a sixth time to portray as my favorite killer Freddy Krueger.Alice Johnson(Lisa Wilcox)has just graduated from college and now she wants to start a new life. But how can she, she's just learned that she is pregnant and that her boyfriend, Daniel Dan Jordan(Danny Hassle)and the one that got her pregnant was dead. Soon we see a game of catch and mouse as Alice trys to save her unborn son from the clutches of Freddy Krueger.You see, Freddy wants to be reborn into the world and the baby inside Alice is his ticket. Or so he thinks. Soon Amanda Krueger(Beatrice Boepple), his mother, comes in and destroys his plans. Afterwards we see baby Jacob, Alice and her father in a park.I learned something in this movie. That an unborn child can dream, and that is how Freddy gets to him. The dreams of the unborn are transmitted to the mother and thus she can see when Freddy kills Daniel, Gurney(Michael Ashton) and Anne. The only person I wished he would have killed was that nuisance Greta(Erika Anderson). "},{"Title":"Deaths are disgusting and gross; not too great film.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Where do I begin? Nightmare 5 takes place a bit after Nightmare 4, and isn't the best of the series to say the least. I don't know. Alice is a great heroin, and I'm glad she's back, but, sadly, this film isn't as good as the first four.The plot is kind of so-so, with Freddy trying to live in th through Alice's unborn baby, and he is killing off her skeptical friends. The deaths were just nasty, with one girl being forced to eat her own insides, and Alice's boyfriend fusing with his motorcycle, and crashing into a bus. Another stupid death is some guy being turned into a paper comic-book character, and being slashed.And, during the film, we discover more about Freddy's heritage; that his mother was a nun raped by 1,000 maniacs... His mother speaks to Alice through dreams and visions. Once again, Alice, or the Dream Master is a quite great heroin, but, even though she survives this installment, we never find out what happened to her after this. It's an okay film, but pales in comparison to some of the others. "},{"Title":"An Well Made Sequel that could be more much Successful.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After thinking that Alice (Lisa Wilcox) has destroy Freddy (Robert Englund). Alice is now done with High School and having a good boyfriend (Danny Hassle). One day, when she was daydreaming... Freddy has come back to life in the dream world. When Alice finds herself pregnant, Freddy is using Alice's unborn baby to strike at her friends.Directed by Stephen Hopkins (Predator 2, The Ghost and the Darkness, Lost in Space) made a surprisingly good sequel, which it has more storytelling that Nightmare 4. But the film moves so slow at times but it is Hopkins' visual style keeps up from being sinking. Hopkins even gives a tribute to Jim Henson's underrated children fantasy-Labyrinth at the climax.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an great digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. On the Box Set of A Nightmare on Elm Street on the eight disc. DVD has interviews with the Cast & Crew talking about their memories of making the fifth Elm Street film and it was also the least successful Nightmare film at the Box Office. DVD also has the theatrical trailer and a music video. Written by Leslie Bohem (Dante's Peak, Daylight). From a Story by John Skipp, Craig Spector & Bohem. This fifth Elm Street film has a terrific premise but a bit undercooked. It's worth a look. DVD is actually the R-Rated Version. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Chilling ending but not enough to carry the whole movie.","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel is ruined by it's forced humor and cheesy lines. The F/X, acting, and direction is overall very good. The movie has a creepy atmosphere (specially in the end) but it doesn't works for the movie's sake because Freddy Krueger is turned into a one liner villain. A lame one I must say.The ANOES series were distinguished by their interesting plot, good f/x, and most of all, a high entertaining value mixed with Horror (like Part III and somewhat part II).The ending is one of the best in the series but it comes too late after many cheesy scenes interrupt the movie's going. No wonder why Freddy's Dead completely ignores the non sense plot of The Dream Master and The Dream Child. There are some pretty decent death scenes and but not enough to carry the whole movie. In my opinion, this is the worst in the series and that's something sad because it had potential. You can watch the movie's first 20 minutes and then skip to the chilling ending and you've seen the best of The Dream Child. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Nightmare on Elm Street Franchise.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A NIghtmare on Elm Street V (1989) was the fourth sequel of the financial popular horror series about the supernatural serial killer/ kid toucher Freddy Krueger. His back!.. again, to terrorize..again the survivors of the last film and a whole new batch of teenagers. One of the survivors of the last bloodbath (Lisa Wilcox) was knocked up by her boyfriend. She and the others who made it out alive are starting to dream about Freddy (that's not good). This gives the ever sly and sneaky Freddy ample opportunity to try and weasel his way back into the land of the living and kill once more. But this time he wants to be a father. Can Freddy become a dad? Will the kids be able to stop this horribly scarred freak one last time? Will anybody care? I guess you'll have to find out in the fourth installment of A Nightmare on Elm Street.Not a great sequel but it's entertaining. Fans of the series will enjoy it but others need not apply. The budgets were getting smaller and this installment has to have either the first or second smallest budget of the series. Fret not, Freddy will be back for a fifth film, Freddy's Dead!!!Recommended for Freddy fans. "},{"Title":"Weak sequel","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched 'Nightmare on Elm Street 5The Dream Child' back in '89 during a matinée double feature with 'Jason Takes Manhattan'. The latter film came on first and I had a blast watching it(don't discredit me for that). Then came this film. After it was over my friends and I had nothing good to say about it. We mainly talked about how much we enjoyed the Jason movie. Compared to the previous films, with the exception of 'Freddy's Revenge', 'The Dream Child' kind of sucks. To me it is the most heavily cut of the bunch, and it goes the whole horror/comedy route which, in my opinion, worked in the previous installment but not in this one. The only part I found funny was in the opening scene where Freddy comes face to face with his nun mother, Amanda Krueger. Their exchange was pretty amusing, especially what Freddy tells her just before the church doors slam. Hilarious.The film opens with Alice, one of the survivors from the previous film, in a dream sequence centered around the conception of Freddy Krueger, the whole son of 100 maniacs theme, with her as the mother. She wakes up disturbed and freaked out that she was not in control for the first time since she defeated Freddy. Alice temporarily puts it behind her in order to enjoy her graduation, but then later wakes up in a hospital to learn that she is pregnant and one of her friends has died in a car accident. This time around the dream sequences are happening while she is awake. This is because Freddy is using the dreams of Alice's unborn fetus to slay her remaining Elm Street friends. Pretty clever premise, nonetheless spoiled by a lack of stand-out. Alice isn't as interesting this time around, and Freddy is hardly on screen enough to please fans. It still works, though, thanks to the character Yvonne(Kelly Jo Minter)who played in several 80's films including 'Summer School' and 'The People Under The Stairs'. She's the unbelieving best friend with an attitude, and her job at the hospital is constantly in jeopardy because Alice keeps coming in rambling about Freddy Krueger haunting her baby's dreams. Kelly Jo is just fun to watch, and her being in the film is the only reason I continue to watch this one.Dream sequences include a girl being force fed her own voodoo doll insides, a comic book world in which an ideal hero turns back into his own paper-thin wimpy self after being felled by Freddy's claw, a diving board that turns into a big claw, and an odd motorcycle sequence that I can't really describe. I think others have referred to it as the Freddy bike. All the sequences would have been way better if they weren't so tame. I expected much more grossness to the force feeding sequence. It was obviously trimmed down. One shot shows her being fed the first bite, and in the very next shot her cheeks are completely full. In another scene, after one of the characters gets sliced up in a dream sequence all that we are shown back in reality is a bloody hand. That definitely spells disappointment. I shouldn't blame the filmmakers for trimming and trimming the scenes enough to get by with an R-rating, but since there is no unrated version then the R-rated version is all I have to base this review on...and I didn't like it this time. 4/10 is my vote. I hate having to rate it so low, but this installment is just not one of my favorites. Bottom line is that 'The Dream Child' is completely unscary with almost no gore or violence, so it relies on storytelling, dialog, and a lot of character interactions to pass the time. This was supposed to be a horror movie. At one point or another your going to have to toss a good amount of blood towards the camera to get my vote. Followed by 'Freddy's DeadThe Final Nightmare'. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps part 4 should have been the last entry. Anyway, Alice, the survivor of part 4 is going on with her life with boyfriend Dan, fellow survivor of Kreuger. The films starts with them sleeping together, and we get the sense that this baby may be important, as Freddy is back up and scratching again. Dan is killed in very mysterious circumstances-eaten by a bike. Soon other deaths occur with Freddy's trademark inventiveness and Alice must work out what and why. It seems Fred is after her baby, and Alice delves into the killers past until we find out about his gruesome and ominous conception. Freddy takes over the dreams of the unborn child and tries to be reborn. Other strange things happen to further complicate the plot, but basically Freddy wants out.Englund is the ruler here, and Freddy is now a joker. The effects are impressive, the death scenes gory and good, and there are many funny moments. Although it is a horror movie there is little which made the first effective. Kreuger is now the hero, and his lines will make you laugh. This is the worst since part 2, but still worth watching if you're not a fan. You will probably find something to like. Wilcox is good again as Alice, but everyone else seems to be hamming it up and little is taken seriously. Some of the scenes of the asylum are good and anything in the dream world, but the series is pretty much devoid of fear now.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fifth part of the long-running Nightmare series is a cheesy, but enjoyable horror-movie. It is because of the cool story. Unable to defeat Alice The Dream Master,(minor spoilers lie ahead) Freddy tries to posses her unborn son and with his dreams to start his killings again. And partly, he succeeds, that's why we have a film, full with some really interesting murders and chilling nightmares. Freddy is again very cool and his countless fans will cheer his ill humour. Of course, this movie is not as good as the first part, or the third, or the 7th, but it is an enjoyable slasher-film. "}{"Title":"Best of the rest?","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Dream Child actually is the 6th of the Nightmare movies I've been watching (only part 6 remains unseen... for at least another week that is), and although it's never the quality of part 1, it's an episode I definitely like.Alice from part 4 is now pregnant with a little baby and Krueger sees this as a way to regain power over the kids at Elm Street. Together with her rapidly shrinking group of friends Alice tries to stop him.Amusing horror flick with some fine death scenes and gruesome ending... I kinda liked it. Perhaps its just a repeat of part 1 with some new elements, but it's good fun if you're into it.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Stomach-churning, but other than that, good.","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING! MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!The film follows the character Alice, who is bothered by Freddy, and has frightening dreams revolving around Freddy's Birth.Soon after, She finds out that in order to kill Freddy for 'good', She has to find the power within herself. However, around that time, Alice has given birth to a child, she sees the boy in her dreams, who is named Jacob, Alice soon finds that Freddy has become a second father for Jacob, and fills him with hateful feelings, and wants Jacob to become the dream child.Without giving much away, you learn about more things in the film that make you scratch your head, if you have a strong stomach, and are more than willing to sit through it, than take a chance.  "},{"Title":"Hi, Alice. Want to make babies?","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  IMDb mark 7Five, six; grab your crucifix. I initially hoped to incorporate that into the title of this review. Remember, in part 1, how Nancy was able to sleep well when she was holding the crucifix? And also how, as soon as she put it back in its place, Freddy stopped creeping through the wall? I guess the makers of the Nightmare on Elm Street sequels missed out on any potential a crucifix might have had. Anyway... This installment gives the viewers more insight on Freddy's origin and expands his story on a whole new level.-Gore This film is not gorier than any of the predecessors. May be even less gory, actually... despite the nice bike scene in the beginning, with its Spawn-like charm. 25/30-Suspense It comes pretty close to the original. 'A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child' is fast-paced, you never know what's going to happen, and the sound is really eerie. 15/15-Ending The ending was cool, but not great. Of course, taste varies. 9/15-Death Scenes This is probably the worst aspect of the fifth Nightmare on Elm Street. Just 3 deaths in this one; even the first movie had more, and those were far better done. The best murder here is Dan's, clearly. 5/11-Atmosphere Now, this is great. The locations are unreal, spooky and well-suited for each and every scene, in my opinion. You can swear the asylum is taken from Tim Burton's films, or perhaps Harry Potter's world, whichever one you're more familiar with. Just like with the first one, I never thought about anything from the outside world while watching this Nightmare on Elm Street; that's a big plus, naturally. 10/10-Nudity Alice is, apparently, nude in the shower at the beginning of the movie. 2/10-Cast Again, besides Robert Englund, there are no other famous actors here. Lisa Wilcox, who reprises her role from part 4, and Erika Anderson, the best-known of the rest of the cast, never quite made it big. 2/5-Genre This is a horror film. 4/4-->Overall 72/100I had seen this movie a couple of times before, but I was pleasantly surprised when I watched it this last time. Although the cast is not star-studded, the make-up may not be top-notch and the acting is probably so-and-so, 'A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child' is the second most suspenseful film in the series. And we all know scary movies are rare. From Swordlord, 2 swords up! "},{"Title":"I Fell Asleep Because Freddy Didn't Get Me","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie because I saw the trailer for it on this site. As soon as Freddy says, It's a BOY!!! I thought this was going to be a wicked contribution to this franchise. Boy was I wrong.Robert Englund is cool as always but this movie doesn't give him much to do and it's actually surprising how little Freddy is seen in a movie about that character.The premise of this movie is actually interesting but it is executed poorly. Plot points are brought up for discussion by the teen characters way later than they should have been. The mindset of any good slasher movie is to NEVER let the audience know more than the characters in the movie because once the audience has a complete grasp of what's happening and what's going to happen, they check out. At least I do, which is why I fell asleep.From a technical standpoint there are some cool visuals and a few decent sets but everything gets a bit too cartoony for my tastes. I understand that it's a dream world and in that respect nothing is off-limits but I just lost interest in it. The heavily tilted camera angles were the main problem with the dream world for me.My favorite line in the movie is said by the gloved killer Krueger, Where you going piglet? The answer to that is out to get a better movie.Ultimately this picture is boring and quite pedestrian. I am a fan of these flicks but I was seriously disappointed by this fifth installment. There are better volumes in this series and I suggest you see one of those. "},{"Title":"Passable sequel *spoilers*","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, Freddy returns just a year after The Dream Master and this time he is using Alice's (Lisa Wilcox, from the previous film) unborn baby to be resurrected again. Alice wises up to this and faces not only Freddy, but the challenges of motherhood. Overall, The Dream Child isn't as bad as it's reputation. As the fifth in the series, it fares pretty well. Director Stephen Hopkins (Predator 2) gives us plenty of eye candy (I especially loved the upside-down diner shot) and the visual effects are stunning, even if the gore is bit restrained. Robert Englund returns as Freddy, but this is one of his worst performances. Freddy is used very minimally, and when he does appear, he is making jokes (I guess that's the writer's fault, not Robert's). I have a hard time imagining anyone being afraid of Freddy in this one. I really don't like the direction they pushed Freddy into in this one (which just further continued in Freddy's Dead) and I resent how we were supposed to laugh at the deaths of characters we have grown to care about, for example Dan and the motorcycle fusion (which was interesting and gruesome in it's own right). The gore is a little restrained, just as all late-80's movies are (the unrated version is nearly impossible to find) and the film feels like it was chopped up and dissected too many times. Following up four other superb movies (in my opinion), this one is a minor disappointment.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not the best, but a good movie","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ill admit this isnt the best Freddy movie but its suspenseful and has a few good qualitys. For one it picks up where part 4 left of unlike some sequals that dont follow up on the one before. A couple of familiar characters from part 4 are also in this one. The death scenes are innovative. One negative thing sort of about this movie is the ending, but this movie is followed by a part 6 so it dosent totally leave you hanging. This movie is worth watching.  "},{"Title":"IT GETS SLIM","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      It has been a year again.And FREDDY has tone down on killing and more on jokes.But this Nightmare is based on drama mode than horror.So it gets slim for a FREDDY fan.    The DREAM MASTER,Alice,has stopped FREDDY in his own turf and lives happy ever after with Dan,her boyfriend.But all this is about to change,because FREDDY's back and he's using the dreams of Alice's unborn baby to kill again.Not only must Alice fight FREDDY,but also coupe with the idea of being a mother.FREDDY's mom also decides to help Alice and her friends.    This Nightmare theme wasn't horror as you think,since only 3 people die,but on drama.Showing us more of the human side to the nightmare series.Stephen Hopkins(Lost in Space,Predator 2,TrafficThe Miniseries)is an alright director,but should of made this one more scary. "},{"Title":"In one word  mediocre","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fifth chapter in the popular horror saga is one of the weakest entries of the series, but not a bad little movie at all. The producers fortunately decided to return the series to its dark roots after the rollercoaster ride of the video gamish Part IV. Although the effort was nice, neither the script nor the direction managed to accomplish fully successful results. The result was quite mediocre but at least this film had a plot (in contrast to The Dream Master) and made an attempt of portraying a nightmarish world with dark gothic scenery.We knew it would happen after the financial success of Part IV the sequel was inevitable. Picking up where we left off, one year after the events of the Dream Master, Alice (Lisa Wilcox) starts having bad dreams once again. Her life will soon change drastically when first she learns that her boyfriend has rendered her pregnant and she then witnesses, in a peculiar day-dream/vision, the horrific rebirth/resurrection of the notorious boogeyman called Freddy Krueger. It seems that Freddy simply can't be put to rest. However, I am compelled to acknowledge the fact that the explanation given by the scriptwriters is logical, decent and passable instead of having a dog urinating fire on Krueger's bones. So after Krueger is resurrected he begins his reign of terror once again by intimidating Alice and invading the dreams of her friends dispatching them one by one.There are some interesting plot elements in this one but I don't want to give away spoilers. I will say however that the storyline continues the revelations given in Part III about Krueger's past. The gothic dream sequences where Alice infiltrated the mental asylum are some of the best ones in the entire film. Speaking of Alice, Lisa Wilcox is a much better actress here, portraying Alice perfectly as a dynamic and powerful heroine who struggles to save herself and her unborn child, while in the last film she seemed out of place. The cinematography is good, some of the SFX are great (the comic book sequence comes to mind) the supporting actors give solid performances. The death scenes are quite cool, do not disappoint and will please both the Elm Street and the gore fans in general. The characters are likeable enough to root for them. My personal favorite was Mark, the comic book freak.Unfortunately the liabilities are quite as many . First, the script can't do anything to hide the fate of the supporting cast. From the first moment you see Alice's friends you can watch the stamped label on their foreheads writing CANNON FODDER with huge neon lights. Secondly some of the scenes lack the tension they should have due to Stephen Hopkins' lame direction (like the rebirth scene). The visions Alice has of her 8 year old son Jacob is a quite cliched and stupid idea which doesn't seem to lead anywhere . On the contrary, the visions of Amanda Krueger was a strong plot device which helped the film. One of the worst aspects of the film, which is especially damaging, is Robert Englund as Krueger. Not only has he little screen time but he gives his worst performance in the entire series. Englund is quite bored and tired here, sleepwalking through his role. Rumors have it that he had signed a two movies contract in Part IV and it shows!! Finally the ending sequence which can't deliver what the writers envisioned. Not only does it seem suspiciously inspired by Labyrinth (1986) with the Escher-esque scenery, but it lacks the power it should have. The ending leaves you wanting more of Freddy and a more satisfying resolution. Fortunately Part VI, which followed, accomplished all these tasks perfectly.Worth noting is the fact that the script was written in an era where the media had made a great fuss about abortions, so the social allegories the film tries to pull are vociferous . Unfortunately these subjects are quite dated by now so the film once again loses points in impact. Overall, Part V is a mixed bag. It may disappoint many of you while others may be thrilled. I believe that although it is not worth all of the money you will give to rent it and you may not lose much if you miss it, on the other hand you can take a look at a couple of satisfactory scenes not to mention you may find out if Alice will eventually survive from the clutches of her dream stalker. A mediocre entry but at least an entertaining, cute try from the producers.Nightmare on Elm Street V  The Dream Child - 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"It's a boy!!","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~I'm going to say good things about A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child because it's more than a few steps up from Nightmare 4.  Part 4 is nothing more than a by-the-numbers slasher film.  This one, however, actually has a rich storyline.  And Stephen Hopkins knows how to direct a horror movie.  It picks up where 4 ended with the Alice and Dan characters about to graduate.  Freddy is back somehow; he's lurking in the shadows and killing off Alice's friends...while she's awake.  He's able to do this because of her unborn child, asleep in the womb, and dreaming.  This is a far better plot device than any of the previous Nightmare sequels.  It still has a touch of corniness but it doesn't ruin the film.  It's still a Part 5 though so unless you're a fan of the series I wouldn't worry about missing it.Faster than a b**tard maniac, more powerful than a local madman...it's Super-Freddy!! "},{"Title":"A good time at the movies will be had","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Freddy and friends are back in this, the fifth edition to the Krueger series. Alice (Lisa Wilcox again) returns from the fourth film and begins having strange dreams again, this time about Freddy's mother, Amanda Krueger. Freddy reappears as well, and very quickly starts stirring up trouble in Springwood. Plot wise there was nothing surprising in this installment, a few kids die and a few survive. The fifth Krueger, however, is my favorite one. It has a lot of energy, some really funny moments (in that campy, B-movie sense), and I think Hopkins completely understood that making a fifth movie was a terrible idea. He allows himself to have fun with this movie, throwing in creative inventions like baby Krueger, while simultaneously expounding on Freddy's sordid past, and the past of his mother. Those of you who want Freddy to remain a terror stay away from this film, as there's nothing &#145;scary' here. To everybody else I say check it out; you never know, you might learn something. Rating 28/40 "}{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched the first Nightmare on Elm Street when it came out and it scared the crud out of me. 15 Years later it wasn't the same experience. Recently, I have been watching the sequels to A Nightmare on Elm street. The sequels are terrible. Out of all the sequels up to the 6th, only the 3rd is watchable.This movie was particularily lousy. I agree with comments from others who have summarized this movie - Freddy has been turned into a wisecracking nitwit. These movies are a waste of time. I hear the 7th one is decent.  "},{"Title":"Fifth movie in NIGHTMARE series is easily the worst","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street, A The Dream Child (1989) Robert England, Lisa Wilcox, Erika Anderson, Valorie Armstrong, Michael Ashton, Kelly Jo Minter, Whitby Hertford, Danny Hassel, Beatrice Boepple, D Stephen Hopkins.In the fifth installment, the nightmarish dream-stalker Freddy enters the dreams of survivor Wilcox's unborn child, attempting to place the souls of those he killed into the fetus, and enjoys his favorite pastime by going after her friends. Again, bizarre effects are the only pro here, but the movie's a bust. They saved the worst for last, but it's followed by FREDDY'S DEAD THE FINAL NIGHTMARE. Running Time 89 minutes and rated R for language and gore/violence.* ½   "},{"Title":"Alice Johnson series continuous.","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fifth part of Nightmares it is not an important film to the Series but it looks like better than the second part.Alice Johnson believes that her horror finishes but one day Freddy is back and she has to win again for save his children life.The Alice Johnson saga (Nightmare 4 and Nightmare 5) has its best moment in the fourth part but the fifth one is an entertain film to watch,sure that could not be your favorite sequel but it is not the worst.A little bit of comedy an a good comic scene.NIGHTMARE 5Correct film. "},{"Title":"Review of 100 Lunatics!!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The series continues it descent with this the 5th chapter of the Nightmare series.  Freddy is still great!  Lisa Wilcox is still fine!  But something is missing, I really don't know what it is but you can feel it. While Dream Child is a step below the others, it is not as bad as other make you believe.  There is the interesting backstory of Amanda Krueger (Freddy's mother) and the den of 100 lunatic's.  Worth a look, but don't expect alot.Pros  Englund is still the man -- Cons  Freddy baby, oh my lord -- Bottom Line  6/10.   "},{"Title":"Terrible The Worst of the Series!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An Awful film in many ways. Freddy is yet again after the teens using Alice's unborn child,whom he wants to turn into a monster with. Very stupid. Freddy isn't scary at all. Just stupid. Englund gives the worst performance of the series. Awful!0.5/4 "},{"Title":"This Movie Will Cure Your Sleepless Nights!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Attention doctors and the sleep deprived! This movie is the cure. Because of the paper thin story line, the sh*tty acting, and lack of horror Freddy once instilled in us- this movie will put you to sleep. A friend of mine nearly killed himself while we watched this film. I had to talk him out of it and he was at ease when I told him that only 8957 more minutes were left to watch. This movie is 90 minutes long. The boy who plays Jake made me when to puke because of his oversized scrambled egg eyeballs. He was neither cute, nor convincing. The lead girl character (I can't remember her name because she was so annoying) was aggravating with her whining and complaining. I thanked my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ when the film ended. As only an evil being would create such a bad film and allow it to play all the way through. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm...","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I think this was good. But, I have some problems... Freddy has become Mr. Funny Man when Wes Craven ment him to be evil and scary. Plus, I think it could of sone alittle better. But besides that, it was awesome. I was totally grossed out by Gretta and Dan's deaths, and Alice was great. See it once, and if you're not happy with it, put it away. But this is my list of the movies from greatest to worst 1,7,3,4,5,6,2 Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"The Dream Child","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A sequel of the fourth movie. Now Alice is graduating High School. She has gained whole new friends because all her other friends died. Weird. She is with her boyfriend Dan. They are both planning to go overseas after graduation. The night before graduation Alice has a terrible nightmare about Freddy´s birth and how the prisoners raped his mother ( see film three). Suddenly Freddy is back and she is very scared. The same day she finds that out Dan dies and she is pregnant and thinks that Freddy is going to do something to the baby as well as hurting the rest of her friends which he does. This film like 3 and 4 is okay. The cinematography is awesome, the special effects are good etc but this film has pratically no scares at all and is more like an action flick and coming of age story. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Not for pregnant mothers","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the fifth time little girls are playing their games and singing that same old nasty song about Freddy. Don't get me wrong I think all of the sequels have been quite successful in various different ways but the truth is that after part two the series was no longer scary and there could and should be at least little more of those new fresh ideas to keep things cooking. Naturally gore effects are more and more disgusting and there's a couple of minor plot changes with every new movie (for example this time Freddy tries to get inside the dreams of Alice's unborn baby boy) but that's just about it. I don't suggest A Nightmare On Elm Street 5 The Dream Child to pregnant mothers but Freddy-freaks will love to see the evil wisecracking maniac skateboarding and hunting new souls. If you didn't even like the previous visits to Elm Street coffee won't keep you up this is a perfect medicine for insomnia no matter what they say about the dangers of dreaming. "},{"Title":"No match up to four.SPOILER!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER! A Nightmare on elm st. 5, is no match against four. The story basically tells us things that we already found out about in the third one. The best thing about this one is that Lisa Wilcox got to live. Which is very fair. She was too strong to die. Just like Nancy in the first Nightmare. All and all o.k. "}{"Title":"BETTER","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  dream child is better than dream master, at least this film has a dark tone to it, the freddy mythology is back into play, however, it flies against series establishments, what we learn of amanda in part III, the local, but hey, it is darker than 4, which is good, i am more afraid of freddy in this one than the previous, but yeah i laugh at him a lot too.  the film tries to have a plot, which it doesn't completely fail at, super freddy is more gay than anything thrown at us in the 2nd, for the 2nd half of the series the strongest entry, opening rocks - opening with alice, very nice... the thing in the tower with amanda is freaky, very dark, nicely shot and lit, well acted, as always can't hold a candle to the original or new nightmare, but fun, and kinda freakyseries rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"It's a bad movie!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Freddy has completely transformed from an icon of terror,into a Adam Sandler dressed up like a killer. Lisa Wilcox manages to save this movie a bit,with a good performance. But the plot is so dumb! It had a promising idea,but turned bad,in the first half hour. I expected Englund to save it a bit,but he's more like a,as I said before a Adam Sandler. Full of really bad one liners,that get tiresome. But it did have some really good nightmare scenes.I loved the comic book one. Yet the good can't make up for the bad. One last thing the make-up job for Freddy was terrible ruined half the movie for me.Sadly it sucked,do not rent it,only if you need it to complete the series. Never ever buy it!0.5/5 "},{"Title":"An OK effort, but the worst in the series","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't enjoy this movie as much as I did the other Nightmare flicks.  The story, quite simply, didn't intrigue me.  The characters are uninteresting, and the guy who plays the comic book artist is a terrible actor.  There are some fun nightmare sequences, but no really memorable ones.  My score  5 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Nightmare on your TV","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, For Christmas I got the Freddy Box Set on DVD. Cool I thought. I haven't seen any of these in a while. The one I watched yesterday was this one. Talk about confused. I can imagine the executives faces when they got the call.John, its Peter Hi John Were gonna make another Freddy movie, and we need a plot Peter, for gods sake, we got on ok without on in the last three!And so it begins.Some of the scenes had my mouth literally hanging open in surprise at how the producers thought we would just lap it up. Its a little gorier than 3 & 4, but lacks the punch of 1 or 2.If you have seen the others and need this one to finish the set, then go for it. If you are a newbie to the Freddy thang, then catch them in the right order otherwise this one will leave you confused and a little sad that you didn't rent out The Thing instead.  "},{"Title":"Nine, Ten--Never Sleep Again!      I Don't Know About You, But This Rhyme is Really Starting to Annoy Me!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       After a night of making love, Alice Johnson takes a shower. Suddenly, water begins shooting out of the walls and the shower stall begins to fill up. Alice felt trapped, then suddenly she flew through the wall and found herself in a chapel tower surrounded by one hundred maniacs. She looked down and found herself wearing a nun's uniform, name tag read Amanda Krueger. Freddy's mother! Suddenly, the doors all locked and the maniacs all closed in. Watch for Robert Englund without his Freddy face in this scene! Alice awakens in bed screaming; it was graduation day at school. Alice's friends Greta, Yvonne, Mark and Dan were there. Dan was going to be a football star, Greta was going to be a model. Her mother was constantly on her case about it and Mark was very much into comic books. After the ceremony, Alice followed a little girl to a tall, dark church. Once inside, she witnessed Amanda Krueger giving birth to a hideous demon child. Baby Freddy! He suddenly donned the red and green sweater and placed on the tattered hat. Freddy was back! The spirit of Amanda told Alice to find her in the tower but Freddy told Alice she'd never find her. Suddenly, Alice found herself in the diner where she worked. The odd thing was she wasn't asleep when witnessing Freddy! He must have found away to terrorize people while they're awake! She called Dan who was at the community swimming pool enjoying the party Yvonne was throwing there because she was trusted with the keys. When Dan heard Alice was in trouble, he jumped into his truck and raced away. Freddy appeared to be driving the truck and the result had Dan flying through the wind shield. He then found a motorcycle with keys! He jumped on and raced to the diner. Suddenly, the motorcycle turned into Freddy. Wires punctured Dan. Suddenly, Dan awakened still in his truck--which was headed right for an 18-wheeler. CRASH! It happened right outside the diner. Alice was distraught.        Alice was taken to the hospital where the doctors inform her she was pregnant; at Greta's house, her mother was throwing a dinner party and was nagging Greta about eating. Suddenly, Chef Freddy came in with a macabre platter and force-fed Greta. In real life, she appeared to be choking. She finally collapsed onto the table dead; Alice was confident Freddy had killed Greta so she told Yvonne and Mark. Yvonne thought Alice was nuts. Mark did some research on Freddy and he and Alice learned of his grisly past. Alice then learned that unborn babies could dream. That's how Freddy was performing his dirty work! Through the dreams of unborn Jacob. That was his name because Alice met her baby in the form of a little kid in her dreams. Jacob had sided with Freddy! What could they do? Mark suggested abortion but Alice would have nothing of it. Alice decided to go to sleep and defeat Krueger. She asked Mark to stay awake and watch her. Alice met with Yvonne in her dream and the two were nearly attacked by Freddy. Mark fell asleep and found himself in a comic book world. He turned into a super hero and destroyed Freddy, but he came back as a super hero and turned Mark into a piece of paper and shredded him. When Alice and Yvonne came to, they set out to find Amanda. Yvonne searched the chapel tower in the real world while Alice searched the one in the dream realm. Yvonne succeeded in finding Amanda's spirit who came to the rescue as Alice tried to procure Jacob from Freddy. Alice was able to release the souls of Freddy's victims from within him and soon, Jacob and Freddy were reduced to babies. Freddy was the hideous demon baby he was born as. Then Freddy and Jacob entered their mothers. Some months later, Jacob was born and Alice, Yvonne and Alice's father were so happy. But maybe, just maybe, Freddy Krueger wasn't really dead and may return someday. Maybe.        Interesting entry into the series, though not as good as 4, its still watchable! Robert Englund is back as Freddy and he also plays a maniac in the opening scene and Lisa Wilcox returns as Alice Johnson. This one is deemed the goriest of the Freddy movies. If you've seen it, you'll see what I mean. They also tried to make Freddy seem more serious in this one because the filmmakers thought they made Nightmare on Elm Street 4 seem too campy, but I thought it was pretty good. In conclusion, Nightmare fans, I recommend A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child!- "},{"Title":"Grim 'Elm Street' sequel","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The sole survivor (Lisa Wilcox) from the last installment is pregnant with her boyfriend's (Danny Hassel) child, but she starts to have dreams of Freddy (Robert Englund) as he returns from the dead to use the dreams of her unborn to kill off more of her friends.  Grim sequel suffers from amateurish performances and weak script, but some cool special effects rescue this one. My evaluation ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"imaginative, enjoyable but overall lacking","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seems to be a draft of what it should have been which I believe is a direct result of the rushed sloppy nature I get from this film. It was written, made and released within less than a year of the previous sequel. This movie retains allot of darkness and puts Freddy (visually anyway) in the shadows like in the first 3 films. However it is all underblown and distorted when he gives out his uncecoserry one liners. They just didn't work in this film as it retained a strong gothic style. There wasn't much room for practical jokes...so just when you were getting into the dark mood of the film Freddy would say something rather dumb and break it. He was his own worst enemy in this sequel which does lack but is still very enjoyable, especially to a monster Nightmare on elm street fanatic like myself. Storywise it is very interesting but their are many missed opertunities, again...a direct result of this films rushed nature. Its less on quality and more on quanitity. There was a big opertunity to create an eerie threataning image of Freddy once again, him praying and abusing an unborn childs dreams to his advantage. It takes his original concept from killing teenagers in their dreams to a even darker level...but unfortunatley, no. He isn't very threatening in this film and appears to be more like a comic book villain. He even says goochy goochy goo towards the end of the film wich makes me cringe and im sure Wes Craven wouldn't have been very happy with that.Throught the movie especially the scenes filmed at night there seem to be a blue filter throught...which cleverly undertones the child-like innonce about this movie (freddy abuseing a childs dreams). It is a representive color of a young boy, baby blue. Freddy is mainly shown in darkness and shadows and there is some strong gothic imagery. gargoils, churches, church art and the simple fact that allot of scenes are filmed at night. I like the charactors wich helps allot as Freddy was a bit of a let down in this movie. They have enough onscreen time each to make me care for them. Some inetresting mythology throught the films. undertones of the deaths of each charactor are hinted throught but very cleaverly. Greta being treated like a doll by her mom and her herself having a collection of dolls, online to shoke to death and smash to the floor like a doll herself by Freddy.This movie also dives into a bit of Christian Mythology. This film isn't dark enough for an errie horror movie (like the original) but isn't bright enough in color for a superior horror with stylish hints of comedy (nightmare 4) wich leaves it floating around...if this movie wasn't so rushed then who knows The climax of the movie is very weak. So simply there is enough good about this movie to keep you watching even for non fans but is one of the weaker entries to the series. Alice is wonderful as always...some nice imagery and its nostalgig to the late 80's early 90's. I think Yvonne wasn very represientive of its era. the black grounded trendy girl spouting out lines ending with girl and looking like she belonged in a music video. She was a pleasant supporting charactor and a nice advesory to Alice. To be honest I don't think Gretta looked like she would be friends with Marc, Alice, Yvonne and Dan...so she's a bit out of place. Some interesting FX work and imaginative deaths. But throught the movie Freddy always takes his presence one step further to break much positive thoughtsIts fun, dark but tainted. It has style but don't expect a superior horror movie  "},{"Title":"great premise","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The premise for this fifth visit from horror most recognizable razor fingered fiend is wonderful, but the rest of the movie is average. Not a disappointment,it just didn't live up to the idea **spoiler alert** of the baby inside of the mother doing the dreaming and bringing her into his nightmares. **spoiler end**.  The premise is great, but you've seen everything else that is done it this sequel. If you're a fan of the series don't pass this one up, if you're not, you can find a better slasher flick on a Friday night. "},{"Title":"maybe the worst of the series","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This may have been the worst Nightmare on Elm Street movie of them all. There just aren't enough killings and the idea of Freddy getting into the dreams of Alice's baby is a weak idea for this movie. I know they need an explanation for each one but I think they could have done a little better job, plus I always hate when they use kids in horror movies, kids have no place at all in horror! or for that matter any movie. Freddy is great as always and this movie isn't terrible it's just not up to standards with the rest, there's a few cool scenes though such as the comic book killing or the one where Dan's on the bike. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The best you can get","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is without a doubt the best of the nightmare series. I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. The best part about this movie is that it is shorter than a wrestling match between Brian Gavazzi ad Bryan Hanlon. It gts me in and then it blows you away in every way a movie can. Freddy is one of the greatest characters in cinema history and its good to see that he is still alive and well. "}{"Title":"I didnt care for this movie","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love the first one but I think the rest sucks. I dont like how Freddy a comedian in these movies. I just didnt find this movie scary at all. The acting was OK I guess. I guess I recommend this movie to anyone who loves the Nightmare on Elm street Movies. "},{"Title":"the WORST of the series!!!!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  the only reason this movie was made was because of having a surviving character from part 4. the story is ridiculous.the acting is the worst yet.the only redeeming factor to this movie is that it has decent fx in it.freddy is just a jester in this movie...even the classic nightmare music is almost circus like.... "},{"Title":"Medicore sequel to a great series","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Dream Chlid is a dark take on the Freddy films. Stephen Hopkins who go on to direct such films as Blow Away tried to make a good film but he failed because of th dark tone of the film. The film could have been okay but the dark tone runis it. Not recommended at all. "},{"Title":"Not bad sequel to the series","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I don't understand all of the bashing of this movie. I would think that all of the voters had seen the previous 4 movies...if so, they they would see that this movie is like most of them. The 1st movie, was very dark. More violence in it. The latter movies added more characters, & little touches of humor. Plus, there has been some great effects, too. 'A Nightmare On Elm Street~pt. 5' is a good Freddy sequel. His return isn't really discussed, but he comes back anyway. It has a basic plot, like all of the other installment, but here you get to find out some info on Freddy, such as his mom and his birth. Interesting. If you like the Freddy Krueger movie, go see it. You'll like it. Plus watch closely...there's small cameos of rockers Ted Nugent, Eric Singer, & Rudy Sarzo.  "},{"Title":"The worst in the series","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS** A Nightmare On Elm Street 5 is the worst movie ever to come out of New Line Cinema. The whole story is retarded. Alice ( from part 4 ) gets pregnant and Freddy wants to take over her baby???? Stupid. And this movie was the hardest one to understand if you ask me. The actors all have good potentiol but are directed by one of the worst directors I've heard of. Steven Hopkins has no directing talent whatsoever.That may have been one of the main reasons this film was so terrible. I think if you were to see this medioker film, you would know what i mean. "},{"Title":"Not So Good, But Still Entertaining (& Way Superior To Part 2)!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Whoa. Now this was a weird, effed-up movie. As you probably know, I am a big fan of the Nightmare On Elm Street series & have written awesomely long textpieces on them, all of which can be viewed on this site; I try to analyze & pick apart the films, but I may run into some trouble with this 1.As we all know, a film series will get boring & redundant if it just does the same thing over & over again, so new ideas must be dreamed up. By this time, they had already had 4 Freddy films, & many filmgoers believe that by the 5th installment of a series, the filmmakers are just fresh out of ideas & have no choice but to rehash their original idea. Not so here! I will admit that Freddy being born again isn't the greatest idea in the world, but it's probably the best the writers (& I use that term loosely) could come up with.Let's take a look at the cast Wilcox makes a welcome return as the awesome Alice, though I preferred her as a redhead; Alice's dad became less of an ass & more of a friend, making him a little more likeable; Dan does nothing but screw Alice (the lucky bastard) & die; Mark was the only newcomer I found particularly interesting; the other newcomers weren't so great; & once again, Englund simply devoured the scenery as Our Man Fred.The film, however, has plenty of flaws The plot really could've used more complications & actual developments; Freddy's jokes were funny, though weak when compared to those of previous films (omitting Part 2, of course); there should've been way more deaths; by now, Freddy barely uses his legendary glove anymore; Freddy was all over the place in the previous films, but here, he was kind of a distant character who appeared rather infrequently; & there was yet another nonconclusion.Still, the film was fairly entertaining, & that's pretty much all that matters in my book; although it started off kinda slow, it got more interesting as it went along. Highlight was probably Mark's hilarious death scene.Now for those of you who've read my review of Part 4, you know that I discussed Freddy's godliness & how he is The Personification of Evil, i.e. The Devil. Though I do not believe that Freddy really is The Devil, I do believe that he's pretty damn close! In this film, we see the attempts to create The Antichrist, or Son of The Devil, & the attempts of those on the side of God, like Alice & Mandy Krueger, to prevent an innocent child from being corrupted by evil; also, I think that only those with a total lack of humanity, like Freddy, can bring themselves to harm babies, & the totally inhumane are the worst sinners of all. And if Freddy is totally inhumane, then he is, without a doubt, a demon straight from Hell.But there is something I have been wondering about for a long time; I'd really like some help on this problem, & it is this Freddy gets killed, & after a coupla years or so, he returns in some vague, not-very-well-explained way. Where is he during that interval, & what is he doing? So much has been answered, but so much remains a mystery. I guess I'll just hafta see the last 2 films to get everything all wrapped up. "},{"Title":"Nightmare series is starting to show its age.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one picked up where the last one left off pretty much.  Freddy is once again resurrected and starts killing people off.  It's yet another mediocre installment of the aging Nightmare series.  The acting was nothing special, the story was so-so, but the SFX were still pretty good.This was the first time that it felt like I was watching one of the other slashers, like Friday the 13th, because the characters were more used for cannon fodder than anything else.  I'm not saying the characters in the movie weren't good, I'm just saying that the only real reason they were there at all was to give Freddy some people to kill.  Even with by doing that, the total body count was only three and although they were pretty original deaths, they were nowhere near as good as the deaths in the previous movies (specifically the first and third).That's another thing that bothered me with this flick.  It seemed that they were trying too hard to come up with character types that hadn't been used in the previous films and also to kill them in new ways.  It's like they're saying, You've seen Freddy dice up the karate kid, you've seen him take down the Wizard Master, now watch as he goes up against the nerdy comic book kid.  It's as if all the characters were defined by their one trait and they had no personality other than what the trademark trait allowed them.The story was okay, but like the characters, it seems like they were running out of ideas.  I can just imagine the writers sitting around in some deep, dark basement pondering how they were going to revive Freddy yet again. Pretty sneaky the way they did it, but I don't think they were fooling anyone.  I mean, hell, the title alone gives it away.  I guess I should be glad that this sequel actually went along with the previous entries and also got all the cast to return (those double picture deals will kill you, read the small print next time Lisa Wilcox).Like I said, the SFX were again really good, but also like I said, it just seems like they were trying to figure out what they hadn't done yet and then do it.  I know, that's partially a good thing cause it would be boring if they just repeated themselves over and over doing the same thing in the same way in every movie (*cough* Friday the 13th *cough* I think I'm getting a cold).  Still, it gets annoying when it's so brutally obvious that they're racking their brains just to come up with something entirely different. It's as if, to hell with quality, just as long as it's different.Overall Another so-so addition of the Nightmare series.  Hardcore fans only. "},{"Title":"gets a little worse...","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's five years after the original.  What do you expect?  They can't keep it going forever.  But, honestly, the series had run out of gas with the previous part 4.  At least that film held your interest somewhat.  Part 5 clunks along, totally lacking what made the franchise a hit in the first place.  Let's begin with the glove, the thing that made Freddy famous.  As in part 4, it's hardly used...just once in fact!  Once again we're treated to sick-out effects, such as Hassel having wires and electrodes shoved into every body part possible,  the Greta character choking(huh?) to death, and the one girl who springs from a diving board into a wall (what??).  Aside from one other murder--a silly cartoon-ish (literally) slashing--that's it gang!  The rest of the plot concerns Wilcox (again gorgeous as Alice) finding out she's pregnant.  Apparently Freddy can't use her to menace people anymore, so he uses her unborn kid for that ability, and the above dull murders ensue.  And, yes, it's all capped off with Freddy's jokes, which this time around are strictly on an amateur night level.  With the exception of Wilcox, the cast is irratating, like the stuck-up Greta, the surfer-skater kid, and lousy actor Hassel, all of whom you won't mind seeing getting done away with.  The finale is a FAR cry from the light show that was part 4, with a quick and quiet laser deal punctuated by what looked like Cabbage Patch Kids(?) being thrust from Freddy's body.  Oddly enough, one thing I did get a kick out of was the beginning and ending credits.  Things start with a suttle bonging as the titles come up, and after the film we get an upbeat rap (which I usually can't stand) song.  But though this died in theaters and with fans, they still churned out part 6(!) two years later. "},{"Title":"very good movie","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had the tightest ending I ever saw for a horror movie.  It leaves the door open for Nightmare 6.  This movie was probably the funniest one. Good plot as usually.  It started off very dark and ended very dark. That's all I'm gonna say about the movie. "},{"Title":"FREDDY KRUEGER WITH STATEMENTS ON POLITICS AND ISSUES.  NO THANKS!!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First, the good news  I loovvee books by John Skipp and Craig Spector.  They wrote the story to this film.  The special effects are amazing, I particularly like the final scenery, which looks like something out of an M.C. Escher painting.But, it is incredibly obvious that this film, and other films and TV movies made around this time, was really nothing more than an attempted voice on the issue of abortion.  It was made at the time when Operation Rescue (or, as their feminist opponents called them Operation Oppress You) was in the news all the time and in the newspapers all the time.This movie does make one Pro-choice statement The skateboarding, comic book-reading and -drawing guy says If there's no baby, there's no baby's dreams and Alice says why she decides she's not going to go along with that idea/suggestion.However, ALL OVER the rest of the movie, there are scenes and pieces of dialect where she's meeting her baby as a person, and how her baby already has feelings and emotions for her, has a personality, etcetera, and so on, and so forth ... even though in the real space and time the story takes place, this baby is really nothing more than an egg cell that's only been fertilized for about three or four days (the ultra sound scene shows a huge hole in the script).Although I appreciate the fact that many movies are made to voice a person's opinion or two on social issues or whatever you want to call them, telling them through a FREDDY MOVIE????Gimme a BREAK!!Freddy Krueger is a villian in plain old ordinary stalk and slash/special effects horror films made for leave your mind at the door entertainment.  The very thought of this character in a movie that's supposed to alert you to current issues and political agendas and influence your opinion on them is completely ABSURD!! As I said, I love Skipp and Spector, and the special effects and scenery were amazing, but a Freddy film being used to speak a political view or two is a bloody stupid idea. "}{"Title":"The Dream Stalker vs. The Dream Master with the Dream Child","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the 5th best in the series. Lisa Wilcox plays Alice, the dream master who beat Freddy one year before stars with Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger, Whitby Hertford as Jacob (Alice's son), and Kelly Jo Minter, Danny Hassel, Erika Anderson, and Joe Seely as Alice's friends. As Freddy is killing off Alice's friends he is feeding their soles to Alice's unborn child. Alice has to save both her friends and her child as Amanda Krueger (Freddy's mother) tries to help her. This movie has good speacial effects. Lisa Wilcox is the best character in the Nightmare series, thats what makes part 4 the best of the series! This movie is very good, the body count is only 3 but who give a sh*t?! "},{"Title":"Bad idea, bad movie.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Like Freddy's Revenge, this sequel takes a pretty weird idea and doesn't go to great lengths to squeeze a story out of it.  Basically Alice from number 4 is pregnant and her baby is haunted by Freddy which gives him an outlet to haunt her friends.     This has the least deaths out of the whole series and the wise-cracks are quite poor, so neither the horror fans or comedy fans are happy.   I've not alot to say about this.  It's moderately interesting to see the characters of Alice and Dan returning from four, but not worth watching a movie over.   Uninspriring and unenjoyable, possibly only the competant direction saves it from being the worst in the series.  "},{"Title":"Oh dear!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is an absolutely poor film. I could hardly believe it. I'm a horror fan but with films like this around, it begins to make us who care about the genre look like fools.Freddy is back (surprise). The plot has something to do with a baby with a big head. Unfortunately I didn't really care to ingest the silly plot after the first 20 minutes. The baby has something to do with Freddy, I think. So we have to put up with reoccurring dreams that the teenagers have. Speaking of which, it has some of the most stereotypical dumb teenagers in all horror movies. How original. Like the two girls who are hanging round the typical goofy moron. Woo hoo! The acting is just above the standard of our Cinderella play at primary school.The plot is confusing. With the amount of dreams the teenagers have, you start to wonder whether they have an effect on the real world or not. Then you realise they  don't, which means you're drawn back into the real world, in which the story hasn't progressed. It's very boring to watch. So what does happen in this movie? Well, it all revolves around death scenes, and at the end Freddy does a completely unfunny one-liner. Like for example, in one scene, one of the characters who you're supposed to care about, apparently, drives his motorbike down a busy speedway. Then a metallic face supposed to be Freddy appears near the gearstick, injects our heroes leg with fuel poisoning him, as he shouts `Fuel Injection!' as the bike crashes into an oncoming truck. Hilarious.As I said, the plot was so confusing. I didn't see Part 4, but whatever was in that, maybe it would have helped me understand where that damn baby came from. At the start of the film we see some kind of underground prison with crowds roaming around. I wasn't give an explanation of what it was. So how the hell do I keep track of what's happening? Then some woman is let out into the crowds, and they pester her. At the end, they take it we knew that this woman was impregnated by the men, and somehow  this had something to do with the Dream Child. Or something. I'll come clean, the film was so incredibly bad I didn't really care.In fact, there's only two good things about this movie. The creepy imagery of people moving inside the cartoons, and the death scene in which the goofball ends up getting slashed to bits by Freddy. Everything apart from that, is instantly forgettable nonsense.1.5/5  "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end....","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I think of A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 5, I wonder to myself, WHY!?!  This film does no justice to the series.  This film was the downpoint of the series.  And whoever thought parts 5 and six were great need their head examined.  7 was the savior and whoever disagrees needs help.   "},{"Title":"An Extremely Underrated Chapter","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Nightmare on Elm Street series was THE premiere horror series of the 1980's, a dark, rather cold decade. Looking more closely at them, you begin to realise there is powerful intelligence and extremely interesting subtexts lying underneath them, ranging from sexual crisis' to the rotten core in the middle of suburbia.With this film, we are presented with an examination of the plights of a teen parent. Freddy represented the challenges that lie in wait for a kid who either chooses or inadvertently becomes a parent. Freddys desire to develop an attachment to Jacob is similar in the way that many people who, back in the late 80's when this was a major news story, were trying to take away the babies of these teens and treating them as though they were common street trash, lowlives who should be publicly punished for committing such an act.Alice has to overcome these obstacles created by human ignorance (something that helped create Freddy in the first place) and prove what her father, her friends, and herself already know that she will be a good parent and ,quite honestly, will be a better one than most of the parents in Springwood. She has already dealt with the problem the previous generation had created (Freddy) and, in turn, will benefit from that by using it deal with his return and any other negative occurances that may pop up over the coming years. Her knowledge becomes her power.Aside from the subtext, this chapter goes back to the dark aspect of the 1st and 3rd chapters as I said before, trying to make Freddy the evil creature he was in the first few and albeit somewhat less powerful since all of his souls had escaped in Part 4. The acting is very good, particularly from Lisa Wilcox, a great actress who unfortunately never received the big acting career she deserved. Englund is wonderful as usual, relishing his time as the dream killer and Whitby Hertford delivers a good performance (unusual for a child actor) as Jacob, Alice's unborn son. Stephen Hopkins dispenses with the bright color that Renny Harlin employed in Part 4 and brings a gruesome, gothic look to the picture, creating an ominous feel and making the film all the more disturbing.Is it as scary as 1 and 3? No. By the time this installment was released in 1989, it was too late for Freddy to be the man of pure evil that he was in the early films. This was the last time Freddy was threatening, since Freddy's Dead was basically a John Waters film starring Krueger.So, barring what some people have said, Nightmare 5 is an extremely well-made and thought provoking film. If you wish to see a horror film with some intelligence, go for Nightmare 5.  "},{"Title":"An Extremely Underrated Chapter","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Nightmare on Elm Street series was THE premiere horror series of the 1980's, a dark, rather cold decade. Looking more closely at them, you begin to realise there is powerful intelligence and extremely intresting subtexts lying underneath them, ranging from sexual crisis' to the rotten core in the middle of suburbia.With this film, we are presented with an examination of the plights of a teen parent. Freddy represented the challenges that lie in wait for a kid who either chooses or inadvertently becomes a parent. Freddys desire to develop an attachment to Jacob is similar in the way that many people who, back in the late 80's when this was a major news story, were trying to take away the babies of these teens and treating them as though they were common street trash, lowlives who should be publicly punished for committing such an act.Alice has to overcome these obstacles created by human ignorance (something that helped create Freddy in the first place) and prove what her father, her friends, and herself already know that she will be a good parent and ,quite honestly, will be a better one than most of the parents in Springwood. She has already dealt with the problem the previous generation had created (Freddy) and, in turn, will benefit from that by using it deal with his return and any other negative occurances that may pop up over the coming years. Her knowledge becomes her power.Aside from the subtext, this chapter goes back to the dark aspect of the 1st and 3rd chapters as I said before, trying to make Freddy the evil creature he was in the first few and albeit somewhat less powerful since all of his souls had escaped in Part 4. The acting is very good, particularly from Lisa Wilcox, a great actress who unfortunately never received the big acting career she deserved. Englund is wonderful as usual, relishing his time as the dream killer and Whitby Hertford delivers a good performance (unusual for a child actor) as Jacob, Alice's unborn son. Stephen Hopkins dispenses with the bright color that Renny Harlin employed in Part 4 and brings a gruesome, gothic look to the picture, creating an ominous feel and making the film all the more disturbing.Is it as scary as 1 and 3? No. By the time this installment was released in 1989, it was too late for Freddy to be the man of pure evil that he was in the early films. This was the last time Freddy was threatening, since Freddy's Dead was basically a John Waters film starring Krueger.So, barring what some people have said, Nightmare 5 is an extremely well-made and thought provoking film. If you wish to see a horror film with some intelligence, go for Nightmare 5.  "},{"Title":"They made a BIG mistake......","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is definantley one of the worst Nightmare Films. I understand they tried making a Nightmare film with more of a plot with less deaths,but it was nowhere near as theyd planned. The film itself has no plot,and hardly any deaths which leaves it being a very non-entertaining horror film. Its prequel part 4 was an excellent touch,but this was a big mistake.It was nice to see Lisa Wilcox back as she is a great actress,but other than that,this movie was totally dissatisfying. Freddy himself is trying to be serious,but the film ends up being a laughaphon,filled with unfunny and stupid jokes from the Fredster. I totally disliked this film and found no real good reason to watch it,you should avoid it.The thing that did raise an eyebrow was how they tried to show the histroy of freddys mother etc.etc. It was very badly put out,while it had potential,it failed miserably.I GIVE A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET FIVE(5) A 3.5/10.GOOD POINTS OF FILMHad potential.BAD POINTS OF FILM Bad acting/Miserable plot/bad sepcial effects/very confusing/lack of death scenes.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good, not much","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film that digresses in cinematic value as you get older.  When I first saw it I loved it and thought the scenes with Amanda were a great way of expanding the Krueger story.  The death scenes were at times creative and others really cheesy.  I like the visuals in this movie but the characters were underdeveloped and the acting (with the exception of Alice and the black girl from Summer School who can't drive) was definitely not Oscar worthy.  I liked the opening scene where she is in the shower and found that creepy but the rest is definitely not a Krueger classic. "},{"Title":"not the best Freddy movie, but its still cool","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I remember watching this movie all the time as a kid. Back then I thought it was one of the best Freddy movies, I really liked it. I just watch again recently, and to tell you the turth. It wasn't half as good as I remembered it. Theres just some really stupid feel to the movie,that I really didn't like. this movie just seems so silly and tired. This is not a very good follow up to the great part 4. here are some things I didn't like about this movie. First, There just isn't enough Freddy in this movie, He only has like 20 minutes of screen time or something, which I really thought sucked after seeing so much of him in part 4. And his jokes aren't even that good in this one. nothing close to the ones in part 4.Also, there is just not enough kills only like 2 or 3, sorry,but thats just to little. in 4,there are so many cool death scenes, and characters. The characters in this movie aren't even half as good as the ones in the other movies, with the acception of Alice and Dan, the characters aren't very good, they seem just to one dimentional. Man, Wheres Kincaid when you need him. another thing I didn't get with this movie is how all these character just come out of nowhere. They seem to be real close to Alice, they act like they've been her friend a long time, So, how come they just showed up all of a sudden, we didn't see one of them in part 4. I guess after Freddy got done killing all 6 of Alices friends in part 4. She just went out and got new ones. C'mon, thats so dumb. Who comes up with these crap scripts. I also thought the music wasn't to good in this movie either. I am a huge Freddy fan, and always will be. I do like this movie. Any movie with the coolest Killer Freddy Krueger is good. I thought Lisa Wilcox was great returning as Alice. She is very pretty, and a great actress. I think she is definately the best herione in horror. this movie is still a lot of fun, with some good Effects. but it dosen't even come close to the other films in the series. I think I even like part 2 better than this one. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorites","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 5  The Dream Child is a darker, scarier entry in the series.  Freddy returns after Alice offed him in the previous entry and gains access into Alice's mind by using her unborn baby's dreams.  Her friends begin dying and she thinks she's going crazy.  An appearance from Freddy's mom, good effects, and clever writing bring this entry to an above average level.A Nightmare on Elm Street 5  The Dream Child is UNRATED for some strong violence and gory effects, sexuality, brief nudity, and for adult language. "}{"Title":"Deja-vu, *yawn*","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I consider this film one of the worst in the Nightmare series. It was so boring that I couldn't remember a thing 20 minutes after the film was over, it even tires me to write a review on it.Okay, #4 was a joke and Freddy was the joker. #5 tried to return to the roots of the series. It was darker and more atmospheric than Nightmare 4, which is a good thing, basically. They tried to shoot a horror film instead of a comedy. Unfortunately they forgot to add suspense and scares. Because of that Nightmare 5 The Dream Child is neither funny nor is it scary. What we actually get is a boring film with the usual bad actors (maybe with the exception of Lisa Wilcox).The plot (Freddy killing Lisa's friends by using the dreams of Lisa's unborn child) has a good base but it just isn't enough for 90 minutes of film. Sometimes the story gets very confusing (maybe because there isn't any) and you can't stop wondering what the filmmakers were aiming at. The screenplay must have had more holes than Swiss Cheese and the film therefore was very cheesy itself (let me say that I don't like cheese though, even if I am from Switzerland). Not even the special effects were as good as for example in part 4.Don't bother to rent/buy this film if not for completeness, it's quite a mess.My rating 4/10 (get used to it, #6 is also a messy one...) "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the decent part 4 I figured the series would just stay o.k. instead of great like 1 and 3...However, that turned out not to be the case with this fifth film.!!!SPOILERS!!! After Lisa Wilcox vanquished him in part 4, Freddy returns and uses the dreams of Wilcox's unborn baby to get at her friends. We also learn how painful it was for Freddy's mother when he was born. Great story, acting, effects, and humor. **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"What's got into these kids today?","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As I've constantly repeated to anyone who'll listen,  parts 3, 4, and 5 of the Nightmare on Elm Street series are a trilogy of sorts, having reoccurring characters and a continuing story line, unlike the other movies that came before & after them.This is probably the lamest of the three, but I still like it. It's got one of my favorite dreams/killings, in which Freddy turns into SuperFreddy in a great looking comic book-inspired setting (despite the fact that we have to see Freddy riding a skate board). Good things about this sequel The cute Baby Freddy puppet, the girl with the silly puffed up face make-up, a small but pivotal role is played by Burr DeBenning (Dr. Ted Nelson in The Incredible Melting Man).Bad things All of the characters and actors are incredibly bad and repellent (notably,  the unpleasant child actor playing the titular character and the would-be model's repulsive, Ronald McDonald-haired mother) with the exception of the always charming Lisa Wilcox, who is a much better actress than Heather Langenkamp. I'd say this is a fair Freddy movie- not as good as Dream Warriors or the original, but not as stinky as Freddy's Revenge or Freddy's Dead. "},{"Title":"an interesting premise brought down by average effects and direction","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this film actually had a ton of potential but unfortunately it is marred by some average effects and directing.there are some fantastic scenes though such as the nightmare sequence in which freddy is born, his appearance in the church, and the scene in the asylum that shows how his mother became impregnated by all the inmates.the special effects, especially the gore effects, are strictly average, with the exception being the comic book artist's demise. this is probably due to new line really cutting back the budget after the lukewarm box office of the 4th film.the story does keep this one above water though, and with more attention to the acting and a better director, it could have probably been one of the best in the series.rating6 (just barely) "},{"Title":"Stop Insulting it!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As the summery said, please stop insulting this movie!  It wasn't bad like Nightmare 6 (Please shoot the writer of that one!)  Now I will admit, this was not the best of the series.  I liked the first and the seventh for the best.  Nor was it close to the worst which was number six.The plot of Nightmare 5 was in my opinion very good.  The idea that Freddy, beaten down by Alice in Nightmare 4, can come back by being reborn through his mother and then use Alice's unborn baby's dreams to strike out at people is really an interesting concept.  However, like many of the Nightmare films, this one is badly hurt by poor lines, bad directing, and some mistakes in the ending.  But there are some wonderful things about this one. For one thing, it trys to return to the darkness of the first film and it attempts to further explore the only person who has managed to survive Krueger.  The film gives a partial happy ending to Alice.  Its not the best Nightmare.  But it was not a bad movie.In the end, I don't think anyone today is really going to accept a thought provoking Freddy or a really in depth movie.  People want the killer to be what they are used to.  I just hope that the people out there who actually want a new Nightmare with a really good script and a SCARY Freddy will get someone inside of New Line to knock some sense into them. "},{"Title":"Great story","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  On my other comment on this horror great, I wrote many negative things about it. But, now that I look at it, it's really a spectacular Freddy adventure. Very interesting. And, Freddy's trademarks are noticed. This is still my least favorite in the series, but I no longer find any fault in it.  "},{"Title":"Freddy Comes Back...Again","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's clear that the Nightmare filmmakers were running out of ideas when they got to #5.  The premise of an in utero baby dreaming Freddy back up is pretty good, but basically the entire movie has kind of a been there, done that feel.At least they brought back Alice (Lisa Wilcox).  Not only does she try her best to wade through this mess of a story, but her character is one of the few that the audience was made to care about in the entire series.Anyway, there's more teens to kill, and Freddy's always ready to step up to the plate.  Thankfully, they finished the series with the next sequel.  Unfortunately, this one looks like Shakespeare compared to Freddy's Dead. "},{"Title":"BAD","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was as bad as part 2, it takes off from part four where Alice is pregnant with Dan's baby and this time Freddy takes over the unborn baby's dreams and kills all of Alices friends again through the baby's dreams, the baby spends half the time dreaming and now Alice can see Freddy when she's awake, she tries to tell her friends and again her friends don't believe her until its too late. Alice meets up with a boy she keeps seeing and together they fight Freddy and she learns he's her son. "},{"Title":"To New Line","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Listen up New Line, I'm one of the biggest Freddy fans, and I just want to say this was almost a bad Freddy flick. Freddy's trademarks are'nt expressed that much at all. He kills in different ways. The FX is great, but those scenes are'nt like Freddy. I can understand New Line wanted to make a Freddy movie no matter what, but 5, should have went in the right direction. I believe there is also, not enough Freddy. I felt alienated by Nightmare 4, but it has great elaborate death scenes, and the photography and Freddy make-up, and direction in 4 are amazing. But Freddy 5 is the most alienating of the series and it's also very boring. With the exception of the awesome last moment, where Alice and company are showing they're amusement towards Alice's baby, and suddenly the 'ol Freddy-jump rope song comes. But New Line and other movie studios, have always given entertaining endings to they're horror films. With the exception of Friday The 13th Part VII, which has an alternate ending somewhere, and hopefully all of us horror fans will see it someday. As for the Freddy series, all of the endings are spectacular. I was just alienated by Freddy 5. I'm glad Freddy's Dead went in the right direction and it turned out to be the 3rd best Freddy yet. But Freddy 5 is still just alienating. "},{"Title":"bad","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What is it about the 5th installment of a movie series so awful(Halloween5 Star Trek5 The Howling5) Friday the 13th pt5 being the only exception? This movie starts out bad ends up worse. Like I said in the summary bad. "}{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I believe this movie to be one of the best. Ever since I was young I always loved Freddy. He was scary and he was the best. He was unlike any other horror movie. All the other one you can basically figure out from the start. But not any of the Nightmare on elm streets. They never should have killed him off. I think the movies should be brought back to theaters or at least sold in stores. Same with the music. Basically I believe Freddy was the all Time #1 movie ever. No other movie scares me as much as it did at one time.  "},{"Title":"Nine, ten, here we go again.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Englund didn't want to star in this film but had signed a two-film contract.  You can see why he was undoubtedly tired of the whole thing.Maybe that's a little unfair.  This outing returns the series to the darker, more sinister tone of the earlier films before the harmless carnival that was Part 4.  There are imaginative sets, a wonderfully other-worldly soundtrack, cracking special effects and Englund is at his best, though still wise-cracking.  The idea of Freddy being able to get at teenagers through the dreams of an unborn baby (originally suggested for Nightmare Part 2) is an interesting idea and there are some good characters.But overall, it's just an excuse for special effects, another chance to jump onto the money-making Freddy bandwagon and another nail in the series' coffin.  Style doesn't make up for lack of plot development.  The film is generally aimless and at times you're bored senseless.  The heroine, Alice, is nothing special character-wise.  I should like to think that no real spiders were harmed during that sickening tarantula-stomping scene which added nothing to the...uh, story...and merely reduced sympathy for the heroine.If you're a Freddy fan then no doubt you'll think this is the best thing since the wheel.  Most other people will become fed up very quickly. "},{"Title":"This movie is not bad!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What is up with all this hate for the fifth movie in the Nightmare series?? I really thought this was a good installment of the long running series. First off, the kills are a blast.  The first one on the motorcycle was pretty cool, the dinner scene was absolutely hilarious!  Anyone who doesn't laugh at Freddie saying bon appetit is really screwed up.  The first fifteen minutes were pretty scary too.  This movie has it, horror, comedy, and a good plot too.  Also, it has Freddie!  I have never seen a totally BAD Nightmare movie.  Krueger is one of the best horror legends of them all. The fifth Nightmare gets an 8/10.  Ranked down for bad acting.  Rated R for sex, nudity, violence, and language.  Would be suitable for teens.  Go watch it, no, watch all of the Nightmare movies! "},{"Title":"more of the same from part 4","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was barely ok. pretty much the same stuff as in part 4. this movie barely hung on before sinking. i give it ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"ok","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ever notice the odd Nightmares are the best? This is an alright try at making a horror movie. The deaths do need to be tweaked with though. "},{"Title":" OK, but the worst was yet to come.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well the one before the dreaded Freddy's Dead is sort of an improvement of Part 4. The film moves away from the action and comedy that ruined Part 4 and almost ruined the third film. This film tries to meld together Part 4 to the first three films and almost succeeds.Again Lisa Wilcox gives an OK performance as Alice but she and the rest of the cast look embarrassed all the way through the film. There are fewer special effects set pieces and the film works better for it. The tone of the film is much darker than Part 4 however the writers again forgot to make the film scary.There are fewer killings in this film which makes more of an impact when one of the characters is killed than the mindless slaughter of the fourth film.The thing that really lets the film down is the ending - it's just stupid and there is no real reason why the film should end like that.Unfortunately the film ends with a set up for another film which became one of the worst films ever made.  "},{"Title":"Why is everyone sayings it's so bad?","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand.  Why is everyone saying it's so bad?  I really liked this Nightmare movie and would not call it one of the worst.   Lisa Wilcox comes back and does an outstanding performance.  So everyone, quit ranking on it, it's not as bas as you say it is.  "},{"Title":"Dark but not scary...","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen (Predator 2, Lost In Space) Hopkins takes on this installment and adds some well needed creepiness after part 4's action-and-comedy-but-where's-the-horror turn.Shame he doesn't add a decent plot to go with it.As with part 4, there is none of the real blood and gore of the originals and Freddy plays for laughs rather than for scares. The film makes also the mistake of starting to tamper with the mythology set out in 1 and 3 and although the baby 'dreamstate' idea has potential it is wasted.Fortunately, unlike Star Trek's so called odd-number-curse, it seems Nightmare suffers from the dreaded even-number-curse as the worst is yet to come... "},{"Title":"NIGHTMARE 5","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child seems confused.  It doesn't know what to do.  Should it be dark like the first three or lighter like the fourth film?  The filmmakers' answer why don't we go both ways.  Needless to say, they failed miserably.  The story of a pregnant Alice trying to save her unborn baby from Freddy even sounds promising but there's no drama here.The film is too busy trying to be serious to have any funny moments.  When they do try the whole Freddy-says-something-funny thing, it just doesn't work.  The CLIMAX is even boringly unbearable.  I wish they would've used Lisa Wilcox a little more this time but her Alice character simply has nowhere to go after her transformation in the fourth film.  Sorry, guys, you should've screwed your heads on a little straighter before you filmed this thing!    "},{"Title":"The Mistakes of Pt. 4, multplied","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The subject line says it all.  What was bad about Part 4 is taken and enhanced even more in this, Part 5.  The F/X spotlight sequences are still interesting to watch (particularly the black-and-white comic book sequence).  However, the use of the kid is more offensive than suspenseful / horrifying, and basically the movie foregoes any character development for F/X and a gorefest.  Almost, but not quite the worst of the series.  "}{"Title":"Could have been worse, but not the best in the franchise","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child, another sequel was in the works, but instead of waiting a few years to release it, it was immediately fast-tracked and released a year earlier.The plot is really amazing. The plot picks shortly after the events of The Dream Master, this film involves Freddy using Alice's unborn child, Jacob, to resurrect himself and find new victims. The spirit of Amanda Krueger returns, revealing that Freddy was conceived when she, a nun working in a mental asylum, was accidentally locked in a room with 100 maniacs and raped thousands of times. Amanda Krueger convinces Jacob to use the powers he was given by Freddy against him, which gives her the chance to subdue Freddy long enough for Alice and Jacob to escape the dream world.The acting is both good and bad, but the only ones to mention is Robert Englund as Freddy Kreuger and Lisa Wilcox as Alice Johnson. The only performances kind of worth mentioning is Kelly Jo Minter as Yvonne, Erika Anderson as Greta and Danny Hassle as Dan. Also, the child who plays Jacob is Whitby Hertford is also kind of worth mentioning, but even then their performances is incredibly over the top.The dialogue is a little bit difficult to follow, but it is also easy to fully understand, but the editing can get a little awkward in a few areas. I also think the other thing kind of worth mention is the visual effects, which were impressive for 1989 and is still enjoyable today.The musical score by composer Jay Ferguson and he really does a great job with vocalization and it is really cool. The soundtrack is really cool and the rap / hip-hop songs are very awesome and amazing. The cinematography by Peter Levy is just cool and it has a Gothic feel to it, which some stuff being in the blue color scheme in a few scenes.The costume design and production designs are just spectacular and awesome in this face. The make-up effects for Freddy Krueger and it is really scary and intense as hell, but also really spectacular and very cool.My favorite nightmares are the comic book nightmare, the eating nightmare, the motorcycle nightmare and the swimming pool nightmares.Overall, with A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child, I both love it and hate it. It's not the best in the franchise, but it could have been worse and I do mean worse. My rating is 4.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Deserves more than 4.7/10","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Best of the series! This movie is genius! SuperFreddy scene was awesome! It was my favorite part. In my opinion, alice is kind of hot. Freddy is freakier than ever in this movie. But a flaw in this Nightmare is that robert englund didn't give his role much effort. It is easy to notice. Also, some of the other actors kind of weren't doing their best either. That is easy to notice, too. Dan's actor did all right. But you wont expect anything that you will get. This movie is so awesome!! It is my favorite sequel of the series! I'll say this much, it was way better than Freddys Dead. Nightmare on elm street 4 was just as great as this one, in my opinion. I didn't care much for nightmare on elm street 3 because nightmare 3 was really boring. This one was better than part 2 but part 2 is better than part 3. The wes cravens new nightmare was not good either. All that I have to say is that A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 was by far the best of the Nightmare series. "},{"Title":"too corny, even for the 80's","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Elm Street 5 aka The Dream Child will have you thinking what a corny 80's horror flick the whole time you're watching it. Yeha it's from the 80's, but the first couple of movies in the series were awesome and original horror films. By the 5th one it gets old and there's nothing left to make a movie about except a new batch of teens, more of Freddy's super corny punchlines (don't dream and drive!), and some sort of hare-brained plot about what Freddy's up to this time (hint still tormenting and killing people via the dreamworld).The one really cool thing about this movie, as with the other Elm Streets, is the haunted houses/ boiler rooms/ places of torture the kids enter when they dream. This is the whole basis of Elm Street that sets it apart from other horror movies, it really is like a nightmare, and even when you're thinking don't go in there!!! you still can't blame the kids for going because you know that's what you do in dreams and that's the kind of crazy places that appear in dreams.The rest of the movie is pretty dull and corny to a ridiculous extent. Like when Alice's fridge starts decomposing in front of her eyes, or Alice's friend who was obsessed with comic books becomes a comic himself and Freddy literally shreds him to pieces, or when Alice sees her own womb and the baby and it's all sci-fi flashing and flickering.. way too corny and not scary at all.In fact that pretty much sums up the problem with The Dream Child. Way too many corny effects in this movie and not nearly enough horror. Nothing interesting to see here other than more of the dark and haunted places Freddy cooks up in the kids' dreams. The little girls playing jump rope and chanting that one, two, Freddy's coming for you.. rhyme gets really old at this point because it's just a rehash of the older Elm Streets and has no place here. And how exactly did Alice and her friend free Amanda Kreguer? That was never made clear, but I guess it must've gotten a little rushed towards the end because they were already planning the next movie involving Freddy and a half-ass plot to bring him back.At this point I think they made the movie just because they could, NOT because they had the intent to make a good and worthwhile movie like they must have with the first installment of Elm Street because that is one cool, totally un-corny movie (and made earlier in the notoriously corny 80's I might add). Stick to the first two Elm Streets, even the third one's pretty good even though everything's already been figured out by this point (Freddy can't really be killed and will continue to kill people in the next movie). "},{"Title":"probably  not the best but it's still good","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" a nightmare on elm street 5 may not be the best sequel but it still has the best special effects out there so i give it a average a few scenes may be weak like the comic book one.i love the part when Alice goes into the haunted asylum scene was scary the last part was bad but still good average film people says this is the worst in the nightmare series but i still like it better than most sequels so i give it 4/10 who played Alice in this one is not the same actress who played her in the previous film.the special effects were pretty cool like the mark turning into comic book.so i have the DVD of this one.anybody should have the box set i would recommend the box set. "},{"Title":"Freddy never allows time for a pregnant pause.","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, what can be said about this instalment of the Elm Street franchise? I feel like I am damning it with faint praise by saying that it's not the best but not the worst either but that's really how I feel about it and I realise that I am being charitable because I am a Freddy fan and those who are not really into these movies should knock at least two points off my rating.Alice (Lisa Wilcox) is back for this movie and things get very strange for her when dreams start to influence her waking life. It's not long before she realises that a) she's pregnant and b) Freddy is using her unborn child to help him break back through to the world and cause havoc. As people start to die yet again it's up to Alice, with perhaps a little help from someone very close to her, to stop Freddy in his tracks.I guess that, given the way the series developed, Stephen Hopkins does a pretty good job in giving fans what they want. There are some ridiculous moments (the comic-book scene being a particular low point) but everything is made a little more palatable thanks to Freddy's sardonic sense of humour and playfulness. It also helps that, once again, there are plenty of good special effects on hand to please fans of Freddy's inventive killing methods.The cast are all either eminently disposable or, in the case of Wilcox and Whitby Hertford, very good with characters given a little more to do than the other potential victims. Then there's Robert Englund, who let's nothing detract from his seemingly never-ending ability to have a great time as the razor-fingered, scarred, comic killer.Fans of the gloved one will find some things to enjoy in this outing but it's definitely not quite as easy to derive the fun from the series as it once was.See this if you like Labyrinth, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master, Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare. "},{"Title":"A weak but not too bad entry!","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A year after the events of Dream Master, sexy Alice (Lisa Wilcox) with boyfriend Dan (Danny Hassle) have been dating and both have graduated from High School. However Dan did impregnate Alice as she is expecting a child, but later on Dan dies in a horrible accident and Alice has been dreaming lately for she accidentally unleashes Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) back. Now he has plans to use her unborn child to collect the souls of other kids in Elm Street, she must save her friends (Joe Seely, Erika Anderson, and Kelly Jo Minter) from danger including her child before it's too late.One of the worst entries of the series besides part 2! but it's not half-bad. There is some good surrealism with Gothic atmosphere but the plot of the film feels like a redux of Rosemary's Baby only with Freddy Krueger involved, there is some good imaginative kills like the comic book geek's death and Dan suffering badly on a motorcycle being emerged with it. The film does offer a bit more on Freddy's birth including his mother Amanda Krueger which is kind of interesting on the birth of an abomination to god and mankind known as the evil that stalks dreams or the bastard son of a hundred maniacs. Doesn't have any of the sheer brilliance of part 1 or 3 nor any fun like part 4, it's still a mediocre sequel. "},{"Title":"Considered the worst of the series--but I like it","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Alice (Lisa Wilcox surviving from Part 4) is graduating from high school along with hunky boyfriend Dan (Danny Hassle) and various friends. She believes Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) is dead but she's still having nightmares about him. It seems Freddy isn't dead and is going after her and her friends. She also discovers she's pregnant and keeps seeing this creepy little kid in her dreams...Considered by many to be the worst of the series but I liked it when it came out and I STILL like it almost 20 years later. The teens this time around aren't annoying and the film actually has a linear plot (some of the Nightmare films don't make much sense). Also the special effects are incredible and the killings are inventive. Try to see the unrated version--the murders are cut down severely in the R rated one. Hassle's death and Erika Anderson's (Greta) are really strong. Acting is good across the board. Wilcox is easily one of the best heroines of any horror movie and hunky Hassle is very good as her boyfriend (too bad he left acting back in 1990). Englund is hardly in the movie as Freddy (a wise move) but he's excellent when he is. Also the film is scary--I can't say that about many horror movies. The last shot of Amanda Krueger has never left me. So, all in all, a good strong sequel in the Nightmare series. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Underrated film, Underrated franchise...","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is very underrated by many people, including fans of the franchise. But to me is one of the bravest and most mature Freddy movies, it is darker than its predecessor, and it deals with many social issues that are still very much relevant in this day such as, abortion, teen pregnancy, bulimia, failed family relationships, etc. I think Freddy is just a metaphor in this movie, representing that thing inside of us that wants to destroy us in those hard times, especially being teenagers. The writers did an excellent job and all these things don't feel forced at all.Lisa Wilcox is once again excellent as the title character, after the great character development on the previous movie, the character remains stronger than ever, not only dealing with a fantasy monster but with what could be real life problems for anyone, and it's a shame that she hasn't been brought back for closure, especially considering Lisa Wilcox has expressed interest in coming back as Alice for a new movie. Sadly, with the remake of the original, which is a total wasted opportunity and the murder of an entire franchise, that won't happen... The special effects are much better than in Part 4, and it continues exploring Freddy's origins that were revealed in Part 3.This whole franchise, not counting Freddy Vs Jason (wich was just... bad) is very underrated, it managed to remain fresh in its hidden themes, every Nightmare film has layers and it's sad that some people cannot see this. It is not just a bunch of teenagers getting killed, like in other franchises, and for the people paying attention, the Freddy resurrections are well explained and do have a point in the storyline.Sure, some of the sequels aren't scary, but they bring more to the table than a bunch of teenagers you won't even remember their names afterwards getting killed every 5 minutes... but to each their own. "},{"Title":"A illustrated example of blatant commercialism at it's worst.","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 Dream Child (1989) Director Stephen Hopkins (Predator 2)**out of****ReviewDream Child, the next Freddy adventure, wants to perfectly illustrate commercialism and do it without any contempt for its audience. The previous movie Had sealed Freddy's fame and this movie more or less wants to suck the money from you and hopes its faults will be forgiven. Not so. The movie easily can be spotted as having potential. Stephen Hopkins is aboard this time around and as Robert Englund once stated, what made him continue with the series was the directors and their creative juices flowing. The same can be said for me (at least up until this point). The movie looks quite Gothic and polished; the audio once again delivers, the lighting and SFX look stunning, and the angles are kinetic. The film also has the respect of continuing off of 4 and returning the Dream Master, Alice. Thanks for the small favors. The mythology (which is given the once over) has potential as well, and still somewhat makes sense if you think about it. It seems Freddy lost all of his souls and was powerless, but is reborn in a dream and instead of using Alice, he's using her unborn fetus (?!) as the new bearer of souls for Freddy. The movie could have been done quite well, but the movie has only one interest, to make money. The production was given 6 weeks of shooting, and 6 weeks of editing, the script was the least of anyone's concerns as constant rewrites were done, but as long as there was deaths and SFX, hopefully it won't show. Despite our heroine returning, the movie adds a bad contrivance that Alice has made a batch of new friends that aren't even half as endearing as the ones in 3-4. The movie knows the characters fates and sleepwalks them to their destinies without a seconds thought. So much for suspense. The death toll is three this time around though, and besides the motor bike death (one kick ass scene), the creative flow was on a low burner. The comic book world was abysmally lame, and the model overeating scene was cut short. So what are we paying to see exactly?Freddy is another awful disservice, his demeanor is to uneven, he wants to be the jokester but the script gives him the worst lines of the movie. Once again he was more tolerable in 3-4, if he's not scary (like 1), mean (like 3) or funny (like 4), then what do we have? A curiosity I'm afraid. The score by Jay Ferguson was to overbearing as well, at times when it was low key and dreamy it worked, but then it got to loud and theatrical, it didn't support then images to well. Where's Angelo (from 3) when you need him?The movie also has a mess of an ending where you can see the rewrites quite clearly, No momentum, and it seems like no one had any ideas left by that point in the movie. I'm sorry, but tarantulas and spiked baby carriages aren't my idea of conflict of good and evil. The ending also confirmed my suspicions that the movie had no desire to be original, and recycled in a cheap way the ending of 4. Freddy's death was all ready done like that in 4, and quite better. We then cut to credits and have to endure one lame rap song, which just seals the fate of the movie for meIf it wasn't for Stephen Hopkins and Alice, the movie is just a big mess of a painting, with no thought to texture, idea, feelings, purpose, or respect. It's by the numbers film making, and certainly is pivotal low for the series. I still watch it here and there, but for me the party ended with 4. The movie shouldn't have been rushed, it's that simple. I certainly want to like any horror sequel, as I'm a big fan, but when the intent on the filmmaker's part is to simply take your money it unfortunately rubs off on me, making the obvious contrivances more insulting and the resolution of a horror icon a tedious joke. Robert Shaye said the reason they make the movies one after another is for the fans. So Why the hackneyed production wasting good talents and losing the fan base? If I have to answer that question once again in my review, you deserve this as well as Freddy's dead. "},{"Title":"I wish I was blind, deaf, and dumb. It would be better than seeing this.","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What happened? Those were the first words to come to mind after this awful movie finished for the first and last time on my computer screen. Nightmare on Elm St. had gone noticeably downhill after it's cult-classic of a first film, but I doubt anybody expected this horrible aberration. Nobody expected this cosmic joke of a film, and nobody is more distraught about it than I am.This is by far the worst ANOES film of the lot. It doesn't seem too bad at the beginning, with a genuinely creepy intro and a rather elongated shower scene featuring Alice. But then we hit rock bottom right at the beginning with bad acting and a jumbled sequence of events. I mean, sure, Freddy movies are supposed to be dreamlike and creepy, but this one is like a train-wreck in it's poor sequencing of events and awful plot setup. It feels like you're coming down with a terrible headache, not like you're getting scared. So the directing totally fails. None of the suspense and well crafted horror from previous sequels is found here, and even the death scenes are mostly just crass and moronic (the death by food especially), except for that one cool scene that's crafted like a comic book battle. That's why this movie gets a point.The storyline...lame, lame, lame, LAME. It was an excuse to gross people out and to make the MPAA mad, and nothing more.The acting...should I mention how Freddy has been turned into a childish boogey-man-like clown figure? How his rebirth scene made him look like a monster out of a 7 year old's horror book instead of the foreboding and nightmarish dream killer we've all known and loathed since the first film? That arm waving and stupid chuckling as he appeared again...ugh. And his one liners, too. Throughout the whole movie, they suck. Badly. A grade-schooler could come up with funnier stuff then the vomit Freddy spews throughout the 90 minute duration of the film. Hell, a chimpanzee could come up with much funnier lines than what Freddy's been told to say here. Who wrote the script for this? This movie is really irritating, too. It seems so pointless. Like a gnat buzzing around your head, a gnat that just WON'T go away. Freddy is just an annoyance now. We've seen him so many times before. This one's nothing different, and a lot of the time you just want him to take his awful one-liners and get off your TV screen. Alice, instead of the thoughtful and quiet girl from the last movie, seems annoying and very shallow, and this is obviously due to the horrible, horrible script this movie was fitted with. Lisa Wilcox may be a great actor, and sometimes it shines through the cracks here, but she can't save this movie. The other actors just suck, mostly.The last 15 or 20 minutes of Freddy's existence in this film are awful and embarrassing. I hope Englund was ashamed of this. Who wants to see Freddy running around like a mutated gorilla with his limbs stretched out, laughing like a cartoon villain? This movie destroyed anything positive I felt for the Nightmare series. I can't ever watch them again without this image running through my head; of the mangled cartoon abomination that Krueger became. He was slowly becoming a jokey, retarded pop culture icon, but this is the lowest of the low. This is rock bottom. Nobody will ever take Freddy Krueger seriously again after seeing this film. He's naught but a joke, a clown that is long overdue for retirement. Pathetic.Of all the movies I could hate, why did it have to be Nightmare on Elm St, a series which I once adored and liked a lot? The Dream Child represents the death of a legend, and the shattering of any hope I had in the Nightmare on Elm St. series. Freddy would go on to continue his downward spiral into clown status in the next installment, Freddy's Dead (which was more entertaining than this was, actually), and then he would go on to bring down the mood in Freddy VS Jason, and finally he would putter out into nothing, which is for the best.I know this has mostly been a rant about why Freddy sucks now, but this movie is overall, horrible, and one of the worst movies ever made. Not recommended to anyone, and even ANOES completionists won't want to see this one again. "}{"Title":"An insult to Wes Craven","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part five of the Nightmare series starts quite well, with a creepy dream sequence where Alice takes a shower that fills with brown water than she appears in the asylum.Afterwards it turns really stupid, managing to be both extremely boring and have some of the most inane dream death sequences; one seems to be killed by a talking motorbike(?!?!), another is 'fed to death' and worst of all, in a sub a-ha comic bit, someone is torn by a 'super Freddy'..... words fails me.The acting ranges from OK (Lisa Wilcox as Alice and Kelly Jo Minter as Yvonne) to the diabolical(whoever plays Mark, Greta and her ludicrous mother). Even Robert Englund seems to have given up trying to be scary and instead shouts his one-liners without any of the campy nastiness of parts 3 and 4.The fx, while probably OK at the time, have dated badly and the best of them, with all the staircases at the end, was done much better in Labyrinth.Worst of all though; it is just sooo boring!! I spent the whole film waiting for it to end. Director Stephen Hopkins has none Renny Harlins flair that made the similarly silly part4 such a guilty please.I am big fan of this series after Wes Cravens original and clever part 7, and enjoyed the much disliked part 2, the comedy ones 3 & 4 and even the bizarre Freddys dead and Freddy v Jason but i really could not bear to watch this again.By far the worst of the series. "},{"Title":"A Freddy Film As Art??","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Director Stephen Hopkins tried to inject an artsy flavor into this fifth installment of the long-running series. Despite his good intentions, the end result is a mess.The convoluted plot has something to do with everybody's favorite hideous dream stalker, the evil Freddy Krueger, hatching a plan to be born again in the real world. Hence he haunts the dreams of the unborn child of Alice Johnson, a survivor from the previous film. Of course those standing in Mr. Krueger's way must be ceremoniously (and creatively) killed off before he can achieve his villainous objective.The admittedly interesting premise of A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET THE DREAM CHILD is wasted by Hopkins' Gothic attempts to reinvent the wheel. He seemed completely oblivious to fans who by this point expected a certain formula. The different feel of the film doesn't work, as we're never quite sure what this is supposed to be. By the end, many viewers won't care to try and figure it out.Still, it's not a total loss. Some of the dream sequences, including one involving a runaway motorcycle and another in a comic book world, are entertaining. Hopkins' imagery and sets convey the darkness of Freddy unlike any other entry. And the acting is actually pretty good, with Robert Englund as Freddy (of course) and Lisa Wilcox as the tormented Alice being the highlights.All things considered, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET THE DREAM CHILD has to be considered one of the worst in the series. That sentiment was reflected in its box office take nearly 20 years ago and in comments from fans today. The selection of Hopkins to direct may have been an even bigger gaffe than Sofia Coppola's casting in THE GODFATHER PART III! "},{"Title":"One of the worst in the series","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit that I didn't like Freddy and ANOES series 2 years ago, but I gave them a chance again and I loved them. And part of that story involves ANOES 5The Dream Child. I mean when I first watched all of the ANOES movies, I was impressed by a few and Dream Child was one of them. But I gave them a chance 2 months ago and I realized it's stupid installment compared to the original, New Nightmare and the highly underrated sequel Freddy's Revenge. I think the movie is bad, cause of no particular reasons. It's just that something is missing. The characters are kinda boring, the death become more and more laughable and that is where the scary part dies. The entertaining factor is also dead after the drama that the creators try to recreate with the murder of the main heroine's boyfriend. The Jacob boy was also annoying and needless since the movie has almost nothing to do with Fredd's origins with the exception of his mother. Inclosing, there is not much to say about that installment. It's one of the worst after Dream Master. Of course it's a part of one of the most famous horror series ever made and any self respecting horror fan should watch it and decided whether it's a decent sequel or not. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In A Nightmare On Elm Street The Dream Child, the fifth chapter in the series, Alice and Dan are still alive, still a couple, and doing quite well. They have both just graduated from high school, and are planning a big trip to celebrate. But terror strikes, when Freddy Kruger is resurrected, and now not only is he haunting Alice's dreams, but he has found a way to attack her while she is awake as well. Now she has to figure out how he is doing it, and how to stop him before he kills her and her friends.I had several problems with this movie. The first problem is the acting. (A problem that the 4th one also had) Lisa Wilcox and Danny Hassle flat-out can not act. They plagued the 4th Nightmare movie with their horrible acting skills, and now they are back to plague this one as well. Even Robert Englund who was GREAT in all of the rest of the Nightmare movies gave a weak portrayal of Freddy Kruger. Another flaw that Nightmare 5 has is the atmosphere. They tried to re-create the creepy nightmarish quality that the first four movies had, but they failed miserably. Also, the Nightmare On Elm Street films are notorious for having some of the stupidest endings, but this one has by far the worst ending in the entire series.The movie isn't all together bad though. The special f/x are good, nothing extremely special but they are well done, very few of the scenes are scary, but there are a couple of good scares here and there. Some of the scenes are pretty funny. In the long run, it is a fun movie to sit back and watch, but don't expect much. "},{"Title":"The weirdest Nightmare movie","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The 5th movie of the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise is arguably the weirdest part ever. There are so many things in the movie that make it hard to watch, yet at the same time it is still fairly watchable.The movie continues after the 4th part with Alice & Dan engaged. Alice finds out later that she is expecting a child and she starts having dreams about Freddy Krueger (again). But she doesn't know why she is having the dreams, especially after she defeated Freddy in part 4. Then much later on, she discovers that her unborn baby inside of her has caused Freddy to be resurrected again, and with the help of her friends must stop Freddy from making her baby evil.From beginning to end, the film shows strangeness. In the beginning, their is a weird close-up sex scene (but nothing explicit is shown) illuminated with blue lighting and dark background music. Freddy's dream powers are still awesome but are very weird (such as him changing into a motorcycle, overfilling a girl's mouth with food, transferring dead souls to Alice's unborn son via her womb, and a gross scene featuring Freddy growing out of Alice's face and body). There are lots of special effects, but I think they were way over-the-top.However, unlike with Part 2 of the Nightmare movies, there are some things in the film that I like. The comic book geek's part 4-styled dream was the most fun, and it showcased one of Freddy's greatest superpowers (he transforms to an indestructible Super Freddy!). The boy who played Alice's son Jacob was creepy-looking and acted pretty good; at least he wasn't like those other bratty kid actors in certain immature horror films. Lisa Wilcox was okay as her character Alice, and after the birth of her character's child at the end, she says a cute addictive line Sweet dreams, Jacob Daniel. Finally, the background imagery in the movie is very dark and Gothic, which is a real treat for fans of Gothic horror movies.To sum up, A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child is one of the weakest sequels of the franchise, but it has some good points that make it worth watching at least once. It's much better than Part 2 of the series, and much more imaginative.I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as Part 4 (CONTAINS SPOILERS)","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie to me was actually very enjoyable. It did have some cheesy effects, and bad acting (but which horror film doesn't). But a big flaw to me was killing off Danny Hassle (Dan Jordan). Him and Alice were a good team, and his character shouldn't have died. But it did a good job for not having a lot of violence and very little gore. And you feel sorry when some of the characters get killed. But it lacks in some imagination which made A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 a good movie. Better than Nightmare on Elm Street 2, 6,, New Nightmare and Freddy vs. Jason.A must own for Freddy fans (and even horror fans). I would definitely buy it. "},{"Title":"Faster than a bastard maniac. More powerful than a loco - madman. Its...Super Freddy!","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This 'Elm Street' Sequel is one of the best Freddy Kreuger films made. What makes this film unique compared to the the other films is the originality and surprise this film had to offer in the way of storyline compared with the other movies. What I mean by surprise is how this film explained Freddy Kruegers origins before he died. This included his family, upbringing and why he became evil. This is something that wasn't fully explained in the other sequels. The fact that Freddy had a daughter and why he was a child murderer was never mentioned/ explained in any of the previous Freddy films, until they explained it all in this sequel. Most 'Elm Street' viewers have probably assumed that he was evil, solely because of his knowledge and/or paternal genetics, on how he was conceived when his mother (Sister Mary Helena) was raped by 100 maniacs. Yes, this was the root of why he was evil, but the reason why he killed children is because he was brutally bullied as a child by his classmates for being different from the other children and for being conceived in such a horrible way. I also thought this films plot was quite good, on how Freddy possessed Alices'unborn baby Jacob, as Whit Hertford (six year old Jacob) did a fantastic acting performance playing a Freddy possessed child, for he was so evil and remorse, the way Freddy possessed him. What also makes this film different is the extra sense of grimness/humour and fantastic special effects (combined in one) compared to the other films.(Special Effects/ie.The way Freddys daughter killed him in the end etc..) As each 'Elm Street' sequel is filmed, Freddy Kreuger becomes more and more funny as the story goes on! The way Freddy killed Dan on his motorcycle, by taking full control over his bike and by turning Dan into a metal-faced freak with Freddys face on his speedometer yelling 'This boy feels the need for speed and /Power Drive - Fast lane' I found absolutely hilarious.One scene I that didn't make sense was how Freddy was born a freakish monster. I don't understand that scene because Freddy was a normal looking man before he died with a job, wife and daughter, as portrayed in the film. Anyway, if you wanna watch a good horror film, watch 'The Dream Child' Part 5, for it is the most unique 'Elm Street' sequel made. "},{"Title":"IT'S GETTING WORSE!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's getting worse, the series is on a serious down fall. The first two sequel were acceptable and from then on we have seen a buch of really, really terrible movies. Robert Englund gives another great performance as Freddy but the rest of the cast can't act.  The story is Alice, having survived the previous installment of the Nightmare series, finds the deadly dreams of Freddy Krueger starting once again. This time, the taunting murderer is striking through the sleeping mind of Alice's unborn child. His intention is to be born again into the real world. The only one who can stop Freddy is his dead mother, but can Alice free her spirit in time to save her own son?  Check out the first three, miss the next three then watch the last one. "},{"Title":"Milk the Freddy cow! Milk it to last drop! Oh, it's already empty?","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Come on. The new twist is nearly ok, but from avenging the Elm Street children Freddy is just killing people now. More of the same Special effects with no actual character development or anything. Simply bad and insulting. SCARY..? Nope. Not at all. Just bad. "},{"Title":"Alice gets Pregnat and Freddy is using her unborn baby's Dream to bring him his victims","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK Lets start Alice Johnson is back in A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 this time She has new Friends. Her and her boyfriend Dan from part 4 are doing well until Alice is on her way to work When she goes to a Asylum where Amanda Kruger(Freddy's Mom)was raped and gave birth to Freddy so Alice Enter the Church where she last battle Kruger. So baby Freddy enters the Clothes and Freddy is Reborn. Dan dies on the way to Alice's job because Freddy's back. Alice finds out that She's Pregnant and Freddy is killing people why she is awake and she don't know how he's doing it. News Flash Freddy is using Alice's Unborn baby to bring him his victims instead of using Alice like he did in part 4. Her friends think she's crazy and going nuts. Alice has to try to save her baby from Freddy before it gets out of hand. "}{"Title":"The weakest of all the Nightmare films.","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 5 THE DREAM CHILD just wasn't scary at all, heck it wasn't even funny, something else the last instalment had going for it, with Freddy's bad puns & jokes. The body count also disappoints, since it's quiet low in the kills department (Three) with few teens dying & odder still, Freddy never once uses his glove to kill anyone! & what's even sadder, the kills were more silly than scary or inventive, for instance, a teen is turned into a comic strip & shredded to pieces by Freddy, another teen is fed her guts until she chokes, while another is morphed into some H.R. GEIGER like creature after he is brutally made one with the motor bike he is riding! No doubt the kills looked & sounded clever on paper, but they are poorly executed here & are all outdated & not even up to series par. I mean come on, whose idea was it to have a Super Freddy with a cape, turning a kid to paper & slashing him to pieces? What kind of drugs were the writers on? & the films story is not very good either, failing to draw the viewer in. The explanation for Freddy's return is not as silly as it was in IV, (no flaming dog urine here!) thankfully but still made very little sense. What's notable here is how Newline returned to the darker look of the first three, abandoning the flashy colourful look of the fourth, while at the same time, keeping the comedic Freddy of that film, but the clash of both the comedic Freddy & the darker, harder edge tones of the first three, don't mesh well at all. I did like the theme of Freddy being able to resurrect himself, via Alice's unborn child's nightmares & feeding it the souls of the victims he kills, while he slowly, but surely turns the child into something like himself. The film also showed many signs of last minute tampering to reduce gore & please the MPAA, but this results in an even blander film. I think one of the main problems I had with the plot is how Amanda Kruger, according to newspaper clippings, hung herself but her body was never found & how her soul is trapped within the asylum & that a head stone was made for her & placed in a cemetery, with no casket under the ground. This alone creates all kind of contradictions to the third film, which saw Amanda roaming about the grounds of the hospital & cemetery, so how could her spirit be trapped in the asylum? & how do the papers know she hung herself, if her body was never found? Where was she In part 4? Another thing that bugged me was how Alice's best friend Yvonne, was able to find Amanda's body via a staircase leading up to a sealed off room (like none of this would have looked suspicious to anyone working there at the time, or the authorities) its an extremely disappointing moment in the film & goes to show how much thought was put into the script. Also Amanda, was a much older woman in III, here she's a woman in her mid twenties/early thirties & the small closed down wing of the hospital she was raped in many years ago (Seen in III) is now a huge, Gothic like structure of an abandon hospital! despite a somewhat intriguing idea for a plot, the film is poorly handled, with it's execution on screen coming off as laughable in parts. Alice's son Jacob also has quiet the vocabulary for a ten year old boy who is yet to be born & be around adults. But perhaps the most glaring plot contradiction of all, is how Freddy is shown here in a flashback as a baby, just recently born through Amanda in the hospital, but he's a monster! how is this possible since Freddy was born a normal looking kid, that grew up to be a child murderer that got torched to death by the parents of Springwood? I should note that this sequence was actually taken from an early unused draft of NIGHTMARE III. I also could also spot some three or four different editing mistakes throughout the film. It seems that in a rush to get this out, the film-makers never bothered to take care of any of these continuity errors. Freddy is hardly anything you would call scary here & his bad puns are just ridiculous & juvenile. As is the films many sequences, such as Kruger pursuing one teen on a skateboard! Now I will give the film some props, the characterization of the teens is better here than it was in previous instalments & the production design is well handled & Gothic looking, especially the Elm street home & the closed down asylum. The direction by STEPHEN HOPKINS is pretty decent for the most part & the acting is pretty passive (mainly a few of the leads), while others border on poor. The stop motion animation done during a refrigerator sequence is well handled & neat. The visual effects are really good. In the end, Freddy's biggest fans will find much to love, but others need not bother. In fact ROBERT ENGLUND'S engaging performance as Freddy is really the only thing keeping this film from completely sinking (he also plays one of the lunatics in the flashback sequence at the beginning as well). Great score by JAY FERGUESON. Followed by FREDDY'S DEAD THE FINAL NIGHTMARE ** stars "},{"Title":"this rocks","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I know a lot of people didn't like this film but I thoroughly enjoyed it. Freddy shows he ain't scared of anything or anybody. The dreams were really cool, especially the comic book one.  That guy really thought he could shoot Freddy to death? That guy got his ass kicked.  The posh girls dream at the dinner table was pretty disgusting - but still cool!  I didn't understand some of it but who cares. "},{"Title":"Average Sequel","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is just an average sequel. Nothing bad, but nothing shockingly good. I would recommend it to Horror fans who want to get a feel of this series. The Black Humor actually works this time (unlike Part 4). A really good installment in the Freddy movies is Part II.7 out of 10Fans of horror movies like this should Check out Puppet Master, Skinned Alive, Sleep Away Camp, Slumber Party Massacre, and other Full Moon Pictures flicks. For other recommendations, check out the other comments I have sent in by clicking on my name above this comment section. "},{"Title":"Why don't all of you stop saying this movie is bad","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great it wasn't my favorite but I really liked it. you people do not know what you are talking about.  Alice returns to kick more Freddy butt and there are some really cool death scenes.  Like the motorcycle, the bonnappetite @#$^&, and the comic book.  Those were all great death scenes. if you were a true horror fan like me you would agree. "},{"Title":"Routine, by-the-numbers, business as usual","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When you look back at another bad Nightmare sequel like Freddy's Revenge, you have to at least give it some credit for trying something new. And although The Dream Child is more enjoyable it offers absolutely nothing new to the series. Yes, there's the creative deaths as usual, like a kid becoming part of a comic book and facing Super Freddy but even scenes like that aren't used to their full potential and the parts without Freddy are just boring.This marked the official death of scariness to the series. Freddy seems to be the comedic relief now...but to what?My Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"Goodbye Freddy...thanks for the scares...now so far away.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream ChildThis is a bad movie. There's no escaping it. I love the series and I think Freddy is probably the best character ever in horror movies. But even being a fan I can't help but see this movie is mediocre.There's not even an effort to build an interesting story and strong characters. By now they had just given up. They don't even try. They are the production of course, hoping for a few more easy dollars.The story doesn't grab your attention. Its so simple it's almost absent.Alice, a survivor from part 4 is now pregnant. Freddy is coming back through the baby's dreams. At the beginning we learn that to stop him Alice must find his mother. And that's it.  The story advances slowly since there's so little plot meaning it turns pretty boring after a few minutes of bad dialogues and awful acting. In fact that's the only scary thing, the acting, since the deaths are not even slightly cool. The characters are so uninteresting we couldn't care less for them.The girls are as unattractive as possible. The whole cast reminded me of a bad amateur theatre group. I've seen better actors in school plays. It's embarrassing really.Lisa Wilcox still manages to bring some class to this. She is beautiful, sexy and has some talent. But the material just didn't let her shine. What a pity.Stephen Hopkins work is nowhere close to Renny Harlin´s brilliant direction in Dream Master. He tries some imaginative shots near the end but that tension Harlin and Craven created so well in the previous movies is no where to be found.The Dream Child is just another unimaginative sequel. It's the kind of movie that give horror series a bad name. The end for the once scary Freddy. It's too sad to see him now. A clown that's not funny. A bad joke. Goodbye Freddy.  "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 Dream Child","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The nightmares continue in Dream Child when Alice is pregnant with a baby that Freddy can enter dreams through. It's interesting concept to continue with Alice's storyline but this premise was the only part of the storyline with any merit. The introduction of Amanda and the psyche ward was foolish and didn't flow at all with this film or previous Elm Street facts. Some of the characters were well done, Alice is still a little rough on the edges but I the cast around her did a good job. Freddy's character was a little lackluster in this one too. I'm not much of A Nightmare on Elm Street fan this deep into the franchise, there just isn't anything new to offer in these films. "},{"Title":"Worst Film Yet","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While the fourth film started a decline in the quality of the films, this one is so poor I can't believe it actually exists. The acting is some of the worse in the series, the characters are all boring, the deaths and dreams are inventive but the grimy look of the dreams is getting pretty droll. The plot is that Alice is pregnant and Freddy is attempting to take over the child so Alice must battle the monstrous villain with some help from his mother.It's an awfully broken movie in every way. Not even Robert Englund can save the film, most of his lines are pretty bad. The ending is bad, maybe even worse than the fourth films, and the entire film is an otherwise pointless, useless waste of time.The first three movies in the series showcased a lot of potential but the series is falling apart the more characters that are introduced and the more trying the plots get. "},{"Title":"Why Nightmare 5 Blows","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is simply the worst movie I have ever seen. Some Spoilers ahead you have been warned. Here's why Nightmare 5 sucks The characters were boring and unlikeable, the plot was stupid, Freddy wasn't funny at all it took me 5 sittings to finish this movie it was so boring that there's only one scene I thought was tolerable was the comic book death but even then that scene was just tolerable and as I said before Freddy is suppose to be funny he's not funny at all nightmare on elm street was unique because you had a funny scary serial killer who was going to kill you if you fell asleep but here the kills were boring, not funny and unoriginal. This Movie Blows its the worst I have ever seen don't watch it. Unforutnaly I cant give this a movie a 0 so ill go as low as possible. The Thought of taking a crap on this movie is like putting Rocky in a golden case (Rocky's the best movie ever made). "},{"Title":"It is what it is, but that's not much","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film starts off on two bodies in blue light. Alice, her father, and Dan are back. Alice is suffering from nightmares of a nun, Freddy's mother. Alice begins experiencing nightmares and is pregnant. Her nightmares center on Amanda Krueger (Freddy's mom) and seem to have something to do with Freddy and her fetus. She learns that a fetus can dream and somehow, perhaps through her fetus, she and others are being drawn into the dream world where they (Dan, Greta, and Mark, but not Yvonne) are all murdered. Through a series of battles involving Amanda & Jacob (the fetus), Alice is able to defeat Freddy and have her baby. I can't say as I understood this movie at all. It's clearly a production of what's considered to be a Freddy formula. Get the survivors, a small group of friends and have Freddy murder them as they try to convince each other of the existence of Freddy through revelations of dreams and a real world investigation that involves research through newspapers etc. That having been said, it's not bad for what it is.It had some decent special effects that I find hold up just fine. I also liked that they actually at least tried with continuity by having the same actors back and developing Alice's dad a little. They also hit on some issues like teen pregnancy and abortion, albeit only slightly. It's a stomachable installment, but undoubtedly only for a horror/Freddy fan. I wouldn't watch it, but if it were on TV it may be worth 5 minutes. "}{"Title":"Good-looking dreck","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Thanks to Stephen Hopkins and his regular DP Peter Levy, this is at least the best looking entry in the series, but in every other regard - narrative sense, interesting events, genuine scares - it upholds the tradition of the series by having none of those things.Lisa Wilcox returns from part 4 and again clashes with Freddy (Robert 'pension fund' Englund), who is trying to use the dreams of her unborn child to pop back into the real world. It's a good idea, so of course very little is done with it Freddy attacks Wilcox's friends with a barrage of rubbery effects and unfunny one-liners, while she finds that, as usual, nobody believes her story. The dream sequences throw up random images and events, which certainly captures the surreality of dream logic but doesn't make for a coherent film. Most of the acting is poor, the effects are unconvincing and it is all, of course, familiar stuff. "},{"Title":"Attractive yet forgettable sequel","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Alice, after watching Freddy Krueger's return must protect her unborn child and save her University friends who at first are reluctant to believe in her boogeyman.With an opening that mixes pigeonholed horror that the original steered away from with glimpses of the edginess that made the first so interesting A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child (Part 5, the first to have the number in the title dropped) is an attractive looking yet forgettable sequel.Danny Hassle (Danny) and Lisa Wilcox (Alice) return also her father features briefly in more soberer guise. Moving along possibly with the age of it viewers, here to a University setting The Dream Child has more of a mature sub text. Leslie Bohem's screenplay touches on the topical issues of anorexia, abortion, adoption and rape. However, we are introduced to yet another cast of stereotype character including a comic book kid, sporty girl and pretty girl.Director Stephen Hopkins gives some well directed jump scares from the outset. Hopkins with cinematographer Peter Levy delivers a natural less stylised look in contrast to Harlin's vivid schemes. The odd macabre births, churches and sanatoriums with some modest practical and visual effects give way to Freddy's tension built return.Here Alice's 'vision powers' allow the nightmare elements to happen at anytime braking the having to be a sleep rule. Although the tantalising element exploring how Freddy was conceived is strong - John Skipp, Craig Spector and Leslie Bohem's story languishes in muddle of wonderfully shot larger than life theatrical scenes.In amongst the hooky concepts the 'Do unborn babies dream?' elements add some interest but turns in to an unsatisfying demon seed curve ball twist. The action orientated Twilight Zone meets Creep Show-like deaths are mere set pieces for rubbery looking Freddy to spurting out a few quips and it needlessly tries too hard. For example, the high concept Salvador Dali inspired staircase scene in the closing was better executed in the earlier family film The Labyrinth (1986).To Hopkins credit the film for the most part looks great, with the sound design and Jay Ferguson's score just right. Nevertheless, with a symbolic closing and a 'happy ending' followed by some rapping over the credits you really appreciate how good Harlin's predecessor actually was. "},{"Title":"NMOES5 - Freddies sickening jokes","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Those who have stayed with the series from film number one will no doubt watch this film in a state of perpetual confusion - is it meant to be a horror or a comedy? Those who are viewing one of the NMOES films for the first time will probably turn it off within the first Thirty minutes in disgust. Freddy has never grabbed you with his fear so why should you bother watching him any longer when he comes across as a scalded TV game show host who can't resist cracking jokes after every response or squirm from his victims?Freddy attempting to perfect his comedy routine is no surprise. It began insidiously in NMOES3 and more so in number four. But even the victim's deaths play out in slapstick fashion. Freddy has simple lost his marbles and not in the maniac sense. Some positives that can be said about the film is the storyline. Intriguing to say the least and spooky. But just like with Freddy, the acting becomes humorous rather than effective with every made movie. I can nip-pick on many things but meh. I don't know why but the relationship between Alice and her recovering father is nice. God knows, because the father was a totally bastard before and he's very rarely seen in this. Speaks volume perhaps about the quality of the film as a whole.Overall, If you've never watched any of the NMOES films before, i suggest you watch the original and if liked, move on to the next two which will provide you with a concrete platform in which you can make a solid judgement on whether to take the leap into the awful-but-loved world of sequels where this film hides. If you've watched the others, then you might as well make the effort in bearing Freddy's awful jokes. "},{"Title":"Ok, But Could've Been Better!","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Englund, Lisa Wilcox and Danny Hassell star in this 1989 horror sequel. In this entry, Alice Johnson (Wilcox) has just graduated high school with her new boyfriend, Dan Jordan (Hassell) and friends. She starts having bad dreams and learns she's pregnant with Dan's baby. She also learns that Freddy (Englund) has found a way to come back using her unborn baby, Jacob and starts haunting her and her friends. After Dan and her friends are killed, Alice is given help by the spirit of Freddy's mother to release her soul and send him back where he belongs. This sequel is OK, but could've been better. Englund is great as usual and Jay Ferguson's score is creepy. I still recommend this for your nightmare collection. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven had in image in 1984, he created a universe where a deceased child murderer Fred Krueger, tortures the children of the parents that killed him after he was let off his trial.Krueger wears a dirty green and red sweater and wears a glove with knives on his fingers on his right hand.The catch to the original fantasy horror phenomenon was that if Freddy killed the children in their dreams, they died in real life.Over the years there were many sequels, 8 to be exact (if you include Freddy vs Jason).But if I had to say, this and Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare are the worst of the eight.If Wes Craven knew what this series would become, he might not have even made Nightmare on Elm Street. Maybe he made A New Nightmare just to save it.This movie is just so dull, the dream scenes are weird as hell, sometimes you don't even know if someone is dreaming or not, that's how crazy weird this movie is. And in one scene this girl just WALKED into a dream. Like she was walking, and then she was in a dream. What'd she fall or some sh*t? Who knows.What I did find interesting was Freddy, not on screen, but when the kids were researching Freddy and his mother got involved and we find out about how he was born and all that. It was cool and interesting. "},{"Title":"The stuff nightmares are made of...but not in a good way","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy's back in an all-new nightmare that's supposed to scare us&#x85;but fails to fulfil its promise to do so. The story is bland, confusing and near enough ridiculous and it isn't anywhere near interesting or captivating. The acting isn't bad, as Lisa Wilcox had done okay as Alice and Robert Englund manages to creep you out as Freddy Krueger, otherwise the acting is just hit-and-miss. The characters and the way they're written is another problem for the movie, you don't really know much about them, they're hardly interesting and didn't have any personality and therefore results in you not caring enough for them. The character development is absolutely dire, as the characters are one-dimensional. The nightmare scenes are done well as we see Freddy's warped and sadistic world but there were a couple of nightmare scenes that didn't look scary but more ridiculous.So overall, it was rubbish. This is probably the closest to be as boring and as a nightmare to watch as the second movie, Freddy's Revenge. Robert Englund gives out a great performance as the evil Freddy as per usual but it's not enough to save this monstrosity. Normally, the Nightmares had very good special effects but this didn't even have that going for it. The Nightmares have been up and down but at the moment, the movies are starting to sink as they go along since the fourth, and fast! Let's hope Freddy's Dead can pick the series back up.Read more reviews on www.dudedazzmoviereviews.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"It's not a girl.","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I knew that in this series that after the third or fourth sequel that it couldn't get any better. I was right and this really isn't that good but it is slightly better than the second. Nightmare on Elm Street sequels keep going down starting with this. Now it starts with Alice and she graduates from high school. Then she finds out that she is pregnant but what really confused me was if it was her boyfriends or Freddy's baby. The baby looks like some cheap doll that they bought from a dollar store. It looks almost comical. It's almost like the baby in of Bride of Chucky. Then Freddy makes too many jokes and gross special effects happen. Out of all of the Nightmare on Elm Street movies, I would just recommend watching the first and then just keeping it that way. It's all downhill after this and the next one, Freddy's dead, is way worse. Pleasant dreams. "},{"Title":"The last 'classic' entry of the Elm Street series  and not as bad as they say","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child picks up about a year or so after the previous film, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master. Alice Johnson (the hero of the fourth film) is graduating high school with plans to vacation in Europe with her boyfriend Dan (also in the fourth movie). Her alcoholic father is going to AA meetings and is becoming a better person. She has a new group of friends who care for her a lot as well. Everything seems to be going perfectly for her and the town of Springwood is more peaceful than ever. Of course now that everything is normal, Freddy Krueger resurrects himself to once again wreck havoc on the defenseless town. It is once again up to Alice, who vanquished him in Nightmare on Elm Street 4, to put a stop to the sadistic sandman once and for all.Many people say Nightmare on Elm Street 5 is the worst film in the series but it is far from that in my opinion as it is much better than the disappointing part 6 as well as the crappy second film. Nightmare 5 is somewhat conjoined with the fourth one, as the films bear many similarity's and have all the same characters; much like Halloween 4 and Halloween 5. The main problem with The Dream Child is it's many plot holes. First of all Freddy brings himself back somehow with no actual explanation on how he was able to come back after his defeat in Nightmare 4 (well actually he does that in every movie), but at least they have a resurrection scene here instead of him just being there at the films start. Here he somehow brings his mother Amanda Krueger (a nun raped by 100 maniacs which resulted with Freddy) into Alice's dream to re-birth him into dream land. He then finds what was leftover from his demise in the previous film and crawls over to it (yes, there is a baby Freddy in here) and transforms into his old self. But for whatever reason he can only kill by going through through Alice. This was actually made up in the fourth movie but here since Alice is apparently too powerful for him to face, Freddy goes through her and Dan's unborn baby to get to everyone else. No, it really doesn't make much sense, especially now that Freddy is afraid of his mother as she for some reason is the only one who can kill him.As previously stated, A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 wasn't a bad movie. I personally thought it was pretty good even though it wasn't as good as the previous two. One complaint is that Freddy doesn't seem like as much of a character as he was in the third and fourth movies; it seems like he appears very little and doesn't have a whole lot to say, where as the fourth film you see him frequently and he constantly makes odd one-liners. He still makes jokes here though and there were a few funny bits with him. You may have herd that this FX heavy, and it is. The special effects in this film look great. I consider The Dream Child to be the last classic entry of the series. The first five films continue each other very well and have a great 1980's nostalgia feel to them. Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare was the sixth and final entry in the central series and it has a classic feel too in a way, but I consider the fifth the last because the sixth abandons all plot of the first five, makes up it's own rules (like when Freddy kills someone their entire existence is erased with their death), and does a poor and retarded portrayal of what Elm Street and Springwood have become. So Nightmare 5 basically wraps up the entire story in a way.The Breakdown PROS Directly continues after the events of the fourth movie, Lisa Wilcox (Alice) and Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger) give great performances as do most of the cast. The soundtrack is pretty good though the one's for 3 and 4 were a bit better. The FX effects look really good and most character's are likable. It has that great '80's feel to it I mentioned earlier and Lisa Wilcox is both hot and cute. And to top it off the classic Nightmare on Elm Street theme is present as in all the Freddy films except for the second movie.CONS There are a crap load of plot-holes, Freddy doesn't appear as much as the previous two, and I can't really say what but some bits in the plot didn't really work (which is probably a lot of the reason why people didn't like this one a whole lot).OVERALL The Nightmare on Elm Street series tends to produce films with better quality and more plot than many of the other entries in standard slasher horror series. This film was no exception really as it's better than a lot of the Friday the 13th and Halloween films (though arguably some of those can be more fun and entertaining). Here you get a lot of what you would expect from a Freddy movie (mainly bad jokes and surreal fun), it's not really gory but then again none of Elm Street films really were aside from the original one. I recommend Nightmare on Elm Street 5 to anyone who likes these kind of movies (horror, fantasy, sci-fi, or whatever) or if your looking for something to pass the time on a rainy day or if your either bored or in the mood for a movie. It's nothing incredibly special like the first one was but it's great entertainment as is the rest of the Elm Street series.Rated R Fantasy Violence and Language (the film is pretty mild), Runtime 1 hour and 30 minutes, Score 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"lowest of the series","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first Nightmare is a cheap bloodbath that is original and cool, the second one is stupid funny and somewhat lovable, the third one is intense, the forth one is polished MTV glam that was right for the time it was made in, but this fifth entry just does not get it. It is dull, the kills are uneventful, even in there complete form. The actors all look tired including Englund who rightfully should have by that time from 87-90, to he played Freddy in three films and a two season running T.V series I would say that that probably did tire him and his will to play this character, but he does manage to keep face and at least Freddy the sole person to care about in this movie which in it's self is sad. The Alice character is the one you should root for but she just is not as cool and hip as she was in Nightmare 4, I call it bad writing as Lisa Wilcox is a great actress. This movie sucks and should be avoided. "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy has found a new way to enter his victim's dreams; through an unborn child. Freddy finds loads of new teens to terrorize and dispatch of in his usual inventive ways.A new angle to be sure but ultimately fails. There's no suspense and the story is silly and in the end doesn't make a lick of sense. Going into Freddy's background some more, it could have worked out fine but somehow doesn't.There's one thing that the Freddy Krueger films have that other horror franchises don't; some solid directors working on the sequels. Stephen Hopkins is a good visual director and that's the only thing that works in this film's favor. Special effects are top notch and the sets all look great. Just wish that the same effort had been put into the story, we might have ended up with a pretty good film. "}{"Title":"Great direction, terrible writing.","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" * * Alice (Lisa Wilcox) is still years later as relieved as ever to know that Freddy is gone. However, when she becomes pregnant, Freddy (Robert Englund) uses her unborn child to return yet again.This film is amazing. I mean this is really something. I had no idea that, in terms of writing, the film could actually sink to lower depths than part 4. That is truly incredible. This is one seriously stupid movie. It has some interesting ideas, but a lot of really bad ones, and everything just keeps getting worse and worse.And yet, oddly, the film is actually better than part 4. Why? Better direction. Director Stephen Hopkins takes the piece of junk he's given, and creates atmosphere, intensity, and absolutely beautiful visuals. On top of that, unlike Renny Harlin or Chuck Russel, he actually cares about how the actors read their lines. The acting is as good as you could get with the material. Wilcox was pretty stiff in part 4, but here, she's actually very good. The supporting cast is generally solid as well. And, of course, Englund is clearly having a blast, as always.Hopkins also manages to take the little he's been given and actually create an emotional involvement with the characters. That, mixed with the wonderful images he puts on screen (with help from great cinematography), makes the film genuinely work at times. There are moments when the film works better than any of the other sequels (excepting New Nightmare). He comes close to creating a genuinely good film, and the only sequel (again, except for New Nightmare) to find some of the creepy dream/reality confusion that made the first one so good.Unfotunately, great direction can only bring a film so far, and, with the script constantly getting worse and worse, the movie just dies by the end. Hopkins still does enough that it's always watchable and occasionally even compelling, but he can't make up for how poorly this was written. However, he does manage to bring Freddy back to life the way none of the previous two films were. If feels as though there may still be life in the series.However, this series has the exactly opposite curse of the Star Trek series. The Star Trek films have an oddity about them the even-numbered ones are almost always better than the odd-numbered ones. In the Nightmare series, the opposite occurs the odd ones are far better than the even ones. Consequently, I'm not looking forward to seeing number 6. "},{"Title":"new line didn't realize their mistake with 4","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" when new line came out with nightmare 4 i think Wes craven should have shot renny harlin in the face. but no. the come out with this monstrosity that has Freddy transform from a notorious killer, to a stand up comedian. it's strange that Freddy stops using the glove and starts to use am more retarded approach. nightmare 3 started this with the girl going into the TV. it wasn't really funny, which was the point, to be thrilling was the point.at least new nightmare makes sense, not any of this horror comedy nonsense. some movies can make the transmission, like the child's play movies, they made the switch just fine because the characters themselves are sort of comedians so it seemed to work, but Freddy just isn't the horror comedy type of killer, it would have been better if he stuck to the brutality and not the more friendly method. "},{"Title":"Nightmare's best looking film.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Englund and others.Freddy's back and he looks scarier than ever. This movie has excellent make-up and sets and the death scenes are cooler than ever. With that said, there's not much plot or substance to this film, but it's your typical Nightmare movie. It's definitely the darkest Elm Street, and also the one that makes the least amount of sense. In this movie, Freddy takes over the mind of a fetus inside a woman. Of course, in order to establish how she got pregnant, we start the film out with a steamy sex scene credits, followed by nipple showing afterwords. I recommend you watch this because of how cool it looks, but the acting and plot are a bit bad.my rating- 2 out of 4(or C minus) 85 minutes. R for violence, sex, nudity and language. "},{"Title":"Not as bad a 4, but still not that good","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was not a fan of A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 4l THE DREAM MASTER. I felt it didn't live up to its full potential. 'ELM STREET 4', like most horror films, had an intriguing premise yet had no idea how to execute it properly. This installment suffers from the same problem. The ROSMEMARY'S BABY-like premise could have worked, but in order for it to work the screenplay would have to be in better hand than screenwriter Leslie Bohem, who is also responsible for writing DAYLIGHT and DANTE'S PEAK, two of the worst flicks of the 1990s. Perhaps it wasn't completely his fault. Perhaps he was rushed to write it by the studio. After all, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET THE DREAM CHILD came out less than a year after A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 4 THE DREAM MASTER. It certainly does show. In addition to the lackluster script, the movie suffers from several other problems. The acting is among the weakest in the series (especially from Englund, who seems even more bored than he did in 4) the death scenes are more disgusting than creative, and the special effects are nothing to cheer about. If New Line had taken their time with this one, it might have been something worth watching. As it is, 'THE DREAM CHILD' is a sloppy, somewhat incoherent, and all around dull horror picture. Skip it since not even fans of the series are likely to find anything complimentary about it. "},{"Title":"The politics of evil.","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part 1 was the original, with the deadly haunted dreams. Part 2 was the later return to the house in which the girl went insane. Part 3 was the obligatory haunted mental hospital. Part 4 comes pretty close to Part 5, in which Freddy can kill Alice's friends, as she helplessly brings them one after another into her dreams. Where, you ask, do the writers go from here? Babies!(spoilers) So the first thing that pops into my mind when I see a Nightmare on Elm Street movie with the subtitle The Dream Child is that the writers were running out of excuses to put Freddy back on the screen. Better create a distraction. An interesting thing to consider, I think, is whether this installment in the series leans toward pro-choice or pro-life, because it definitely makes strong comments about abortion. My guess is that the movie is actually pretty heavily pro-choice, which I base not on personal belief but on the way it blatantly ridicules common reasons that people give for not pursuing the termination of an unwanted pregnancy.Take the scene where Alice has an emergency ultra-sound, in which she is able to see her baby in her womb. When confronted about the option of abortion, she responds with something like, 'No, I want to keep it, it's part of me and Jesse.' Yes, it's a part of you and Jesse. And Freddy freaking Krueger. And 100 rapist maniacs. And the embodiment of pure evil. At the risk of offending any pro-life readers who might be reading this, I bet there were a lot of opponents of abortion who were slapping their heads at this nonsense. Personally I would think that at least that vision that she had of Freddy inside her very womb caressing her hideous, hideous monster of a baby would make her realize that it was part of a lot more than her and Jesse.As far as Freddy himself, he has long since lost all ability to provide scares, ever since he became a goofy, wise-cracking moron with blades on his hands. You can't really be scared by a horror movie villain who thinks he's a stand-up comedian. But hey, maybe that's just me. The special effects have taken on a similar lackluster tinge, it now being obvious that the movies are exercises in coming up with new and creative ways of turning Freddy into other objects. The comic book content, with Freddy turning one victim into one of his own drawings before cutting him up like a piece of paper are a little too artsy for me, and the worst part of the entire film is what should have been the best, the ending. While you're trying to figure out if they were trying to re-create an M. C. Escher drawing or copy a scene from Labyrinth (which, unlike this one, fit into that film as snugly as a puzzle piece), you might forget what's happening and why they're even there.There is a serious problem with the plot itself in this installment as well. There is a cameo part played by a little boy (Whitby Hertford), who overall seems to play no other part than to look creepy and thicken the plot. Yes, it turns out that Alice eventually realizes he's her future son (hence his creepiness) and that she needs to save him from Freddy, who is trying to teach him all of his evil ways, but he pops up when needed and disappears when he's unnecessary. Even worse, in the tenuous connection to Part 4, in which Freddy killed all of Kristen's friends by forcing her to bring them into her dreams, he is now killing people based on the dreams of Alice's beloved 'he's-part-of-me-and-Jesse' baby. Yes, this is completely ludicrous, but the baby was simply a distraction, remember? The point is that it provides lots more teenagers for Freddy to have his way with. But given the precipitous trend the movies have been following, at this point in the series it seems less and less unlikely that an installment featuring one killing scene blandly following another, punctuated periodically by uninteresting (although, admittedly, increasingly competent) special effects is on its way.Oh yeah, and lots of dumb jokes. "},{"Title":"Very Poor Fifth Installment","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first three Nightmare on Elm Street films were superior exercises in how to scare an audience. The fourth installment was mediocre with no more than a couple of scares. This fifth installment is very poor indeed with no scares.Lisa Wilcox as Alice Johnson is back and the evil Freddy is stalking people through the dreams of her unborn child in order for him to enter the real world. Only Alice can defeat Freddy with the help of Freddy's late mother.I criticized Nightmare on Elm Street 4 for trying to combine comedy and horror. This is even worse. Freddy has become a complete joke in this movie. You will see scenes such as Freddy on a skateboard and Freddy dressed in a waiter's outfit serving food. Nothing can compare though to the ludicrous scene where Freddy fights a comic book character who comes to life. Also, Freddy comes out with plenty of wisecracks. In the first film, they were tongue-in-cheek but still very menacing;here, the wisecracks are just awful.Horror and comedy just don't mix. Remember The Evil Dead movie with Bruce Campbell? It was damn scary but by the time the third installment rolled round, it was a complete joke. This is what happened with Freddy. He started off as a fearsome boogeyman but eventually became about as scary as Wile E. Coyote. Actually, his antics are not unlike Wile E. Coyote with Alice Johnson playing the part of Road Runner to Freddy's Coyote.You may want to watch this movie if, like me, you feel obligated to catch every entry in a series. However, be warned, it is an abysmal film. "},{"Title":"Englund is good as usual.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Freddy's return is not even explained ( he was supposed to be dead in part 4 ) as he continues his reign of terror and haunts part 4's survivng teen yet unborn child. The effects are even better in this entry, but the script is very slim and everything is rather typical. Saving grace is Robert Englund turning in yet another terrific turn as Freddy. One more thing to, enough wisecracks already. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hehe, guilty pleasure","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I hate to admit it, but I liked this movie.  It was funny, scary, and gory. Freddy will go down in history, as a great psycho killer back from the grave. I give it a 7 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, language, sexuality, and nudity. "},{"Title":"I appear to be in the minority on this one","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After two flicks driven by the face-palmingly stupid idea of a group of teens having special powers in their dreams, this goes back to driving the terror by playing on a fear of ours, something where we can feel powerless, vulnerable... the original was don't fall asleep, you could die, the second what if you could no longer control yourself, and this, can you protect your unborn. This is genuinely chilling, and the execution works and is effective a lot of the way. The story is good and engaging, if it is affected by having been a bit boxed in by the ending of #4. Characters are the most likable they've been since the first one(and they have several notable moments together; they're driven not merely by the figure stalking them, but also by real-life issues), if there are obnoxious ones, as well. It's also quite creepy, especially early on. The FX are amazing(this has a *ton* of them), and there are unforgettable, creative gags. It has a nifty title screen. Unfortunately, that's it for the positives. Krueger is excessively goofy at times, and some of the one-liners are trying way too hard. Englund and Hertford(that kid could *act*!) are almost the only ones delivering solid performances, if the others tend to have spots here and there. It is bad a bunch of the time, though. The conclusion is odd and comes out of nowhere. Scenes get lost in their big-budget whiz-bang(with that said, there are *amazing* sequences, as well, truly atmospheric ones). Even with that, it's only 81 minutes sans credits. This is directed by Stephen Hopkins, of the lousy Lost in Space, the decent Under Suspicion... and Predator 2, another sequel that got lost in a immense amount of gory(so much so that they were both cut down to get R-ratings) killings(this one less so; I cared when nasty stuff happened, with a single exception), albeit they managed to work as horror films here and there. There is rather a bit of bloody, brutal violence and very disturbing content, a little strong language and brief nudity in this. The Ultimate Collector's Edition 7-Disc DVD set comes with 2 music videos(both rap, about Freddy and his hobby... I guess that made sense in the 80's), the feature Jump To A Nightmare and the trailer. I recommend this to fans of the series that don't care for the abilities in the subconscious stuff. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The real black sheep of the franchise","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As a hardcore fan of this series, i've heard other fans make their picks for the worst movie of the bunch. The usual picks are either Freddy's revenge or Freddy's dead. Personally, the Dream Child has always been the installment that rubbed me the wrong way.At least Freddy's revenge has some creepy scenes and interesting set pieces and Freddy's dead understood what it was. In this fifth installment, director Stephen Hopkins tries to balance dark Gothic horror with camp and the result is a mess. The deaths have completely transformed from scary and interesting into looney toon like sequences that are more cringe worthy than anything, not due to being grisly but rather to being ridiculous.At this point the only thing that works is Englund. If only he had better material to work with. "}{"Title":"It was like a bad dream...","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am still trying to determine whether the previous installment was worse than this one, or vice versa. Being that it is nearly fifteen years since I saw this film, the fact that I remember so little about it does not bode well. Perhaps it is simply because I only watched it once or twice, but I doubt it. If there was anything worth remembering about this film, you can rest assured I would remember it.At the time this film was released, the franchise was still entering its dying phase, so a lot of media coverage was allotted to it. It's never a good sign when teenie pop magazines contain explanations of the plot basics. One such article had to explain that Freddy was left too weak to infest the dreams of grown humans, so he decides to go after Alice's unborn son. So far, so good, but this is the job of the writer or the director to explain to the audience. It should not be left to some unrelated publication.Making use of the trivia given in part three about Freddy's conception, one could half expect scenes that would lift this joke out of the horror for infants category, but alas, that was not to be. It goes to show the sheer idiocy of the American ratings system that a piece of B'harni-esque garbage like this could get the same rating as a genuinely frightening piece like the original.By this time, the franchise could not attract anyone with an active career. Fortunately, or unfortunately depending on how you look at it, Lisa Wilcox was there to provide a quotient of competent acting. Or perhaps she just looks competent by comparison to the rest of the cast. Either way, given that her last role was in something called The All New Adventures of Chastity Blade, I doubt she really had anything else going for her. Even poor old Robert Englund has been in better productions than that in the past fifteen years.Given that box office returns were in a steady decline, and not just for this franchise, at the time, one would have thought that the studios would realize neutering their films does not make them more saleable. In fact, this particular film, like its immediate predecessor, was so neutered that not only did it fail to attract a new audience, both succeeded in alienating the core audience that originally supported the franchise. Despite this, part five must be given some credit for not having the bright, luminescent feeling that made part four so insulting to look at.I gave A Nightmare On Elm Street Part Five a one out of ten. By trying to appeal to everyone, or the MPAA's idea of everyone, it succeeds in appealing to noone. Like parts two and four, one could erase it from the continuity entirely, and nobody would notice the difference.  "},{"Title":"Born of a hundred maniacs...","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, at least this one kept the lead from the last, and the boyfriend. Good start. Unfortunately, Lisa Wilcox's performances are mediocre at best. The story had promise...and then along came Skipp. I don't know. It seems to me that no matter how they disguise the story, the back story and the plot twists, there is no way everyone sitting in that theater, in front of their TV or what have you, doesn't know that everyone but the lead will die. However the MO has been to let the lead return in the next sequel and THEN kill them off! Is it possible that Freddy's losing his grip on the psyche of the young?I will say the Gothic architecture of the Dream Realm leading into the monastery was excellent, but that was all CGI, and had nothing really to do with the story. This story line does become a bit clearer after a while, but it's after a long while of slow muddled progress to nowhere. This story did have promise. The effects would have been good ones, but I think they tried a little too hard to make up for the fact that the screenplay was so poorly written. What was so bad about it? Well, they obviously did not feel the need to utilize their star, Robert Englund, or perhaps he was earning too much money this time around for them to use him in more than the very few scenes in which he was featured. Whichever the case, this was a serious let down.The effects were a bit better here, but it was the prolific use of CGI rather than the excellent make up effects of those before it, and effects do not mask a flaccid performance like that of Wilcox. It also does not correct the weak script. This was an attempt to make Freddy more mainstream, and in my opinion, that was the last thing this franchise needed.This isn't the death of the franchise, but it's far from a revival.I can't give it more than a 6.4/10, and that's a generous rating from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"boy is it bad","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What the hell?  A slasher film about pregnancy?  No!  No!  Dear God, what idiot came up with this film's premise?!  I don't know if this was just a bad idea, an attempted `sophisticated' commentary/symbolism gone horribly wrong, or a really pathetic attempt at making a horror/comedy and come to think of it, I don't care to find out.  It screams `grasping at straws' and it's bursting at the seams with what made the previous sequels failures in my mind.More ridiculous plotline, more ridiculous and stereotyped characters, more exploration of Freddy's past, parents.  Whoever came up with the law that each Elm Street sequel needs to further explore the roots of Freddy seriously needs to die.  After the first film there really wasn't anything that needed to be explained because if there was Wes would've covered it.In at attempt to be original and sophisticated, 3 starts looking deeper into who Krueger was.  Then Krueger was no longer an enigma and no longer remotely intimidating.  So now in the fifth film we're getting into crap we really don't even want to know about Freddy because 1. every new fact strips away what Freddy used to be 2. most of it is a more explicit regurgitation of something said/shown in a previous film and 3. being a slasher, the writers will take liberties wherever they please.Good narrative involves knowing what to explicitly explain, what to imply, and what to leave completely open, creating layers of understanding, creating depth.  The original Nightmare did have a degree of depth to it because Wes Craven did not spell out everything in nice big bold letters that any idiot could read.  The Sequels do insultingly spell out everything, they also lack mystery, intrigue, depth, and a reason to see them.  If anything the spoil what Freddy was, and the only thing saving him is Robert Englund staying true to his role, always playing it with flair, and coming back time and time again.    If only the writing was up to par with Englund.There are ways of expanding a story and doing a sequel that does not involve over-exploiting the elements that made its predecessor good.  And let's face it, a sequel that has some item from said person's history (previously unknown) come back to integrate with a new adventure is about as cliché as you can get.Downright stupid kills, and the writer's are determined to kill off the coolness of Freddy.  A very bad sequel . . . ranked below Freddy's Dead solely because at least that film knew it was stupid and comedic.  "},{"Title":"Nightmare On Elm-Street 5 The Travesty","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Dream Child of 1989 is the fifth film in the (generally overrated) Nightmare series, and at the latest from this point on, the series became total garbage. The only good films in the series were Wes Craven's 1984 original, and the third part, The Dream Warriors of 1987. The second part was disappointing and boring, and it was the fourth part in which the formerly scary madman Freddy Krueger began to annoy with constant idiotic jokes. This fifth entry to the series has hardly anything to recommend except for (admittedly great) visuals, and one creepy scene, a flashback sequence to how Freddy Krueger came into existence. The rest of the film consists mainly of our razor-clawed maniac-turned-jokester yelling stupid one-liners, and the old formula of a bunch of teenage jackasses, who desperately try to avoid falling asleep, because good old Freddy awaits them in their dreams. Lisa Wilcox is back in the role of Alice Johnson, and a bunch of uninteresting crap, such as a super-dumb 'eerie' children's rhyme is added for no other reason than to have some sort of justification for making this superfluous and boring sequel... In Short No originality, just a decline of the old formula, and an over-load of painfully annoying jokes. My (generous) rating of 3/10 is due to the great visuals, and especially to emphasize the difference to the terrible next sequel, Freddy's Dead, which is awful beyond belief. In case you're not a hardcore Freddy Krueger enthusiast, The Dream Child should be avoided, and even if you are, this is more than likely to disappoint. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Sequel ever made","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the best sequel i ever saw, that's what a Horror movie needs and what a horror needs is Horror and Comedy combined and this is the fantastic result and I'm not kidding, For some new comers who want to watch Freddy, watch this one; It's great, don't listen to the reviews saying they're bad, make your own opinions and why i like this movie is how the story goes, the death scenes, the music score (Jay Ferguson was very awesome doing a music score for this movie), the music of the soundtrack like Let's Go, Anyway i gotta swing it and Heaven in the back seat and the way Freddy acted and his lines.Watch this movie, it's so great and awesome at the same time.Rating 1000/10(I'm not joking) "},{"Title":"Freddy the Daddy","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A nightmare on elm street part 5 was made and released in 1989. Alice is back and she become pregnant with her boyfriends baby. She goes back to her dreams but freddy returns to try and kill her and especially her baby. In her dreams, she is carrying Freddy's baby, she discovers that a young boy named jacob is her son. Freddy's woman is also pregant, but carrying the wrong baby, Alice and her swop their babies so Alice will be carrying her baby named jacob and the other will be carrying Freddy's baby. "},{"Title":"part 5 scarier then the first 4","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong the firs 4 movies of A nightmare on elm street are very scary. But this one scarier. People complain to mush about the low body count in this movie. Give me a break. The Exorcist is said to be the scariest movie ever. And that did not have a big body count. It was just very intense. The first 4 A nightmare on elm street movies are very intense. And this one is even more intense. That is why it is better. When I am watching a horror movie I do not count the dead bodies. And any one who does needs to grow up. There are scarier movies then this one. Freddy's Dead the final nightmare is scarier. That would be part 6. W.e.s Craven's new nightmare is also scarier. That would be part 7. But this is still very scary. It is one of the scariest movies made before 1991. This movie as great acting. A great story line. Great special effect. This is a great movie. See it. It is a most see. I consider this horror fantasy because Freddy is a ghost. "},{"Title":"The best one yet... In your dreams!","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not the greatest fan of the Freddy series. I love the idea and the character, but the original didn't do that much for me, although it was a while since I saw it and I probably need to give it another watch. I did like New Nightmare, however! So, after seeing the hilarity which is Freddy's Dead, I just couldn't resist giving this a record when I saw it on the TV, knowing how bad it was going to be and it didn't disappoint.It's difficult to rate a film like this because technically it should be 0/10, but the entertainment it provided me is worth much more than that, it didn't bore me like it did some people. So I've decided to give it a 4/10, because going over that would probably be misleading. In terms of entertainment value, I think Freddy's Dead is actually a lot better (the lines in that are just classic!) but that doesn't stop The Dream Child from being absolutely appalling! The film makes no sense at all, all of the 'logic' from the first one has gone. It just decides to turn surreal when it chooses too! Freddy's not in it as much as I hoped, but when he is he has some fantastically bad lines to feed, It's a boy! and Bon appetite, bitch. Robert Englund is still a ball as Freddy.It's a shame about the rest of the 'characters' who are the thinnest characters you could ever come up with. Seriously, does anyone give a monkeys about these people? They're simply there to be lined up for Freddy's hallucinogenic slaughter house. The Dream Child does very little right. Some moments were just too bad to watch! That whole comic book death scene was one of the worst deaths I've ever seen. I mean what the? It just makes you wonder who the heck gave this film the go ahead after the reading the script! In its favour, the effects are often inventive and refreshingly not CGI. However, that still doesn't stop them from being quite bad and quite obviously rubber. Just when you thought that the franchise couldn't sink any lower, then Freddy's Dead came along! Both of them fit into the 'so bad it's good' category. If you fancy a laugh, then stick it on. But if you're a hardcore Freddy fan, then you might want to watch it for interest and Freddy, but then cry in the corner afterwards asking God where your wonderful franchise has ended up. "},{"Title":"What in the World","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Throughout the entire film i was thinking to myself What in the World am I watching. In my personal opinion this would be the worst Nightmare movie they made. It didn't have a very good plot and it just didn't make sense. When i first watched this i couldn't wait for it to end. If you never saw any of the other Kruger movies I suggest that you wouldn't start with this one. It breaks most of the rules it set up in the past movies and the dreams get a little out of hand. The beginning title scene didn't make much sense either and how they explain it later you'll be thinking why am i watching this. It gets a three for effort you can see what the writers were trying to do but it just couldn't be done in a way that would be good. i would give this one star. "},{"Title":"I didn't think it could get worse than part 2","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This crappy sequel picks up where the 4th movie left off. Alice defeated Freddy, and now she's pregnant. Soon, Freddy returns, and he begins to work through the dreams of Alice's unborn child. Everything about this movie is bad, and that's all that can be said.Freddy Krueger is too much of a comedian in this movie instead of a scary killer. He constantly makes wise cracks that eventually get unfunny because there's too many. Freddy makes up a whole bunch of stupid ways to kill people that all involve too much gore and terrible special effects. The dialogue in this movie is extremely bad, and it starts to get annoying. Another problem is that visually and plot wise, this movie is way too weird.The acting is terrible. Everyone in this movie must have been rejects from a soap opera, because they had no talent whatsoever.Overall, there is not half of a redeeming quality in this movie, and it should be avoided by everybody. "}{"Title":"oh man","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I never thought such a bad film could be made (horror film wise I mean). I find this film to be worse than part 2, making this the worst film in the series.  Despite 1 good killing scene (I won't reveal here), this film has much meaning as a collection of feminist essays by Traci Lords.  The plot (if you don't fall asleep you can slightly follow) involves the fredmaster trying to find a new child so he can come back into the real world, but the baby he is looking for is inside the pregnant mother of the original dream master.  Wow.  Oh yeah, that's a great story, if you have the iq of a cork. Not to be seen, unless you are bored to, uh, freddy.  D "},{"Title":"A good story traded in for FX leads to another dud Nightmare sequel","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The A Nightmare on Elm Street series is one of thee most uneven horror franchises out there (not the worst, however) and after the 3rd gets progressively worse (until New Nightmare). ANOES 4 The Dream Master (1988) was a clear drop in quality after the fantastic ANOES 3 Dream Warriors (1987), but it was bearable. ANOES The Dream Child goes one step further and becomes almost unbearable but to be fair these sequels were stretching the story to unsalvageable lengths. But being the cash cow these horror sequels were in the day they dreamed (excuse the pun) up another way to resurrect Freddy. This time Freddy is literally reborn and begins picking off the Springwood kids through Alice's (Lisa Wilcox, who returns from Part 4) unborn child. To stop Freddy Alice must seek help from Amanda Krueger, Freddy's mother.Many consider this sequel the worst in the series, including Robert Englund. Even Stephen Hopkins, the director this time around, stated this movie was a miscalculation. One of the most obvious issues this time around is the lack of deaths, three all up which is the lowest in the series. Now, this is the part where the horror purists come out and say oh, if the story is good you don't need blood and gore and so on, but let us be honest here, when watching a slasher film a good story is a bonus to the inventive kills, which this series is famous for. Part 3, and Part 4 to a lesser extent, had high body counts with an interesting story. So here we are left with minimal deaths and a pretty average story. Furthermore, by this sequel Freddy had truly become the comedian, no longer scary in the slightest, although Englund still gives it all he's got. The only two positives in this installment are the excellent special effects and Gothic settings.1½/5 "},{"Title":"Begins so well but begins to get bad pretty soon on already.","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Thing about this 5th A Nightmare on Elm Street entry is that it has some incredibly bad writing. The story is all over the place and it jump so sudden from the one event to the other. The one moment a person has died and 2 sequences later the group of friends is already acting as if nothing had ever happened. It isn't a very consistent movie and the story is written more like and half hour Beverly Hills, 90210 episode, with some horrible cheesy dialog.A shame really, because the movie has a nice opening and the movie starts off promising as an horror movie. Unlike some of the previous A Nightmare on Elm Street movie entries this one is actually being like an horror movie. The movie does have some effective genre moments in it and also some decent gore and effects.Stephen Hopkins is no bad director and he's a well known name but he's simply giving some weak source material to work with. This was his first big movie and after this one he was given the opportunity to direct another sequel to a successful movie, Predator 2.The movie again features Lisa Wilcox as Alice Johnson, a character who had appeared in the previous A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master. Still I feel that the movie would had been better with a fresh start and new characters, since her reappearance doesn't seem fully necessary, since all the characters in this movie could had also simply been some new ones, without changing much to the story.Freddy Krueger's part luckily seems to be bigger again and Robert Englund plays the character with lots of joy and passion once more. Krueger is such a fine maniacal character, with also lots of dark humor in him.Really not among the best movie out of the series.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Will This Series Ever End?","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 starts out with Freddy getting revenge on those who upset him in the previous installment.  Now Lisa Wilcox (the dream master) is pregnant with her deceased boyfriend's child and soon she starts dreaming of Freddy again.  The film lets you know almost immediately that the child sleeping in her womb is the one dreaming of Freddy and she is seeing what the unborn child is seeing.  Needless, to say Freddy is reborn in a strange sequence and he haunts the dreams of teenagers on Elm Street yet again.  Visually, this film is ugly and a pure mess.  In fact, the whole film is ugly and a pure mess.  This is an unpleasing movie to the eyes.  Even the special effects seem somewhat outdated and sophomoric.  2 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Bottom-of-the-barrel.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Bottom-of-the-Freddy barrel. This is the worst film in the series, beating Freddy's Revenge for that title. A cheap-looking (with mediocre special effects), incoherent mess, with Freddy turned into a punster. He has one or two cool lines, but that doesn't save this illogical and sloppy sequel. "},{"Title":"Dullest of them all","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I will stat of with the plot Alice, having survived the previous instalment of the Nightmare series, finds the deadly dreams of Freddy Krueger starting once again. This time, the taunting murderer is striking through the sleeping mind of Alice's unborn child. His intention is to be born again into the real world. The only one who can stop Freddy is his dead mother, but can Alice free her spirit in time to save her own son?.This movie did start of really well as we see Alice dreaming of being Amanda Kruger, who get stuck in the room and get raped by 100 Manics, then she being rushed to hospital but then she no longer the pregnant lady,,then she see Amanda giving birth to Freddy again.Alice and Dan are the only two people to return from the 4th movie and then have gotten some new Friends itsnot long before, Freddy start to kill again, I did like the first death, it was okay, not as good as the other deaths or dreams.Freddy himself didn't seem to be Scary in this, the nightmare were just boring, they were not scary or creepy at all.Acting in movies was okay for a 5th movie in the series but overall I think this movie was really Dull. (Still not worst movie of the series, Freddy Dead is the worst)4/10 "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Along with the fantastic original only one of the sequels, the third film, is worth mentioning, the others have been disappointing, I didn't really have high hopes for this one, from director Stephen Hopkins (Predator 2, Lost in Space, The Life and Death of Peter Sellers, The Reaping). Basically a year has passed since the events of The Dream Master on Elm Street, and survivors Alice Johnson (Lisa Wilcox) and Dan Jordan (Danny Hassle) are dating with no sign of child murderer Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), but then she has dreams of a nun wearing name tag Amanda Krueger (Beatrice Boepple) locked in an asylum full of maniacs. While she plans a getaway to Europe with Dan, Alice has made new friends, training supermodel Greta Gibson (Erika Anderson), future Olympic diver Yvonne (Kelly Jo Minter) and comic book loving geek Mark Gray (Joe Seely). Alice has another dream about this Amanda in the asylum being raped by the various inmates and quickly gives birth, this is obviously the explanation for Freddy being the Son of 100 Maniacs, and rapidly growing from baby to adult he tries to kill her until she wakes up. A meeting is arranged between the friends, but Dan falls asleep and is the next victim to Freddy in his nightmare world, and worse comes when Alice finds out that she is pregnant with her boyfriend's child, and of course the friends she has made are being killed one by one in their dreams and real life combined. Recovering in hospital she met a young boy named Jacob (Whit Hertford), and she later realises this boy is her unborn child in the flesh, and in the dream world Yvonne goes to release the soul of Amanda, while Alice tries to free Jacob. In the last scenes Jacob has somehow been given powers from Freddy, he reverts the killer to turning into a baby, and he is thrown into a church or something and goes within himself, okay, I didn't get it, but he was defeated, and obviously comes back for more, so who cares? Englund was not nearly as amusing or nasty as with the previous films, some of the deaths are certainly inventive within the dreams, such as someone eating themselves death, someone dying jumping from a swimming pool diving board, and someone dying in a comic book being torn apart like paper, but the story is dreadful, the attempt to make a clever plot doesn't work, and the special effects, no matter how not bad, don't help things, it is just a silly horror sequel. Adequate! "},{"Title":"The worst Nightmare yet...","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've been watching the NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET series in order, and as is the way with the law of decreasing returns, I've noticed them getting gradually worse with each film. THE DREAM CHILD is the worst yet, an ultra-silly and irrelevant addition to the saga which aims to add a twist with the introduction of a demonic baby.Sadly, the execution and calibre of the script are both so poor that the resultant film is laughable in the extreme. Once again, Freddy is back as a comedic clown rather than a genuinely terrifying menace and by this stage it's hard to remember when he was an imposing villain.The script is vapid and unoriginal, taking elements that worked successfully in previous films and merely reworking them for this one. The death scenes are fairly dull and unmemorable and despite some creativity in the bizarre nightmare scenes, as a whole it just doesn't hold together. Add in lacklustre turns from an under-performing cast and you have the worst 'Nightmare' yet... "},{"Title":"going down the tubes once again","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Alice Johnson who got Kirsten's powers from the last film, is now pregnant with a baby. The thing is Freddy wants it to be reborn into this world. Alice must team up with Krueger's mother if she hopes to stop his plan. Any thrills at all the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise had war far gone when this film reared it's ugly head. While STILL not being the worst of the series (that again would be Part 2) this is not a fun film in the least and comes off as incredibly dated and moronic. It would get worse before it got better. The next film is atrocious and rivals part 2 as the worst of the bunch). Oh and Lisa Wilcox relies on body doubles for her topless scene, I hate actresses who refuse nudity like that.My Grade D+ DVD Extras Cast and Crew Bios; and Jump to a Nightmare option (more extras for the film can be found on the seventh disc of The Nightmare Collection DVD set) DVD-Rom content Trivia game; Screenplay; and web link "},{"Title":"This one should have been aborted.","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Nightmare series sinks to new depths with the fifth in the series, The Dream Child lamentable effects, a ridiculous plot, bad acting and Robert Englund portraying Freddy as a comedian rather than a vicious killer all go to making this one possibly the worst of the franchise so far.Lovely Lisa Wilcox once again stars as Alice Johnson, who was last seen defeating Freddy via the power of reflection (see my comment on Pt. 4 for more details). Having celebrated her graduation, she plans to travel to Europe with boyfriend Dan, but, when her school pals start to mysteriously die, she suspects that Freddy has somehow managed to return once again.The opening to The Dream Child is extremely misleading; it actually makes the viewer think that this chapter might be worth watching! After a night of rumpy-pumpy with her beau, Alice takes a shower, only to be trapped in the cubicle as it fills with water. This scene is easily the best part of the film. The rest of the movie is a logic-free mess which features such awful concepts as Freddy turning into a demonic motorbike, a girl being force fed to death (by Krueger dressed as a chef), and a geek entering a comic book and battling with 'Super-Freddy' (expect some dreadful effects and a really badly drawn comic during this sequence).If, like me, you're ploughing your way through the whole series (in my case, having only seen them previously on their original release), then by now you're probably losing the will to live. Only two more to go. Will I make it or will Freddy have claimed another victim? 2.5 out of 10 (rounded up to 3 for IMDb). "}{"Title":"Freddy the Joker","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare on Elm Street 5, A (1989) * 1/2 (out of 4) Lisa Wilcox returns as Alice, survivor from the previous film who now finds herself pregnant. Someone Freddy (Robert Englund) is invading the lives of her and her friends and soon she realizes it's because he's entering through the dreams of her unborn child. The pop icon known as Freddy Krueger was on a very high level with all the appearances on MTV and various other shows but this film is a major dud and a pretty big failure all around. Granted, Hopkins wasn't given much time to make it and while the visual style is just fine you do have to wonder how anyone gave the green light to the screenplay. I found the story to be incredibly stupid from start to finish with Freddy yet again returning without any good reason as to why and how. I do respect this series for trying to connect all the films together and to have characters returning but sometimes I think it hurt certain films and that's the case here. Wilcox is very good in her role of Alice but she's surrounded by some poorly written characters. Again we have to sit through characters we really don't care about and in the end we really don't care if Freddy gets them or not. To make matters even worse is that Freddy himself is pretty boring here. I really, really hated the make up job here as it seems like they've got him ready to appear on television and trying to make him look clean and decent. The entire mask looks fake and not a bit scary. The lame jokes are even worse here than they were in the previous film. I also didn't care too much for the murders as it seems they attempted to make them look cool rather than scary. The comic book death is a silly one as is the scene with Freddy feeding his victim to death. Director Hopkins at least makes the film look very profession and makes it appear as if they spent quite a bit of money on it. The scene with Freddy's mother inside the asylum with the maniacs was well-done and certainly the highlight of the movie. In the end it's the poor screenplay and Freddy's venture into MTV-land that really costs this movie. Watching this film it's hard to believe we're looking at the same character as what was in Craven's original. "},{"Title":"Freddy's visual playground...","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fifth chapter in the seemly never-ending Elm Street franchise hasn't got a plot (or, if you insist, a very flimsy one) and the whole film is nothing but an excuse to show off some hi-tech visual effects. The Dream Child makes it clear that this series has sunk extremely low and the Freddy Krueger icon has evolved from a scary madman into a pathetic stand-up comedian. The chaotic storyline and the boisterous special effects nearly gave me a headache and the initially horrific premise of killing teenagers through their nightmares has pretty much become a running gag. This may all sound very harsh and part 5 certainly isn't the worst horror film ever made, but it particularly disappoints because the previous two installments were so entertaining! The likable characters of parts 3 and 4 have been replaced with irritating and spineless teens (a beauty queen...a comic artist???) and even Alice &#150; surviving heroine of The Dream Master - doesn't look interested in battling Freddy anymore. She's pregnant now, and Krueger attempts to reach new victims through the dreams of her unborn baby. This particular script-joke is taken so seriously that the camera even films inside Alice's womb (!), where we see how the embryo is fed human souls. Talk about grotesque... Another disappointing element is the total lack of originality. Dream Warriors and The Dream Master (let's forget for a moment that the horrible Freddy's Revenge was ever made) at least attempted to add something to the Nightmare on Elm Street mythology, whereas the Dream Child simply cashes in on the ingenious script of part 3 (which revealed the eerie background of Freddy's own conception). Times sure have changed... In the beginning, Fred Krueger was a portentous maniac that sliced up innocent teenagers with his razor-glove...Now, he dresses up like motorcycles or French cooks and fires off lame one-liners. Still, it can be worse! We have Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare to prove that. "}]