[{"Title":"One of the most inspiring movies i've seen....","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently rented this movie because I am a huge Morgan Freeman fan, and I was amazed at how inspiring it was. Freeman is truly amazing in this movie. He is perfect for this strong part of principal at Eastside High. His disciplined yet loving authority was fun to watch. Also in the cast, Mr Darnell(Michael Beach) and Dr. Frank Napier(Robert Guillaume) along with Joe Clark(Morgan Freeman) were probably the most dominant actors. There was also a great supporting cast as listed above. Mayor Don Bottman(Alan North) played the perfect power hungry politician for this movie.I would recommend this movie to anyone out there. I truly believe it belongs in the top 250. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman at his best","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Morgan Freeman must be at his highest potential in this drama because he is excellent.  He is excellent as Joe Clark, a principal at a high school who is trying to shape up his school and prepare them.  He is wonderful as Joe Clark and he fills his character with so much heart that it is unbelieveable.  He proved once again that he knows how to act and he should have won an oscar for his role.  All of the actors and actresses are awesome in this.  The direction and everything else is perfectly brought out.Overall this movie has minor bits but everything else is perfect.  Rating 10.5 out of 10.  (Best Acting in a Movie) "},{"Title":"Despite a shaky script, Morgan Freeman gives a terrific performance in an intense, challenging role","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean on Me is based around the experiences of Joe Clark (Morgan Freeman), who becomes the principal of a destitute New Jersey high school plagued with violence, drugs, and abysmal academic performance. Clark is given the daunting task of bringing student's test scores up to the minimum acceptable level within one school year or the school will be taken over by the state.Clark is fiercely strict and demanding towards both his students and teachers. This makes him the target of countless parents, board members, civil servants, and other teachers determined to bring him and his radical new style down. Despite outside resistance Clark becomes a pillar of hope for numerous students inspired by his harsh but ultimately uplifting demands for disciple, self betterment, and loyalty to their school and educational achievement.What sets Lean on Me apart from numerous other sentimental inspirational flicks is the unconventional style of Clark and Morgan Freeman's masterful portrayal of him. Yes this is the drill sergeant of miracle workers if ever there was one. From tone to mannerisms Joe Clark is given a distinctive ambiance, Morgan Freemen IS the dominating force behind this entire film.And this is where the film stumbles somewhat. None of the supporting characters are given enough development to really set them apart as individuals. The closest we get is with a bright young girl trying her best to succeed at school despite numerous domestic problems at home. She is won over by Clark almost immediately coming to view him as a mentor/father figure. The problem is that her subplot like the others becomes neglected in the latter half of the film and is never given enough meaningful resolution to make the final scenes believable. Its like going from point A to point C while ignoring B.I also question the wisdom in using an imaginary plot point (the supposed school take over) and exaggerating the level of the student's academic improvement. It cheapens the genuine accomplishments of the school and clashes with the hard-edged momentum of Joe Clark. The story is worthy in of itself and didn't benefit from being exaggerated for dramatics.Lean on Me clearly could have been much more than what it is. But faults aside I would still highly recommend it to see Freeman's Oscar worthy performance. "},{"Title":"strong acting helps overcome the familiarity of the material","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Freeman is perfectly cast as 'Crazy' Joe Clark, a radical, newly appointed principal at a deteriorating, gang-ridden school who gets through to his students with a tough, opinionated, no-nonsense approach to the pursuit of academic excellence. The odds are stacked against him as the education board threatens to shut down Eastside High School, but with his burning desire, devoted staff and administration, and some bright students who actually want to succeed, he rallies them for what will be the final chance to save the school. Based on a true story the premise is familiar and the script has its ups and downs, but it's meaningful and acted with strength and conviction, especially Freeman who is nothing short of superb. *** "},{"Title":"'Lean on Me' doesn't need any helping hand","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ****Starring Morgan Freeman, Beverly Todd, and Robert Guillaume.A man is assigned principle of a broken-down inner-city school. Nobody thinks he will last there.  But, Joe isn't going to take that and will try his best to improve that school.This movie should've gotten Academy Award nods.  Freeman's performance alone was unbelieveable.  It should've been nominated for Actor and Picture.Overall the movie is a fantastic film and shows the true story of Joe Clark. "},{"Title":"shape up or ship out","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   This have to be one Morgan Freeman's better movie ever. The way he played principal Joe Clark was excellent. A rebellious student body who's more interested in making drug sells and fashion statements than their studies. But when Joe Clark returns to school as principal he maintain control of the students and the staff members as well. First he cleaned up the school by getting rid of the drug dealers and those who didn't care about learning. Lectured the faculty staff by telling them the reason why the students are failing is because they fail to see if they're learning. Joe shows tough love to students who plan to stay there and further their education. Being that the school is placed in one of the worst neighborhoods in North Jersey, Joe's goal was to keep the students and the staff members focus on passing the basic skills test. Although he's demands were extreme and interfered with the law,he still accomplished what he wanted. That is to make the students feel good about themself by having self-respect,a sense of morality,and continue their education so they can have a future with various opportunities. "},{"Title":"Great acting, so-so script","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Morgan Freeman's performance is the real reason to see this film.  He's helped by a solid supporting cast, leading to some truly memorable scenes as principal Joe Clark (Freeman) battles teachers, parents, and administrators who are outraged by his controversial methods.   But this film deserved a grittier treatment than what it was given.  The script is an awkward blend of inner-city drama with feel-good heroics.  The subplot about the basic skills test should have been scrapped.  First of all, it never happened in real life.  But more importantly, it changed the entire tone of the film.  Clark's story was about how he disciplined a school, not how he educated it.  The softened approach leaves LEAN ON ME at odds with itself - it tries to be like STAND AND DELIVER, when it should have been like THE PRINCIPAL.   "},{"Title":"A Wonderful and Inspiring Film!","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean On Me is film about taking risks, believing in change, and following your inner strength. The greatest compliment I ever received was that I was like the main character, Joe Clark. Clark (played outstandingly by Morgan Freeman) is appointed the principal of a failing inner city school. He comes in full-blazing to try and change the school. He focuses on raising the achievement tests score of the students. The character of Clark is not a man without fault. He is portrayed as a strong and energetic individual who sometimes hurts the feelings of others due to his lack of finesse when dealing with other adults. He is a man who doesn't apologize for what he does, mistake or not.This film shows the audience the plight of the inner city during the 1980's. Many of the issues then, still ring true in our school today.The other characters in the film are also portrayed by fine dramatic performances. From the music teacher, to the Asst. Princpal characters , all of them show believability and a multifacted dynamic to each personailty.The only flaw I see in this film is its failure to provide a true ending to the story. The ended is depicted as the students gaining passing grades for their state assessments. However, as the story is really about Joe Clark, it would have been nice to know what happened to him.I recommend this film to everyone, as its message can scope many areas. Teachers and those in the education field, especially supervisors, might especially advantage from watching this film. "},{"Title":"the saga of Crazy Joe, and a superb lead performance","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wouldn't recommend Lean on Me anywhere near as much if it had another actor in the lead. Morgan Freeman owns the role of Principal Joe Clark so well that it might just be, over-the-top bits and all, one of his most commanding screen performances. It's such a rich (if not complex) part to play, as the one guy who comes in like a sheriff in the clueless small old-west town, that you need someone who can rule the screen even in those little moments when (and they're not many in this case) the actor doesn't have much to do alongside another actor. Freeman is so good and scene stealing and all those wonderful things we love him for that he makes one forget that the film he's in is only 'alright' at best and at worst is preachy and confused in its tone going between super tough/realistic and sentimental.It's about a notorious school in Paterson, New Jersey, and how Joe Clark- who taught there in the 60s- is begged to be brought back to bring it back to some normalcy from the degradation of hardcore 80s madness (crack and gangs and other things infiltrating the high schoolers). While it is, as Ebert pointed out, kind of an unsympathetic character Clark is, I somehow can forgive the faults in the script for the acting (aside from Freeman there are other actors, like Robert Guillame and Michael beach and Beverly Todd, who can go up to bat with the likes of the star). It's the kind of feel-good-feel-bad 80s story that somehow stays past its time and place (albeit if you're from Jersey or especially Paterson there's some extra connection), and it's at least one other decent career note for Rocky director Avildsen. "},{"Title":"YAY!! Someone get me a bat and a bullhorn!","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rocky and Karate Kid director, John Avildsen takes his stand-up-and-cheer style from the ring and the dojo to the halls of New Jersey's Eastside High School in this true story of the mercurial, and controversial, principal, Joe Clark. Morgan Freeman shines and has a strong supporting cast in this loud and manipulative, but nonetheless effective entry into the educator-hero genre. The story strains credibility and often goes over the top, but the fast pace and great Freeman performance allow this to still be an entertaining film.Freeman's Joe Clark is recruited by Superintendent, Frank Napier (Robert Guillaume) for the seemingly impossible task of turning around the violent and out of control Eastside High School School and somehow motivating the staff and students to improve their results on the State Literacy Exam, or else see the school fall under state control. Clark uses a bullhorn, a baseball bat and a confrontational style with his staff and combines it with a tough, nurturing relationship with his students to try to bring this about, while battling alienated staff and angry parents, led by Ms. Levias (Lynne Thigpen) to try to bring about the desired changes.Sure, this film is far-fetched and overblown and even has a couple scenes that approach unintentional humor, but it has enough strengths to compensate and make it worthwhile viewing for those who enjoy the true story school genre that Hollywood loves so much. Morgan Freeman is always a pleasure to watch and he is very strong here. So get ready to stand up and cheer!(This review was first posted on realmoviereview.com) "}{"Title":"Much more realistic than Dangerous Minds with hardly any cussing","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I work in a school that was totally struggling and considered hopeless, marked as failing and basically in the same position as Eastside High in Paterson, NJ, the subject and setting of Lean on Me. Lean on Me is a very good, nearly great movie. But better than that it is the true story of a true hero who truly made a difference (http//www.joeclarkspeaker.com/index.html.)Even if i wasn't a teacher, Lean on Me is a solidly recommendable film. Fine workmanship in depicting the underdog who deserves to win from the director of Rocky. Justifably award winning acting by Morgan Freeman, well before he became a stereotype of himself. BUT, better than the traditional movie-ishness of the picture, the story is not only a story of hope, but it is a true and ongoing lesson that real commitment can create real change.The whole process of the often startling and occasionally unpleasant shock and force necessary to rebuild a dangerously failing school is accurately portrayed. And so is the joyous feeling sensing the turn around taking place. Even if you never learned anyone's name from the film, the story will inspire. Even if you think of none of the ideas of it, you cannot help but feel its heart. "},{"Title":"Good acting, mixed messages and kind of unbelievable","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I liked this movie when I was in high school, and thought that Morgan Freeman was effective as a principal who was trying to make the lives of the kids better.However, as an adult, it seems that this movie was all about Kids won't learn unless you threaten them. If a teacher is doing poorly, they should be fired immediately. It's my way or the highway. Seriously, if my job ever had a jag like Mr. Clark come in and run the place as a dictatorship, I'd be looking for a new job THE SAME DAY.Also, there are some serious stretches of credulity here... ***SPOILER ALERT*** Mr. Clark is arrested for chaining the school doors shut, and is thrown in jail??? Not just any jail, but one that looks like its from a 1920s William Faulkner tale, with a cot and a sink and a washcloth. He wouldn't have just bonded out and gone home? Also, Mr. Clark hires fascist security guards for the school? Doesn't he need to PAY them, and wouldn't this capital expenditure need to be approved before any checks are written? "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman Dominates the Action From Start to Finish","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Good film about a high school principal in New Jersey (Morgan Freeman) who will stop at nothing to make the school the best it can be.  This film is based on a true story, but it never does come through as well as it could have.  Freeman dominates the action, but everyone else just seems to be going through the motions.  A few people have their moments, but Freeman's dynamite performance overshadows everyone else.  These are both the strong and weak points of Lean on Me.  John G. Avildsen once again proves that he has trouble with his direction.  The screenplay though is the real culprit, as it is just not as smart and intriguing as it could have been.  3.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Rousing, simplified, inspiring story, and a terrific Morgan Freeman","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean on Me (1989)A rousing movie about possibility and overcoming obstacles. It's an uncomplicated movie, telling in a linear way about the six month hard core reform of a very troubled inner-city high school. But it will make you feel good if you have any sentiment in you.Morgan Freeman is the newly installed principal with an idiosyncratic zeal that is perfect for this rough and tumble school. He tactics are severe&#x97;and seemingly heartless&#x97; kicking out hundreds of kids and punishing countless others for seemingly small offenses. But he certainly takes charge, and that was foremost. The students respond. Test scores improve.One of the messages here is still pertinent, and he puts it well to the whole group. If you are failing, it's not the fault of your parents, or the white folks. It's your fault. And so personal accountability is step one, then and now. The teachers seem mostly on target, though they get some abuse from his as well. (The chorus teacher in particular seems brilliant, but since she is teaching Mozart instead of the school song she is on the wrong side.) And so it goes, piece by piece, person by person.I say uncomplicated, but simplistic might be another word. This kind of reform must have been even more complex and stressful and painful than the movie shows&#x97;this isn't a documentary one bit. In fact, this is more of a fable, a kind of message driven tale of a man with a mission who overcomes the odds. That it's rooted in fact is only a small tweak to the larger point. "},{"Title":"Leans a bit too far . . .","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is an awful lot of yelling in 'Lean On Me' and maybe the filmmakers think that it is justified because it is based on a true story. The problem is that the main character, 'Crazy Joe' Clark is so loud, abrasive and obnoxious that it is hard to get an emotional foothold on what he is trying to accomplish. That's a problem when the movie is trying to siphon that hateful character into an inspirational teacher movie.The movie stars Morgan Freeman as Clark a loud-mouthed, bull horn-toting educator who is brought back to the once proud Eastside High School to clean it up and get the students through the state exam. The opening scenes show the school hallways as a place where drug-dealing, violence and vandalism are a way of life. Showing that the school is out of control is one thing but the corridors of this school look two bricks shy of a prison riot.Clark is brought out of a comfortable job as an elementary school teacher to whip Eastside into shape but for every action that he tries to accomplish there is another action that leaves us shaking our heads. It's one thing to expel 300 trouble-makers and demand that the graffiti be brought down but it's quite another to force students to sing the school song on demand and fire the English teacher because he moved during it's singing.I have no objection to a hard driving educator but I take issue with Clark who refuses to hear anyone's opinion and berates anyone who makes an opposing suggestion. The movie never makes any attempts to allow him to learn from his mistake, he is simply seen as a very trouble, bullying man who gets results but refuses to acknowledge those that he steps on to get his way.The ending of the movie isn't really dealt with in a serious way. Clark chains the emergency doors to keep drug dealers out which of course is illegal. One parent with a grudge insists that Clark be arrested and when he goes to jail, we get one of those tired old scenes where every single student marches up to the courthouse to demand his release.From the sides, the movie throws in a lot of one-dimensional characters. There is a portly teacher who functions as a whipping post for Clark's tirades. There is an arrogant music teacher who only figures into the story so that Clark can fire her for insubordination. Then there is an angry parent who wants Clark fired and whose only scenes involve her making demands.'Lean On Me' is a movie torn between two ideas. Director John G. Avildson wants to create a biography of what Clark did to Eastside but he also wants to make an inspirational teacher movie. The mechanics of both don't quite fit together because the script refuses to allow Clark to learn anything himself. "},{"Title":"entertaining hokum","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The true story of 'crazy' Joe Clark, the fiery principal of Eastside High School in Patterson, New Jersey, is transformed by the director of 'The Karate Kid' and the original 'Rocky' into a (no surprise here) strictly artificial, assembly line crowd pleaser. The film is notable mostly for Morgan Freeman's typically dynamic portrayal of a compelling lead character the George S. Patton of academics, who made his reputation by stalking school halls with a bullhorn, a baseball bat, and a series of tough, inspirational sermons, speeches and lectures to students and faculty alike about responsibility and pride.The deterioration of Eastside High from a model institution in 1967 to a mid-1980s netherworld of graffiti, drugs and indifference is introduced in a stunning visual dissolve, but the transition pales next to Clark's ascent from dedicated administrator to scholastic Messiah. Did the entire student body actually storm City Hall in protest of his arrest, and was he rescued by the 11th-hour arrival of the latest, improved test scores? It's unlikely, but let's face it Hollywood never was much inclined to let the facts get in the way of a good story. "},{"Title":"Don't Lean, Stand up Straight!","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was featured on A&E one morning, and I checked out the summary, and when I saw that this movie had Morgan Freeman in it, I couldn't refuse the movie, and I had to watch it.From the very beginning, to the very end, I was near completely impressed by the way this movie was made. With a spin of Stand and Deliver, this movie is the perfect film to learn, talk about, and educate yourself on. Films to come in the future, such as Sunset Park, and Coach Carter, films that show that One man can make a difference, this one stands out in my mind. Not only because this was based in the state that I grew up in, but it set a precedented example for all school districts. A story that goes from rags to riches, it gets better with every scene, as the booming (very unusual) voice of Morgan Freeman and the syndicated voices of African American pride simmer through the tale of Eastside High School,(a school thats located in Paterson, NJ) on the verge of being taken control by the state of New Jersey got back on its feet by the strict rules and consequences set up by a zero tolerance Principal, Principal Joe Crazy Joe Clark.Some of the acting, other than Freeman's, really stand out to make the film a spectacular one. Jermaine 'Huggy' Hopkins (Thomas Sams), is excellent as the freshman who changes his ways, and turns to becoming a school favorite and an academic success in the school, as well as the boys who had to memorize the school Alma Mater (That version of the Alma Mater was as sweet as honey).Just remember next time you watch this, (or if its your first time), to sit up straight. Leaning isn't going to get you anywhere, unless you lean on someone that is willing to get you there. "},{"Title":"Clark should have been fired","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Clark is a poor choice for a movie hero, assuming this biography is at all accurate. Professionally, he should not have been in charge of anything or anyone, and I find it hard to believe that the school improved under his leadership as depicted. What the students needed most in this school was a sense that they create their own community and have to live in it. They got a charismatic fanatic, whose authority is arbitrary and capricious--everything in the school was about Joe Clark and nothing else. Perhaps I just mistrust/dislike hero stories, but learning this kind of devotion to an individual is not a substitute for learning to participate in a community. "},{"Title":"Morgan Makes It His Film","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Morgan Freeman made himself into a star with this film, and also made the movie a hit with his great performance. He IS the movie playing fascinating real- life high school principal Joe Clark. He's just fun to watch all the way through.All the characters in this movie all have the same trait tough on the outside, soft on the inside. Here is a bit of a warning for people who want to show this to their kids and don't know the material there are at least a half-dozen abuses of God's name in vain and some unneeded sexual remarks. Also, they dealt with teen pregnancy a little too liberally but didn't dwell on it. (There are alternatives, Clark says to a young girl after she confesses she's become pregnant.)Other than that, solid acting and an interesting based-on-a-true life story made this a deserved hit film. A year later, Freeman solidified his status as a star with Driving Miss Daisy. "},{"Title":"Nothing great if you ask me","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I only watched this movie based on the high rating it got on IMDb. And I got fooled again. Because it is certainly not as good as they want to make us believe. Morgan Freeman is a good actor, we all know that, and here in Lean On Me he is also good but the script is just not good enough. It's one of those movies with a message. Or a lot of messages in this case. And it does look so cheesy at moments it becomes annoying. The poor uneducated kids in a terrible school bullied and controlled by drug dealers that get cleaned out and then suddenly fights back to become successful. Sorry but it's so cheesy I was wondering how it got such a high average on IMDb. It's okay to watch once but that's about it. "}{"Title":"Good 80's Drama!","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Morgan Freeman, Beverly Todd, Lynne Thigpen and Robert Guillaume star in John Avildsen's 1989 drama based on a true story. This takes place in New Jersey and Freeman (The Shawshank Redemption) plays Joe Clark, a former teacher turned principal who is asked to clean up inner-city high school, Eastside after 20 years that's become drug-infested and lacks education. He gets off to a rough start with his strict methods, but eventually turns things around and gains loyalty and respect of his students and staff. Todd plays Miss Levias, his assistant, the late, Thigpen plays Mrs. Barrett, a parent who dislikes him and Guillaume (Benson) plays Frank Napier, the school superintendent. Freeman is great in this as usual and I think it's one of his best films. I recommend this good 80's drama. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman's BEST performance ever!!!!","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very underrated and under-appreciated film based on a true story of a New jersey school principal who is faced with the task of trying to turn a struggling school back around.This concept has been done many times before like in dangerous minds and other alike movies but this movie is different as it came first, is based on a true story and lastly that Morgan Freeman absolutely nails this role. All of the acting is strong in this film, even though there are a lot of no name one time actors in this movie the main characters are strong and again Morgan Freeman gives the performance of his life.If you are a Morgan Freeman fan and have not seen this movie you need to watch.... NOW!!!! "},{"Title":"We are in a state of emergency and my word is law.","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joe Clark (Morgan Freeman) is a dedicated teacher and principal determined to fix the broken and crime infested Eastside High School in Trenton, New Jersey. Although tyrannical and unorthodox, Joe continues to weed out the negative influence of his school so that they can get an education. Although the school board, the Trenton Fire Department, and local activist Leonna Barrett (Lynne Thigpen) all want Joe gone, Joe fights for his students and reclaims the school in the end. Although Joe is not always the nicest person to be around, he has method to his madness. It's a really great story. The acting from everyone is great. Freeman always great and he really shines through here. I highly recommend Lean on Me. "},{"Title":"'Lean On Me' is a brutal, fascinating look at inner city life with a Oscar-worthy performance from Freeman","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an institution of learning, ladies and gentlemen. If you can't control it, how can you teach? Discipline is not the enemy of enthusiasm! In the 1980s, Joe Louis Clark became the new principal of Eastside High School, located in Paterson, New Jersey, which was one of New Jersey's toughest inner city schools. He managed to turn the school around, despite the people who criticized him and tried to stop him. It's no wonder that a few years later, in 1989, a film version of his story was released. The film, which stars one of the best actors alive, Morgan Freeman, managed to gross 3x it's budget and became a big success due to it's storyline and characters. How does the film hold up twenty-six years later? Lean On Me follows a former teacher at Eastside High School who comes back twenty years later as the Principal, and finds that the school is in need of dire help in order to keep the state from gaining control of the school.I first heard about this film due to my mother, who watched it several times when I was younger, and that was how I remember scenes like the ending and the song, Lean On Me. So, when I saw the film was going to be on for the last time for a while, I recorded it and sat down to watch. Man, this is a pretty good film.The acting is phenomenal, most notably from Morgan Freeman. I have no idea how Freeman didn't get nominated for Best Actor for his role as Joe Clark, because he does a fantastic job, what with all the speeches and the powerful scenes he has to carry. Beverly Todd does a great job as Mrs. Levias, and the best scene she does is one toward the end of the film, fighting against Morgan Freeman's character about what he's supposed to be doing with the kids at the school.Alan North does a fine job as the Mayor. Robert Guillaume does a phenomenal job as well as Dr. Napier, and his best scene comes about midway through the film when he and Clark argue about Clark's methods of controlling his students. Lynne Thigpen does a deliciously evil job as Mrs. Barnett, a parent who doesn't agree with Clark from the beginning and does her best to get him fired.The music in the film was great. The instrumental music, composed by Bill Conti, was fantastic and fit all the songs they were used in. The other songs, which were songs like Welcome to the Jungle and of course, the titular song, Lean On Me, all worked very well. The cinematography, and set design, especially in the shots of the rundown Eastside High all look very convincing and the school looks even better when it's redone.The script was very riveting and was great at really portraying how these kids acted and how Mr. Clark was going to deal with them. It was all very refreshing, a script that really showed the reality of these kids and didn't just demonize them or praise them to make things more dramatic or interesting. Perhaps my only issue with the film is that the whole film feels very brutal, never really slowing enough to let some of the more emotional moments sink in.Overall, Lean On Me is a fantastic film. While I did have some issues with the overall brutal feel of the film, the acting, music, cinematography, set design and script are all fantastic and work about as well as they could have in this setting. I'm honestly shocked Morgan Freeman didn't get an Oscar nod for his revolutionary performance here. If you haven't seen it, go see it if only for the amazing performances that definitely should have received some Oscar nods.9/10. | Grade A- "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's 1967 Paterson, New Jersey. Innovative agitating teacher Joe Clark (Morgan Freeman) is transferred from the idyllic Eastside High School so the union can get a raise. Twenty years later, the school has become a rundown urban jungle. The school is ranked last in the state. 75% of the school must pass a minimum requirement exam or the state will take over. Frank Napier (Robert Guillaume) was Clark's friend and fellow teacher at the school. As superintendent of schools, he hires Clark as the new principal. Clark institute new dictatorial rules battling the government, the bad seeds, the teachers and one particular parent Leonna Barrett to rein in the unruly school.This is Rambo taking over a school. I'm not saying it's the best way to teach. Maybe it's the only way that school could be controlled. All I'm claiming is that this works as a movie. Morgan Freeman delivers a rip roaring performance basically as a dictator. At times, his tyrannical nature pushes the audience but I root for him for the most part. This is a great actor in a compelling performance of a memorable character. "},{"Title":"love this film","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is one of my all time best films. It's powerful and heart taking. Morgan Freeman brings the meaning of a principle that cares and what a principle should pour his or her heart into a school for the education of children's. I all ways tell every teacher that I come across in my walk of life to watch the movie Lean On Me if you haven't done so. This movie offers encouragement and leadership to all teachers and students, whom may fall short of being all they can be. In this movie it showed that if you don't give up you could make something better and great of your self. It also shows how an urban community can upset and have a negative impact on the whole educational system. This film also shows how drugs can be easy brought into schools that have lost order all their students. Be most aware of everyone surrounding and up bring cause everyone may have been raised in a different part of town. When I watch this movie I also compare this film to the movie called the Principle. I have seen a lot of high schools that have actually gone from pour into one of the best rating high schools in the city. I think that the title Lean On Me was a great choice. Because in the movie there where so many issues from young girls having babies, young boy doing drug on smoking crack all the way up to a principle being looked at as a father and friend to those whom didn't have a father figure in there life. Mr. Clark played by Morgan Freeman, show strong self motived character that was going to be unstoppable and will go through the fire for his kids in that high school of Eastside High. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman Shows Tough Love!","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean on Me is certainly a film that gives an exaggerated version of tough love. It's a film about a high school principal who is dedicated for his students, but in the process, uses dictatorial powers to show his dedication. But this is a powerful film that shows a transformation from a school looking like a gang center to a school with high education results. There are not many films like these being made, so it's a treat seeing an inspirational film like this. The film itself may be a little outdated, but the messages still ring true even in today's world.John G Avildsen, known for his famous film Rocky, directs a film based on the true happenings of the East Paterson High School in New Jersey. Principal Joe Clark is brought in to save a school from completely collapsing. He expels the drug dealers and troublemakers and he chains the doors shut to keep the learners inside and the troublemakers outside....much to the disarray of the community.The acting is very good here. Morgan Freeman is one of the greatest actors Hollywood has ever had. This movie came out at a time before Freeman had his juicy roles, but this performance here is still top-notch. I may not agree with all the tactics Clark used to whip his school into shape, but Freeman does an excellent job in showing what a no-nonsense man Joe Clark was.Overall, Lean on Me is a very powerful film and is essentially a version of the old rags-to-rich tale, but here it's more of a dumb-to-smart tale. Led by a majestic performance by Morgan Freeman, this film is a must-see. Joe Clark was a stern man, but his sternness created glory for his school not seen in many years. Lean on Me, when you're not strong. I'll be your pillow, as sung by the great Bill Withers in his classic song. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Teaching with an Iron Hand","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When the movie starts, we see Joe Clark teaching class at Eastside High School in 1967. His students are intelligent, well-groomed, and well-behaved. He quits because the teachers' union has sold out to the school board or something vague like that. Twenty years later, the school has become so bad it makes the one in Blackboard Jungle (1955) look like the Blackboard Tropical Rainforest. The students are the meanest, most vicious bunch of high-school hoodlums ever displayed on the big screen.Oh yeah, I almost forgot to mention one more difference all the clean-cut, intelligent students in the school in 1967 are white; most of the students in the school twenty years later are African American, with some Latinos, and a mere handful of whites. When I first saw this, I wondered if the movie had been produced by the Ku Klux Klan, because it comes across as a racist's worst nightmare. But, since the story is true, I guess those were the facts, and they just went with it. When Clark is asked to become the principal to help improve the students' test scores, I wondered how he could possibly do anything with them. Well, I don't want to take anything away from Clark, but not only does he have a bunch of security guards with him when he arrives, but on the second day, he also expels a whole bunch of students. Anybody could straighten out a school with dictatorial powers like that. Think how much Glenn Ford could have accomplished in Blackboard Jungle if he could have expelled Vic Morrow on the second day of class. Of course he succeeds with the remainder of the students, and all is well.Toward the end, a girl tells him she is pregnant. We never find out what she did about it. That way those who are pro-life can imagine her keeping the baby, and those who are pro-choice can imagine her having an abortion. Very clever, Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Great Performance By Morgan Freeman Overcomes Flaws Of The Film","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean On Me is a film loosely based on the story of Joe Louis Clark,an educator known for his unorthodox means,who was assigned to become high school principal of Eastside High School.He was given the impossible task of reforming the school as it is at the risk of being overtaken by the state government.It stars Morgan Freeman,who portrays Clark,in his ascent to stardom.John G.Avildsen,who is known for underdog films in movies such as The Karate Kid and Rocky,is the director of the movie.Back in 1987,Joe Louis Clark was assigned to become the principal of Eastside High School,the worst known school in the state that is located at Paterson,New Jersey.The students have done poorly at the state test of minimum basic skills since their average scores hovers around 33% - way below the 75% minimum passing rate.The students have been known to be using drugs and involved with gang violence.When he arrives at the school,the radical Clark reprimands the entire faculty for their inability to control the students and their failure to do their job.Then,he dismisses hundreds of students that are identified as drug dealers and abusers as well as troublemakers.Despite his tyrannical approach and hard-line policies that he implemented that caused a lot of tension and alienation from his fellow faculty members and parents of the students,Clark was able to achieve results as he was able to straighten out Eastside High School later in time and he was able get the school's basic-skills test scores up.This led him to have the the job at the institution permanently. Although his tyrannical approach and hard-line policies alienate many members of the staff and the community, his uncompromising campaign gets results.This make him popular to the dismay of his critics and powerful enemies.Morgan Freeman provided a great portrayal as Joe Louis Clark that the viewer of the movie would somehow overcome the film's flaws such as predictability and having a formulaic screenplay.Aside from that,it was also cheesy.Although the viewer knows that that Clark will be able to achieve the impossible task of reforming Eastside despite his unorthodox methods and the tensions that were created by the people - students and faculty members - in the school,one will definitely enjoy and get entertained by his interesting peroformance.I could have given this film a rating of 8 BUT Freeman was simply excellent and remarkable that the viewer will definitely care more about his character as well as the actions he has taken instead of the flaws of the film as a whole. "},{"Title":"It is a good film to begin with, but Morgan Freeman's powerful performance makes it even better","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (Credit IMDb) The dedicated but tyrannical Joe Clark is appointed the principal of a decaying inner-city school that he is determined to improve.This is a very important film about education. Some might find Principal Joe Clark to be an arrogant person, but I believe you have to look beyond that. The man was willing to fight for education and equal rights, regardless of the controversy. He wanted to make sure people quit dropping out and focus on the right people. Sure, he rubbed people the wrong way with his tyrannical style, but the man was extremely effective and a good person. Morgan Freeman gives Joe Clark justice with his memorable performance. He is mesmerizing at times and carries a good film into a great one. This movie would have been good with an above average lead, but Freeman makes all the difference in the world. This is an excellent movie that will make you teary eyed, laugh and saddened. It is a movie of many emotions8/10 "}{"Title":"Exemplary story with a brilliant Morgan Freeman","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the true story of Joe Clark, 'Lean on Me' features Morgan Freeman as the controversial teacher tasked with recovering Eastside High, a decaying school that has become a den of violence, drug abuse and all-around despair. While inspirational teacher dramas are nothing new ('To Sir, with Love' comes right to mind, as well as that same year's 'Dead Poets Society'), 'Lean on Me' is uncommon in how the teacher is depicted. True to the real-life Joe Clark, Freeman portrays a tough, quasi- tyrannical teacher that is not afraid of taking extreme measures to keep (or instate) the discipline in the school. There is no idealistic, fantasy-esque 'talk settles everything' development here; Clark is brutally realistic in his views of the school's problems and is not afraid of answering in the same way rather than smooth-talking and merely 'putting his faith on the goodness of the delinquents'.Another good anti-cliché is that the other teachers are not exempt from this. Most school dramas seem to base themselves on the premise that 'everyone is a genius, they just need to be listened to'; in other words, if you teach discipline to the students or give them support them they will automatically ace all tests/recover their grades as if on a miracle. 'Lean on Me' shows that bettering the behavior is a step on the right direction, but is not everything; Clark demands from the professors the same hard-work, dedication and discipline he does from the students.After all, how can you help them if you don't lead by example?This screenplay is not perfect though the ending seems to flirt with the idealistic feel of other school dramas, and there seems to be plot contrivances. The supporting characters are mostly underdeveloped, and small subplots brought up here and there are either barely touched upon or made irrelevant in light of the focus on Clark's story. It doesn't help, or maybe it does, that Morgan Freeman gives one of his best performances and outshines everyone and everything in here, making these subplots easy to forget.All in all, a remarkable drama with one of the best Morgan Freeman performances I've ever seem. A great watch, and a refreshment for the 'teacher drama subgenre'. Now, if only more real teachers would not be afraid to act out like him... "},{"Title":"If Only The Rest of The Movie Could Keep Up With Morgan Freeman","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Morgan Freeman's performance, as Principal Joe Clark, is hands down the best thing about Lean On Me. It could even be considered today to be one of Freeman's Top 5 most iconic performances, easily ranking alongside The Shawshank Redemption (1994), Se7en (1995), and Million Dollar Baby (2004).Freeman effectively displays a take-charge attitude with his performance that the real life Joe Clark most likely had when he took over the real Eastside High School in Patterson, New Jersey. His best scene is when he first addresses the Eastside students in the auditorium, and swiftly expels the repeat troublemakers indefinitely. Following his rousing speech, one student, Kaneesha Carter (Karen Malina White), remarks, Mr. Clark don't play! You really can't disagree.The beginning of the movie shows the thriving educational institution Eastside High School was in the late 1960's, when Joe Clark first taught there. 20 years later, the promising early days of Eastside were long gone, as the school gradually decayed into a dangerous, run-down inner city public school.The first 20 minutes of Lean On Me shows what still ranks as one of the most intense and (somehow) least exploitative depictions of a typical day in a bad inner city public school. Guns N Roses' classic Welcome To The Jungle is the most fitting song. It may not be fun and games, but it's enough to bring you to your kneesHallways fights occur daily, drug dealers frequently visit, and bars cover the windows. Even a young kid getting trapped in his locker only results in a custodian shaking his head in apathy. Just like A Tale of Two Cities, where French peasants are drinking wine off the Paris streets, things are bad!Much to the reluctance of Patterson Mayor Don Bottman (Alan North), Dr. Frank Napier (Robert Guillaume) convinces Joe Clark to take over as principal of Eastside High, and attempt to restore its former glory. Clark, who was fired from the school 20 years ago due to budget cuts, reluctantly agrees. However, Clark takes charge in a way Dr. Napier never expected.Mr. Clark's unorthodox methods of discipline are probably still the subject of hot debate. Was his expelling the troublemakers on his first day the right thing to do? I think so, especially given the opening credits. However, a number of angry parents, especially Leonna Barrett (Lynne Thigpen), think otherwise.Lynne Thigpen was a great actress, and she did well in her role here as a community member who is against Mr. Clark from the start. However, her character lacked definition. We know she's a parent of someone who attended Eastside High, but we never see her child. It's implied that her child was expelled, but she seems way too dedicated a community member to let her child fall through the cracks.Most importantly, her character seems completely unaware of the mess that Eastside High was before Mr. Clark became principal. Was she ever in the high school, let alone when a fight occurred? Thigpen did what she could with the character, but Ms. Barrett needed to be more established.Similarly, all the teachers we see appear more dedicated than Mr. Clark gives them credit for being. That's not a bad thing, but we never see any inept or corrupt teachers. We just see Mr. Clark unjustly fire music teacher Mrs. Elliot (Robin Bartlett), and even more unreasonably suspend Mr. Darnell (Michael Beach), the latter of whom Dr. Napier even describes as a good, strong young Black teacher.Did Mr. Clark fire teachers like them in real life? I don't know, but he may have. However, the real Eastside High must have had corrupt teachers who took part in the drug trade, had sex with students, or did similarly inappropriate and illegal things. These kinds of behaviors do happen in high schools across America, especially decaying inner-city public schools. The latter schools just have more tolerance for it.When you see Mr. Clark immediately fire a good teacher for not teaching students the school song, it makes him out to be a bully. If you saw him throwing a teacher out of school for selling drugs, that action would be more justifiable, and the audience would be better able to sympathize with him.Then there's the case of putting locks and chains on the doors. Mr. Clark orders the school security guards to do this after an altercation with a suspended student who came back into school with a knife in his hand. This order gets Mr. Clark in trouble with both the mayor and Fire Chief Gaines (John Ring), who correctly declare the action a fire hazard.You can understand Mr. Clark's motivation for putting on the chains there are dangerous people outside, and one of their friends can just push open the doors and let them in. Plus, the school doesn't have the budget for doors that unlock automatically in case of emergency. On the other hand, the Fire Chief has a point too. This conflict is probably what got the real Mr. Clark in trouble, and you can tell because it's very complicated. There are easy solutions to this problem, but like many problems in America's educational system, they are not attainable ones.There is a lot Lean On Me does right, beginning with casting Morgan Freeman and Robert Guillaume. It's also inspiring to see the students who stay in Eastside High School warm up to Mr. Clark, and appreciate his disciplinary actions as tough love.However, the antagonists in this movie caused the most inconsistency, seemingly not even acknowledging a lot of the good Mr. Clark did, which unquestionably outweighed the bad. If these characters actually stepped out of the movie and watched the opening credit sequence, they may have changed their minds. Then again, Mr. Clark seemed to be the only character who saw the big picture. It's hard to say. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman at his greatest!","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie I was a little skeptical of before I watched it. I didn't know who was in it, what it was about, or how long it was. All I was told was you'll like the opening song (which happened to be Welcome to the Jungle by Guns N' Roses). However, not even halfway through it, I was absorbed and no amount of willpower would get me away from that film.This movie was truly inspiring in its plot. The characters (especially Morgan Freeman) were truly believable. The students (the good ones) are inspiring in the end. This movie shows an amazing portrayal of human character and how one man can change the lives of many. I think it's funny that they turned to him when he was fired before. This film is great. It definitely is worth watching. You'll laugh, cry, and be astonished at Morgan Freeman's performance. "},{"Title":"Powerful and inspirational","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John G. Avildsen's film is a powerful and inspirational tale of one man's fight to clean up a destitute and forgotten high school in America. Plays a lot like Stand and Deliver, only better, the movie's balance of drama and humour is very good.Morgan Freeman gives an outstanding performance as Joe Clarke. He was a teacher at the once proud Eastside High. Clarke returns twenty years after walking out to perform a literal resurrection as principal of the downward spiraling school that has become full of violence and completely drug-ridden.The supporting cast are excellent as is the soundtrack. Recommended viewing.Saturday, November 16, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman's Best Role! He Carries The Entire Movie","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean on Me is considered one of Morgan Freeman's most memorable performances. It reenacts the story of Joe Clark, a noted no-nonsense disciplinarian, who was hired as principal of decaying inner-city Eastside High School in Patterson, New Jersey.Joe Clark fought diligently to keep violence and drug dealers out of Eastside High School, to make it a special place of learning, and to improve the self-esteem and moral of his students. Many teachers and administrators resented his no-nonsense approach to discipline and his unconventional methods. He demanded respect from students and staffers alike. If you disrespected Joe Clark, or didn't follow his My Way or the Highway approach, he simply removed you from the school.Morgan Freeman is chillingly realistic as Joe Clark in this movie. The other performers are good. However, without Morgan Freeman as the lead protagonist, there is no movie. Yes, he is THAT good! However, there are some problems with Lean on Me, when compared to the REAL Joe Clark story.SPOILERS As a subplot, the movie creates a fictitious account of a minimum basic skills test that 75% of the student's must pass by the end of the school year to prevent take over by the state. However, Eastside High School was ALWAYS owned and run by the state. There was no proficiency exam, but the producers needed a subplot to give Morgan Freeman's Joe Clark, some academic accomplishment for the movie to fall back on. The REAL Joe Clark story was how he instilled discipline and respect in his students and the school, not how he educated them.I also learned that there was no evidence to support that academic achievement actually increased during Joe Clark's tenure at Eastside High School. The beginning of the film with its horrible conditions, fights, and graffiti, is WAY overdone. It makes the high school look like a prison riot. I talked to someone who played sports during one summer at Eastside High when Mr. Clark was still principle. He told me, Eastside High was bad, but nowhere NEAR what is shown at the beginning of the film. In contrast, before filming, the producers made the school look like a Holy Shrine, this was also exaggerated. The feel-good ending from the director of Rocky is also to be expected, based on a premise that was false from the start. However, once again, Morgan Freeman generates so much power and feeling in this movie that you will find the ending very moving.I recommend this film because of the brilliant acting of Morgan Freeman as Joe Clark, even though some of the subplots are not based on the exact truth. "},{"Title":"Love John Avildson","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Love John Avildson movies.This movie was a surprise to me. I was surprised at how uplifted I was at the end and this seemed to suggest that it was a good movie. Morgan Freeman is awesome as the teacher and also makes the character real. Teachers rarely get respect, so this film applauded them.Really enjoyed all the student actors.But it wasn't really. It was supposed to be a comedy but there were too few funny moments. As an actor he is very under-rated. He was excellent in this and other movies. He is a very funny guyThe acting was fine, some jokes were good and the direction was great. "},{"Title":"Deeply moving","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember I saw this movie the first time in the mid 90's, and I was stunned by the plot and the hilarious comments by Morgan Freeman, who remains one of my favorite actors. I love the way he kicks the establishments ass during the whole movie, and you understand his commitment for the kids on the school. Outstanding supporting actors as well, especially Lynne Thigpen who does one of her best roles as the parent from hell... Seeing it as I did yesterday on cable, makes this movie stand out as one of the best school movies made. The emphasis here is clearly acting as well as realism, and the mix is well blended and the movie still stands out today. "},{"Title":"A day in the life","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember one day when we were working on the set. All of us extras were supposed to eat in the gym, and we got bologna sandwiches, while the other actors and crew were eating prime rib and such, I had found this out, because I had gone with one of the contracted actors to the REAL dining room, the previous day. Well, when I let the other extras know what the others were eating, it started a food fight, which was a lot of fun back then. All of a sudden, this guy comes in, and shouts into a megaphone That's enough! If this doesn't stop, I will cancel this movie! I went up to him, and said, who do you think you are? He looked at me and replied, I am Joe Clark, who this movie is about. Now sit down and be quiet. Was fun meeting him, but wish it had been a better intro to him, he really turned out to be a very nice person after that. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is outstanding. Morgan Freeman gives a stirring portrayal of Batman Joe Clark. I had the pleasure once of meeting the real Joe Clark and was very impressed with him. All of the characters had their own story to tell. Had their own problems and their own outlook on life. The actors portraying them made you care what happened to them. Each person was real since this is a true story. Robert Guillame also gives one of the better performances of his career with this movie. Far better than Benson and in all due respect Benson wasn't all that bad really. This movie is a classic well-thought and acted out story. It will go down as one of the all time greats. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman Rules!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mr. Morgan Freeman is a brilliant actor. He shines as the Tough Love principal trying to bring a dead high school back to life. Mr. Freeman carries the entire story. He is riveting from the moment he is on screen. At one point he tells a student You'll be dead in a year son. - incredible. Without Mr. Freeman this would be a loud boorish movie.Morgan Freeman is one of the greatest actors this country (USA) has, it's about time that Hollowood recognized him as such.- Zafoid "}{"Title":"Can always count on Freeman","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film several times and every time the power and heart of this story overcomes me. Each level of the story teaches a lesson which the soul can always learn but never forget. Morgan Freeman delivers a classic performance. His Joe Clark is half Martin Sheen in Cadance and half Robin Williams in Dead Poets Society.I think this is a movie everyone should watch, especially with their children. It is a movie that will speak across the ages, across races - it's a story about struggle, and survival - overcoming the opposition even when you can't understand what it is they oppose.  "},{"Title":"Love","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though this movie came out before I was born. I still love it. I watch it every chance I get and think everybody should see it. The acting of Morgan Freeman was outstanding, amazing, and utterly dumbfounded me. I've seen him in other movies but the power he portrayed in helping the kids of this movie was inspiring. I've seen how it is in High Schools even the ones I go to in the suburbs it does get rough and kids do not listen to authority figures. To think that somebody could get such loyalty from a group of students that they would all assemble to get him free'd from jail was amazing. I give this a 10 because it's a movie that I can stand to see 13 times in a week. I repeat everybody should see this movie. "},{"Title":"Freeman makes this film","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was one of Morgan Freeman's first starring roles. He made this film the year before his Oscar for Driving Miss Daisy. He gives an awesome performance as bare-knuckled principle Joe Clark. He is funny, dynamic, intense and more then a little bit abrasive. I cannot help but notice how often everyone shouts in this film. It does make it more intense though like in the scene where he takes that boy up on the roof and tells him to jump. John Avildsen makes this a feel good film just like Rocky and the Karate Kid. He shows how one person who cares can make a difference. "},{"Title":"OMG! this is the Second best movie EVER made.","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was so inspiring. Morgan, like all the reviews state, was cast PERFECTLY as Joe Clark. I cant think of an actor better suited to the role. I almost cried, and I don't cry for ANYTHING. This was a very deep movie and I recommend this to anyone whom likes Morgan Freeman, movies about finding yourself, kids improving themselves out of their own free will, and things like that. If you think movies like this are ghetto, your an idiot because thats the incorrect use of the word ghetto, Morgan RULES, and movies like this were meant to inspire. Which I believe, is exactly what it did for me. If you watch it. You will feel, invigorated, happy, sad, more happy, and inspired to do good things.Movies sort of like this but not as good are remember the titans, The color purple, dangerous minds, and stand and deliver.PS, Lets go Morgan Freeman! YAY! "},{"Title":"This movie leans on Morgan Freeman to carry it to greatness","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I would like to start by first saying that I am not generally a fan of the student/teacher film genera. Movies of this type usually come across as either too sentimental, overly contrived, or both for my taste. Lean on Me would probably have been a likewise forgettable experience if it had not have been for Morgan Freeman's perfect casting for the role of Principle Clark.Based on true events, the film takes place in Eastside High School, one of New Jersey's worst public schools. When a bombardment of graffiti, drug dealing, riots and low grades threaten to pull the institution apart, superintendent Frank Napier (Robert Guillaume; The Lion King, Big Fish) decides to hire his most controversial teacher, Joe Louis Clark (Morgan Freeman; The Shawshank Redemption, The Dark Knight) as principle to clean things up.The best part of this picture was undeniably Morgan Freeman's role. The concept of an eccentric and short-tempered character has been, to say the least, overdone; However, Freeman's portrayal of 'Crazy Joe' feel new and, surprisingly, relatable.That is not to say that the Morgan Freeman's casting was the only saving grace of this film. The relationships played out between the teachers, administration, parents, and students were fairly well done on all parts.Ultimately, Freeman succeeded in stealing the spotlight throughout. He carried something that would have been average and made it not a just a brilliant film, but his brilliant film. If anything, Lean on Me was a movie that leaned on Morgan Freeman in order to be as great as it was. "},{"Title":"Every teacher's guilty dream...","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The year is 1967. Joe Clark, teacher, preacher, and all around good guy, is doing his thing for the next generation. But then internal politics kicks him out of his school, and Joe Clark, teacher, preacher, and now oracle, predicts this school will get what it deserves! 20 years later... and we know it's 20 years later because there's a highly kitsch dissolve... the school has fallen into ANARCHY and CHAOS! There are DRUGS and teenagers are BULLIES and the teachers can't DO ANYTHING and everything has just gone to HECK! So the politics grinds its little gears and there's good ol' Joe Clark, principal, disenchanted educator, and lean mean fighting machine to COME BACK and set things straight! 'Course you know, people don't like him because he's a jerk and he yells a lot, and it's hard because politics is still grinding the gears and parents don't like their kids being treated like anything but total angels even if they're drug dealers, but, you know, that's just, like, the drama, and stuff.Pretty much this movie is split 50/50 between Morgan Freeman yelling in somebody's face, and campy 80s things like the world's worst montage and the titular song played--twice in a row, in fact! It's also entertaining beyond measure. The fact that they are willing to go as far as they are into the kitsch and the culture of it is just too much fun to describe! That's not to deny the power of Freeman's own investment in his character. Honestly, you want a good laugh, watch this movie. However, the entire overall oomph! of the thing... Wow! This is a real experience! --PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this movie it was great. And i think its an very inspiring movie for teens.My favorite part in the movie was when the boys got caught in the bathroom,because i thought they were going to mess up but they didn't they sung perfectly.I think this movie can teach many people how to improve with their selves.Many problems in this movie are going on today in school.And just like they were fixed in this movie they can be fixed i schools today.Like they kids falling asleep in class, and listening to music, not studying, fighting. Im not saying the same way they fixed them in the movie is the same way they can be fixed, but i know there is an way for them to get fixed . I love this movie no matter how old it gets i will always love it. "},{"Title":"Features appearance by The Sopranos' Michael Imperioli","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean on Me is based on the true story of Joe Clark, a teacher recruited by the New Jersey school system administration and mayor to restore Eastside High, which has become a poster-child for the urban decayed inner-city school. While Clark's unorthodox methods today would most certainly be challenged, it is a film definitely worth watching for Freeman's outstanding portrayal of Joe Clark. Watch for an early appearance by a bushy-haired Michael Imperioli (credited as George) &#x96; who played Christopher Moltisanti of The Sopranos). He can be seen in the school auditorium and on the stage, smoking, as one of the drug dealers and thugs Freeman drags up on stage to ridicule and identify as same in front of the rest of the school.This movie actually changed my life when I heard Sam Jackson say All I gotta do is be black and die. It's true. Everything is a choice. We just all have to know that and make the right ones for ourselves -- not what other people think they should be. It's a challenge to keep from responding to peer pressure and being guilted into putting ourselves on hold or at risk. "},{"Title":"What A Wonderful Movie...","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time about 3 years ago on showtime. Since then I have bought it and i couldn't get enough of the movie. I would have to say that this movie is one of the best movies that came out in the 80's.  This movie hits you right at home and it gives you hope and feeling Like you can accomplish anything.  I'd recommend this movie to anyone who loves inspirational movies.   "},{"Title":"Actually pretty good!","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie in class because our substitute was obsessed with inspirational movies that are about possibility. It was actually pretty good! I liked it and so did most of the rest of the class. I give it about a 6/10. And it was very cool that it was actually a true story! I recommend it to most ages. "}{"Title":"You can lean on Freeman Anyday!!!","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lean On Me is a thoroughly inspirational movie.Crazy Joe Clarke returns to a school from which he wasbooted unceremoniously years ago.  I think what's important to note is that he returns on his own terms thistime around but receives an ultimatum, a time frame to workwithin.  He needs to achieve an above average result forthe school.Crazy Joe realizes that sheer driving almost brutal forceis what the school requires and he introduces it.  He doesn't listen to no one cos when he did back then,he lost his job and EastSide High descended into hell.Many detractors say Crazy Joe was loudmouthed and a bullybut the soft touch never got EastSide High anywhere.  CJcouldn't afford to show weakness, the environment wouldn'tallow it.  One slip and he'd have been trampled underfootby the system he was trying to correct.He showed sympathy when confronted with Kaneesha's difficult mother and her teenage pregnancy, most principals (never mind that they knew her) would give the girl a severe dressing down that would probably push her to abortion.He gave the pupils hope and treated them like individuals,he showed them respect when they EARNED IT guns, fags,sass and sex don't buy respect.  You respect yourself andothers learn to respect you.  Crazy Joe had atitude which Irespect, in life you must do something, Lead, Follow,or GetOut Of The Way.He may have been crazy but his methods achieved the intended the results.  EastSide High far from being thepits became the pedestal,it excelled.I had a Gentle Joe in University and he gave us hope,dignity and a sense of self.  Most people could do with oneof these in their school days.Crazy Joe was also Man Enough to publicly apologise to ajunior colleague and acknowledge his mistake.  It takes a man of strength and character to do that.LEAN ON ME teaches you to lean on others for the world togo round.  Morgan Freeman who is the best character actor in Hollywood displays an intensely frightening understanding of character. Watching him is like an audience with GOD, He is scary and brilliant at the same time.Each time I watch this movie,something positive about life is rekindled in me.An Enduring Classic!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman at one of his bests","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie was a great movie for high school students to watch and anyone for that matter, it teaches you about life and life in high school, it just leaves you with a feeling that you know more about life then before you watched it. I hope everyone that hasnt seen it sees it!!! "},{"Title":"Uplifting, Unbelievable","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lean On Me was a great time at the movies for me.  The inspirational story of tough as nails principal Joe Clark, beautifully portrayed by the great Morgan Freeman, is at turns heartbreaking, gritty, hilarious and enlightening.  Robert Guillaume and Jermaine Hopkins and especially spectacular in their respective roles as well.  I'll never forget the boy's room songbirds scene!This is a story for all people.  About how one man single handedly bitch slapped the American educational system into line and turned around on the most problem ridden high schools in history.  I quote Crazy Joe/Morgan Freeman, Discipline is not the enemy of enthusiasm!  Amen.  This is not a perfect film, far from it, but it is one you don't wanna miss, brothers and sisters.  Viva Crazy Joe!  Ciao.    "},{"Title":"Inspiring And Brilliant","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lean On Me is a brilliant and inspiring film that blends wisdom and street smarts to make a drama that excels above the rest.  It came after brilliant school dramas such as The Breakfast Club and before brilliant ones such as Light It Up.  It is a pinnacle in dramatic film-making.Morgan Freeman's hard-nosed Principal Joe Clark brings loud obnoxious brilliance that holds up this film.  He saves an urban New Jersey school from going overboard, just like movies like Stand And Deliver.  He overcomes obstacles such as the PTA and the Board Of Education, and even the police.  The plot is a good one but is just a run of the mill one.  Despite its ordinary (but good) plot the performances hold this film together and make it a very enjoyable presence in modern film-making.My Grade A- "},{"Title":"The Film that lifted Morgan Freeman's Career","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At the age of 52, Morgan Freeman finally got his break as the principal of Easthigh School where he plays a modern version of Sidney Poitier in 'To Sir, with Love', only this time he's carrying a baseball bat. The theme was used in American television serials of the early 90's, and then reinvented with Samuel L. Jackson in 'One, Eight, Seven'. An all round entertaining film that belongs in the Morgan Freeman canon. "},{"Title":"Great Movie - period","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  They used to call me Crazy Joe... now they can call me batman.Just set aside those visions of Morgan Freeman in Hard Rain and Robin Hood... this is classic Morgan Freeman. "},{"Title":"An A+ Movie","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The late 80's and early 90's saw a good number of films in this vein come out, namely movies that focused on a teacher/principal who turned kid's lives around and made them enjoy learning.  Dead Poet's Society and Stand and Deliver are just two examples of this type of film, which shares more in common with this movie than just the plot, they are all great movies.Though different in their execution these movies did strive to show how a good role model is just as important as a good teacher.  More than that, there is no reason that a teacher couldn't and shouldn't be that role model.Not to dwell on those other films, this movie is a nicely crafted adaptation of the events of which Joe Clark turned around East Side High School.  Morgan Freeman does an excellent job in playing this difficult character and shows us just how important it was to Joe to do a good job and do something worthwhile with his life.  More than that he showed how that desire had ramifications both good and bad.This is not the type of film you watch to kill time on a rainy afternoon, this is the type of movie you watch to be inspired.  You watch it when you need something to show you how determination can turn things around. It is also the type of movie you watch with your children to show them how important school is and how they need to be a part of the solution, not the problem. "},{"Title":"Excellent Video Rental","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not Morgan Freeman's best performance, but still very watchable.Abusive language, use of four letter expletives detracted from the film -- but its still worth watching.This film does shows that Freeman IS, one of the best Character Actor's around.  I still liked him better in Shawshank Redemption, The Power of One, and Driving Miss Daisy better, but if your a Morgan Freeman fan, rent this - you won't be disappointed.. "},{"Title":"Powerful.  Freeman is perfect.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    Freeman does a perfect job here, portraying real life Joe Clark.  I can't help but be disgusted and sick when I see this movie.  I think it's that powerful.  In the first five minutes, you see a major drug deal take place, with the drugs being dealt to probably 80 % of the school, you see a student with a revolver, and you see a teacher who is trying to break up a fight get his head pounded into the ground repeatedly until he has to be taken out of the school by paramedics.  Those few things right there go to make you so angry at the way the system works.  I live in a small town in Indiana, and my high school had no security...we didn't need it...AT ALL.  So, I can't say how accurate this movie is when it comes to how the school actually was.  Either way, it's clearly bad, and it's getting worse...and we need more guys like Clark.  Freeman plays him great, and the support cast does a nice job as well.  I think Freeman is indeed one of the best actors ever, and this is yet another masterpiece.  The movie has a nice look, and it feels real.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Another brilliant performance by Mr. Freeman","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Can you say underrated?  This film was fantastic.  Morgan Freeman shows once again that he is one of the finest American actors in Hollywood.  His portrayal of Joe Clark was amazing; you hated him and loved him at the same time.  DeNiro, Hoffman, Streep, and yes, Freeman. "}{"Title":"The turning point of a generation","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Morgan Freeman somehow powers his way to your heart in this shocker.  In this movie, he gives a solid performance in his portrayal of Joe Clark, a domineering inner-city principal ahead of his time.  See this movie and watch how he leads a whole younger generation toward hope....The story takes 2 decades ago in Paterson, New Jersey, an urbanized suburb of N.Y. City, with many problems involving troubled minorities. I am originally from nearby Wayne, New Jersey, and saw how these events shaped society.  It's something.In the film, watch for other fine supporting roles, including that of Lynne Thigpen, that's right.....don't expect her to be the lovable woman in this as we all remember her in the game show, Carmen Sandiego.  She has other issues on her mind in this picture.My rating out of 10   9.5 "},{"Title":"An excellent movie demonstrating the triumph of tough love and discipline over societal obstacles.","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  LEAN ON ME is an astoundingly inspirational film based on the life and accomplishments of Principal Joe Clark, an unyielding and determined educator who refused to accept the state's conclusion that his high school students were academic failures and decided to change the perception using unorthodox methods of teaching and stern discipline.  His work gained national recognition in the 1980's and even received public mention by then President Ronald Reagan. Crazy Joe became a household name and set a valuable example to numerous inner city school systems.(p)This movie has a profoundly realistic and an unforgettable performance by one of the great actors of our time, Morgan Freeman, playing the role of Joe Clark.  The film has numerous memorable quotes and keeps the audience thoroughly entertained.  It is a remarkable movie worth seeing by both adults and children.  "},{"Title":"Great film, it really lifts your spirits.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lean on Me is probably my favorite movie of all time.  I am studying to be a high school teacher at St. John's University in Jamaica, NY.  Seeing Lean on Me is inspirational.  The Way Joe Clark transformed East Side High in Paterson (where my father used to live) was astonishing.  My favorite line in the movie is Discipline is not the enemy of enthusiasm.  If you need to use discipline, you use it, it doesn't mean you use it every single minute of your life.  I hope to someday inspire young minds as a high school teacher the way Joe Clark did in this film.  A great film for anybody who needs their spirits lifted.  "},{"Title":"An Inspiration!","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is my inspiration.  The reason for that is that I am from Arkansas.  We have the worst public educational system in all of the United States.  There are three reasons for this.  1). Sports dominates and takes attention away from academic activities.  2). Our grading scale ridiculously lax (90% equals an A).  3).  The people believe the system can't be changed because the students are too dumb and the people running the system are too corrupt.  I might have become one of the people who had given up if not for Lean on Me.  Even though I am only 18 I am considering a future school board run in which I will improve the system and hire compentent officials.  Everyone I have told this to says one of two things.  You can't win or things can't change.  Lean on Me says that if one has the audacity, the tenacity, and the capacity to change the system for the better they must.  Some things you can never give up on.  You can't give up on justice, you can't give up on freedom, and you can't give up on education.                                                                                        -Frank "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman makes the film","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Without Morgan Freeman in the lead, this film could have easily become a movie of the week , made for television movie.  But with Freemans powerful presence, the film is at times quite extraordinary.  Very similar in vein to films like Stand and Deliver, and inspirational like Dead Poets Society, but with similarities aside- its still a good film.  Faced with a cast largely of unknowns, it was up to Freeman to carry the film, reciting monologue after monologue, which he does with passion and conviction.  Naturally, when a story is based on fact, they are usually limited to what they can come up with in storyline, but that was not a problem this film had to face. There are so many sub-plots going on, that at times you can lose track of which one is what, some points of interest stick in the mind longer than others, but that normal.  If you like uplifting and inspirational films, then this one may well be for you. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman is one of the best","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Freeman once again proves that he cannot give a poor performance.  His portrayal of Joe Clark is impeccable and heartwarming.  It is truly a great story about how one man can inspire those around him and make a change for the better, much like in Dead Poets Society with Robin Williams.  Morgan Freeman is one of the best actors in Hollywood and my favorite. "},{"Title":"Great Acting","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Always enjoy the great acting skills of Morgan Freeman, who played the Principal, (Joe Clark) in this film and gave an outstanding performance. Poor Joe had to leave a very quite elementary school in Patterson, N.J., and take on the job as a high school Principal that was a complete Horror, something like the Blackboard Jungle. Joe Clark had to deal with all kinds of dope pushers and students who spent four (4) years at the high school and could not even read or write. There was lots of shouting through out the entire picture and after a while, it got rather boring and unrealistic. If it were not for Morgan Freeman being in this picture, it would have fallen completely on its FACE ! "},{"Title":"Portrait of a Cult Leader?","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Am I the only one who sees a problem here?The problem isn't in Freeman's performance; his portrayal of bullhorn-toting principal Joe Clark is nuanced and powerful. In fact, it's not in the generally good performances by a good cast. It's not in the direction; it's clichéd but about what you'd expect in a Hollywood biopic. In fact, it's pretty much an average movie, 5 - 6 stars by IMDb's scale and two and a half by VideoHound's.No, it must be this movie's viewpoint. As he often was in the media at the time, Clark is portrayed as a savior who vindicates his bullying (excuse me, that should read Tough Love) by single-handedly turning around an inner-city high school. Fair enough. But the students are portrayed as bumbling inepts who finally turn their lives around by not asking questions and obeying Clark in all things. The teachers are a bunch of whining misfits, some of whom finally turn their lives around by putting their brains and mouths in neutral and obeying Clark in all things.Starting to see the pattern? Only when you stop thinking and do as you're told can you be a real person. (Kind of interesting that most of writer Michael Schiffer's work has involved military themes). At one point, Clark upbraids then praises a music teacher in front of her students. Where I teach, that would get a division dean transferred to the Welding department. Then, we are supposed to cheer when he locks all the doors. Anyone remember what happened at that chicken plant down South? In essence, Clark is no better than the hoodlums he vanquishes.It should be noted that in real life, Clark's techniques were not as well accepted as they are in this picture. That same technique was in style a few years ago as a form of discipline. Teens were being sent off to boot camp for just about any kind of behavior you could imagine. And, the technique fell into disrepute when the teens who returned didn't know how to say No or ask questions. If you had a teenage daughter, would you want her to be unable to say No to an authority figure?Like many films of the 80s, Lean On Me presents a scary pop-culture endorsement of a larger social trend. We see it even today. We are encouraged to stop thinking and put our trust in authority figures, be it Dr. Phil, Landmark Seminars, the televangelist of your choice, or our political leaders. Our society feels that military-style training is good for everyone. Only then, we are told, do we get it. Critical thinking is no longer taught in schools because it is negative, maybe even unpatriotic! This is why Manson, Jonestown and Heaven's Gate happened. I teach college and I have seen too many students give up their studies to join some cult, because they want so desperately to get it and have never been taught how to question what they are told.Of course, I'm not blaming movies. I love movies. And I love free speech, and believe that any movie has the right to be seen (even New York Minute ) All I'm saying is, that when you consume movies and other entertainment, watch to see what it's really telling you. You could be surprised. "},{"Title":"Lean on Morgan Freeman!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I lived in NJ during the real life events of East Side H.S. in Paterson, but I was never aware of it. This movie opened my eyes, and also made me aware of Joe Clark, the principal who saved the dying school. Morgan Freeman took this role and proved the Academy have their heads way up their butts, for he was not nominated. Mr. Freeman displays anger, charisma, and determination so fluidly that you'd wonder if he could've handled the real life problems the school had. It is probably the most dynamic performance of his career. Except from Robert Guillamme, he gets little out of both the supporting cast and especially the student composite-characters, who aren't the best actors. Shoot, that fact in and of itself should have ensured some special recognition. There is one ridiculous singing of Lean On Me by the staff and students, complete with a coda and vamp. While it is supposed to be inspiring and uplifting, it just seems corny and misplaced.Who won the Best Actor Oscar the following year? Who cares? Let's revise history and say Morgan Freeman won, for no one could have done better. "},{"Title":"Powerful performance by Morgan Freeman","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What makes Morgan Freeman a great actor is that he is a great student of the people around him.It's that simple.Overall,this film is a bit overdone,as many of John Avildsen's films have been since that certain Oscar winner about the underdog boxer back in '76,but what makes this film at least reasonably good is the performance of Freeman.Very few are better at getting lost in a character than this man.It's based on a true story,about how renegade Principal Joe Clark,turned Eastside High School in Patterson,New Jersey from that terrible cauldron of violence,to a respected institution of learning.He has his enemies, who disapprove of his unorthadox methods,and he must fight his way through them to succeed.If you love films with this typical underdog theme,it's definitely for you,but Morgan Freeman's performance alone is well worth the rental price.Good movie. "}{"Title":"Bad high school reformed by tough new principal.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Joe Clark teaches at an inner city high school in the 1960's, but his unorthodox style puts him at odds with the administration, and he walks out. Fast forward 20-25 years, with Guns'n Roses's Welcome to the Jungle blaring from the soundtrack and graffiti filled walls, and Joe Clark returns as a principal. The film centers on his reforms.  He gets the kids to pass a test so that the school is not shut down or defunded.  Everyone sings his praises, bla bla bla. But what the taglines don't tell you is how relentlessly negative Joe Clark is.  Nothing he does is ever positive.  Even when the kids pass the tests, he sounds negative about it.  The most galling scene in the film is when he goes to the music room and tells the Music Teacher that her singing competition (with the school's excellent choir, I might add...the ONLY decent thing at the school) is canceled because the kids don't need Mozart.  The Music Teacher is aghast and confronts Joe, who immediately fires her.  God forbid if a teacher wants to bring artful expression to the classroom.  The teacher says that the union will have something to say about that (or possibly a lawyer), but we never hear from her or them again. Pity. It would have been immensely satisfying to see Joe Clark taken out of the school in cuffs...or at least fired himself for wrongful termination. Of course, he brings in his own choir teacher, a fat blues singing gal who gets the kids to sing Lean On Me... big freakin' surprise there.In actuality, until the Kill Mozart because it's not useful scene, I thought the movie was at least passable.  The direction is terrible, but Morgan Freeman is outstanding as Clark.  He is not a negative actor, but his skill is so great it makes you really want to beat the daylights out of Joe Clark...with a pipe, on a windy Tuesday in Lent.As others have pointed out, Freeman is worth seeing, even if the film is not. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The concerned principal/ teacher film.","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean on Me (1989) is an exploitation film masquerading as a feel good family flick. Morgan Freeman stars as the boot jack wearing thuggish high school principal Joe Clark. A man hailed by the right wing as a miracle worker and a cretin using questionable methods by the left. The filmmakers make him out to be some sort of scholastic zealot who bullies and schmaltz's his way to the top (he even brings in his own brown shirts!) If you want to see the exploits of Mr. Clark then check out Lean on Me!The movies not that great but Morgan Freeman's performance is real good and believable. The rest of the cast is not so hot. They other under play or over act their roles. Denzel Washington would later on base his entire acting repertoire off of Freeman's style that he showcased in this movie. I guess people are creatively challenged all over.Not a bad film to waste an hour and a half of your life watching. Remember you can always do a whole lot worse (believe me I have). "},{"Title":"he did it his way","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" there are so many movies out there dealing with the problem of kids not learning anything in schools,and dropping out,ending up in a life of crime,or dead.but this movie came out at a time when these movies weren't so commonplace.Morgan Freeman plays Joe Clark,who has been recruited as principal of a once proud school,but one which has been overrun with hoodlums for years.the teachers are powerless to do anything,and the kids fall through the cracks.it's Clark's job to restore the reputation of the school and get the kids learning again.the movie is inspirational,for sure,and the commanding presence of Morgan Freeman lends it a lot of legitimacy.the only problem i found was that it is a bit long,and a few of the songs are a bit too maudlin.but that's just my opinion.it's still a good movie.for me,Lean on Me is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Of 1989!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie too many times to count! Morgan Freeman does a great job playing Joe Clark. The song birds actually had a real music career. Karen Malina White and Jermaine Huggy Hopkins had many great roles because of this movie. This is the first movie where Michael Beach played a bad guy. Lynn Thigpen's role was 100% different than the character she played on Where In The World Is Carmen Sandiego? Eastside High reminded me of my old high school in many ways. But I know someone who went to Eastside High. He said it wasn't as bad as it was portrayed in the movie. I still wonder whatever happened to the real students that attended Eastside High. We all know what happened to the real Joe Clark. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman's Best of All Time","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is Morgan Freeman's best movie of all time.  He plays the rough tough, obnoxious, powerful principal Joe Clark.  Based on a true story about a broken down school in Patterson, NJ;  Clark is there to reform it to passing standards before the state of NJ takes over.  He is tough and teaches everyone (both staff and students) that discipline isn't the enemy of enthusiasm.  He protects his students, educates them, loves them, and disciplines them.  He is rough and puts up with alot of crap from politicians, but he is equally hard on his staff and coworkers.  No one else could have played this part as good as him, but Samuel L Jackson and Laurence Fishburne may come in a close second.  Watch and enjoy this move! Don't waste money renting it, just spend a few bucks more and buy it.  "},{"Title":"WOW...simply... a great movie","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     The first thing anyone should say about this movie is that MORGAN FREEMAN is one of the best actors ever.  This movie is regular without him, and he slides into the role with grace and POWER.  You will watch this movie and just be in awe of him, he is absolutely fabulous in this movie.  Although he certainly stands out as the best thing about this movie, he is just one character of hundreds in this brilliant movie.    I saw this movie sometime near the time it first came out, and I remembered liking it... but it seemed to have been blurred in my head with all the other school movies I had seen since then.  I only remembered bits and pieces.  And when someone mentioned they had rented it, honestly, I was not very excited to see it.  BUT I was wrong.  I was planning an excuse to leave when my friends put the movie on.  I watched it for a few minutes and became amused.  I sat down and really was enjoying it.  And when Morgan Freeman first walks into the school and makes his speech I was hook, line and sinkered.    This movie has some heavy duty acting, but it is the writing that pulls this whole movie together.  The story is very realistic and deals with a problem that hits a strong note with many viewers...the state of our inner city schools.  The characters in this story are both intriguing, realistic and dynamic.  There is no sappy romance, no plot twist that makes you say...oh my god..how corny or obvious, no terrible lines, everything just FITS.  Everything meshes perfectly with the incredible cast that this movie has.    The actors are amazing.  This movie has many powerful, scenes...and then it has many regular everyday type scenes.  The actors had to act, and boy did they act.  I swear, it is as though you are sitting there watching this all happen next door.  It just all flows together, and works so naturally.  The angry parent, the vice principal, the teachers, the many students that this movie focuses on, the pricipal's boss and his lawyer...all characters that were very dynamic, interesting and awesomely acted.      The story is sad, real, important and inspiring.  I went to and inner city grade school and high school.  Granted, my schools were nowhere near the mess that this school was in the beginning of the movie, but inner city schools are typically in conditions similar to this school.  This is sad but true fact in our society today.  This story takes that premise and adds in characters you will miss and ties it all together with Morgan Freeman, the HNIC. After you see the movie you'll understand.  )   "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman makes this film what it is.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is basically Morgan Freemans performance that makes this film the success that it is. He gets some good support from Robert Guillaume in the scenes that he's involved in. The film would have just ended up as another rowdy high school movie if Freeman had not been cast as principal Joe Clark. "},{"Title":"A miracle man movie that's hard to lean on.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sure, there were a few movies around 1989 that expressed tough individuals as miracle workers, including STAND AND DELIVER, which was an excellent example. LEAN ON ME has the same inspiring moments as the rest, only in more harsh details. There has to be some form of criticism. I don't get the reason why Morgan Freeman is trying way too hard at pushing (and punishing?) urban city high school kids by not singing the campus anthem. It has good entertaining value thanks to his performance as a principal he calls himself Batman. But then, you soon find out that everything goes far over the edge and in a state of cruelty. A movie does prosper with its rewards, though. What better things did you expect from John G. Avildsen?   "},{"Title":"A tough principal turning around one of the worst school into a good school.","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lean of Me is a movie about a hard and tough principal trying to turn Eastside High around from being a terrible school into an excellent school. When I saw the opening sequence of the movie, my thoughts were that this was going to be a great and inspirational movie. The reason for my thoughts was because of the actor Morgan Freeman. Morgan Freeman been in great movies and performed excellent acts, but in this movie his character is disappointing. He gets into his character very well, making you believe he was the tough principal, but the storyline and how his character is portrayed in the movie was terrible.Lean on Me begins with Joe Clark (played by Morgan Freeman) in a well run Eastside high, being transferred out. It continues many years later, with Clark in a good school, teaching. Then we get an updated look at Eastside High, which has become a troubled high school where violence and drug-dealing are facts of life and no learning take place. Joe Clark is brought back to Eastside to turn this situation around. He was made principal and decided to gather all the druggies and troublemakers on stage and expel each of them. He then orders every person in the school to learn the school song, and if they didn't, they would be suspended or expelled. He insulted teachers in front of his students and demanded instant obedience.The characters in the movie were played by good actors, such as the girl named Kanesha (played by Karen White) who showed the most emotions and acting skills of all the students. Sams (played by Jermaine Hopkins) was also a pretty good actor, the comedian of the movie. Many of the characters progressed changes, and as we waited for Joe Clark to under go a personality change, he never does so. Instead he stays as an arrogant bully.The director was trying to make the movie inspirational, about how a man defined as crazy can make changes to a terrible school. How children can be disciplined from being animals and changed into humans. How sometimes breaking the law can help keep people safe. And how you are responsible for your own actions. But I believe many of these themes were not shown or made believable. For example in a scene where Joe Clark was at a parent conference ranting and raving about how they were going to pass the test as if they were at a spiritual sermon. And I am not convinced that any kind of learning can be done under Clark. Discipline is not the same as intimidation.Joe Clark is a seriously troubled man. He never changes into a better person and always demanded obedience. He never seems to help his students study for their exam and he fires teachers who disagree with him on how he runs the school. Overall this movie is terrible and show no inspiration. "}]