[{"Title":"Coppola segment drags down otherwise good movie","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Three 40 minutes short films by three of the greatest American directors; Scorsese, Coppola and Allen. I personally like Scorsese's introducing segment the most, Life Lesson. Even if I personally is not a fan of Nick Nolte, the movie has depth and it's just as good as you would expect from a director like Scorsese. Unlike many other directors, Scorsese manages to capture sexual attraction, in this case felt by the main character (Nolte). Freshly photographed and good ending that makes you recall upon your own life. Not a masterpiece but indeed great.Coppola's segment Zoe is a total disaster. It is beautifully filmed, but the acting and the story is far below good. Better fit for the children's hour on TV. I don't know if the story was supposed to be ironical, a satire of spoiled extremely rich kids on Manhattan, which could be the fact since there were some scenes where the young girl interacts with a homeless man. That could have been a good theme, if it was Coppola's intention, but no matter the case - it just don't work. It is silly and it doesn't feel satirical at all. Another idea is that it was supposed to be funny, a short comedy, however, neither does it work on that layer. It somewhat makes me lose my respect for the director.Woody Allen's part however is a pleasant refresher after Coppola's borer. Very funny, typical Allen, good acting from Allen's side and good music.Overall rating is a mere 6, dragged down by Coppola. Without his segment I would rate this movie an 8. "},{"Title":"New York, New York","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The anthology that include three short films that take place in New York City was made by three great American directors, Martin Scorsese, Woody Allen, and Francis Ford Coppola.Life Lessons directed by Martin Scorsese, literally took my breath away - it made me want to rewatch all Scorsese's films (with the one exception, GONY, though). What a magnificent work - visually it is as powerful as the painting Nolte's Lionel was painting. Combining in one short film Procul Harum's A whiter shade of pale and Puccini's Nessun Dorma from Turandot was a stroke of genius. This film is an ode to the power of talent; it is about greatness and curse of the gift, not about love to the woman. The best scene of the film and I'd say one of the best ever made about the Artist's work is Nolte triumphantly painting his masterpiece - his love, desire, lust, cries, whispers, tears, and humiliations magically transform with every stroke of his brush into the immortal, triumphant, brilliant work of art. By the time the painting is finished, he would need a new source of inspiration and self-torture, and the cycle will repeat over again. Devilishly clever portrait of an Artist as Not a Young Man. 9.5/10 I loved Woody Allen's Oedipus Wrecks and I think it is very funny and touching. Looks like Allen has met mothers or grandmothers like Mrs. Millstein in real life and his little gem is his love-hate letter to them. In the end, mom always knows what is best for her little boy. Mae Questel and Julie Kavner (Marge Simpson) were wonderful. Woody's face after his mom disappears and the scene when he practically makes love to the chicken drumstick are pure delight; also the commentary that New York is used to everything and readily accepts the crazy situation - it is so true. One of the best Allen's films I've seen lately - I am very glad that I finally saw it.Larry David (Seinfeld, Curb Your Enthusiasm) plays the Theater Manager. It made me think if Estelle Costanza created by David and Mrs. Millstein (Woody's omnipresent mother) have a lot in common in making the lives of their sons miserable and smothering them with their merciless love? 9/10 Coppola's Life Without Zoë was much weaker than Scorsese's and Allan's stories and paled in comparison - this episode from the lives of the reach and beautiful was pretty and cute but you can skip it. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Allen's was hilarious, Scorsese's was interesting, Coppola's was unnecessary","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York Stories tells three tales of the Big Apple. Martin Scorsese's Life Lessons shows artist Lionel Dobie (Nick Nolte) trying to assess his relationships with people, Francis Ford Coppola's Life without Zoe shows a very mature girl, and Woody Allen's Oedipus Wrecks is about Sheldon Mills (played by Allen himself), a man who quite literally cannot get away from his mother.I have to say that Scorsese did a very good job looking at troubled relationships, and Allen shows how hard it is to have certain kinds of people as parents (of course he often shows that). But Coppola's segment was so dull that I choose not to even write about it. But don't worry; the movie is overall really good, and we should assume that it really sucks to be Allen's character, given what happens in that segment. "},{"Title":"Could've been better, but still","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In New York Stories, three segments are shown back to back, and they are all engaging in their own ways however it's only 2/3 successful as a total motion picture.  Martin Scorsese's Life Lessons is a good example of what caliber of work Scorsese had when he made those three student films in the 1960's.  It is a film that has a lot of depth, but it is quite worth it for fans of the actors and those who could get interested in Richard Price's story.Coppola, director of THE GODFATHER and APOCALYPSE NOW makes Life Without Zoe here, a film that is 180 degrees out of whack from those two movies in that it tells the story of a little rich girl whose best friend is a doorman and revolves around a rich boy's birthday party.  In a way, it almost could appeal to kids, but it's the wrong place to put in between a story of artists by Scorsese and a comedy of mother and son troubles by Allen.Which brings me to the last short film, Oedipus Wrecks, where Woody plays a character whose mother suddenly out of the blue disappears.  This is a good showing of what Woody can do in comedy without having to have a picture length presentation (not that he makes many bad films by the way). So, New York Stories is worth checking out for Life Lessons and Oedipus Wrecks, and there could be an audience somewhere for Life Without Zoe, although the biggest flaw of the movie comes that neither one can connect at all outside of the fact that they all take place in New York and are made by New York directors- in short- fascinating and imperfect in some ways.  B+ "},{"Title":"Two out of three ain't bad","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  **1/2 of****Three completely different short stories told by three of Hollywood's most influential and profilic directors in the most exciting and mythical city on earth. Seems like a shoe in doesn't it? Well almost. Looking forward as I did to the Woody Allen piece Oedipus Wrecks the wait was worth it, but still somewhat unsatisfying. This featurette would've been a welcome change of pace for Woody at the time given that he hadn't made a flat-out silly comedy for a while and he manages to make good use of every moment. He has a great cast,(Kavner, Questral are particular standouts) and a genuinely strange premise to work with and the results are a riot, dare I say one of Woody's best. So what's so unsatisfying? As good as Oedipus Wrecks is , it still suffers because it has to follow Coppolla's god awful and charmless Life Without Zoe. Seriously I had absolutely no clue what the hell was going on in this obnoxious, cutesy-poo clinker. Can anyone help me understand why Coppola thought anyone would like this? Sitting through Zoe is so emotionally draining that by the time you get to Oedipus you're too annoyed and confused to fully enjoy it. As a result Scorsese's Life Lessons comes off the best of the three. Nolte and Arquette are flawless and the intensity and friction between them make for an engaging if not distressingly tense 35 minutes. "},{"Title":"The Good, The Bad & The Funny!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can't really watch NEW YORK STORIES and comment on thefilm as a whole, because, much like the three directors involved,the three stories that make up the whole are so different and havespecific value in their own right.  What you can do is applaud theidea, the approach, and the coming together of three big New Yorkfilmmakers to entertain and delight the viewer each in their uniqueway.Segment one is Life Lessons, starring Nick Nolte and RosannaArquette, and directed by Martin Scorsese.  It's a superbly actedand tightly directed little film about a cantankerous and love-lornold abstract painter and his young female assistant, the object ofhis rejected affections.  Nolte and Arquette play off each with greatchemistry (often explosive at that) and the pacing, cinematographyand storyline flow easily creating a real sense of the chaotic inner- psychosis behind artist beauty.  It was also really interesting tosee the large canvas that is the centre-piece of the film take shapefrom nothing to a real work of admirable art by the story's end.   8/ 10 on this one.The second segment, Life Without Zoe, by Francis Ford Coppolais, to put it frankly, horrible!  Unbelievably boring, and so poorlyacted that I can only imagine Coppola himself had fallen asleepsomewhere in pre-production and was awakened when the filmwas released sometime the next year.  Coppola has a knack forcasting young girls with no experience and/or talent in his films(ie., his daughter in GODFATHER III) and Heather McComb as Zoeis no exception.  I actually stopped it 10 minutes in and fast- forwarded to the last segment.  1/10, truly pitiful in every regard.  The gem of the compilation (and saving grace) comes in the finalsegment, Woody Allen's hilarious Oedipus Wrecks.  This waslaugh-out-loud funny.  Allen plays a middle-aged lawyer who's lifeis made unbearable by his doting/nagging Jewish mother, playedbrilliantly by Mae Questel.  Not only is this the best piece of thethree shorts that make up NEW YORK STORIES, but one of thevery best of Woody Allen's films, period.  The tight interactivedelivery between characters that has become so trademark inAllen's films is served up so deliciously again by the likes of JulieKavner, Mia Farrow, Larry David, and the aforementioned mother &son team.  Every facial expression sported by Woody is a gut- buster as well (special mention goes to Jessie Keosian, as hisdeaf Aunt Ceil, for the same reason).  Witty, biting, and with one ofTHE oddest plot twists I've ever seen, Oedipus Wrecks is theicing on the cake, and a great ending to this film conjunction.  9/10,has to be seen for the chicken drumstick love-scene if nothingelse!Unfortunately, the film over-all is not an even delivery despite thenoble attempt.  Scorsese and Allen shine with their spot-on storiesof intrinsic inhabitants of the Big Apple; Coppola just provides theworm.  I can only recommend portions of the film and as such canonly give it a 7/10 in good conscience.  Enjoy what you can!  "},{"Title":"So what's the problem?","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll step out of the loop here about New York Stories, three tales of New York from 1989, directed by three formidable directors Martin Scorcese, Francis Ford Coppola and Woody Allen. I happen to think all three films had something to offer, and the fact that the Zoe sequence is about a child does not for me make it the weakest segment.I found the Scorcese segment starring Nick Nolte and Roseanna Arquette the most thought-provoking, the Zoe segment the most charming, and the Allen segment the wackiest. The first episode is about a tortured artist (Nolte) who expresses his sexual frustrations and problems with his young protégée (Arquette) in his work. She no longer sleeps with him and wants to quit New York and go home; he wants to kiss her foot and professes undying love for her. To Puccini's Nessun Dorma, he stares at his artwork and goes through a variety of emotions as he paints another masterpiece. This particular muse in the form of Arquette used up, one sees him at his art show connecting with another would-be artist/muse whose identity will also be lost in his genius.The second sequence, directed by Coppola, is a take-off on the Eloise stories by Kay Thompson. This little girl's name is Zoe. Her father, Claudio Montez (Giancarlo Giannini), is a famous flautist who travels, and her mother (Talia Shire) is a photo journalist who travels. Zoe lives with a butler and her dog Vegas at the Sherry Netherlands Hotel. She proves herself smarter than either parent in this charming film. My only question is why Giancarlo Giannini speaks Italian to his daughter when the name Claudio Montez is emphatically not Italian. Okay, it wasn't typical Coppola, but who said it had to be? The last one is pure Woody, Oedipus Wrecks, about a man with a nagging, critical mother who wants to marry a young woman (Mia Farrow) with children. He loves his mother, but he wishes she'd disappear. During a magic show, he gets his wish, when his mother goes into a magician's box and never comes out. Later she shows up in the sky telling him what to do, with the world as a witness. His girlfriend can't take it. He then goes to a psychic (Julie Kavner) who makes him a boiled chicken dinner. A complete delight.Three different, interesting stories by three great directors. "},{"Title":"Two out of three are great!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is quite fascinating-in parts. My best advice to anyone renting it is to sit back and thoroughly enjoy the first segment by Martin Scorsese (Life Lessons)-although you may be sick of A Whiter Shade of Pale by the end of it, or you may have a new reason to love it. Then, I suggest you fast forward through the painful middle story by Francis Ford Coppola. I really tried to like it, seeing as how this was the same man who brought us The Godfather. Alas, even I couldn't sit through it. Then, watch Woody Allen's very funny Oedipus Wrecks. This short film, like Albert Brooks' Mother will have you going, My God, it's Mom! A satisfying rent. Try to get the people at Blockbuster to knock fifty cents off the price for not watching the middle part.  "},{"Title":"3 Tastes in 1","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life Lessons - I've probably seen it 10 times. You can refer to it as a 'short', but I get so wrapped up in it that I almost consider it to be a full-length movie.  It's very close to perfect.Life Without Zoe - Past comments have stated that this is the weakest of the three.  I don't like to think of any of the stories as weak.  I think the order of the stories is what is important. First is the tense art world drama, then the fairytale-like Zoe. Zoe doesn't have the punch of Life Lessons, but it's a relaxing follow-up. Enchanted flutes, princesses, sheiks, diamonds, parties, sunsets. I hate to use the word 'cute', but that's what it is - very cute, and that's not a bad thing in this case.Oedipus Wrecks - Leaves the movie ending on a very outrageous and very funny note.  This short is better than several of his movies (and I'm a HUGE Woody Allen fan). "},{"Title":"Good For An Anthology FIlm","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York Stories is another anthology film that I was suckered into because of the credentials. Other anthology films that I've seen, like Four Rooms, have not been very good despite the amazing credentials. I haven't been a fan of most movies with more than one director, hence more than one vision thus many colliding like an orchestra playing unharmonious notes. New York Stories is satisfactory however, eve if its mood swings leave one feeling many different ways about it. You'll feel stimulated, yet strangely unfulfilled.Martin Scorsese's segment, Life Lessons, is very melodramatic in that hardened, grungy way of his. Nolte gives a wonderful performance, very intense, and Arquette is very realistic and effective. Scorsese employs his usual machine gun multi-genre soundtrack and plunging, stylistically passionate and energetic cinematography. His segment says something very profound and important about the human characteristic of selfishness and how much more abundant it is in ourselves than we care to accept.Then comes Francis Ford Coppola's segment, Life Without Zoe. Arg. The acting, despite the leniency one may generously give child actors, is awful. Heather McComb did in fact fill out very very nicely when she grew up, but that does not excuse her very scripted performance here. She's the least of the cast's problems, though. Everyone sounds like the salesmen on the used car commercials. The story is something quite silly. Perhaps it would be fine if it were its own film, but Coppola had to know that he was being teamed with Scorsese, his fellow creator of quintessential Mafia cinema, and Woody Allen, the prolific source of mature and sophisticated comedies about sex and relationships. Did he submit this segment for shock value? I guess so. Well, it worked. I don't understand why Coppola works with kids. His daughter Sophia, who at age 18 here co-wrote the script and designed the costumes, did in fact go on to become a fine director herself, but did he not notice his pattern after awhile? He makes The Conversation, the Godfather films, and Apocalypse Now, and we think he's found his niche. Then he starts making movies like this, following up with films like Jack with Robin Williams.Woody Allen's segment saves the film. I suppose this is one way anthology movies are interesting. In a single feature-length narrative film, when it takes a plunge in the middle, it can't really be saved in the end, especially if it was as bad as Coppola's segment. In an anthology, if the middle of the movie is terrible, you still have the end to look forward to. This is the case in New York Stories, because Woody Allen's segment, Oedipus Wrecks, the final third of the movie, is hilarious. It's one of the funniest satires he's ever done of the Jewish Brooklynite's culture. It's goofy in a subtle way, and fascinatingly surreal the way a lot of Allen's best and most creative work is. Actually, Oedipus Wrecks is perhaps the only one of the three parts that actually clearly represents a hue of New York's culture. Scorsese's part didn't represent New York as much as it represented the emotional tempests of an artist and happened to take place in the meatpacking district. Coppola's mid-section represented the lives of wealthy children whose lives are so free that they live practically like very spoiled and gossipy adults, but to such an outlandish degree of family-oriented fantasy that it's not at all credible. Woody Allen firmly focuses upon his division of New York culture. And by the by, it's a very pleasant surprise to see a younger Larry David, pre-Seinfeld and pre-Curb Your Enthusiasm, in a bit role in Oedipus Wrecks.Whatever was going through Coppola's mind, it's because of him that New York Stories can be described as a film in the shape of a circular saw. It's on one level, then takes a ninety- degree plunge to a different level, then again with the third segment it takes a ninety-degree ascension to the precise level it was at before. "}{"Title":"Loved it! Hated It! Loved It!","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life LessonsNick Nolte plays a Leroy Neimann-style artist living in a New York City Loft and he picks up Arquette promising her life lessons Basically, he uses her and spits her out, but there's more to it than just that. Scorcese is his usual brilliant self and Nolte is in a perfectly realized part. Brilliant, though apparently many people didn't think so because they probably can't handle Martin Scorcese's tough style.The Coppola segment.The less said about this, the better. I would rather have brain surgery without an anesthetic than see this again.Oedipus WrecksThe funny Woody Allen returns. This is as reminiscent of the best of Allen's funny films as it is of his beautifully constructed New Yorker short stories. Mae Questel (the senile grandmother in National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation and the voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl)  is his overbearing Jewish mother and him and to tell you anymore about it would ruin the exquisite comic writing and pacing for you.  Needless to say, it is a wonderful comic fantasy wrapped in a witty, almost Freudian comic treatise. In other words, vintage Woody!Thank God for video and DVD for you can bypass the painful parts like that rotten Coppola segment.  I only wish I had that had that option when I saw this in its original theatrical run.  And to think that Sofia went on to continue to annoy people on the Silver Screen. For me, her talent is clearly lost in translation.  "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York Stories is so uneven that not only is it impossible to refer to it as one movie, it's impossible to treat it as a coherent anthology. Martin Scorsese's 'Life Lessons' is a interesting little drama piece, following After Hours and The King of Comedy in Marty's tackling less-obvious themes. The writing is uneven, but tremendous performances by Nolte and Arquette make it work. 4 stars.Coppola's 'Life Without Zoe' is ridiculously bad on each and every level, from the acting and writing to the ludicrous theme song. Unlike many, I don't think the blame lies entirely with Sofia Coppola, Francis's directorial work is sub-par here. 1 star.'Oedipus Wrecks' is, by itself, enough to make this essential viewing for Woody Allen fans at least, as it's classic Allen and possibly one of his finest works. Mae Questel (of Betty Boop and Popeye fame) is brilliant as Allen's mother. 5 stars.So, the only fair way to rate New York Stories is with a completely objective average, which comes in at 3.33 stars. If at all possible, watch the first and third segment and completely skip the second, and you'll get an enjoyable and not-too-long double feature. "},{"Title":"Defining art in Life Lessons","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have viewed the Life Lessons segment of New York Stories probably 80 times. I use the film religiously in my college writing classes.The assignment I give my students is to define art for Lionel, for Paulette, and for themselves. After some analysis, students realize that a big problem between Lionel and Paulette is that they view art differently. Paulette constantly needs external validation (Can you tell me if I'm any good or not) while for Lionel art is a compulsion - his life and art feed off each other. Students who are able to get past Lionel's somewhat dysfunctional personality are able to understand and discuss some very important concepts about what it is to be an artist.I would highly recommend Life Lessons to anyone teaching art, aesthetics, writing, or theater classes. It's a great way to initiate a discussion about art. "},{"Title":"Worth a look .","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York Stories  it's a collection of three shorts made by Martin Scorsese ,Francis Ford Coppola ,and Woody Allen . The ending result ,even when it isn't the best work of those filmmakers , at least was very enjoyable to watch , and give us the chance their different styles . The first ,By Martin ScorseseLife lessons  it's my favorite .The short story it's very well developed and the direction was quite good . It have nice music too . The second Life Without Zoe  by Francis Ford Coppola is the short who received more bad reviews . Actually isn't bad ,but the story was very different to the other two .Anyway ,I liked it too . The third Oedipus Wrecks  by Woody Allen , it's the funniest . The story it's very funny ,the script is clever and it is a satisfying ending for the trilogy . Although New York Stories  isn't a perfect movie ,it is a worth watching . "},{"Title":"Nolte's Painter Interesting, Arquette a Doll, Woody Allen Funny, as Usual","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was at first skeptical when confronted with Nolte's stereotypical version of an artist in Life Lessons. The guy is bearded, long-haired, unkempt, unwashed, and generally unappealing. Further, he puts on rock music to fuel his inspiration and cranks it up LOUD. Yet his off-beat interpretation grew on me. By the time the story was over, I was impressed. He did a more than credible job with the role, helped along by whomever was actually doing the painting. Just as interesting was his oft-pathetic interaction with Rosanna Arquette, who plays his delectable but cruel assistant. She is jealous of his artistic success, fed up with his ambivalence toward her own work, and tired of his disturbing habits. I've seen her in a handful of roles and she never looked more attractive or did a better job, her Joni Mitchell sort of appeal at its most layered and alluring. Nolte, as the painter, was so hung up on her that he would do anything to keep her around. For example, he takes her to a party and watches helplessly as she leaves with a young upstart, returns with the guy to Nolte's own loft, and then spends the night with him right under her mentor's nose. Ooooo! That hadda hurt.I agree with the other reviews that wondered what the heck the Coppola flick was doing in the middle of this otherwise interesting montage. It would've been far more appropriate as the after school movie on TV.The Woody Allen flick, Oedipus Wrecks, was quite amusing. Nothing much to say about it other than it was a fairly typical Woody Allen movie. I always wondered how, in real life, Mia Farrow could go from Frank Sinatra to Woody Allen, such different sorts of men, but that's another question entirely. Both Farrow and Allen deliver good performances here. I especially liked his zany antics with the psychic. "},{"Title":"Three Of The Best Directors Of Our Time","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Martin Scorsese (Raging Bull, GoodFellas), Francis Ford Coppola (The Godfather) and Woody Allen (Annie Hall, Hannah And Her Sisters) join forces and make three separate short films all based around the same simple idea of living in New York, you know that original and interesting concepts will be seen.Scorsese's Life Lessons, the first of the three films, is probably also the best. Nick Nolte gives another excellent performance as the painter torn between his love of a woman and his love of his career. He portrays the role perfectly, surrounded by a talented co-stars. Scorsese's direction is again brilliant, showing he truly is one of the greats of contemporary cinema. (5/5)Following Scorsese is Francis Ford Coppola, director of The Godfather series. Unfortunately, following Scorsese is something even Coppola can't succeed at doing. His film is often pretentious and naive, at times even ludicrous. None of the performances are stand-out, and the direction is subpar knowing what Coppola is capable of (The Godfather and Part 2 being two of the most amazing films of all-time). But, at the same time the film isn't BAD. It just could have been much better. (2/5)Woody Allen completes the package with another hilarious comedy, this time crammed into around 40 minutes. The story is a little over-the-top in parts but when directed and acted by Allen it works without fault. Taking such a simple thing as a mother's forceful nature and turning it into a successful short comedy is something only Allen could be so successful at doing. (4/5)New York Stories is overall an excellent compilation, showcasing three of the best film directors of our time and indeed of ALL time. Scorsese and Allen put together excellent pieces and showed their talents to the world, unfortunately Coppola couldn't do the same.What if New York Stories 2 was made today? Whose films would the sequel feature? I'd like to see Michael Mann (Heat, The Insider), and returns from Allen and Scorsese. A once-a-decade face-off between the three premier directors. Sounds good to me. "},{"Title":"An Allen Masterpiece","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget about the Scorcese and Coppola, Woody Allen outshines them with Oedipus Wrecks. Sure, I guess Life Lessons would be an excellent short on its own, but next to the shining Allen glory of the Godzilla-like mother yelling, Sheldon! Sheldon! any serious film would seem pretentious. And they do.Coppola's contribution, Life Without Zoe, is also notable for an 8-year old Arabian Elvis impersonator. "},{"Title":"Scorsese's episode is hypnotic cinema.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  New York Stories has three episodes, three little movies in it. One of them belongs to the masterpieces of the 80's. The film is called Life Lessons, and it's directed by Martin Scorsese. I suggest you watch New York Stories because of Scorsese's fine achievement. The episode of Woody Allen represents that regular Woody we all know, and the piece of Francis Coppola is just plain boring and stupid. Scorseses picture is about a famous painter -played brilliantly by Nick Nolte-, and his source of inspiration -a beautiful woman. Life Lessons is an electric, sharp and funny film, you might call it art.  "},{"Title":"Mixed bag","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is actually three short films, only connected by the fact that they take place in New York City. So I will comment on them individually.The first short, 'Life Lessons', is directed by Martin Scorsese and is about Lionel Dobie, an artist (Nick Nolte) whos girlfriend Paulette (Rosanna Arquette) dumps him as a lover, yet stays in his atelier to live. Nolte, from the first scene, portrays a neurotic, 'typical' New York abstract painter, complete with discrete little temper tantrums about deadlines. He seems balanced and normal. But his painting is going nowhere. So he drives to the airport to pick up his girlfriend, and she discloses to him that she is leaving him and going home to her brother. She fell for a stand-up comedian (played by Steve Buschemi - his comedy scene is great because it's bad humour in a stunning setting) but he dumped her the day after. But, this fling flung her out of her comfortable relationship with Lionel (where we get the image that she was never happy anyway) and now she's going home. Lionel stays cooler as you would expect and convinces her to stay with him, no strings attached, for her sake. We believe him, at this stage.Back at the atelier, however, the reality of this new relationship starts to shine through. Paulette doesn't like Lionel very much and has a real identity problem (you get the impression that she paints just because Lionel does), but Lionel appears more and more obsessed - not so much with Paulette herself, but with the company. He percieves Paulette as his property and becomes ragingly jealous when she brings guys home. Paulette, stuck in his atelier, teases him by dressing provocatively and asking him questions like 'Do you love me? - Then prove it by...'. Because of Paulette not being within his grasp, Lionel goes down the tubes. It's not love, in my opinion. It's pride.But, as Lionel's real world fades and collapses, his painting grows and changes and comes to life. The moment his own life with Paulette ends, the life of his painting begins.It's sort of a heavy story in the way that you really have to concentrate and suss out the character's motives. It's not light 'E.R.'-type drama, but it's a lot more fulfilling.And so we are led into 'Life without Zoe', directed by Francis Ford Coppola. It's about a 12-year-old girl and her little life. If Martin Scorsese had stayed in the director's chair for this segment too, we could have had a re-run of 'Taxi Driver', where the 12-year old was a prostitute and the story was rough, but excellent. Instead, the 12-year-old is a rich Vada Sultenfuss, and the story is saccharine and empty. This middle film is destined to be the one people forget. For one thing, there is no narrative drive in the story as far as I can see - there is a robbery which is pretty pointless, there is a rich little boy who has a costume party, and there's the parents. While there are a few charming qualities - that the parents act childishly and their child mothers them; that the costume party is ludicrously lavish to the extent of having violinists and flambeed whatever at the baby's table - this segment is a children's movie. Nothing more, nothing less. Kids would get a kick out of seeing the wealth and possibilites of the kids and the fun of the party, but that's about it. Bad acting is acceptable in children - and abundant here - but it's also present in the adult performances. Some loser says after the robbery 'Wow if I could only hold on to that sense memory I'd be head of my acting class'. You've got a long way to go, buddy...And so it's time for 'Oedipus Wrecks' by Woody Allen. This is the funny one. In fact it's so wonderfully absurd that I won't spoil it by telling you much about it. Only that Woody Allen surprisingly plays a neurotic New Yorker, and this time he is embarrased because his mother is always on his back and bothering him. The development of this story is just so strange and funny that I'll let you find out about it for yourself. It's not Woody at his best, but it's still funny.Altogether, the segments I would rate 7,4,7 giving an average of 6.  "},{"Title":"Marty's party","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michael Powell claimed that LIFE LESSONS, Scorsese's contribution to this omnibus movie, was the most perfect short film of the sound era. I suspect he's right. This comedy about the convulsive relationship between a world-class painter (Nick Nolte) and his young assistant (Rosanne Arquette) is perfect in every detail; the sensibility shaping it seems to be possessed of a limitless power of invention. (It suggests the protean, sensual flights of fancy of late Picasso.) Coppola's segment--LIFE WITHOUT ZOE--written by himself and his daughter Sofia, has a similar, but inverted, distinction it may be the worst movie ever made by a major filmmaker. It may be a measure of its calamity that I don't think I've ever read a review of NEW YORK STORIES that didn't pass over it in silence. Woody Allen's segment, OEDIPUS WRECKS, is a one-joke affair, but it's not a bad joke, and he spins it well. After LIFE LESSONS, though, both are negligible. "}{"Title":"Nod Goes to the Obsessions!!!","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Three stories, Scorcesse/Woody Allen/& Francis Ford Copola...Martin Scorcesse's dealt with cosmopolitan talent by way of artistic integrity, a piece of delicate Lalique is less fragile than the characters in this episode...Nick Nolte needs to come to grips with it..the simple fact is that HE'S HORNY!! Francis Ford Copola's segment dealt with the Park Ave elite being rather eccentric...A nice life, even divorce and forms of child neglect have a very intriguing spin to them, when money is relatively no object, and culture has limitless bounds!! Woody Allen's segment dealt with the occult, wishes were reality and reality was taking a sebaticle...The Jewish Mother is so loving, she is relentless in driving her son crazy!!...Believe me, this problem is a nice one to have...The best line in this segment being...What do need to marry a blonde with four kids for, You're not an Astronaut..What wins out in the end is the theme song to this segment...I want a girl just like the girl who married dear old dad AND THE WINNER IS MARTIN SCORCESSE!!!Scocesse's segment dealt with the demented concept that everything in life takes a back seat to an obsession...(For some people anyway) a sexual obsession,,,that is usually the favorite...The intensity of emmotions that Nolte and Arquette displayed are truly Life Lessons indeed...SO THE NOD GOES TO THE OBSESSION!! "},{"Title":"A generally entertaining, if uneven, film","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An anthology film consisting of three vastly different stories, this is a generally entertaining, if uneven, film. The three segments in question are Life Lessons directed by Martin Scorsese, Life Without Zoe directed by Francis Ford Coppola and Oedipus Wrecks directed by Woody Allen. I will review each segment individually before giving an average.Life LessonsThe most serious of the three, this segment stars Nick Nolte as Lionel Dobie, a middle-aged abstract artist. I have to admit that I have never been particularly enamoured of Nolte. He's perfectly fine but his performance is not exactly outstanding. Consequently, the character does not reach his full potential. Dobie is one of the biggest names on the New York art scene but he is incredibly lonely. The storyline concerns his complicated relationship with his assistant and ex- lover Paulette, played very well by Rosanna Arquette. Paulette is a manipulative character who is only using Dobie to climb the ladder of the art world. While Dobie's recurrent bad relationships with women take a heavy toll on him, they serve as the major source of inspiration for his art. As such, he is essentially going down a path of self-destruction for the sake of his art and I suspect that he will never be happy.In contrast to Coppola and Allen, this is my first exposure to Scorsese's work on the big screen and it would be a major understatement to say that I was impressed. I loved the fact that the camera was in motion for a good 90% of the time as it represented the fact that Dobie is a restless soul. It was filmed in a very naturalistic style and there were many beautiful shots. script by Richard Price is generally very good but I think that he tried to fit a little too much into its 43 minute running time.8/10Life Without ZoeThis segment stars Heather McComb in a simply awful performance as Zoe Montez, a 12-year-old poor little rich girl. Precocious, wise beyond their years children in films can be one of two things charming or insufferable. I'm afraid to say that Zoe is perhaps the most insufferable child character that I have ever come across. The script was written by Coppola and his then 17-year-old daughter Sofia and to say that it is insubstantial would be kind. Zoe's parents, played by Giancarlo Giannini and Talia Shire, are frequently absent. When Zoe learns that her parents are going to reconcile, she is very upset and becomes faint, for some unexplained reason. She later becomes rather taken with the idea. This change of attitude is unexplained. Why bother explaining things? Just let them happen for no logical reason because it says so in the dreadful excuse for a script written by you and your completely inexperienced daughter whom you wanted to indulge.There is also a strand of the plot concerning Zoe returning a precious diamond earring to Princess Soraya. I didn't know how this was relevant to the bits concerning the reconciliation of Zoe's parents. I wasn't alone in that as the Coppolas didn't know either. It is there simply there to serve as padding. In the opening credits, all of the actors and behind the scenes personnel are credited using only their first names, presumably to hide their identities. That was nice of Francis. On the bright side, Giannini is great and the segment is shot competently so it's not an unmitigated disaster. 4/10Oedipus WrecksThe writing and direction of this segment are of Allen's usual high standard. It stars the man himself in an excellent performance as Sheldon Mills, a 50-year-old lawyer who is made to feel like a child whenever he is in the presence of his mother Sadie Millstein. Sheldon has been attending therapy for years and the main topic of conversation in all of his sessions seems to be his dear mother, whom he wishes would simply disappear. Sadie, who is played in an hilarious performance by Mae Questel, frequently tells him that he looks terrible and criticises him for changing his name to the less Jewish sounding Mills. She disapproves of his relationship with his fiancée Lisa, played very well by Mia Farrow, on the basis that they have only been going out for six months and, more importantly, she is not Jewish.In order that his mother can meet Lisa's three children, Sheldon takes everyone to a magic show. Sadie is invited by Shandu the Magician to come up on stage and help him with his sword trick. The look of utter glee on Sheldon's face when Shandu inserts the swords into the box is hilarious. Things go a bit pear-shaped when Sadie disappears afterwards. However, Sheldon is in for a shock when she appears in the sky and starts sharing all of his most humiliating moments with New York City's millions of inhabitants. Unsurprisingly, this does not do his relationship with Lisa any favours. His psychiatrist recommends that he consult a psychic named Terva, played by Julie Kavner. Eventually, Lisa leaves Sheldon because she can't take it anymore and he falls in love with Terva. They get engaged and Sadie returns to Earth when he introduces her to his new fiancée, glad that he has finally met a nice Jewish girl. Sadie gets up to her old tricks when she produces the photo album. Sheldon is initially embarrassed but his wince gradually turns to a smile as, in spite of all the humiliation, Sadie is his mother and he thinks the world of her.This is certainly the best of the three segments in the film, partly because Allen appears to have the best understanding of the limits of what can be accomplished in a short film as opposed to a feature film.9/10Overall, that comes to 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good idea but uneven execution","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good idea but uneven execution.The concept three of the greatest movie directors the world has known, Woody Allen, Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola, are each given a 35-40 minute segment to make a mini-movie set in New York. The three segments are not connected in any way. The result is New York Stories.The movie starts with Scorsese's segment, titled Life Lessons. A famous artist, Lionel Dobie (played by Nick Nolte), is in love with the artist he is mentoring, Paulette (played by Rosanna Arquette). However, the feeling is not mutual...Coppola's segment, Life without Zoe, involves a young girl, Zoe (played by Heather McComb) and her privileged-yet-parentless life.Woody Allen's segment, Oedipus Wrecks, completes the movie. A NY lawyer, Sheldon Mills (played by Woody Allen), is constantly being embarrassed by his aging mother. Then one evening he takes her to a magic show and things take a turn for the bizarre...The Scorsese contribution was interesting, with a nice twist at the end. Did seem to in circles occasionally, and didn't move forward at any great pace, but the interactions between the characters was engaging.Coppola's segment was easily the worst of the three. Silly and pointless. It feels like it was made for kids, which, if it was, is starkly out of place with the clearly adult-orientated Scorsese and Allen portions. And even kids will probably find it silly and boring...Woody Allen's piece was the pick of the bunch. It displays Allen's sublimely clever, dry wit plus adds a large dollop of the ridiculous. Very funny at times with a twist that is quite bizarre. Nice- bizarre, though it does border on the silly.7/10s for the Allen and Scorsese portions, 3/10 for Coppola. "},{"Title":"An unconventional love letter to New York","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three of the most important directors of all time unite here to produce a remarkable conjointed project offering an interesting rendition about the modern center of the world, the imponent New York. It offers plenty of visions, transitioning from a realistic urban tale to dreamy and out of the ordinary situations that takes place in a city where everything can and will happen. I guess it's fair to say this was one of the first films of its kind (with the city as main character), specially in American cinema who takes inspiration from many European classics of the 1960's with talented group of directors united for a common project, each with his view. Seeing New York Stories now is ten times more relevant now than what it was right when of its release. We can analyze the filmmakers evolution (the washed-up Coppola tale is more of a Sofia project than one directed by Francis); take a look at a New York distant from 9/11, a fresh, energic and positive place that seemed to open its arms to everyone. Nostalgia takes over.Life Lessons (Martin Scorsese segment) Marty, the only who haven't wrote his own piece, made a small masterpiece with his short film, the longest of the segments. It's a true spinning wheel on the life of a famous painter (Nick Nolte) who welcomes back a estranged girlfriend (Rosanna Arquette), muse of his creations and according to him, love of his troubled life of countless failed marriages. Of all three, this has the most poignant story, and the visual master-craft of Scorsese is an ecstasy to the eyes with Nestor Almendros spectacular cinematography and the always effective editing of Thelma Schoonmaker, both helping to tell a story in a great sense. It tells plenty about relationships, the fragility, in's and out's and everything that comes with it, love vs. interest vs. passion. It's slightly melodramatic but it works.Life Without Zoe (Francis Ford Coppola segment) a rich girl (Heather McComb) lives a perfect life among rich friends and dedicated parents (Talia Shire and Giancarlo Giannini) who are tying to reconcile with each other. Everyhing's so vivid, colorful and so sitcom-like that...nothing happens, really. The most indulgent and careless of the segments, this one seems more like a Sofia Coppola project (and she wrote it when she was 18) than a Francis film. Looking back now that she made tremendous films on similar hedonistic poor rich girl issues but with a little more depth, it only proves that some people can't change all that much. The city is OK here, and there's even time to flee to Greece.Oediphus Wrecks (Woody Allen segment) what can I say? Allen is Allen, always a pleasure to watch. Here, he plays a man who suffers with the constant interference of his mother (Mae Questel, lovely) on his life and relationships until the day she mysteriously disappears during a magic act. Everything's fine, he's spending more time with his girlfriend (Mia Farrow) until the mother pops up in the New York sky, still bothering him but this time for everyone to see and laugh of him. His only hope a psychic (Julie Kavner, brilliant) who'll try everything on her book to make the old lady go away. New York is extensively captured, perhaps the only segment that allowed the viewers to get a real sense of how magnificent the city is - the shot with the mother's floating head over the World Trade Center is beautifully and magically done. Two good tales against one bad, the majority wins. Frankly, I prefer this movie than the current streaming of NY, I Love You, Paris, I Love You (and now Rio will have its movie) that features a larger group of directors but only 4 or 5 can make decent and memorable pieces about those spectacular cities. I'd like to see new takes from the same directors, but this time Spike Lee instead of Coppola, and more focus on the other districts rather than only Manhattan. 10/10 "},{"Title":"New York deserved better ...","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York Stories are three films from three directors, and not the least of them Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola and Woody Allen. What a premise! And what a disappointment! Maybe there should have been more than the setting to connect the stories; don't we expect a New York story from Allen anyway? They could have been set anywhere else without damaging the overall effect, but the question is why an anthology from the three greatest directors of their generation, sunk so lamentably into oblivion? And I guess the answer is obvious Coppola's segment sucked. And it sucked big time. This is the first time I even use the word in a review, but I think it is for the right film. Scorsese and Allen's segments are no masterpieces, but Life Without Zoe is the worst film ever made by Coppola. In a nutshell, New York Stories failed because of Coppola.Have a quick look on its Wikipedia's page and compare the lengths of the three summaries. It's quite telling that the one in the middle is so thin. While Scorsese and Allen at least intended to tell us stories, you know, with characters, conflicts, with seemingly plots for Cinematic Gods' sake, Life Without Zoe is a lifeless, dull and shockingly thin film, relating in a fairy-tale format the adventures of a rich little girl, with her friends, and one obscure Arab Prince who speaks Oxford' English and still struggle to understand some basic words. Nothing much happens, which is acceptable for a character study or an introspective film, but Life Without Zoe can get away with such alibis. The film illustrates more of Coppola's nepotism (Papa Carmine composed the score, little Sofia wrote it and sister Talia starred in it) than any hint of the immense talent he once had.And Life Lessons is what Life Without Zoe should have been it doesn't have a specific plot either, but it's lively, it doesn't have many characters but each one carries a strong emotional force allowing us to connect with it. It features Nick Nolte as an abstract painter, facing a mental block three weeks before the exhibition of his works, he must finish a giant canvas, certainly what has to become his masterpiece, but somewhere he lost the inspiration. The fuel instantly comes when he invites to his huge studio, Paulette, Rosanna Arquette as his former lover and student. He's obviously infatuated with her while she rejects him because she knows she doesn't get what she wants a true opinion on her talent. The story is a fascinating tale of mental and emotional influences based on the mentor/disciple and lovers' relationships, and it is a visually dazzling film featuring the creative process in its most compelling form.Made of sensual movements of brushes caressing the canvas and more energetic uses of burning colors, we follow Lionel's movements while Scorsese maintains an interesting suspense on the final result. He plunges us into the beauty of art and the way it drains its best inspirations from our inner demons. It looks flashy like The Color of Money but the film borrows more from After Hours (starring Rosanna Arquette too), through the depiction of the artistic New York, a world made of venal interest and sincere passion, where talentless people use sex to fulfills their ambitions, and true artists translate the lack of it into their work. For Lionel, it's a mix of revolt, anger, passion and some rock'n'roll and sixties music highlighting Marty's talent to choose the right music for the right scene. Art fills art, and in forty minutes, Life Lessons stands alone among the highlights of Marty's career.Woody Allens' Oedipus Wrecks is not his riskiest or most revolutionary project, it's a comedy about a banker who can't stand the interferences of his typical Jewish mother, in his personal life and her constant disapproval of all his decisions, why would he marry a blonde woman with three kids from another marriage (Mia Farrow)? Why does he keep whining when she shows his baby pictures to random strangers? Given the film was made after the serious streak of September and Another Woman, it's fun to see Allen getting back to his roots. And the gags work, climaxing with a formidable twist when the mother suddenly disappears after a magical trick (you'd recognize the Zitar theme from The Curse of the Jade Scorpion). The way her disappearance is involved is smart, her reappearance is even more surprising, especially that it introduces Julie Kavner at her most hilarious.What lacked in Oedipus Wrecks though is a satisfying ending; the last three minutes destroy the whole build-up. Surely, a screenplay with such a creative premise could have come up with a better conclusion, but it's like Allen was in a rush to finish the film, and threw away the most artificial and unsatisfying conclusion of his career. Oedipus Wrecks still benefits from the fact that it comes right after the horrendous Life Without Zoe, and I suspect people would love any story coming after the plot less Zoe. I wish Zoe wouldn't have existed if only to leave more room to the other films. I wish he could see Marty and Woody's films and look at Zoe and think What have I done? How can a man so capable of greatness like The Godfather let himself slipping that way? Hell, even his Jack is The Godfather compared to Life Without Zoe. I even wonder if he didn't remove the last names in the opening credits out of shame.I've got to hand it to Scorsese to outshine two great directors and make a truly original piece of art, I wish Allen could make a worthy ending to a very promising comedy. And I simply blame Coppola for having ruined a great project. My advice skip the second segment, start with the third, finish with the first, and it'll be fine. "},{"Title":"Scorsese = superb, Coppola = pointless, Allen = funny","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This three-part anthology film opens with a bang Martin Scorsese's Life Lessons is a dynamically directed drama that works primarily on a sensory level, much like Nick Nolte's abstract painting; Nolte and Arquette give terrific performances, and Scorsese's selection of music is so on-target that it's possible to forever link some of these songs in your mind with this short film. Finally, kudos to Scorsese for discovering and introducing to the world the very beautiful Brigitte Bako! I'd rate it ***1/2 out of 4.Francis Ford Coppola's Life Without Zoe has maintained, through the years, the reputation of being a dud....and unfortunately it lives down to that reputation. It seems to be an exercise in pointlessness - and plotlessness. But it does some have some bright spots newcomer Heather McComb is cute and talented, and Carole Bouquet looks positively heavenly in a 10-second cameo as a princess. I'd rate it *1/2 out of 4.Woody Allen's Oedipus Wrecks (great title, by the way) is possibly his purest comedy - and his funniest film - in a over a decade. Apart from some killer one-liners, Woody acts a lot with his face here - his grin while his mother is being subjected to the magic trick, for example, says a thousand words. He even goes as far as using old-deaf-lady jokes - but they are very funny! The only problem with this segment is that it runs just a tad too long. I'd rate it *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"New York Stories Worth Watching, But Only Just","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having first heard of New York Stories many moons ago, I was pleased to see it scheduled on TV last night. Eager to see it, an interesting collaborative project between three key directors of the New Hollywood movement, I even rushed home from a prior engagement.Three shorts banded together with the unifying setting of New York, New York Stories consists of Life Lessons, Scorsese's tale of the relationship between an artist and his apprentice; Life Without Zoë, Coppola's take on the life of a child of wealthy parents, left to live alone in a luxurious hotel; Oedipus Wrecks, Allen's exploration of mother-son relationships.A distinct danger with films of this sort is in the directorial differences which can vastly disrupt the overall film's flow. Monumental shifts in tone can be quite disconcerting and often do a lot to detract from the effect of the piece as a whole. Lucky, then, that these directors all come from the same period, each counted among the upper echelons of those filmmakers who graduated from the 60s/70s movie brat generation. Not, that is to say, that there is a homogeneity to the shorts&#x97;each offers something distinct in terms of both narrative and tone&#x97;but rather that they are at least of similar minds and sensibilities. Scorsese's contribution is perhaps the most interesting of the three, a look at the artist culture that is so key to the New York of fiction. Nolte's artist is a classic tortured soul, channelling his torment into his canvas and creating a work that evolves and develops just as he fails to do so, trapped in a cycle of depression and dependency. Intelligently structured and driven by character depth, Life Lessons is a very solid start. Coppola's follows, showing us the life of the wealthy and privileged and seeming to comment upon the laissez-faire parenthood of the rich which develops their children so early into adulthood. What sounds an interesting idea with room for probing into a social issue turns into a ridiculous story of princesses and parties, set in a fairytale world complete with a happy family ending. It drags, it sags, and it asks us to fall in love with hideously uninteresting characters. Life Without Zoë is an appropriate title for what the audience will come to desire by the time it all ends. No thank you Francis, get off the stage. When he does, at last, it is Allen's turn. Having never before experienced the supposed wonders of Allen's comedic efforts, Oedipus Wrecks was the most highly anticipated of the three for me, and brought some very welcome laughs into the mix. Fantastic situational humour coupled with Allen's sublime comedic timing quickly steered it toward becoming the best of the bunch. It takes a rather disappointing bad turn along the way, but still maintains enough of a laugh factor to keep it from sinking. Not masterful, but quite, quite funny, and with a nice dash of comment on the issue at hand.The kind of idea that's interesting to see played out, New York Stories is neither as bad as its worst nor as good as its best. The Scorsese and the Allen each make for entertaining viewing, the former more substantial in its thematic depth, the latter more immediately thrilling in its hilarity. The Coppola pulls the standard down a stretch, really testing audience patience between the two infinitely better pieces. Much more three shorts banded together than a feature film, it's worth watching, but only just. "},{"Title":"Three top directors, mediocre result","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York Stories (1989) consists of three shorts with the central theme being New York City.It's directors are Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola and Woody Allen.From that trio you could expect something better, but the result is very mediocre.The first story is Scorsese's Life Lessons, loosely based on Fyodor Dostoevsky's The Gambler.It tells about the relationship between a painter called Lionel Dobie and Paulette, his apprentice and former lover.The second story is Life Without Zoë by Coppola.It's about a rich schoolgirl.Allen's story is Oedipus Wrecks.It tells about a Jewish New York lawyer, who has problems with his mother.She doesn't like her son's fiancé Lisa, and the mother starts hovering above the city and telling embarrassing stories of her son.The actor list looks great.Nick Nolte is Lionel.Rosanna Arquette plays Paulette.Steve Buscemi is Gregory Stark.Illeana Douglas is Paulette's Friend.Deborah Harry is Girl at Blind Alley.Heather McComb is Zoë.Giancarlo Giannini is her father and Talia Shire the mother.Holly Marie Combs is Costume Party Guest.Adrien Brody appears in his first film role as Mel.Woody Allen is Sheldon.Mia Farrow is Lisa.Mae Questel plays the mother.Julie Kavner portrays Treva.Larry David is Theater Manager.Kirsten Dunst is Lisa's Daughter.Mike Starr is Hardhat.From the three I liked Scorsese's the best.Nick Nolte's performance was intense.I also liked Allen's work.The magic show scene was funny, after which the mother disappeared.Coppola's was the weakest of the three.This is worth seeing, even though I expected something better. "},{"Title":"The city so nice they filmed it thrice.","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's an idea - take three directors closely associated with the city of New York (Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola and Woody Allen) and get them to each contribute a piece to an anthology movie linked by the environment of New York. Sounds good? Sadly, it isn't.Things start off with Life Lessons by Martin Scorsese, a story that starts off a little unremarkably but that blossoms into something really quite great. Nick Nolte is the passionate artist and Rosanna Arquette is the girl he smothers while trying to keep as his muse. And, hey, it also has Steve Buscemi and Illeana Douglas so that's a plus.Then we get Life Without Zoe by Francis Ford Coppola, a piece of schmaltzy, cinematic excrement so bad that I don't even want to talk about it. It pretty much ruins the entire movie, sitting there in the middle section stinking the place up. The only high point of this tale was seeing the wonderful Talia Shire on screen again. I can't say any more, just thinking about it makes me nauseous.We end with the great Oedipus Wrecks by Woody Allen, a story about a man (Allen, unsurprisingly) who finds his life turned into an absolute nightmare when a stage magician makes his mother disappear only for her to appear as a giant, talkative presence in the sky, still embarrassing her son with her constant nagging and comments but now doing so on a much grander scale as everyone else in the city can hear her too. With Mia Farrow and Julie Kaver also in this section, the movie at least ends on a high note.Scorsese and Allen play to their known style and their segments will satisfy fans of the directors. Coppola? I have no idea what he was thinking of. Perhaps this was a way to forewarn people about a future that would include the movie Jack, I honestly have no idea why the man would choose to sandwich such a piece of tripe in between two superior tales.If you have to watch the whole thing once then do so but for future viewings I recommend scheduling some task to be done during that godawful middle section. "},{"Title":"A STRONG DISSENT - Please look again at Life Without Zoe","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There has been arguably the strongest outpouring of negative commentary in IMDb ever seen about the supposedly little afterthought of the New York Storiues triad - Life without Zoe. Could I at least ask a reconsideration? This dear, tender piece, created as a light bon-bon, shows through the magical/real prism of the young eyes that (Ihope that) you all experienced looking at the world as a child. One object or friend takes one's fancy for some reason for a little while, then another. Pace and cinematic tempo must reflect that which may look a mish-mash to adult viewer's eyes.The film basically just follows a bright, attentive young girl's life over a number of days,events being magnified or diminished just as they are as a girl records her diary highlights, or tells you the essential summary of what happened at school at the end of a day when you pick them up to take home. Seeing a drunk in the street may loom large, or the latest hip item of local kids clothing to be seen in.Many of these daily events don't necessarily have a further deep meaning, a filmistic solution or termination--the half-sculpted and wonky images of a day's life just end hanging,(or disappearing) into thin air.Matt Groening recently commented (admiitedly speaking about the different genre of adult comedy)in a UK interview that he felt that US audiences needed to be hit with a sledgehammer to produce an adequate comic effect and he would sometimes love to produce comedy with the subtlety acceptable to overseas audiences. I don't want to inflame any transatlantic passions, but is it possible that US audiences are just not able to handle stories such as the running of a child's mind that doesn't necessarily have a beginning, a middle, or an end? What if you just sat in the film and took in the experience---no punchline, only feeling and seeing...But young girls have bigger dreams and special loves---and there is (for many) nothing more special than the daughter's adoration, showoffiness,and special love for---their FATHER. It may extend to magnification of Dad to almost superhuman proportions---in this case, Dad is a classical flautist, and the dreaminess about her suave, charming, European, traveled father creates a delightful loving giant edifice of her father in her eyes, who creates special flute wandering leitmotifs to lull her to sleep, and informs her life with love. In reality, there is no fluff in here at all. I became (blessedly) a father to identical girl twins well after seeing this movie--and the relationship I have with my girls was perhaps more accurately portrayed here than in any other resonance or description I've encountered. The special tenderness of love for a father's daughter, and when young, this special inexplicable bond, mutually returned, is beyond 25 words or less--but Coppola has sensed this, no doubt especially helping to create this reciprocal magic by employing Sofia in the filmic role of the daughter--at this age and stage of Zoe's tender life, although her early cinematic ability is undoubted and has since been proved, I would judge being employed firstly as being the real daughter and distant secondly, as an actress.And in my view, he and she have both sensed this, and made a good filmic depiction of it. There is great depth of love mingled with total child's whimsy-quite a tough mix to encompass in a film short.Although I hinted this paediatric Ulysses (a day in the life of...little girl X), as a child thinks, doesn't have beginnings, middles or ends, the adoration of young Zoe, mingled with all her other dreams, is crafted into an aesthetically stunning (?how real?) climax of her father's achievement as a musician when he is lead flautist at an orchestral performance in the open air at the foot of the Acropolis, commencing at dusk---just one of these stunning, life lasting images that Coppola has this ability to produce. Perfectly timed, with kids in the select audience, father stands up and plays--and the repertoire drifts as thrilled Sofia's mind hears him playing(at least to her ears)---the special children's music he plays to her when they are together putting her to sleep---my memory may be wrong, but I think it is is a rearrangement into multiple rather simple chord inversions and hence variations of 'Twinkle Twinkle Little Star'---but to Sofia, it is a classical triumph- a peak moment in a girl's pride in her father and an orchestral triumph of course of the highest order. Dramatic irony taken right back to the home of it!Give it a go and look at it again,if you liked the dream-time aspect of your own childhood, and especially all Dads of 7-12 yo girls, ESPECIALLY twins,and I expect, Grandads too, whose love for their grandchildren granted the gift of spare time and maybe reflection, often to me seem to even be more tender about the young than parents. It's not really a story--sorry, no big plot, no hard-hitting tag-line. It's drifting along that magical stream of consciousness of a child with parents that loom very large and blurred with an aesthetically beautiful finale at the Acrolopis with orchestra lit at dusk ----Mark Allan, Nedlands (Perth),Western Australia "}{"Title":"Loved the first story","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have only seen the first story, and simply put it's Scorcese at his best. Great camera work.  One particular scene is where Nolte's art agent visits him in his awesome loft studio and is about to leave in the elevator. It's an old elevator with hand operated sliding cage doors.  The camera shoots from inside the small elevator through the bars, making Nolte look like he is a prisoner in his huge studio.  The agent is hounding Nolte to create art which he seems to have trouble because of his distraction(Arquette). Another great scene involves Nolte triumphantly painting his masterpiece to validate himself as Arquette and her lover walk down into the studio. Great music score. Whiter Shade of Pale is perfect for this story.  As an aspiring painter and a Scorcese fan, this filmed delivered in both ways. Haven't seen the other two stories. "},{"Title":"Woody's makes it","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most people seem to prefer Martin Scorsese's segment, Life Lessons.  But this movie was worthwhile, for me at least, because of Woody's return to straight comedy.  His segment was a throwback to his pre Annie Hall movies, and I thought it was really funny.  The expression on his face when his mom disappears is priceless.  Woody Allen's post 2000 movies, like Small Time Crooks, are full-length versions of his short in New York Stories, which really isn't a bad thing.  Just don't expect Crimes and Misdemeanors.  The other short films here, by Scorsese and Francis Coppola, I found to be self-indulgent and bland.  I seem to be in the minority here (in the case of Scorsese's short) and with the majority (in the case of Coppola's). "},{"Title":"a mediocre tribute to three GREAT cinematographers","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first story, shot by Néstor Almendros (Days of heaven, Goin' south), directed by Martin Scorsese (Raging Bull, Taxi Driver) is watchable but not really recommendable.  It just feels like it was written, shot and edited in one day.  The segment depicts some poignant aspects of N.Y. city life and possible communication distortions between artists in a fairly effective way.  BTW, notice Deborah Harry's cameo appearance?The second segment, interestingly shot by Vittorio Storaro (il Conformista, Apocalypse now) directed by Francis Ford Coppola (Apocalypse now, the Godfather) should have been edited out entirely, because it is a lousy idea that could have been nice, but is terribly acted, moralistic and vapid at once.  One of Coppola's mistakes unfortunately.  Storaro's work is definitely satisfying though.The third short (cinematographer Sven Nykvist (Fanny och Alexander, Persona), director Woody Allen (Annie Hall, Manhattan)) is the best and most fun with a surreal key element that must be a brilliant metaphor and recognizable for many people (guys?).  Allen really must have touched an old wound writing this story and putting it on celluloid.This movie could never equal Boccaccio '70 (Fellini, Visconti, De Sica, 1962, WITH great music) in any way, but is an okay triptych without a common denominator apart from The City where it all happens and lame music.  I'm not planning to see it again.  See 'Night on earth' (Jarmusch, 1991) instead.  I'm convinced Jarmusch should have made a segment too!7/10 "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of the comments I have  read have stated that Life Without Zoe wasn't as good as the other two. I disagree. I really liked it. Maybe it was because I was 12 years old when I saw it. I enjoyed it. I thought it was very beautiful and artistic. I loved the princess and the jewel. Its always the fantasy of little girls to meet a princess or to be a princess and I liked the story a lot.  "},{"Title":"A mixed bag of shorts","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life Lessons by Martin Scorsese is one of those shorts that could launch the career of a young filmmaker.  It is very well crafted as a story, with a beautiful photography, incredible performances by Rosanna Arquette (who has never been so young and beautiful) and Nick Nolte, and a wonderful direction. (10) Unfortunately, the stories that follow are not up to par.  Francis Ford Coppola's Life without Zoe is probably the weakest of them all.  Told from the children's point of view, it deals with Zoe, a rich and spoiled girl and her school friends as she tries to bring a jewel back to her owner, saving his father from disgrace.  Cannot help but think that this short would have been made much more interesting if Zoe's father had actually cheated on Zoe's mother and the girl realized it.  As all of Coppola's films, you can always see the money on the screen. (4) Finally, Oedipus Wrecks is a typical Woody Allen film, shortened, which packs much more impact.  Woody is Woody as usual, and his problem now is mostly with his Jewish mother and his fiancees.  As in all his films, you'll find psychoanalysis scenes, allusions to his religion, and self-esteem issues.  Funny for moments, it lacks a little bit of coherence in the surreal element, which is used only as a device to create laughs and finish the story. (7) "},{"Title":"3 short films from great film makers","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Three short films are combined here from great film makers (Scorsese, Coppola & Allen) in this rare collaborative effort. I very much liked the segment by Scorsese, Life Lessons. Scorsese as in many of his other films captures the pulse of New York. Also as he has explored obsession in previous works his comment on narrow interests and self centerdness is very biting here.Coppola's film is very light. It seems Francis was tired from the profound comments of the Godfather films and Apocalypse Now and just wanted to do a bit of fluff.Allen's part is his best comedy since Annie Hall. It flows naturally without his recent bitterness.IMDB's short comment on this film mentions that Francis Coppola's segment is a bit Felliniesque. Fellini's range is so broad and his influence on these 3 film makers is so deep that there are references to Fellini throughout New York Stories. The most direct borrowing is done by Woody Allen who I've always felt was as much influenced by Fellini as Ingmar Bergman.  Fellini did a short film with two other film makers in a collection called Boccaccio 70 (1969). Fellini uses a gimmick for his short comedy and Allen uses exactly the same one.Of the handful of short film collections I have seen, New York Stories (especially the Scorsese & Allen segments) is the only one that draws me back for more.    "},{"Title":"A lovely trilogy for fans of the city or these directors","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this film again after many years and I enjoyed it more than ever. I really like all three segments for different reasons. While they are three very different types of stories they are each representative of a different aspect of New York. The diversity of the three segments is a perfect compliment to a city that is so many different worlds all in one place.The first segment directed by Scorsese is a wonderful little vignette about an extremely dysfunctional and destructive relationship between an egomaniacal artist and a young woman in the throws of an identity crisis. They are both using each other and at the same time feeding off each others emotions. Anyone who has been in a relationship with any of these dynamics will appreciate this piece. Nick Nolte and Rosanna Arquette are both superb in their rolls. I think it is a great romanticized portrayal of the New York art scene of the late 70's - early 80's. I also really enjoyed all the music in this segment.I am amazed at how many people panned the Coppola segment. It is an adorable piece. This is a real tribute to the boundless imagination of a child. It could truly be a real story or it could be the fairy tale world of a child in a totally different circumstance, or anything in between. For all we know, Zoë's father could be the street musician. In a city like New York anything is possible. At least this was the way I interpreted the story.The Woody Allen segment definitely showcased Woody at the top of his form. A very funny short film that I will always treasure. It will always remind me of my own mother, who, even though she is not Jewish thinks she is. Besides the great play on Freudian psychology I also loved the way the city just accepts the bizarre situation. I also love Allen's take on the human desire to explore any avenue to try to come to terms with the strangeness in life.So, there you have it, three unique stories by three master story tellers. Each one giving the viewer a little taste of a different world within a world. The huge range of experiences and possibilities are what makes New York one of the great cities of the world, if not the greatest. For those who didn't care for one segment or another, I urge you to spend a little time in the city doing a variety of things. Go to the symphony, take in a museum, eat a hot dog on the street corner, take a walk in the park, talk to bum on the street, listen to some street musicians, hang out in Chinatown or Little Italy on a Sunday afternoon. Then, go back and watch the movie again. I believe you may see it in a little different light.  "},{"Title":"Don't expect the crème de la crème","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie made of three short movies made by three of the most maverick american directors of that time. In common, they have a passion for the city which they have chosen as a backdrop to their shorts. Now let's get to the business if you're expecting the best of the best selection that could come out of this pack of directors, forget it. Because this was no pretentious project, but a way to express the love the directors have for New York and the people who live there. The inevitable mixed review follows1. Life's Lessons, by Scorsese. A typical Scorsese movie, with a way of filming and characters which resemble their art painting. Here, like the main credits, we get the stories and the reactions like slobs of paint, apparently thrown at random but with an intentional instinct behind them. Nick Nolte tries to be different for a change, and suceeds. Rosanna Arquette still looks like Marcy from After Hours, but struggles to snap out of it.2. Life without Zoe, by Coppola. Complete with the trademark beautiful cinematography by Vittorio Storaro, this segment comes out as maybe the most trivial of the three, but it is still a sweet tale of how a child has to become a grown up before time, forced by the circunstances which surround them. This segment can be placed between the section of the flops and the section of the victories by director Coppola, which is one of the most unstable directors known. 3. Oedipus Wrecks, by Allen. Here, I have to take my hat off. Because this is a proof that Woody Allen always delivers when we expect something from him. This hilarious segment will make seeing the movie all worth it, and I will not spoil it so that those who see it can have the most fun with it possible. I just can say that this is a wonderful pearl, and you can expect the usual high-quality Woody Allen fare. Altogether, I think that after seeing this one few of our lives will be changed, but one will also feel that they gained something from the experience. Anyway, give it a go. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen film worth the effort","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You get three of the world's most talented filmmakers together to make a film about the city that inspired the majority of their films and you would expect a little more than what New York Stories has to offer. Martin Scorsese's story is about an artist (Nick Nolte) who falls in love with his assistant. The whole thing is rather silly, there's no complexity or depth. Francis Ford Coppola's Life without Zoe is more fun than the previous film, but still has little impact. Woody Allen's inspired piece about a man haunted (literally) by his hounding mother is funny and seems to have more to say about New York than the previous films. Yet this is all a letdown, not really what you would expect from such big names in quality filmmaking. "},{"Title":"the best is O. W.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i saw this movie not to long ago but the only story i remember is the one with Woody Allen in it!! Woody if your reading this you need to write a full length movie on this one!! Oedipus Wrecks is one of the funniest movies i`ve ever seen!! if only it would have been 2 hrs long!! actually i`m glad it`s not 2 hours long, my relatives would have me committed for continuous involuntary laughter?? this movie is so funny!! every time i watch it i can`t stop laughing!! anyways, the other 2 stories in this movie are o.k. but the one with Woody is just so bizarre and ridiculous that i`m laughing right now just thinking about it!! anyways, if your into comedy this is a MUST SEE!!  those of you that read my reviews usually expect to see a rating at the end but on this one i won`t since O.W. just blows the other short storys away!! go rent it!! "}{"Title":"Diverse New York Tales","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three New York directors have each contributed here to three short films set in the heart of the metropolis. The big apple plays second fiddle however to these three very diverse tales.First feature Life Lessons is a character study that never grips. Nick Nolte's turn as a self-centred, exceptionally talented artist is a high point; the entire idea is unclear though, and it is hard to know what Martin Scorcese had in mind. Also starred Rosanna Arquette.Francis Coppola's Life Without Zoe is a self-absorbed, silly yawn. This was obviously a story close to the Coppola's heart, yet they were unable to make it interesting.Oedipus Wrecks is pure Woody Allen. He is delightfully funny as the repressed lawyer with the mother complex and the Jewish inferiority syndrome. Mae Qeustel is a riot as the domineering mother in question. Julie Kavner is also great, and Mia Farrow makes her token appearance.Saturday, April 10, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"An interesting concept that isn't really successful...","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three top directors (Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola, Woody Allen) helm three separate stories about denizens of the Big Apple. Scorsese, still in After Hours mode, works quite well with handsome, raffish Nick Nolte, playing an obsessive painter; Coppola, working from a dim script co-written with daughter Sofia, has nothing up his sleeve with a tale about a poor little rich girl; Allen wrote and co-stars with Mia Farrow in the best segment, a funny fantasy about a Jewish man at the mercy of his domineering mama. Snazzily-produced picture appears to have everything going for it in the talent department, but one is ultimately left undernourished by the final results. This project is rather obviously just a holding-pattern for the trio of filmmakers, and not enough heart makes it into the mix. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Allen Shines; Scorsese's Strident; Coppola's Piece Best Suited To ELOISE Fans, But Where's Brody?","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd seen NEW YORK STORIES (NYS) before on cable, and I'd enjoyed the trilogy of short films by Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola, and Woody Allen. However, I hadn't been aware that a teenage Adrien Brody was supposed to be in it until I happened to look up his credits on the IMDb. Since he was listed in order of appearance as part of the cast of Coppola's segment LIFE WITHOUT ZOË, I kept a sharp eye out for young Brody in the school cafeteria scene -- at least it *looked* like it was supposed to be the cafeteria! The artistically dim lighting made things a little hard to see, which may be why I (and other Brody fans I know) could hardly find Brody at all. Judging by the order in which he's listed in the credits (as a character named Mel), Brody should've shown up in Zoë's school right after the know-it-all character Andrea (Alexandra Becker) shows up, just before the Sherry-Netherland robbery scene with Chris Elliott. Brody must have had dialogue at some point, or he wouldn't have been in the credits at all. However, I guess Coppola & Company pulled a THIN RED LINE on the adolescent Adrien, because I didn't see or hear him utter a single syllable. My only inkling that Boy Brody was in the scene at all was that when I looked very closely and pressed my DVD remote's Slow button, I thought I detected a familiar noble-nosed profile amongst the students stylishly silhouetted in the background. Oh, well, at least Brody got an early screen credit and presumably a paycheck out of the experience, as did another future Oscar-winner Sofia Coppola, who co-wrote the script and designed the cute opening credit sequence. Nevertheless, I found LIFE WITHOUT ZOË entertaining even when the game of Spot the Adrien came a cropper, despite its reputation as the weakest of NYS's trio of vignettes. While it has its overly precious moments, it's basically an uncredited 'tween update of Kay Thompson's ELOISE AT THE PLAZA book series, one of my faves; think of this as ZOË AT THE SHERRY-NETHERLAND. With gorgeous New York locations, catchy songs by Kid Creole & the Coconuts, and a likable cast including young Heather McComb, Don Novello, Giancarlo Giannini, and Talia Shire, you could find worse ways to pass the time. As for the other entries, Scorsese's LIFE LESSONS, with a screenplay by Richard Price, is well-crafted and well-acted, though the temperamental, manipulative artist and assistant/muse/lover played, respectively, by Nick Nolte and Rosanna Arquette were so immature and strident they got on my nerves after a while. Hands down, my favorite of the 3 vignettes (and the fave of most folks who've seen NYS) was Allen's uproarious OEDIPUS WRECKS, the story of a Jewish mother (Mae Questel, the cutie who voiced Betty Boop and Olive Oyl, is a devious delight) whose well-meant domination of her henpecked son (Allen) gets out of hand when the audience participation portion of a magic show goes horribly yet hilariously awry. Mia Farrow and Julie Kavner provide able support; CURB YOUR ENTHUSIASM fans should keep an eye out for Larry David in a brief bit as the magic show theater manager. Kavner's home-cooked chicken drumstick gets my vote for Best Performance by an Inanimate Object! -)  "},{"Title":"Three separate stories of varying success from three master directors","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is three separate stories directed by three quintessential NY directors. The first Life Lessons is directed by Martin Scorsese. Lionel Dobie (Nick Nolte) is a successful artist unable to paint. His assistant Paulette (Rosanna Arquette) is moving on after their romance but he's still clinging on. Her presence fuels his jealousy and his paintings. Francis Ford Coppola directs the second part Life Without Zoë with school girl Zoë (Heather McComb) living in a luxury hotel. The final story Oedipus Wrecks is directed by Woody Allen. Sheldon (Woody Allen) brings his fiancé Lisa (Mia Farrow) to meet his overbearing mother (Mae Questel). His embarrassing mother disappears after a magic box trick.The Scorsese part is basically one dysfunctional co-dependent relationship. These characters don't change. It's a couple of grumpy people bouncing off of each other. I don't love this section but I do get the angry relationship. The Coppola section is just one rambling string of scenes. The little girl doesn't have enough charisma. There isn't enough fun or magic which is sorely needed in a story reminiscent of 'Eloise at the Plaza'. The Woody Allen section is the most fun. It's whimsical and mildly comical. It brings a smile to my face. "},{"Title":"Expected Better! 4/10","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Review These 3 short movies by these top directors, wasn't as good as I thought they would be. Scorsese's short movie with Nick Nolte and Rosanna Arquette, was the best of the three but I still expected better from him. The story follows a painter who is totally in love with his ex-partner, who keeps on using him, and he only seems to paint when she is in his life. Nolte put in a good performance, but the storyline didn't seem to go anywhere. The next short from Coppola was terrible. It followed a young girl who had rich parents and seemed to live by herself most of the time because of there busy work commitments. Personally, I found the little girl annoying and this was another storyline that was weak and uninteresting. Woody Allen's short wasn't that much better. Its about a man who has an annoying mother who just won't stop interfering in his life. I didn't find this short that funny and the whole woman in the sky thing was ridiculous. In all, I was disappointed with these short movies which centred around New York, but out of all of the directors, Scorsese is the winner. Disappointing!Round-Up Once these directors heard that they were going to be making a movie together, based on 3 different stories, I expected them to pull out there best work, but the end results were quite poor. Coppola hasn't done anything that amazing since the Untouchables and the Godfather and Woody Allen hasn't done anything in the same calibre as Scorsese. I think that the whole film was based on there love for New York, hence the title, but the individual films haven't really got that much to do with the city. I know that it's obvious that they were filmed in New York but thats about it. Anyway, Scorsese latest movie, The Wolf Of Wall Street was brilliant and his work on this project put the other 2 directors to shame. As this film came out in 1989, I think that it would be totally different if the directors teamed up again to make another movie like this. Budget $15million Worldwide Gross $11millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there dramas about 3 different stories based in New York and directed by Coppola, Scorsese and Woody Allen. 4/10 "},{"Title":"hit or miss omnibus promises more than it delivers","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's exciting to find three high profile filmmakers working in a short story format, but (perhaps not surprisingly) this unique anthology adds up to something less than the sum of its parts. Because of the talent involved it's difficult to avoid playing the comparison/contrast game, which would make Martin Scorsese's 'Life Lessons' the most impressive segment, in large part because of Nick Nolte's dynamic portrayal of a burned-out bohemian artist in trend-setting SoHo. Scorsese's direction is no more stylish than the efforts of his companions, but there's more substance in this one episode than in both others combined. Francis Ford Coppola's 'Life Without Zoë' is a fizzy, uptown urban fairy tale told from the point of view of a precocious, sophisticated 12-year old heiress, and Woody Allen's amusing, typically neurotic 'Oedipus Wrecks' is reminiscent of one of his New Yorker essays, perhaps better suited to the printed page. Taken altogether, the trilogy is a diverting throwaway effort by three directors whose talents far outshine the material each is working with. "},{"Title":"Fast forward to the end","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I could rate this film on Woody Allen's contribution alone, it would receive a 10, however, since I have to include Scorsese's and Coppola's as well, a 5. And mind you, all five of those points are for Woody Allen's Oedipus Wrecks. Scorsese and Coppola both seem like they did not take this project seriously at all. Scorsese's offering sets itself up to be a moving drama, but falls short with a tremendously lame script. Coppola co-wrote his feature with his daughter Sofia. As we all felt after her performance in THE GODFATHER PART III, we find ourselves asking why? Oedipus Wrecks, on the other hand, is a joy from start to finish. If you ever doubted Julie Kavner's acting talents, this is the film to see to change your mind. Just rent it and skip to the end. That's what I wish I'd done. "},{"Title":"Predictable but effective","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen directs the last story in a trilogy, the other two being unsatisfactory pieces by Martin Scorsese and Francis Coppola.  This is Woody in predictable territory but the Jewish mother jokes are no less effective for that. His monologues to his analyst are also a familiar feature from other films. The best joke of the film is the matter of fact way that New Yorkers accept the existence of a little old Jewish lady in the sky. This mixture of the bizarre and the commonplace is used more extensively and to equally amusing effect in Alice. "},{"Title":"Life Lessons is a treasure, the other two are garbage","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't deign to speak about the Coppola and Allen pieces, for at best these are plebian efforts.  Scorsese's Life Lessons, though, is far-and-away the most overlooked gem in filmdom.  This 45-min. piece showcases all of Scorsese's signatures (except for the long steadycam shot).  It is a clinic on the capabilities of cinema and shows why Scorsese is its greatest student and master.  Aside from this, this is the wonderful story of an artist and his inspiration, wonderfully written and acted.  The latter is a bit of a surprise, for no one will ever confuse Nick Nolte and Rosanna Arquette with Robert De Niro and Anjelica Houston; but they're magnificent.  A perfect film, one of the all-time greats, made by the greatest.  It just doesn't get any better than this. "},{"Title":"Watch with caution , Better yet don't watch it at all","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As i was in the DVD rental place looking for a good saturday night movie i ask the guy to help me find a good pick, and since i was a big fan of the superb Annie Hall i ask him for a Woody Allen movieHe shows me New York Stories , but doesn't comment , although i love Coppola's work , adore Allen's and  not such a fan of Scorcese's i thought it would be a good movie but then i had no clue what i was in for1) Life Lessons  What a bad segment , i didnt even finish watching it. It was very boring. The way how every  scene came about through the use of the circle was scrutiny. i skipped the whole movie when Nick Nolte locks Arquette in the closet. I expected better i rate it 3/10 unless your a die hard fan or movies that put you to sleep.2) Life without Zoe little rich kids trying to be like grown ups The Coppolas could have made it seem better. I rate it 5/10. Okay for a switchfooting movie. The opening credits for this movie were 'bout to put me off watching  the movie.3)Opedius Wrecks   they saved the best for last. i liked it i enjoyed it , worse part that it should have been a whole movie. 8.5/10. Good , but come on Woody Allen. hes the best ! in neurotic comedies. "}{"Title":"Different works from Scorsese and Coppola... Very good!","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Life Lessons (Scorsese)-This is really different from the Scorsese we are used to see. This special form (=short episodes) seems to have given the directors some new possibilities and freedoms. The movie is great. Nick Nolte and Rosanna Arquette are absolutely perfect. The story is simple on the surface, but the characters are very well build and very realistic They are both lovable, sympathetic and stupid and selfish at the same time. The characters are maybe the deepest and most multi-dimensional that I've ever seen in a Scorsese movie.Life Without Zoe (Coppola)-Very interesting movie. The story is about rich people, a rich and well succeeded family. The movie shows that rich people are people also. Very specially directed and acted. Very interesting.Oedipus Wrecks (Allen)-I don't know if Allen is a director or an artist at all. He don't have anything to say, at least in this short picture. He's again acting himself, and comically, not acting very good. He's a super-neurotic person that creates problems out of nothing. He doesn't seem to have anything else in his life than whining about nothing and making movies about that. This is his most boring work I've seen. OK, maybe he's done something good also. But this was so bad, so boring and uninteresting that I hardly could watch it even with fast forwarding.Overally, because the Scorsese's piece is so great, and the Coppola's piece also in it's own way, this episode movie was very good, and very interesting. Allen's part couldn't make the other parts worse. Recommended for everybody. "},{"Title":"Three Masters, Three Pitches, One Big Strikeout","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You gotta wonder how 'New York Stories' played in the sticks. This threepack of whimsical New York creampuffery could only be appreciated by Big Apple residents---particularly wealthy socialites. Everyone else will yawn their way through the half-baked, undeveloped ideas. Big-timers Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola, and Woody Allen direct self-contained segments that never interact. There's basically no reason to make this one entire film in the first place---other than the running theme of privileged people acting like selfish idiots. Scorsese handles the tortured art world, Coppola takes the ritzy world of music, and Woody's got law. They direct in their own distinct style and the tonal shift is jarring each time. The experiment fails.Scorsese leads off. Nick Nolte is a superstar painter going through a serious midlife crisis. Young fling Rosanna Arquette is trying to break free of him once & for all, although he's more sympathetic than she is (even if he's got that obsessive neediness that successful artists tend to have). Then it's on to Coppola's segment of a poor, little, rich girl named Zoe (Heather McComb). Her parents are always away (dad is a mega-flutist) and she's living in a swanky NY hotel with only a butler as company. Next, bring on the angst! Woody Allen plays a lawyer who has to tolerate his oppressive Jewish mother. When she goes missing, his life improves immediately, only to slump again when his guilt manifests into her loud-mouthed apparition towering over the city.All of this plays like deleted scenes from better movies. It's very weak by their standards, but Scorsese's piece (the longest one) has the most life and Woody sniffs around the fringes of some of his trademark suffering yuppie stuff. Coppola, though, is wasting his time & talent. His daughter, Sofia, co-wrote his seg with him and you can bet she could relate to Zoe's life. But, apparently, REGULAR life is something these 3 giants of the industry know nothing about anymore. I'm still scratching my head as to why they couldn't have done something clever to tie it all up. For three guys who know New York so well, their 'New York Stories' are pretty lame.  "},{"Title":"In my opinion-terribly immature work","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Couldn't wait till these three movies were over, how directors of such fame and name can give birth to this mess is completely beyond me, had I not known who was sitting in the director's chair I would be commenting on terrible acting choices by some individuals, but this is not the case.Martin Scorsese-Kudos to Rosana Arquete's performance, I never liked her at all, but she makes herself a pretty unbelievable (especially considering her actual age) 20sth woman. Nick Nolte, however, counterbalances this amazingly, how he landed this part is beyond me. He is only good in roles where his emotional capabilities don't go beyond facial expressions yet here he is a deeply emotional guy who's in love. The story-plain simple nothing special Francis Ford Coppola-Incredbly lame story, the title kind of puzzles me. Annoying kids living posh lives, some kwazi romance in between and that's about it. It felt like living in an 8 year old's body and watching kids movies on Saturday morning or something. Except this time I'm not eight anymore. When you miss my man, you hit rock bottom Woody Allen-Actually had potential of a really intriguing story. The second half ruins it completely. Annoying old Jewish lady...Final verdict-I'll try to forget about this junk as quickly as possible, it doesn't deserve to take up space in my already small head. "},{"Title":"Allen's was dumb, Scorsese's was boring, Coppola's was divine","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York Stories is like pizza, some like it and some hated it. The directors are well known and this is the motivation I watched it but I think they did it for hobby, not for work (except Coppola). Scorsese's part is a predictable bore. What is more obvious than a painter in NYC? Cliché. The music is the best of Scorsese's choice. Maybe Whiter shade of pale is the actual plot. Allen's story is very dumb in my humbly opinion. A funny idea but he didn't need to put that big mama in the sky. Thes best one is Copolla's Life without Zoe (Zoe means life in Greek). A poor rich little girl left on her own in in a city like that! Through her eyes we can watch a magical NYC, full of bunny-rabbits and princess from the 1001 nights. This is why I love this city. "},{"Title":"Only the Scorsese Film Really Works","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York Stories (1989) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Three legendary directors come together for this anthology film but sadly the end results really don't live up to the hype. When it comes to these type of movies they're always uneven simply because you have different styles and so forth but I always ask myself if any of the shorts are good enough to where you'd want to see them expanded into features and in the case here only the first film would be worthy. Even though all three films open with credits that tell you who directed them, anyone familiar with their work would be able to tell even without the credits.Martin Scorsese's Life Lessons features an artist (Nick Nolte) struggling to find his painting in time for his big release party but while trying to finish up he's also struggling to find a connection with his assistant (Rosanna Arquette) who he has been having a sexual affair with. This here is without question the best of the three films because you have a fairly interesting story that is perfectly directed. I really loved the way that Scorsese never really explains what the story is and instead he just gives us little pieces and hints as the film moves along. It also doesn't hurt that you've got Nolte giving a terrific performance as he doesn't have to say much but you can see everything in his face. Arquette is also very good in her role as is Steve Buscemi in his brief part. The real star here however is editor Thelma Shoonmaker who does some of her greatest work here. This is especially true during the painting sequences, which are just downright beautifully filmed and the way they are edited is just something masterful to watch.Francis Ford Coppola's Life Without Zoe is the worst of the bunch and centers on a lonely 12-year-old girl (Heather McComb) who doesn't have any real friends until one day she meets the richest boy in school who is also friendless. I've seen this film a few times now and I keep hoping that it eventually makes sense but it never does. This is a pretty bad movie on so many levels but the majority of the blame has to go to Coppola because the story makes very little sense and his direction is so lifeless that you really wonder if even he cared about what was going on. Right from the start it's just impossible to get caught up in the story, the characters or to really care about anything that's going on. McComb gives a very good performance in the lead and Talia Shire isn't too bad as her mother but the film on the whole is just bad.Woody Allen's Oedipus Wrecks) features Allen playing a 50-year-old lawyer who still can't get away from his mother. One day he introduces his mother to his fiancé (Mia Farrow) and the three take her kids to a magic act where the mother mysteriously disappears. A few days later she re-appears over the skies of New York City where she starts telling all of her son's secrets and embarrassing him even more. I think this third film has a few interesting moments and it has a rather clever idea but in the end it just never fully comes together. I never thought any of the embarrassing stories that the mother tells were all that funny and I'd say more than anything they're just annoying. Even Allen, the actor, doesn't appear to be at the top of his game as this character is just something that feels tiresome. Farrow isn't much better as she just sleepwalks through her part.NEW YORK STORIES, in the end, is a pretty disappointing affair with only Scorsese's film really coming to life and being something worthy. The Coppola short is one of the worst things he's ever done and the Allen film isn't too bad but it's just rather lifeless compared to the director's other films. "}]