[{"Title":"Unforgettable childhood film","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought this was the coolest movie back when I was a kid, I recently watched it again after many years, I introduced it to some of the younger kids in my family and they loved it. Fred Savage and his not as great little brother, Ben really related well with kids, I really didn't care for Daniel Stern in this film and Howie Mandel was super as the monster Maurice. I recommend this to kids who would like to see a good kids film for once, I know this is out of date for todays kiddos, but worth watching over and over again as the years go by. I really miss films like this and never will forget this film. "},{"Title":"So bad you can't miss it.","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Little Monsters is a revolting comedy about a young boy Brian, played by the one dimensional Fred Savage who ventures under his bed to discover a world of monsters, befriending the equally unfunny Howie Mandel. Movie starts with Savages parents marriage on the rocks, by chance Savage finds out there really are monsters under his bed. He meets Maurice (Mandel) and soon they begin to journey into the laughably stupid world of monsters that is apparently under everyone's beds. I'll be sure to check tonight. The two play some rather lame practical jokes on other people and some stupid games. After a practical joke on a girl he knows, Brian decides he wants no more and doesn't want to go back. Meantime in monster land Snik (Rick Ducommun) and his boss Boy wanted Brian and decide to kidnap his brother, to no surprise played by Ben Savage. Brian gathers some kids, a nerd, his girl and eventually a fat bully, and with flash lights that hurt the bad guys go to get his brother back. Soon they have a showdown with Boy, yet another creepy stupid character who is quite disturbing to look at and hear talk. The gang manages to defeat them with some illumination just in time to return home and not turn into monsters. This movie is truly bad and only funny because it is so bad. Back in 92' a friend said it was funny, he was wrong. There is almost nothing funny about any of the crap they pull in this movie, presumably meant for kids and rather disgusting in many ways. Howie Mandel is one of the most unfunny people in Hollywood and is only staying in the spotlight due to late night TV allowing him on to do bits. Savage as in all his movie roles is one dimensional with that haircut borrowed from The Wonder Years to boot. I grew up with the wonder years so watching Savage is always a hoot. Daniel Stern is totally wasted in this film as Brians dad, he was better in the Wonder years as just a voice. Only one part seems to stand out as funny, when leader boy gets his face melted off and begins to talk. Savage of course screams like a girl, which is quite amusing. Overall I would avoid this if your looking for good writing and comedy, although I admit every time its on I have to watch this train wreck and get a laugh. It is that stupid. 4/10 stars. "},{"Title":"More than Expected","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Little Monsters is a funny and moving family comedy that reminds me of my childhood days when I first saw the movie. I thought that the cast was perfect, the script was hilarious, and the special and make-up effects were outstanding.Brian Stevenson (Fred Savage) has just moved into a new house with his parents and little brother Eric (Ben Savage). He has no friends and is not doing well with grades. That is until he discovers that a monster named Maurice (Howie Mandell) has invaded his room. He starts out scared of Maurice, but quickly becomes best friends with him. Maurice takes Brian to a world of Monsters under his bed and shows him the time of his life. Brian finds out though that the world is ruled by an evil monster (Frank Whaley) who terrorizes people and has not been seen latley. Together, Brian and Maurice embark on an adventure of a lifetime to put this monster away.Fred Savage (The Wonder Years), Howie Mandell (Bobby's World), Ben Savage (Boy Meets World), Rick Ducommun (Blank Check, Scary Movie), Frank Whaley (Pulp Fiction, Field of Dreams), Devin Ratray (Home Alone 1 & 2), Daniel Stern (The Wonder Years).Directed by Richard Greenberg of R. Greenberg/Associates in New York who design titles to movies and optical effects.This movie is a must see for sure! "},{"Title":"Should be PG-13","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this movie a few months ago with my young children and was a bit shocked how foul the movie was. Maybe when I was a young boy I found it intriguing, but as a father I don't think I'd want my kids exposed to that stuff until they're older and have a moral framework in place.There are several instances of severe curse words - including sh*t, b*tch, a**hole, etc. and directed toward people, no less. The whole movie is premised around a boy's exploration of a demonic fantasy land and playing practical jokes on other kids while his parents are going through an awful divorce. This is where I first remember hearing the vulgar phrase for a bra over-the-shoulder-boulder-holder. Not something I particularly want my 10 year old to know about. And then a scene where they pee into a jar and make it look like apple juice for a kid to drink the next day. Very vulgar and my 10 year old laughed hilariously, but I found it a bit too much for that age. It seems like only the mind of an adult who went through ugly times of a parental divorce could come up with a story like this.It reminds me of the recent Where the Wild Things Are movie. Just dysfunctional. Disturbing and not feel-good. Absolutely do not think this is a PG movie that you can take any child under 10 to watch. It's just too disturbing. "},{"Title":"Fun & trouble all rolled up into one!","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Being a kid is always going to be tough. Mischief and mayhem is all normal. At night they are afraid to sleep because of monsters. An early stage of common childhood fears. But what if the monsters they encounter are childish themselves? Yes, they are scary, that doesn't mean they are also mean. That's where Brian and his brother Eric are about to find out in this movie, Little Monsters. It stars The Wonder Years' Fred Savage, and his brother, future Boy Meets World star, Ben. Fred plays Brian, Ben plays Eric. Brian gets blamed for the the accidents and mischief in the family home. He insists there's a monster who did it. His father(Daniel Stern) doesn't bite. In some reason, he does speak the truth. He meets a very mischievous monster named Maurice(Howie Mandel, St. Elsewhere, Bobby's World & Deal or No Deal) who lives underneath his bed. Knowing that he was telling the truth, he goes into Maurice world and sees that not all monsters are bad. They just like to have a little fun. Both he and Mo bond, and create all the trouble they want. They even help Brian with the bully by sabotaging his lunch replacing the tuna with cat food, and Maurice drinks all the apple juice and pees into the bottle to p--- him off! However, he went too far by destroying his favorite girls school project. Brian got very mad! There is one monster who bullies the other ones and breaks Maurice's horn. Brian and his friends help him by taking out the mean monster, and his cronies. Life is tough for a kid, having a friend that's not human is everlasting. I liked this movie a whole lot, it was a lot of fun. 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Creative kid's adventure.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Little Monsters is a fun film for kids. Brian Stevenson (Fred Savage) seems to be getting blamed for everything these days. Leaving his bike out behind his dad's car. Making a mess out of the ice cream. But Brian insists that it isn't his fault.One night, Brian discovers the cause to all his problems is a monster named Maurice (Howie Mandell), and shows Brian that under every kids bed, is the entrance to the underworld of childish monsters. And for Brian, it's the coolest thing and an excellent escape from his problems in the real world. It's great. There's no adult supervision. They can do whatever they want, whenever. And, the funniest part, is that Brian gets to join Maurice creating monster mischief to get little kids in trouble (peanut butter on the phone, seran wrap on the toilet seat, etc). It's a whole lot of fun for kids tired of rules.But the monster life isn't all the treat it's cracked up to be. In the first place, there's an ugly looking fat monster who torments the monster kids that don't obey him. Maurice and his new friends have to destroy the evil monsters who have kidnapped Brian's little brother, Eric (played by Fred Savage's brother, Ben). And, Brian, Maurice, and some of their friends, have to get Eric back before they get stuck in the monster world forever. If they do, they'll turn into monsters too. This is a great, creative kids movie, exploring the idea of monster life under the bed long before Monster's Inc. I still enjoy the sequence of Brian setting up his room to trap the monster and also the sequence where Brian and Maurice go around the neighboorhood to cause mischief and get the kids in trouble. And, despite it's age, I don't even think it's a dated adventure movie. Unfortuantely, it was also one of those movies where young Ben Savage was still the cute little kid that made you ignore the fact that he couldn't act. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie has always been a favorite of mine . It's one I always want to see and would let my kids see . OK so maybe that might be for me too. It never gets old and always keeps you smiling. I didn't realize this move came out when it did, because it stays with you like you just seen it.I can still see parts from the movie in my head that make me laugh. My kids would love this movie. I just need o get it now. If I did get it it would be playing all the time .It's not a movie that is gonna scare kids . It's a good family film for the whole family of all ages .The move is always gonna be a favorite with me!! "},{"Title":"This is bad movie","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one the worst kid's movies of all time and I feel depressed for the kids in the 90s who saw it; it's an awkward, confused, ugly piece of movie garbage that can rot in cinema hell. Fred Savage does't have the charm of most child actors in these kind of movies and comes off as mean spirited and idiotic. Huey Mandel who can be hilarious in other media is annoying and awkwardly cringe worthy. The pranks the two main characters pull on the other kids are okay at first.... but soon become too cruel, one includes Huey Mandel's character urinating in the bully's apple juice... (I'm not kidding) and to makes this display worse we see the terrified kids take the blame for the damage two main leads caused and this supposed to be a funny scene but only makes the viewers feel terrible and hate the heros.it also far too scary for most kids and will even unnerve adults. At one point of the movie a bad monster rips off a child's head with a sicking crunch (This still kids movie remember) and throws the child screaming head into a cage with other heads there's no blood but will still terrify your kids if they they ever watch this The villain of the story Boy whose never explained and only named in the credits gets his faced melted off by a flashlight to revel a terrifying monster face. The morals are screwed, as Fred Savage's character never owns up for the damaged he caused and the people he hurt. His parents say they going to get divorce in a depressing scene but it never gets resolved as the film ends anticlimactically...avoid this movie at all costs there are light years better kids movies out there Disney and Dreamworks are proof of that and For those people who like this movie I cannot understand or respect you when you take off your 90s nostalgia glasses you see this nowhere close to being a good movie "},{"Title":"I love this movie, it's great!!!!","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" OK, I will not give away it's plot, or anything like that, but, I will tell you, that I am in my mid-30's, and I watched this movie, when it first came out, and I read, how another watcher, mentioned how they couldn't understand why it was such a B movie, when it really should have been one of the top movies of it's time, and I would have to agree with how it was made, and how the plot was pretty solid for it, unlike so many of the movies made in the past 10-15yrs, it is VERY underrated, and should be allowed to watch it, for many years to come, for the young-ins out there, that want to know, what a real movie looks like, and how it should be processed, with the right people playing the characters, and how the outfits are made right, to fit the scenes and etc, and yes, because of this movie, and a select few others, I really wanted to start acting myself, but with where I live, it is very hard to get to LA, where I feel is the best chance to get into the acting business, but I will get there, one day, and I will be looking for plots like this one, and etc, so that I can feel comfortable with finding my place in the industry, all because of the imaginative minds of the writers and set artists, like these, who created this movie....... "},{"Title":"Monsters Aren't Always Scary!","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Fred Savage, Howie Mandel, Ben Savage, Rick Ducommun, Daniel Stern, Margaret Whitton and Frank Whaley star in this 1989 fantasy. Brian Stevenson (F. Savage) is an unhappy boy who has just moved to a new town with his family. One night, Brian hears his little brother, Eric (B. Savage) screaming after seeing a monster in his room. Soon, Brian meets and befriends mischievous monster, Maurice (Mandel) who comes from a bizarre world under their beds. Maurice gives Brian the tour and run into Snick (Ducommun) who works for head monster, Boy (Whaley). Boy and Snick decide to punish Maurice for revealing their world by kidnapping Eric and Brian attempts to rescue him with Maurice's help. Stern (Home Alone) and Whitton (The Secret of My Success) play Brian and Eric's parents, Glen and Holly. This is one of my childhood favorites that has some humorous, creepy & dramatic moments. Savage and Mandel are good together, Robert Short's make-up is great as well as David Newman's score. I recommend this good 80's flick. "}{"Title":"Horrible fun!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" I used to kill myself laughing at this film when I was young. Fred Savage seemed to get all the good roles in these kind of films in the late 80's and this one is great gross fun.The film is just a smashing manic ride, racing along like a miniature Beetlejuce and has all the mischievous, sticky horrible nonsense that's usually found in the mind of kids! Ignore all the rubbish about sexual and paedophile undertones, It's simply folk reading WAY too much into things that could mean anything. Maybe some folk have some secrets of their own if they keep noticing things like that Hmmmm? I'm pretty sure the filmmakers didn't set out to do something like that deliberately! Great film! Thoroughly enjoyed it when I was 12, and still enjoy it now that I'm 30! Check out The Wizard as well! Another great (And misunderstood) Fred Savage Film "},{"Title":"Remember when you were a child...","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Remember when you were a child and were convinced there were monsters in your room? Remember when your parents came and checked under the bed to show you that there was no such thing as monsters? Remember how you used to wonder where the monsters (because you KNEW they existed, despite what your parents said) went when your parents came into the room? Well, this film will give you those answers.And it does it in a humorous way. It is a fun comedy, with a touching story line of friendship between a boy and a monster, and a side of sibling love. It has a fairly straightforward plot which is easy to follow.An amusing performance by Howie Mandel (lately of Deal or No Deal fame) and one of Fred Savage's early cute roles next to his brother Ben, make this a great family movie.I've probably added a point for nostalgic reasons, but my children would rate it more highly than me. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" A kids movie that delivers, Little Monsters is something I'd recommend even now to families. Sure it ain't perfect, but it does manage to get a good mix of fantasy and real issues that confront people (boy not wanting to grow up, parents having marriage issues etc). Well acted and filmed, you should see it if you get the chance. Fred Savage manages to be cute and smart but still likable, not completely sugar-sweet. The rest of the cast works together, with the possible exception of Ben Savage (Freds brother). But hey, he was like 7 and it was his first real role, so all in all, a really good movie. It's too cute to really dislike. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is so bad it's good. Literally.Fred Savage(Brian Stevenson) just moved into a new neighborhood. Which means he hasn't any friends. Yet, but he will when his little Brother Eric Stevenson(Ben Savage)screams into the night and unleashes a friend that we all love.Maurice(Howie Mandel)is a monster that was a human. He lives in the Monster world UNDER the beds. He's very comical and silly. To bad Boy(Frank Whaley) and Snik(Rick Ducommun) don't think so. So what happens when Snik kidnaps Brains brother and takes him into the monster world? Brain takes action.Starring Fred and Ben Savage, Howie Mandel and Rick Ducommon this movie is good for all children as it will help with friendships and it will help with a lot of family togetherness. Recommend for everyone. "},{"Title":"I don't know why but I always liked this movie","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" The overall plot to this movie is seriously dumb but for some reason i always liked it. Howie Mandel plays and over the top hilarious monster named Maurice and he tries to make best friends with human Brian (Fred Savage). The cast of this included Fred Savage, Daniel Stern (who's the narrator on The Wonder Years and ha starred in many other hit movies), Ben Savage, Frank Whaley and of course Howie Mandel.I liked the one liners throughout the movie even though most of it was set in this underground monster world where half of them aren't even scary. I don't get it, why have most of the monsters be prank artists and have some of them be actually scary bad guys. I guess the film had to have a heel in it somehow.Most people will remember the actor who played Snik as Cindy's Father in Scary Movie, but this was a great performance in a somewhat weird movie. Daniel Stern plays a serious role and was great as the heelish but caring father of the Savage brothers.I don't mind the bad press this movie gets because I liked it growing up. I don't understand why but it was always a favorite of mine.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Monster movie for kids...","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was a good film, not great I watched the movie with my sons and they loved it. While it isn't the greatest movie of all time, it teaches a nice message and makes you feel good. The only drawbacks that I saw were trying to make Fred Savage's younger brother Ben an actor before he was ready. The profanity included was unnecessary; while I support realistic language in a film, the swearing seemed fake and forced and simply out of place. Fred Savage, even at this early age, knew how to act and Howie Mandel's monster performance was well done. I'd recommend for parents to watch this film with their children as it teaches a valuable lesson about how families should try to work. All in all it is a great rainy day renter. "},{"Title":"1-900-909-MAURICE","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Sure that number doesn't work anymore, but for a while they had some contest where you could call up Maurice.  Fancy that. *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*  Little Monsters is kinda like Beetleguese for little kids. These weird monsters lived under the bed and kids would go and visit them in their alternate world.  However, kids didn't know they they were lured there to become monsters! I didn't know Howie Mandel was Maurice until I had the desire to look this movie up.  He did a pretty good job as the wily monster. Fred Savage was good too, he was always one of the better childhood actors. His brother Ben is also in the movie way before his Boy Meets World days. I hated Boy. He was that huge, fat, disgusting blob that would pop kids' heads off. That was relatively disturbing. And obnoxiously gross.The remainder of the movie is fun; there's a mirror breaking baseball game, Maurice and Brian sneaking into other kids houses from underneath their bed and pranking them, Maurice pees in the bully's applejuice and so on.  To get back at Maurice for being mean, Brian would shut the lights off. That would turn him into nothing but a pile of clothes. Then Brian's brother gets kidnapped so he unites with his friends to go under the bed to save him.  Classy.A good 80's movie at the time that kids could relate to. Could be worth revisiting. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful kid's film .. or not?","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Although I did enjoy this movie (and gave it a 7), I found the PG rating a major misstep by the MPAA. Cuss words, adult situations, more than cartoonish violence .. not that the movie is lessened because of it .. but at the beginning of the video I rented, there was an add for kids to call a 1-900 number and try to win prizes related to to the show - but this movie is in no way made with kids in mind. Howie Mandel hams it up, and an early movie appearance by Frank Whaley is five minutes of fabulous. "},{"Title":"great for the kids afraid of monsters","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i thought that this movie was kind of stupid. but not stupid like, i really hate it or like, Dumb and Dumber. it had many funny parts and Fred Savage played a great role along with all the other characters that found out that monsters were real but they don't eat you, they like to cause trouble  "},{"Title":"Good and enjoyable film","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Little monsters is a pretty good film. I liked it when I was younger, and still enjoy it. It might be a little childish, but it's still entertaining. Its intended for pre-teens, but I think that everyone can enjoy it, if they give it a chance. "}{"Title":"A childhood favorite of mine, Little Monsters doesn't hold up upon repeated viewings due to a loose plot and cruel nature...","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" The 1989 Fred Savage and Howie Mandel vehicle, Little Monsters, is a children's/kid's film. While it was a childhood favorite of mine, I recently had a chance to re-watch it, and I have to say, it just doesn't hold up. It suffers from a loose plotting and a disturbingly cruel nature, and I'm shocked my parents actually let me watch it.Savage stars as Brian Stevenson, a young boy who has just moved to a new neighborhood, and is feeling sad because he lost all of his friends. When strange pranks appear, set up all over his house during the night, he is blamed by his parents for setting them up, even though he denies it. In addition, his younger brother claims to have seen a monster that comes out from under his bed at night. Soon, Brian encounters the monster- Maurice (Mandel), a playful and nutty humanoid with bright blue skin, who introduces him to the world of monsters underneath his bed- a massive land with all sorts of creatures who do nothing but play pranks, scare kids and play video games.However, over time, Brian realizes that the pranks and fun have consequences, and he and Maurice are forced to help his brother Eric, whom is subsequently kidnapped by Boy, the evil leader of the monsters.To give credit where it is due, the film has a strong atmosphere. Although it's meant to be fun, the introduction to the film and the third act are meant to be creepy and unsettling for the audiences, and I will say, this film is oozing with atmosphere and the general creeps. It is well paced and well-shot, and it is very eerie for children. Particularly some of the earlier jumps and some of the monsters.In addition, the script (by future Pirates of the Caribbean scribes Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio) is quite imaginative, although it has been long-rumored that many scenes were cut and re-written, and that the final product differs greatly from the first draft.Finally, the music is incredible. It's very haunting and has an air of sorrow, mixed with hints of joy. It gives a good tone and emulates the up's and down's of the story magnificently.However, there are two huge, looming problems with the film.First, despite the imagination, the film isn't well-written. Characters are established well, but are not necessarily likable. And the plot is just a mess. In fact, the plot doesn't really exist until the last half-hour. Up until then, it's more of a series of skits and pranks. The villain (Boy) and his motivations are not made clear, and the climax, without spoiling anything, is a non-sensical, sloppy mess. It brings the film down a few points, and takes away from the scenes that do indeed work.Secondly, this is a very dark, cruel film. Many scenes involve pranks played by the monsters, which become increasingly dark and morally questionable. Scenes involving tricking young children into drinking urine, scaring infants, tampering with food, destroying property, etc. break past the border of bad taste. And there is a great deal of violence in the film, including characters being kidnapped, burned, beaten up, and even a creepy scene where a monster is decapitated and has its head replaced with a pumpkin. It's very dark, and it's inappropriate for children under 12, I'd say. (Which is the target market, as kids who are any older are probably not going to like it) And the bigger problem is that there are no real consequences for the cruelty and violence, making the theme of responsibility very hollow and hypocritical.This film is a mess. It deserves about a 3 out of 10, but my nostalgia for it, and the sleepless nights of creeps it gave me has elevated it to about a 5 out of 10. I'd say it's decent for older children, but parents should plan on watching it with their kids, and making sure the theme of responsibility was clear to them. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly creepy film from the Golden Age of kiddie flicks","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" After moving house and witnessing his parents' marriage crumbling in front of him, Brian (Fred Savage) investigates his brothers claims that monsters keep coming from under his bed and scaring him at night. After swapping rooms, Brian is visited by a big blue monster, and the next night Brian manages to trap him in his room using his engineering skills. The monster turns out to be hyperactive troublemaker Maurice (Howie Mandel) who befriends Brian, and shows him the wonders of the monster world under his bed, where every night, the monsters reek havoc in the homes of young children. But the mysterious monster Boy (Frank Whaley) wants Brian for himself and keep him under the bed until the sun comes up, and thus turning him into a monster.Apart from the first four Rocky films, Little Monsters was hands down the main film I watched religiously as a child, my face no further than two feet from the TV screen. I remember finding it strangely eerie amongst all the fun, and being genuinely disturbed by some scenes. Boy's henchman Snik, a giant, hunchbacked monster with large bottom teeth, really frightened me, and the scene where he breaks one of Maurice's horns always shocked me. Re-visiting the film, roughly around fifteen years later, I can see that I was right to feel unnerved.Yes, the film is certainly childish and playful, but has a surprising line of darkness flowing through it from beginning to end. From early on, where Brian finds an overturned TV in the darkness of his closet that is showing the climax of The Fly, to the finale that sees Boy's face burned off to reveal a hideous face underneath, the film often steps out of the childhood safety area. It's certainly refreshing to see, and this sort of atmosphere can only be found in the Golden Age of kiddie flicks, the 80's, where films like The Dark Crystal and The Goonies showed creepy creatures and foul-mouthed kids that the target audience could really enjoy and relate to.Not to say that Little Monsters quite matches up to the two films just mentioned - it has some annoying child characters and Maurice does become slightly tiresome - but it is certainly an imaginative, funny and exciting little film. It's sad to see another of the key child stars of the era, Fred Savage, come out of the decade and dissolve into the woodwork, similar to the likes of Corey Feldman and Corey Haim. Although his maniacal behaviour does occasionally become exhausting, Howie Mandel's performance is certainly energetic, and you can't help but love him when he drinks a bully's apple juice, only to refill it with p**s. Hardly a classic, but certainly a film I will absolutely cherish from my youth, and will enjoy revisiting once every decade or so.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Its a Small World After all","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" LITTLE MONSTERS seems like the sort of children's movie that isn't made much now. Maybe Hollywood comes close with the vulgarity factor but those movies have no real heart at their center's. There's something wholesome to this film when comparing it to today's' shiny plastic but intrinsically devoid contributions masquerading as children's fun. It's not deep or intelligent but LITTLE MONSTERS at least has a nice texture the CGI epics of today don't, and that's what counts for me. There's something distinctive to this juvenile but likable fantasy.In a striking fade-in the film's protagonist Brian explains in moody voice-over that his family has moved to a different neighborhood, leaving his former friends behind and forcing him to start anew. While his younger brother (really his younger brother, Ben Savage) doesn't have a problem with it, Brian is left to sneak downstairs to devour peanut butter and onion sandwiches and catch late night cable until running into Maurice (Howie Mandell) a professional monster who enters any house he pleases via the netherworld beneath every child's bed. Deducing that Maurice can't be exposed to bright light, Brian quickly uses this leverage to have Maurice showing him the ropes, sneaking into other family's houses and causing all the mischief you swore wasn't your fault when YOU were a tyke. But there's trouble brewing in the monster's dimension as the sinister Boy, high chieftain of this rickety realm, decides he wants Brian to join his world permanently and goes to extreme lengths to make it happen. LITTLE MONSTERS delights in scatology and gross-outs like swigs of p*ss & cat food sandwiches, it even has the kids exclaiming Sh*t sometimes, something I don't see in today's antiseptic pre-teen movies. It appeals to the mindset of its demographic in other words. The idea of a secret world of labyrinthine staircases, endless nights and mountains of junk food is a seductive one even if it is restricted by the movie's budget. The monsters are just dolled up kids in elaborate Halloween costumes. Howie Mandel is clearly doing his best Beetle-juice impression here with bratty Fred Savage as the adventurous sixth grader. What really has the strongest impact though is Frank Whaley as Boy, the abomination even the other monsters fear. He's soft spoken and androgynous, coyly appealing to Brian at the climax to come and play with him forever in his fabulous netherworld. Only when the camera pans backwards do we see that his face is literally tacked on like a mask, disguising a hideous interior. The sequences with Boy plumb at something deeper and darker than the rest of the film, a vision of curdled boyhood by way of a child predator. This is the only time the flick transcends its status as enjoyable malarkey into something more unsettling. Boy is too adult to really be like the other monsters so naturally he's the villain. I couldn't help thinking of another powerful man-child barricaded in his never-never land, inviting other children to come join him and be young forever. "},{"Title":"You're the ugliest friend I've ever had","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember when this movie first came out. Snooty critics ripped it to shreds but the kids loved it. Two critically acclaimed critics did a scathing review of the movie but the movie still had its fan base. Besides who cares about the wayward opinions of the same high brow Beavis and Butthead critics that gave Speed 2 Booze Control two thumbs up? Exactly, now lets move on.Story Eric Stevenson(Fred Savage) moves into a different state and has a hard time adjusting there. He later on befriends a mischievous monster named Maurice(Howie Mandell) that is easily harmed by bright lights. Eric and Maurice become friends and they visit Maurice underworld home. Later on Eric's brother is kidnapped by the same creature that bullies Maurice as well as the ruler of that underworld and now has to rely on the help of Maurice as well as a friend and a former bully to help him retrieve his brother.This movie brings back a lot of memories and after seeing it recently it still holds well after all these years. Howie Mandell is hilarious as the wise-cracking but fun-loving Maurice. Fred Savage as well as the rest of the cast is good also. I love the imagination of the writers also. Sure the movie has some dark undertones but as I kid I loved it and as an adult I still love it. The sets are creative down to the monsters. Now for the people that are comparing Maurice to Beetlejuice, there is a stark contrast there Maurice is a likable doofus with a heart that sometimes takes his antics to far(like using hands to chew up an unlucky person's homework). Beetlejuice, on the other hand is an unlikable creep that put his ulterior motives before anything else. There is a very big difference in character there.Little Monsters is one of those movies that defined childhood memories of the 80s. You cant mention great movies that defined the 80s without mentioning Little Monsters. That's like talking about movies that defined the 90s without mentioning T2 Judgment Day. Its impossible. Plus Little Monsters is not only creative and unique but its also fun to watch something that is absent from a lot of movies nowadays. You remember the word fun right? Its what movies used to be before they became mundane and extremely repetitive. I recommend this movie to anybody that is a fan of 80s movies and I also dare you to not get choked up in the final scene where Maurice says goodbye to Eric. You look at me and tell me that scene doesn't move you to tears. Ahh, the memories. Movie like this are the reason why people always go back to the 80s and after the recent crop of garbage out now who can blame them? "},{"Title":"Kids' comedy promotes bad values","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Little Monsters (1989) Fred Savage, Howie Mandel, Daniel Stern, Ben Savage, Margaret Whitton, D Richard Alan Greenburg. Teenager Savage moves into a new house where questionable pranks are being set off, and he's getting blamed for them all; he traps the culprit from underneath his bed a mischievous eleven-year-old monster named Maurcie, who takes him down to his monster underworld complete with zero adult-supervision. Profanity-stricken kids' comedy has a real mean streak by worst of all-influencing bad values and lessons. Running Time 103 minutes and rated PG for language and violence. * ½ "},{"Title":"may be a disappointment to some viewers.","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i thought this film was going to be  fun. i remember seeing this film, when i was little, and since i was so young, i couldn't remember too much. so, i thought of it as a fun movie, some of the elements in the beginning were kind of cute, and had some fun moments with fred savage and howie mandel. until, i was watching it more, it was beginning to become extremely dull and unexciting, and the film was losing all of  it's fun! the jokes were sick indeed, but  were not funny at all. i think Howie was trying too hard to be like  the comedy persona of beetlejuice, but it just didn't work. i did not laugh at all. i thought that when the story was moving from fun like times, to  dull times was a complete mess, and really ruined the movie very much. this film is not made to be a family film, it's more for Teens and adults. cause there is a lot of hidden adult humor as well. anyway, it was funny for a little bit, but then was just kill the monsters, after having fun with the monsters attitudes. highlights there a few fun songs, and that's it. and, some of the set designs looked very tim burton movie like set. it was a well done set. well, see this movie if you like, but then, it may become a disappointment to the eye.  "},{"Title":"Most Underrated film I've ever seen...","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" An astounding film like this should be in the top fantasy and family lists, and I'm shocked that it isn't. I first saw it actually about a year ago, but completely forgot about it after that until about a month ago. Since then I've probably watched it 7 or 8 times. It just plunges you into believing in magic. Kids movies are NOT made like this today...and I wasn't even alive in the 80's. But this movie has more substance, more of a story and reason to being made. It starts off showing what kind of life Brian has, but quickly picks up when Maurice enters the scene. And it all turns to fun and games. But just as quickly it turns serious, but I won't give that away. The sets are amazing, the acting is great, the costumes are fun and wild looking. The swearing caught me off guard, but it's nothing kids haven't heard already. Either this movie was rated by another system or the MPAA just overlooked it since it did have such a small release...sadly. This film has to be the most underrated film I have ever wathced...It has quickly become one of my favorites and probably will always be...If you're a fan of quality movies then watch this one because it will blow you away. "},{"Title":"Bobby's World meets Swing Kids, meets The Wonder Years, SPOILERS.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was renting movies, and I noticed this one had a few of my favorite actors in it.  So I rented not even noticing what it was.  I finally read up on the plot and found it kind of interesting.  Stupid, but interesting.  I popped it in, and watched the whole thing twice.  I was really dissapointed, here's a list of complaints.Complaint 1  The post production cuts.  I have a copy of the original script, before production time cuts, and it was pretty good, and could've fit into a 2 hour time set.Complaint 2 Fred Savage.  He was way to old to play this kind of character, and a little to chirpy.  Maybe someone who could've played a pestimist better, because that is the kind of roll this is.Complaint 3 Howie Mandell overdose.  Howie Mandell is a good actor, in fact one of my favorites, but this is a good role for him, considering his style. He is good in this, but over an amount of time, he becomes tedious. Complaint 4 Frank Whaley under dose. Frank Whaley had an interesting character, and I'm not just saying that because he is my favorite actor. It would of been a good idea to put his character in a few more places, as a dillema.Complaint 5 The ending.  The ending is very corny and rushed.  Better idea for ending They become monsters,  but through some kind of power (as in love or friendship) they regain their souls and rise up against the evil monsters, defeat them, and all the other children turned monsters become children again.  Sound a lot better, huh?Conclusion Could have been a good movie.  But serious problems doomed it to a piece of eighties pre-teen junk food. "},{"Title":"chucklefest","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  howie mandel is the only thing in this movie worth watching for. I'll admit that i watch everytime it's on...but it's only because its so stupid. I guess 5th grade humor still has a place in my heart.  A young boy (savage) finds that monsters (mandel) are real..and discovers their strange silly world. and umitimtly gets tricked by his new monster friend into becoming one...wackyness insues "},{"Title":"Love love loved it","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" Its one of those movies you remember forever... it sounds cheesy but i recall it from my childhood , one thing that stuck in my mind was the peanut butter and onion sandwitch.. so i decided i had to buy it,I've had it for almost 6 months and watched it religiously. There's something about it that screams childhood and simplicity but also has that black satire comedy style to it, which makes it one of the greats, not to mention Howie Mendel and Fred savage together, i think there great especially the scene where they are at Ronnie Colman's house lol hysterical ( great improv Fred) Love this movie always will .... My absolute favourite ! "}{"Title":"A Funny Little Family Film, Despite Predictability...","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"   Howie Mandel and Fred Savage star in Little Monsters, a tale that features the Monsters under the bed delusions and reality. In 2001, the world witnessed a great monster tale unlike any other Monster's Inc., a computer-animation film featuring the voice talents of Billy Crystal and John Goodman, as well as James Coburn and Steve Buscemi. Monsters Inc. achieved what Little Monsters was trying so obviously to do. Make a funny and endearing monster film. Unfortunately, due to too much cuteness and predictability, Little Monsters was sadly left to gather dust by most people.  I'll admit, Little Monsters is nowhere near as fun, entertaining or smart as Monsters Inc., but it still deserves more credit than it receives. So it's predictable and cute I've seen worse. Howie Mandel is pretty funny, and Fred Savage is a lot better of a child actor than Macaulay Culkin ever was.I recommend Little Monsters to you, because despite its flaws, it's still a good, clean family film. 3/5 stars --John Ulmer "},{"Title":"no you can't read my poker face, because no one was born this way","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the last few years the expression little monsters has become the moniker for Lady Gaga's fans. I don't know whether or not it was Gaga herself who coined created the description, but that's the name for them.Well, the movie Little Monsters has nothing to do with that. It's one of those '80s movies that liked to think that it was all about friendship. It's not any kind of terrible movie - you gotta love the tricks that Maurice gets Brian to play on other kids - but the movie misses the mark. I think that it should have been all about the kids' desire to escape an overly structured existence. Had they stuck with that, the movie would have been a mediocrity at worst. As it stands, the movie ended up sort of irritating.You may recall Fred Savage as the grandson in The Princess Bride. Devin Ratray notably played Buzz in Home Alone, but more recently appeared in Nebraska. Frank Whaley played Robby Krieger in The Doors and also appeared as Brett in Pulp Fiction.I'd like to force Pat Robertson to attend a Lady Gaga concert just to mess with his mind (assuming that he has one).PS I attended a speech that Daniel Stern gave at my college in 2004 about his USO tour in Iraq the previous year. He said that some Iraqi children recognized him from Home Alone, which made him realize how much US culture dominates. "},{"Title":"27 and still rocking this movie.","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is my all time favorite movie to date when I was a kid I watched it 3 to 4 times a day I just got original one sheet poster on eBay a few weeks ago looks amazing this is my first review this movie is just fun it was made to be a lot darker but they wanted it for little kids I would of loved to see what they would of done with it but all in all it is great for a family movie and a great kids movie if you ever see it at any store I would pick this up I still show this movie to new coming family I don't think it has ever lost anything I have seen it a million times and it never gets old I know ever line in the movie And if you look it up this move did not do any good at the box office I mean it didn't make a quarter of it's money back I just hope it gets a blue ray release but it so long to even get a DVD release on it "},{"Title":"A 1980s Childhood Classic","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" A boy (Fred Savage) discovers an incredible and gruesome world of monsters under his bed.Everyone wants to talk about Fred Savage and Howie Mandel (and both are great), but I think the real gem of this film was Daniel Stern. Stern just gets overlooked and people do not realize the breadth, width and depth of his career. Most people probably forgot he was in this movie, and even more people probably forgot he does the narration on Wonder Years.When I was younger, this movie frustrated me because I thought the monsters were really big jerks, getting kids in trouble for things they did not do. Now as an old man (32), I really see the overall message I missed as a kid the monsters were a metaphor for immaturity. Who knew this was so deep? "},{"Title":"through both eyes","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw..and loved..this film as a child. Now, that I have children, I got the pleasure of watching it once again through the eyes of an adult. I was disappointed in what I saw. Like most childhood films it didn't hold up to the charm and magic I felt as a small one.Though, my children love it! I felt like the story line it self was fine, but many times the story would tail off or become choppy. Howie Mandell was pretty good in the film but sometimes became annoying. There were also some crude scenes I didn;t remember seeing. I forgot how much stuff was allowed in kids films back in the day.I would suggest this movie for children over the age of 8 or so. Anything under that would probably be a little scared or you might have problems with the language or some of the gags. Like making a bully drink pee. "},{"Title":"Good family adventure, often funny","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" At the movie's start, Brian's family is moving into what can politely be described as a fixer-upper. Brian's parents are having problems (which they emphasize are not the kids' fault), and Brian's younger brother Eric is seeing monsters after he goes to bed at night. Meanwhile, Brian is getting blamed for things he didn't do, such as putting the ice cream in a place where it would get all over his father's shirt--although he DID eat the peanut butter and onion sandwich near the TV. Brian trades bedrooms with Eric and sets a trap for the monster. Too bad he didn't submit this as a science project (I don't recall him actually doing anything on his real school assignment), because a lot of work went into it and it looks really sophisticated. Not much happens at first. A TV remote disappears under the bed all by itself. Eventually, the hideously ugly but cheerful Maurice appears. He can't stay past sunrise because bright light has the same effect on him as a bucket of water does on the Wicked Witch of the West (except in his case it's only temporary). The next time Maurice returns, he takes Brian to a magical land under the bed where there are no rules. The other creatures there look a lot like Maurice--some much worse. There are numerous entrances into kids' bedrooms. One particularly funny part of the movie has lots of kids explaining to their parents that they didn't do what they were accused of.Brian later learns that a world with no rules may not be such a good thing after all. Fred Savage was very appealing as Brian, though he did have an attitude at times. Howie Mandel (Maurice) was almost as wild and crazy as Robin Williams in his Mork days. Amber Barretto was adorable as Kiersten, the pretty redhead Brian seemed to have a crush on. Daniel Stern and Fred Savage actually appear together here, instead of Stern merely being the adult version of Savage's character narrating his life. Stern seems more like a monster than a loving father in some scenes, but he shows a tender side too. And I have to single out Frank Whaley as the deliciously evil leader of the fantasy world.The makeup was outstanding. Some of the monsters were absolutely revolting. The visual effects were nicely done, and the dark fantasy world well designed.I would say this is a movie for the whole family, though a few scenes were a little too scary for the youngest children, especially toward the end.Overall, it was a fun adventure. "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I don't remember when I first watched this movie, maybe around 6th grade, but I loved it. LOVED it. I still do. I do agree that Frank Whaley didn't get much of a part. I LOVED Boy, even if only for 3 minutes or so. I actually found Boy quite attractive, and his sinister and evil attitude really made me wanna watch the scene over and over again. Muhuhahahahahaha!!!! So sexy....but once he rips his face off it makes me sad. But that scene was wonderfully shot...oh, the view from the back of his head, the skin on his hands, the music, and the whole dark and strange feel during the scene...BEAUTIFUL!!! My favorite out of the entire movie. But beyond that is entertaining too. Fred Savage is an actor I liked from The Wonder Years, a very talented one. Maurice was fun. Funny thing is, I forgot all about that number in the beginning of the movie...no wonder my mom seemed to have a bit of a negative attitude when asked if I could try calling it. The whole movie is very good, except for around the ending when Maurice and Brian are saying their goodbyes. I know in real life a goodbye might last that long, especially if you might not see someone again, but still...the scene seemed a little long winded, but it's easy to ignore. I think this is an original movie. I agree some things in it might not be all-too-suitable for kids, but 6th graders will probably have no problem with it. Kids in the later years of elementary school are more advanced than you think. I certainly know everyone was saying the F-word and cussing the crap out of everything when I was in 6th grade...no problem for me there. As for Fred Savage's little bro being shackled to a dart board...that may be a bit more of a controversial subject...but once again, I was fine with it. I was more focused on Boy. >) Okay, okay. Anywho, HAVE FUN with this movie. Be not judgmental but open-minded. If the tone is not your thing, no prob, but if you don't like this movie because you're a negative person bent on picking out every God forsaken detail that slightly annoys you, I will hunt you down...do you read me? HUNT YOU DOWN. That last remark is not to be taken seriously, but please, try following my logic, alright?  "},{"Title":"awesome kids movie!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was 11 and absolutely loved it.  It's funny, cute, and slightly scary (for kids anyway).  Howie Mandel was a riot, and the rest of the cast was great too.A few guidelines though, based on many other users comments  Do not watch this movie if you're not a kid, or are too grown up and mature to endure such a juvenile flick (in other words, if you've forgotten how to have any fun in your life, don't bother watching, and save us all from your complaints). "},{"Title":"Just Believe","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I watched this film about 8 years ago when i was 15, and I really enjoyed it, its not going to win any oscars granted. But its harmless fun, and a must for children! Its a fantasy world for adults, but a reality for children, so whats the harm in believing! Three members of the savage family are in the film which is unique in itself! "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is good. Howie Mandel is the best part of the whole movie. His humor and jokes make it worth watching. But over all it is a cute, funny and good movie.  "}{"Title":"A miserable film","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have to agree with The Nostalgia Critic, after seeing Little Monsters. It is not funny and is a miserable and depressing movie. At first when I saw the cover of the movie, I thought this might not be bad. But when I saw boy was I wrong. Here are the problems why this film is miserable and not funny. Fred Savage plays a awful kid who gets his mean-spirited nature from cruel dad played by Daniel Stern (not even this half-ass Wonder Years reunion could save it). The pranks are super awful especially the putting plastic on the toilet which is really cruel to women. Howie Mandel (even though he is trying to be funny and is close) plays the same monster who's weakness is light from Joe Dante's Gremlins but with a style of being the second member to the Supernatural Fast Talking Annoying Dick Club (the first was with Beetlejuice to it's newest member Wilfred the Dog). The script is somehow written by newcomers at that time the writer duo Terry Rossio and Ted Elliott (who would latter write more classical children films like Aladdin (where that film got it's supernatural annoying dick from), the first Shrek movie and Treasure Planet) who wrote this to punish kids or maybe hatted kids at that time. The monster world is too dark and red for a kid's film while going under the bed is interesting. The visuals are too scary to be a PG rating. Also the film need to be a PG-13 rating also to the language and this was back then when the people who rating films were not well and were too lazy. Finally, it has measurable things like kids being blamed and yelled from their at for the pranks Fred Savage and Howie Mandel made (oh my god!) and it's also good not to see some of the parents beat them up. Then to make it more miserable it has separation which kids really don't need to see their film until it has a better idea and is not too measurable. Lastly it is very too mean-spirited for a comedy (sometimes it can work if it has a meaning and this film doesn't) and kid's thing. And is on the the awful mean-spirited media next to Drop Dead Fred, The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy and Wilfred which are things I can't stand. This film is know to start the downfall of Fred Savage's fame and staring in movies (if though The Wizard was bad, this is worst) and Howie Mandel appearing in fewer movies. I have to say this film is the evil big brother to Pixar's Monsters, Inc. and if you want a good family film to watch with kids, watch Monsters, Inc. instead of this depression piece of crap that can scar and frighting your kids to pain. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Movies that ever Existed!","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of My Favorite movies.It is Adventureist,funny,sad,dramatic,action filled,and every thing!There is only one sad part in it to the rest is a blast fulled movie and it will teach you to love this movie as much as I do.Now I'll tell you the sad part but only a tiny little snitch of it and that would be at the end the kid has to leave the monster and so the Monster gives him his black leather jacket and tells the kid Where there's a bed there's a way.And that Saying is probably the best in the movie.Also Another Cool thing is that if Like the T.V. show Boy Meets World Cory Or whatever his name is in real life anyways you can see what he looks like as a kid and it's awesome cause he's so so so cute.Now that's a ll i'm gonna tell you So remember that if There's a Bed There's a Way! "},{"Title":"what a wonderful film","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first saw this film whe i was 14 and even today (17) i go on watching it. I think everyone would see this terrific film starred by fred savage (who was one of the best child actors ever known).Everyone who has been advised by me to see this film  has expressed their opinion I WANT TO SEE IT AGAIN !!! A lot of people say that this film is not suitable for children, and i also think so because Little Monsters has some unsuitable parts (for instance, breaking into houses to destroy them), but , perhaps, this film isnt for childs, but for older people (15 years old or more).I think i will never be fed up with Little Monsters because it was made perfectly.I only hope everybody can see it so that averyone can discover this cool film, LITTLE MONSTERS. "},{"Title":"Two Enthusiastic Thumbs!","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Fred Savage and Howie Mandell light up the screen* as the Little Monsters in this 1989 film of the same name. Savage plays young Kevin Arnold, here in what appears to be the most memorable days of his wonder years, but is actually just a story being told by Peter Falk. Mandell plays French crooner Maurice Chevalier, making choices no one had yet had the guts to make (i.e. horns, leather jacket.) Together they head a revolt of kids and monsters in the monster Underworld (filmed on location in Clinton, MO.) Along the way, they grow up, fill out, and kill Mr Badmonster in the process. Heartwarming, heartcooling, heartbreaking and heartrepairing all at once.*With the assistance of one Mr. Fresnel. "},{"Title":"Anyone would like it!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is a must see for kids.  I watched this movie all the time when I was little, and to this day, I still get a kick out of it. The plot about a kid at first trying to confront a monster, but then ends up befriending a monster named Maurice, and enjoying an under-the-bed underworld kids could only dream of.  This movie has great imagination.This movie does have a lot of profanity and crude humor, but kids still should see it.  A lot of adults would find the humor  hilarious.  One great aspect of the movie is that it's a way kids can overcome their fear of monsters.  Instead of fearing them, they end up turning it around and actually wishing there was a monster underworld.Hilarious, very good acting, excellent plot, great special effects. ***** out of *****.  If you haven't seen this film, get up and go rent it! "},{"Title":"No Wonder We Fear Monsters---They Are So Dull and Uninteresting.","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Two young brothers (real-life brothers Fred and Ben Savage) move to a new house where they immediately find a horrid-looking monster (Howie Mandel in very heavy makeup) under the bed. They are naturally scared at first, but soon begin to humanize Mandel and finally the trio starts to experience life, laughter and fun under the bed in an alternative world where playing games and pranks on other kids and monsters are the calling cards. Mean-spirited and ugly mess with a shiny coating that makes it appear to be a children's fantasy. Most kids will be bored pretty fast with the nauseating and dumb antics of Mandel and the whiny behavior of the always annoying Fred Savage. Cheap-looking and totally wasteful, Little Monsters has got some big problems. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Another horrible film in the long line of horrible films","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Daniel Stern and Howie Mandel star in this repulsive piece of entertainment I could barely sit through.  Fred savage, a very young Fred Savage is also in this movie.  This is a stupid movie about monsters that come out at night and steal things from little kids.  Horrible horrible, horrible, horrible, horrible, stay away at all costs.  A friend of mine told me over and over again this was a great movie., and told me I should watch this movie at all costs.  We are no longer friends.  The movie had horrible writing, second rate direction ,and whoever thought that any of this would pass as funny should seriously have their sense of humor examined.  I could barely sit through this movie. "},{"Title":"stupid, stupid, STUPID","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I happen to love the actor Frank Whaley (shriek!) and he does provide some entertainment as one of the many monsters that fill this movie, but it is not NEARLY enough to save this...monstrosity.Little Monsters is a dim-witted movie about a bratty boy (Fred Savage, who was about four years too old for such a role) who discovers that a monster is really under his bed(!), befriends the monster, and takes many trips to a strange new world full of other monsters.Maybe some kiddies would like such a plot, but it's really not a promise that this will become one of their favorite movies. True, friendly monster Howie Mandel tells some jokes that kids may find funny. The kids may also get into the spirit of practical joke-playing that occurs, but as the movie lags on, and the jokes grow fewer and far between, the young 'uns will be pretty bored by the time this one comes to a close.To add to this, the movie boasts some parts that may not even be appropriate for the kids to begin with. Like The Return to Oz, this movie uses a lot of dark, shadowy sets and harsh images that might appear scary to certain little viewers. There are also some jokes that needn't have appeared.I most certainly wouldn't have watched this if it hadn't been for the glowing presence of Whaley, and even his appearance can't save this mess of a film. "},{"Title":"what the hell just happened?","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":" If I could, I would give this movie a - 23365416274176246712376246871267127562751765176381278364867.2The best part of this movie is that the guy sleeping in the lawn chair in Malibu, California (which his parents didn't know where it was?) was Not Bill Murray. Thank God.This is best troll movie ever. What the hell just happened?Out of the 7 of us watching (b/w ages 17-19) 1 one of us shook herself into a fever, 2 of them barely survived their second viewing, the other 4 of us are in physical pain. (none of this is exaggerated.)This movie of 1 hr and 42 minutes took us 3 freaking hours (we started @ 8, and stopped @ 1111) to finish because we kept pausing to scream at the screen.In conclusion, if you watch this movie, you will die. "},{"Title":"Zah,I love Zah!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Cute little movie about demons that come out from under the bed and kidnap poor defenseless children.If you're a fan of demonic comedies, then this is your movie.Fred Savage plays a fruity teen-ager who falls in love with the Howie Mandel demon ,Maurice.They spend a lot of the movie in a satanic underworld full of witchcraft and mystery.So,watch and enjoy but hold on to your soul. "}]