[{"Title":"pretty good movie","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" this is the one of my favorite van dam movies. I think that it is also one of his best films. We watch his character train throughout the movie for a fight at the end. The martial arts throughout are very well done. This is one of those films you can watch every time it is on TV. If you like martial arts movies you will probably enjoy this one. The movie though is all about the final fight. Like many other films of its type. All in all van dam is great and if you want to see a film based on the martial arts that doesn't have Druce Lee or Jackie Chan or Jet Li in it then this movie is one for you. The story is pretty simple but the fight scenes are worth it so go for it. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Jean-Claude Van Damme, Superstar.","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer (1989) was another in a long line of star vehicles for the Muscles from Brussels. In this picture J.C.V.D. plays the younger brother of a unbeaten American kick boxer who lusts for some real competition. So he decides to go to the home of Muay Thai kick boxing, Thailand. There he realizes that he doesn't know squat about the true art of kick boxing. He learns a painful lesson. His younger brother decides to learn Muay Thai and avenge his brother's honor.Not a bad movie. Entertaining and a good time waster. But for some reason the producers decided to franchise out this series. The rest of the films are a mixed bag at best. The more they made the least interesting they became until the final results were unwatchable. As always with these films the first film is usually the best of the bunch. Jean-Claude plays his character with a thick euro-accent (I forgot how they explained it). He's physically impressive so it's kind of hard to swallow his naiveté about fighting and what not. Or well. Fun for all.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Great Van Damme movie! One of his best!","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  This is one of Van Damme's best films! I thought his acting was really good especially when he was crying. Michel Qissi and Dennis Chan very good good. There is a lot of action in the film. Tong Po's introduction was cool! The music by Paul Hertzog was good. Kickboxer has three sequels and I think the the second movie is arguably better than the first one and this one is excellent! If like Van Damme's other great movies such as Bloodsport, Cyborg, Hard Target, and Sudden Death then I recommend you watch Kickboxer! "},{"Title":"Explosive Martial Arts Move!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"35 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the best martial arts movie ever made. It's got Damme good soundtrack , Damme good story line and Damme good training. The last fight is the best I've ever seen. I've seen 2 different versions and they're both good. This is a must watch Van Damme movie.  "},{"Title":"Great van Damme movie from the good old days","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This is a splendid movie. It's van Damme exactly as I want to see him, with great martial arts action, a decent plot (even if it's not original at all), cool characters and a great 80's soundtrack. The movie is somewhat different from Bloodsport. Of course there are similarities too, like an evil fighting champion that van Damme is fighting. But this movie hasn't nearly as many fights as Bloodsport. Instead, it's more focus on training here. The training scenes are visually very good, and with really cool background music. Even though I had expected more fighting instead of this, there's no doubt that this is a great movie in it's own way. "},{"Title":"The only good Kickboxer movie in the series.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  It has been made a lot of sequels in this series,but this one is the only that is worth watching. It is kind of like Rocky,in the sense that he traines all the movie for a fight in the end. The fight scenes are hardcore and the one at the end is quite cool. This cant be compared to the best movies of Jackie Chan and Jet Li,but it is still a good martial arts movie.One of Van Dammes best to date. "},{"Title":"Great action movie","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" I have rented this movie out numerous times and i love watching it every time, its a movie that i just cant get enough of and is a movie that i would someday like to own on video or DVD.The story is pretty simple it's about a man named Kurt Sloan played by Van Dame, who's brother Eric Sloan gets brutally crippled after fighting undefeated Muhay Thai kickboxing champion Tong Po, Kurt Sloan then meets Xian played by Dennis Chan who latter agrees to train Kurt so that he can be good enough to fight Tong Po and beat him to get revenge for his brother.This is by far my favourite martial arts movie, it has lots of great fighting and action and also contains some lovely scenery of Thailand which the movie is set in and was filmed in.A highly recommended movie for all martial arts action movie fans. "},{"Title":"Jean-Claude Van Damme goes Muay Thai-style!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Nah, you're not interested in Kickboxer, the Jean-Claude Van Damme martial arts movie set in the exotic and mysterious Thailand and focuses in on the brutal sport of Muay Thai, are you? You're not going to miss Van Damme's hammy acting, his trademark splits, or his harsh (although according to some sources, inaccurate) training and portrayal in and of the Thai sport of Muay Thai, are you?Of course you do. The Muscles From Brussels goes Thai in this 1989 adventure, with the Belgian actor exploring the martial arts fundamentals of Muay Thai, the national sport of Thailand, which has gained wider recognition in the West because it's the de facto fighting style for mixed martial arts and Thai-native newcomer Tony Jaa seeks to promote his tiny country's greatest commodity for a worldwide audience. But this is a Van Damme movie, first and foremost. True he's no great actor, but there's something about his work here that makes me want to watch Kickboxer again and again.First things first, what is Muay Thai? As already stated, it's the national sport of Thailand, where the fighter will condition his body so that his arms and legs become weapons capable of delivering blows, kicks in particular, that are three times as powerful as that of any ordinary martial artist. He'll also use his feet, fists, shins, and elbows too. If one wants to go all out, two guys will get in a ring and have themselves a rope-fist fight, where the fighters' wrists are bound in rope and covered with broken glass. Isn't that mean and nasty?To begin Kickboxer, Van Damme is Kurt Sloane, brother of Eric (Dennis Alexio), the top kickboxer in the United States. Tiring of the generic competition of his native soil, he travels with brother Kurt to Bangkok, where he hopes to dethrone the current champ Tong Po (Michel Qissi), who has a reputation for fighting dirty. Kurt first sees this towering mountain of flesh and muscle kicking the hell out of a support beam in the locker room; that's the first clue to Kurt that Eric shouldn't get in the ring, but he's not listening.And Eric fights anyway, against baby brother's warnings.To make long stories short, Eric takes quite a beating in the ring but a series of illegal blows delivered after Kurt throws in the towel cripple Eric for life. So what went wrong? According to some sources, American Kickboxing is a watered-down form of Muay Thai, so it's no wonder Tong Po got the upper hand so quickly on Eric, who despite his excellent training and peak physical condition, only landed a few lucky punches on the towering fighter. Apparently, Muay Thai is strictly for street fighting, not something for refined martial artists like Kurt and Eric.To teach Tong Po a lesson in humility, Kurt contacts American Winston Taylor (Haskell V. Anderson III) to seek out a venerated Thai master, Xian Chow (Dennis Chan), to learn the art of Muay Thai, and so the training begins. Kurt first puts aside his already-planted Karate training and strengthens his body, kicks tree stumps until the scar tissue prevents any kind of feeling aside from invincibility, learns a little about Asian spirituality, and even flirts with Chow's niece Mylee (Rochelle Ashana). What it all culminates in, of course, is a no-holds-barred Rocky IV-style showdown using the ancient rope-fists between Kurt and Tong Po.As someone who knows next to nothing about Muay Thai (in fact, much of what I know comes from Wikipedia and the special features section of the Ong-Bak The Thai Warrior DVD), I found Kickboxer to still be quite entertaining. It's brutal stuff, really, so it's no wonder Muay Thai is gaining such greater notoriety in the United States. As Kurt Sloane, Van Damme is good (despite his acting limitations in showing emotions), his performance notwithstanding, and none of the other performers are really worth speaking of either, but Tong Po is a nasty villain and his one speaking line You bleed like Mylee; Mylee good f**k sends chills down the spine.The fights are another thing and are what this feature co-directed by Mark DiSalle and David Worth seems to specialize in. The fights are spectacular (as with any martial arts movie that features Van Damme doing his trademark splits and 360-degree flying spin-kick), which does include one sequence where Kurt gets drunk, starts dancing, and takes on the patrons at a bar.This Kickboxer - it's a kick, just don't let it kick you in the head too much with its lackadaisical script and lame-brain plotting.7/10 "},{"Title":"One of Jean-Claude Dammes best movies","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This movie is really good and its about a Kickboxer and his brother who go to Thailand to fight the Thai Kick boxing champion and the American Kickboxer loses and ends up being paralyzed and then his brother gos and gets kick boxing training in a remote part of Thailand to revenge his brother.There are heaps of good scenes in this movie like all of the scenes of the city Bangkok and of all of the beautiful temples and the great fight scenes in the end of the movie.This movie stars good actors like the great action star Jean-Claude Van Damme,Dennis Chan,Dennis Alexio,Michel Qissi and Haskell V. Anderson The III.Kickboxer is one of Vam Dammes best movies and so are the movies Blood Sport,Nowhere To Run,TimeCop,The Quest and Hard Target.Over all this movie was good with NEVER a boring scene and my rating is 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Probably the most famous of Van Damme's early work, kick-boxer is another simple story of revenge, and a showcase for his skills as a martial artist. It has some good fights, and some interesting moments showing the difficulty of training and trying to achieve your best while not losing your focus. Although it suffers from some cheesy acting, dialogue, music, and a highly disturbing dance scene, this is a must for Van Damme fans, and those with an interest in martial arts movies who don't want to stray too far from the West.Van Damme stars as Kurt Sloane, the younger brother of a flashy American Kickboxer. They train together, but his brother Eric seems to be more interested in looking like a good fighter than actually finding the ability and skill to be one. Eric takes part in a fighting competition and is crippled and almost killed by Tong Po, and fearsome Kickboxer with a great rage and discipline. Kurt decides to avenge his brother, but no-one will train him as they believe Tong Po is too popular and strong. Eventually he finds a trainer in the middle of nowhere who teaches him to reach his full potential and push through the barriers which he never though he could surpass. He also meets Winston Tyler who provides some laughs, and Mylee who provides some style. Of course it is the fights that matter, and the revenge plot is safe enough to give the fights reason. Rather than cheap montages, we see the tough training regime Kurt goes through, and see Tong Po kicking a cement wall to build up the strength and invulnerability of his foot. Sounds odd yes, but how else would we know he's a hard lad? Anyway, a good film for fight fans, light-hearted and fast and worth watching.7.5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"The ultimate feel good movie...........","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Well, thats how a Van Damme fan like myself would describe this because thats how I feel before, during and after viewing it.Back in that late 80's early 90's period, Jean Claude Van Damme kept the good times coming, one film after another, the man could do no wrong.......then the Soviet Union broke apart, everyone was owning a PC, cell phones became dime a dozen, reality tv...........you get the deal here.........I guess a good thing never lasts forever.  Anyway, back to Kickboxer, which is a classic JCVD and martial arts film, with a touching and believable story.........Mr. Van Damme must climb to the top of the mountain here, and by God, between the funny one liners and the splits, he makes it there!  Van Damme as Kurt Sloane makes a great team with Dennis Chan (Xian) and of course Haskell Vaughn Anderson III (Taylor) providing more coolness here.  Not forgetting his brother, the love interest and the bad guys. (Tong Po played exceptionally well by Michel Qissi)  If you havent already, do your history homework and view this martial arts classic, you might then begin to realize that what is out there today in this genre is not nearly a quarter as good as what was once then. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie, but not he best","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kick boxer was a good movie, but to me not the best. The story line was what I thought very good. The way Kurt (Jean Claude) trains in the movie is very inspirational. It reflects on the way ancient warriors trained. I thought this movie would have more fighting but there are only like 4-5 fight scenes. I've seen this movie about 5 times since I think it's good, but if you just like the fight scenes, you shouldn't buy it, but maybe rent it.Plot Eric (Kurts brother) thinks he's the best kick boxer in the world. Overall, the best fighter in the world. He brags non-stop about how good he is and he just wants to prove it. A reporter suggests he goes to Bangkok where kick boxing originated. There, his brother learns a lesson (Don't want to spoil anything) in which makes Kurt want to get revenge.Overall Very good movie, but not his best. If you like fight scenes I suggest you watch Van Damme in his movie Bloodsport. This movie didn't have as much fights, but was very inspiring the way they express Muay Thai (fighting style they use). "},{"Title":"one of the greatest martial arts movies ever","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  when tong po paralyzes eric sloan in a kickboxing match eric's brother kurt begins training to get revenge.this is one of van dammes best despite some bad acting and an average storyline.the training scenes are spectacular and when van damme faces tong po its an awesome fight seqeunce.I gave it 9 out of 10 but I would of given it 10 if van damme had just a few more fight scenes.other than a bit of bad acting and a small lack of van damme fights this is a great movie and is well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Revenge movies don't get any better","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Kickboxer, although following the usual line of wronged hero seeks revenge, does not follow the usual line of most movies that go this way. Usually, they are a chore to watch, but Kickboxer, far from being a chore, is in fact a pleasure to watch.Van Damme gives us some great action, the final scene in particular being a classic, and fantastic humour. The myth Van Damme can't act persists, but is disproved in this fantastic movie. The drunk fight scene in particular shows what Van Damme films are all about, great humour, great action, in short, great entertainment.This movie makes it easily into my top 10 list, and possibly into my top 5. "},{"Title":"Nice takeoff of Karate Kid","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Possible Spoilers Great film, with the same concept as Karate Kid. The heros brother gets disabled in a kickboxing fight with a legendary warrior, and of course, our hero must avenge this! I strongly recommend this film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Van Spamme Total Genius","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Its All Theere The Moves,Fashion,Quotes,Acting And of course Van Damme!!!This Van Damme film is the best he has ever done.Eric Sloan is the kick boxing champion of the world and thinks their is no-one in America that can take him so he decides to go off to Thailand were he fights the coolest kick boxer in history Tiger Tong Po. To cut a long story short Eric gets crippled so his brother Kurt (Van Damme) ends up getting trained by Mr Xian and then goes onto beat Tong Po in a Tiapie Match.The story matters none as the only reasons you must buy this films is because of the belowHere's the reasons to get if u want it all.Mr Xian asks Kurt to go to the local store for grocheries then the camera switches to jcvd and he just tilts his head and gives almost child look and says in the most funny way grocheries.There's a couple more cheesy scenes where he is chasing small local children about there small play area like a pouncing belgian bear,and a small boy shows him his pet rabbit,JCVD shows his appreciation by giving the small boy a comforting smile and a rub on the noggin ahhh.When Van Damme reaches the store he strolls in and says tomylee (Niece of Uncle Xian) Im here to collect Uncle Xain's grocheries u need to watch it to understand the greatness of the way JCVD says the word grocheries.The Final and the best Of The Cheesy and great scenes is when Mr Xian takes Kurt out for a drink and after a couple of shots of the local tipple (kiss of death) Mr Xian asks Kurt to see if he can dance (it is really to test his reaction time to the local thugs. Van damme's dancing here is to the highest quality also along to the highest quality soundtrack of feeling so good today by Stan Bush,as for the moves the splits is in there and even a small bum wiggle lol. And on the way out some more quality quotes in the JCVD lingo  XIAN Xian why those guys try to hurt me,Why They So P@$$ed at me.I Hope this review helps u to understand what makes this and all Van Damme Film Classics 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite martial arts flicks","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Kickboxer is one of my favorite martial arts flicks. The plot, acting(yes, Van Damme was good acting in his role), and fighting.Plot(Possible spoilers) Eric Sloan(Dennis Alexio, a real life kickboxing champion) is an american kickboxing champion and has his brother, Kurt(Van Damme) in his corner. After winning another match, Eric says he's gonna Take on the world's best. Show 'em who's boss. A reporter asks if he's going to take on Thailand because kickboxing was invented there and they're the best at it. So, Eric and Kurt fly to Thailand and are seen in a park talking about their family life with their (presumably) dead parents. When they arrive at Bangkok, Eric asks Kurt to get him some ice.On his way back to Eric's dressing room, he hears a thundering noise coming from a room. As he nears the sound, he finds out what's making it The champion Tong Po round kicking a pillar with his bare legs making the plaster fall down. Kurt begs his brother not to fight, but Eric is still cocky, believing he can win. Unfortunately, not only does he lose, but Tong Po delivers an elbow into his spine and paralyzes him. Kurt vows revenge and must train Muay Thai(the Thailand art of kickboxing) with Xian, a master of the art, who was introduced to him by army veteran Winston Taylor(Extremely funny guy). During his training, his only comfort is Mylee, Xian's beautiful niece who falls for Kurt. After many days of rough training, Kurt is ready to face Tong Po in the ring. But, he must fight him in the ancient way, which is hands wrapped in rope, dipped in broken glass.Before the match, Freddy Li wants to make sure Tong Po wins. So, Tong Po briefly kidnaps Mylee and rapes her, and Freddy Li has Eric kidnaped. Now, Xian and Winston must rescue Eric so Kurt can win the fight.I enjoy this movie everytime I sit down to watch it. My favorite scene is the final fight. I give this movie a 10/10. If you're in the mood for a good flick, pick this one up. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  I've seen this movie countless times and it gets better every viewing.. Here we have Kurt (Van Damme) and his american kickboxer champion brother Eric. Eric claims he is the best so he and his brother travel to the Far East (Thailand) to challenge their champion named Tong Po. Tong Po is a killer..  Take my word.. He's big and really mean looking. Well it ends up Eric talked to much trash and gets paralyzed by Tong Po and now Kurt swears revenge and must train the ancient way from an old expert. .. Take my word for it.. if you are a Van Damme fan, you certainly wouldn't wanna miss this one... 10/10 "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Well not as good as Bloodsports, but i think this is the next best movie of van damme, very good action.A Classic scene when van damme is dancing in the bar drunk, thats one part i will never forget too damn funny!! that part is worth the price of the movie  "},{"Title":"Pure bliss from start to finish.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  This film has it all.For the martial arts fan We have the great fight scenes between JC and Tong Po and what's better than a good training sequence.For the Van Damme It is the best film ever. Full of what makes a great Van Damme film. We have splits, the spinning kick and some excellent dress sense. But what makes Kickboxer such a great film is 1.) When Van Damme says I was sent by Mr Xian for his eh grocheries truly magnificent. 2.) The scene where Van Damme is drunk and is dancing. Utter genius.I strongly recommend every one goes out and buys this film. "}{"Title":"One of Van Damme's best..","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  The original movie Kickboxer from 1989 starring Jean-Claude Van Damme is a true 80's action classic, Van Damme stars as Kurt Sloane brother of American Kickboxer champion Eric Sloan(Dennis Alexio)they find them self traveling to Thailand to challenge there worldchampion in Thai kickboxing Tong Po, the fight begins and Tong Po is not only domenating the whole fight, but in the end delivers a lethal elbow to Eric back to paralyze him for life, Kurt(Van Damme) is now on a vendetta against Tong Po to revenge his brother.Kickboxer is one of Van Damme's best films(not as good as bloodsport though)The Storyline might be weak, but the film as said is a true 80's action classic,and all in all Kickboxer(DVD edition) is a 'must' for all action fans. The DVD itself has exellent picture and sound, there's not soo many features on the DVD(would have been nice to have the original movie trailer on it) but i does provides biografi for both the main actors as well as directors.(followed by several direct to video sequels). "},{"Title":"Great, love the cheesy music interludes.","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Having just watched Kickboxer for the very first time last night, it is still very fresh in my mind.  He is such an amazing guy, flexible to boot and at the obvious peak of his career. The only thing that plagued my mind, was the awful music interludes which were dotted into the plot, with Jean-Claude, walking around aimlessly, eighties music blasting, lyrics that would make Michael Jackson cry....... Anyway, I really enjoyed the movie.  It was a lot of fun! "},{"Title":"Van Damme at his best","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Quite simply this is the best film Van Damme has ever done. About a kickboxer whose brother was the world champion and got crippled in the ring unnecessarily by the crude and violent Tung Po. With help from an old friend Van Damme starts fighting at his best and eventually matches Tung Po. "},{"Title":"Van Damme excels in Kickboxing","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This film was excellent. The fighting scenes by Van Damme was utterly inspirational, especially when he fights to avenge his brother's crippling from the master of kickboxing.Overall, the film's base is fairly good, with particular emphasis to the overwhelming fighting scenes and the eventual training of martial arts.The film compares to many other of the Muscles From Brussels films, including 'In Hell', although this film rates as one of the best i have witnessed with him in a lead role. I would definitely recommend viewing this fim, for pleasure or teaching. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" I think this film is way underrated. Films don't always have to be clean - in the sense that every transition runs smoothly, or there's untold holes in the plot. The fact of the matter is - this movie made me feel emotions  hate, anger, disapproval, revenge, happiness, and relief.Now, although that means nothing to you, it sure as hell means something to me. That is the joy of movies - that pretence can simulate emotions so well.Now, to me, Van Damme is not really a great actor. But the good thing is - he was part of the preproduction process so - the story is precious to him personally, so he gives a better performance than most films.Bloodsport is a dumb Hollywood replica of this movie. This is truly a great film, and the music by Paul Hertzog helps a great deal - a really great deal.The only thing I disapprove of is Van Damme is playing an American with a Belgian accent. "},{"Title":"Great martial arts action, crap plot and music, some terrifying dancing.","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Somehow, this film ends up being hugely enjoyable, no matter who watches it. There is something for everyone.If you like martial arts, Jean Claude Van Damme's technique and physique is exceptional; if you like foreign travel, there are plenty of scenes in Thailand; if you like embarrassingly-bad 80s synth-pop, you will cry laughing at the soundtrack; but the stand-out moment in the whole movie has to be the dance scene in the bar. Some issues 1) what the hell is he wearing? 2) How do you watch this scene without cringing?JCVD choreographed all the fight scenes, so I guess he must have choreographed the dancing too. Either it's a brilliant piece of acting, or he really does have too high an opinion of his dancing ability! Surely one of the funniest sequences in movie history... "},{"Title":"my favorite martial arts movie of all time !","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  I rented this movie thinking that it was a rip-off Van-Damme movie... but when I watched it, I was amazed at how great this film was. It had great martial arts action (muay thai) and the best training scenes ever. My personal favorite part of this movie was the final fight scene because it had two of the greatest martial arts actors squaring off... a must see for martial arts fans! "},{"Title":"One of the best films on martial arts of all the times!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" One of the best films on martial arts of all the times. Van Damme proves in this film that he is a great actor and great martial artist, followed of a great cast. A film of this transport is ridiculous to receive note 5.0. Classic scenes of the film when Kurt breaks a palm with his cinnamon, fights with the hands bound with glass and Van Damme dancing in the bar. The sonorous track of the film is perfect, with musics of Stan Bush! A really emotive film and that it is really impossible to nauseate of this film!This film simply marked my life! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Muay Thai Muy Bien","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Jean-Claude Van Damme turns in a solid performance as Kurt Sloane - the younger brother who seeks revenge against the demoniacally sadistic Bangkok bad guy, Tong Po (Michel Qissi), who paralyzes Kurt's older brother - Eric - implausibly cast and ineptly acted by Dennis Alexio. The simplistic explanation for the siblings' lack of resemblance to one another in terms of class, ethnicity - and language is too hilariously weak to warrant revealing. Although the film is rife - and ripe - with trademark eighties cheese, the Muay Thai fight sequences are adroitly choreographed, shot and edited. This film is a must for Muay Thai buffs and offers plenty of unintentionally, but nonetheless highly comical relief. Without a doubt, the best of the three Kickboxer films --- but also quite possibly the one possessed of the very worst soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Certainly one of Van Damme's better movies","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  I normally agree with IMDB ratings, but this is an exception - it's definitely under-rated. Yes the story is a bit cheesy, but thats not the reason you watch something like this. Van Damme at least attempts to add a bit of depth and humility to his character rather than just playing the invincible Steven Segal type. It all moves along at a good pace as well, with several good fight scenes, the climatic fight is superb. The perfect Saturday night with mates films - you'll find it hard not to cheer Van Damme on.One thing I will say against it however is the soundtrack is absolutely awful. The very worst kind of 80's synth - so bad it's embarrassing.  "}{"Title":"the best kickboxer movie ever","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Kickboxer i think is the best kickboxer movie ever out of all the other kickboxer movies. This one had the brilliant Van Damme in. I think he is a classic actor and i think he is fantastic in movies like this. Bloodsport is another movie he did very well. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The BEST in the highly acclaimed 'Kickboxer' series...","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  If you're a fan of the martial-arts then this is the movie for you. Van Damme (Kurt Sloane) has never looked so good as he kicks whoever's @$$ that comes between him and his victory against the vicious Tong Po. I'd recommend this movie to anyone who enjoyed the first Bloodsport movie. "},{"Title":"One the the greatest films ever made","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Kickboxer is a hauntingly beautiful portrayal of brotherly love, expressed through the ballet of kicking people as hard as you can. Watch as Jean Claude Van-Damme's brother is ruthlessly and evily almost kicked to death, and how JC himself heroically almost kicks the culprit to death. Van Damme deserved an Oscar for the way he portrayed his grief and anger through one blank facial expression. People say Hollywood treats it's audience like idiots, but they delivered a wonderful film here for people who want to see other people being KICKED REALLY, REALLY HARD. "},{"Title":"A Van Damme Classic With Some Incredible Training Sequences, An Engrossing Story And Wonderful Performances!","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This is a Van Damme classic, with some incredible training sequences, an engrossing story and wonderful performances!. All the characters are wonderful, and it had some awesome humor in it as well, plus Jean Claude Van Damme is simply amazing in this as usual, as is Dennis Chan!. The Opening is extremely powerful stuff, when Tong Po paralyzes Eric, and the scene when Van Damme is kicking the tree, with full force, made me cringe, plus The Main fight at the end between Van Damme and Michel Qissi was absolutely fantastic, and quite brutal!. Van Damme had excellent chemistry wit Dennis Chan, Dennis Alexio and Rochelle Ashana, and i thought Van Damme's acting was fantastic!, plus Steve Lee is awesome as the slime ball, i was so happy when Van Damme kicked him in the face!. The Scene where Van Damme breaks down when he learns his brother will be paralyzed, is very moving and hilarious at the same time, what made it hilarious is the little stuttering bit, other then that he did a very convincing job in my opinion!, plus The dialog was awesome!.Of course critics panned this, and once again i can't see why, it's one of the best martial art films out there, and i thought it was very well written as well!, plus the fight choreography by Van Damme was awesome!. The dancing scene where Van Damme gets drunk in the bar was hilarious, plus The location was fantastic!. It has a great cheesy charm at times, and the scenes with Van Damme and Dennis Alexio were just great, plus It had some pretty catchy tunes as well!. While not quite as good as Bloodsport (Then again what martial art movie is, in my opinion), it's still one of my favorites, as it's a classic, with some incredible training sequences, an engrossing story and wonderful performances!, and i say Go see it right this instant!, you won't regret it.The Direction is Kickass!. Mark DiSalle and David Worth both do a wonderful job here with fantastic camera work, awesome angles, using great locations and keeping the film at an extremely fast pace!.The Acting is wonderful!. Jean Claude Van Damme is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, very convincing, fantastic in the acting department, had excellent chemistry with Dennis Chan, Dennis Alexio and Rochelle Ashana, seemed very relaxed and focused, and just did an amazing job overall!,and only had a couple moments where he felt off, plus he impressed the hell out of me in his training scenes, he is an amazing martial artist!. (Van Damme Rules!!!!!!! he is the man!). Dennis Alexio is awesome as Van Damme's brother, he was a bit of an ass at 1st, but found him very likable shortly after, he had great chemistry with Van Damme, and just did an awesome job overall!, he is also an amazing martial artist!. Dennis Chan is AMAZING as Van Damme's teacher and mentor, he is extremely hilarious, very likable, cracked me up throughout, and had some wonderful scenes with Van Damme, i loved him! (Dennis Chan Rules!). Michel Qissi is fantastic as the main villain, he scared the crap out of me, was very ruthless and cold, and i will be honest i was very happy when he got what was coming to him!, one of the most chilling performances ever in my opinion!. Haskell V. Anderson III is great as Taylor, he was very likable, and had a good sense of humor i liked him lots. Rochelle Ashana does fine with what she had to do, she was pretty, had good chemistry with Van Damme and did a good job overall, i liked her. Steve Lee is excellent as the slime ball, i hated him and shouted out loud when Van Damme gave him a kick in the face!. Rest of the cast do great. Overall This is a classic Go see it right this instant you won't regret it!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Greatest  van damme movie ever made","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer is Jean claude van dammes best movie he is ever made and its probable the greatest martial arts movie this movie never had ups and downs through the whole movie it was good the fights that he did were awesome this is better than some Bruce Lee' s movies and betta than all of jet lee' syou notice in Cyborg in the last battle how they went punch for punch and in Black eagle but in Double impact Lionheart bloodsport No retreat no surrender and bloodsport they fight without punch for punch and they do there own moves on each other GREAT MOVIEI think this movie deserves better rating from all the people i rate this movie 10/10 "},{"Title":"Kickboxer is truly a video store classic!","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Eric Sloane (Alexio) is a champion kickboxer in the United States, so, seeking new triumphs in the ring, he travels to Thailand. With his brother/ringman Kurt by his side, he feels he cannot lose. That is, until he faces off against the most fearsome fighter in Thailand, if not the world the dreaded Tong Po (himself...actually Qissi) Despite Kurt warning him to not get in the ring with him, Eric pridefully ignores his brother and fights Tong Po. The evil Po mercilessly beats Eric so badly he paralyzes him for life. Seeking revenge for his brother's crippling, Kurt sets out to learn Muay Thai and beat Tong Po in the ring. No school will accept him, so, working on a tip from ex-Special Forces Vietnam vet Winston (Anderson), Kurt goes to the Thai countryside to receive lessons from master Xian Chow (Chan). Chow puts him through his paces, but ends up falling in love with Mylee (Ashana) in the meantime. Gangster Freddy Li (Lee) has bet millions on the upcoming fight, AND Tong Po assaulted Mylee, AND he wants to get revenge, so with all the pressure building, will Kurt defeat Tong Po? Here's another Van Damme classic from the golden year of 1989. Most people, even if they're not action fans, are at least aware of Kickboxer. Even a David Letterman Top Ten List of the day featured the topic top ten things overheard while waiting in line for Kickboxer. Underground fighting movies had hit the mainstream and had their brief moment in the spotlight. And Van Damme was spearheading the trend, thereby becoming one of the faces of the action movie movement of the late 80's/early 90's. While Kickboxer falls squarely in the middle in terms of the quality of his Punchfighting era (the best being Bloodsport, 1988 and the weakest being The Quest, 1996 - as always it's open for debate but that's our opinion), it has a much imitated, never equaled kind of feel to it and even though it's a little on the long side, it never really gets boring.It may be a bit of a stretch to believe Alexio and Van Damme are brothers, but, that aside, in the movie, Eric disregards Kurt's advice to not fight Tong Po, thus reinforcing the old saying always listen to your Van Damme. But the brothers in Bangkok do share a genetic sense for fashion, as stonewashed denim vests and half-shirts seem to be the order of the day. But Van Damme steals the show in the wardrobe department when he unleashes what can only be described as a tanktop with suspenders for straps. And for no explained reason, for the final face-off with Tong Po, they are BOTH wearing silly loincloths that leave criminally little to the imagination. How did they both know wear a freakin' loincloth to this particular battle? Presumably they didn't talk beforehand and arrange it - it's surprising they both weren't embarrassed, like two women who wear the same outfit to a party.There are some excellent and picturesque Thai locations, there's a great song at every turn which smartly keeps the energy going (most of which are by AOR artist Stan Bush), and at one point one character says to Van Damme, I'm not signing your death warrant. Seeing as the movie of that name came out the next year, could this line be an inspiration? Also in 1990 came a similarly-themed movie to Kickboxer, The King of the Kickboxers (1990), where Keith Cooke takes over the rural Thai trainer role. But one thing that movie does not have, nor any of the myriad training sequence movies that followed in its wake has, is one very important element the Van Damme dance. Yes, part of Kurt's training is to go to a roadside cafe, get drunk, then bust a move with some local ladies. The movie pretty much stops - as it should - so we can see Van Damme get funky on the dance floor. Not since Breakin' (1984) where he claps along to the beat in his wrestling singlet have we seen his expertise with rhythm. Definitely a movie - nay - a career highlight for JCVD. He should have danced more in his movies.One other note like how in Best of the Best 2 (1990), the name Brakus is constantly and continuously said throughout the movie, here the name Tong Po is the constantly-said name. These writers were sure proud of their bad-guy names. While the popularity of this movie led to the inevitable flood of sequels (where Sasha Mitchell replaces Van Damme), this original is truly a video store classic and a worthy movie in its own right. "},{"Title":"Just listen. With your mind, your heart, your whole being.","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Jean-Claude Van Damme stars as Kurt Sloane, who after witnessing his brother getting crippled in a Muay Thai fight in Thailand, sets about learning the art himself so as to enact revenge on the sinister Tiger Tong Po who illegally put his brother in the wheel chair.Ah look, I don't see any point in writing about the market that Van Damme movies sit in, I think everyone knows that there isn't going to be great acting in these movies, the plotting will be straight and simple and the resolution will be prescribed to get a whoop and yee-haw response. I would think that as much as some highbrow film fans roll their eyes and look down their noses at these type of action movies, they do at least acknowledge the fighting artistry and choreography on show. They, you hope, stay away and leave the ass kicking fans and nostalgists to wallow in their cheese and beaten body pulp kingdoms. I mean why would an arty film lover seek out an early Van Damme movie anyway?I love Kickboxer, I really do, when I first caught it on release I could be found trying to do some of those wonderful Van Damme moves, rewatching the key moments over and over again, enjoying immensely the adrenalin rush that comes as we go slow-mo and Jean-Claude goes about dismantling uber bastard villain Tiger Tong Po (Michel Qissi). Now, well over twenty years later, I still get that rush, I can't do the moves, mind, I nearly put my shoulder out just punching the air in triumph as a mullet headed Dennis Alexio sticks his thumb up from his wheelchair, but all the thrills are still there, the skills on show still amazing. Hell, there's even a pet thread of substance, damn those animal threads, that cool dog better not get killed! Grrrrrrrr.Of course now, viewing with older and wiser eyes, you can see the clunkiness of the script, the lame-brained plotting and excuses for Van Damme to flash the flesh and show his dexterity. There's even one of the worst dance sequences ever put down on film, so bad I can't believe I never laughed out loud at the cinema all those years ago. Yet it's still a wonderful movie, often exhilarating, the thematics of second chances (Haskell V. Anderson III having a great old time of it as Winston Taylor), revenge and different cultures, these impact greatly on the picture. Then there's Dennis Chan as Xian Chow, giving Pat Morita a run for his money as the most fun cinematic Martial Arts trainer, the real location photography in Thailand, the training sequences and of course we get to learn about the ancient sport of Muay Thai. There's a lot of good here to off set the saggy cheese.There are some truly awful Van Damme movies out there, case in point Cyborg which was released the same year as Kickboxer, and without doubt the quality of Van Damme movies improved in the 90s as his stock began to rise and the budgets went higher. But this is a goody for his fans to lap up, a film to sit alongside Bloodsport as one of the two best action movies from his early body of work. And I love it so. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Truly 80's Van Damme","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This film has all the hallmarks of a classic Van Damme martial arts/art-house movie. The opening credit sequence is pure genius, going along the river in a power boat, Van Damme wearing a sleveless denim jacket, his on screen brother wearing a floral shirt, sleeves rolled up, permed mullet and moustache flowing in the wind. I particularly enjoyed watching van damme put his arm around his brother as they sailed through the river, very homo-erotic. The cheesy 80's song to accompany this scene is like the cherry on the cake, with lyrics like I Don't Care What You Think, I Could Kill If You Blink, we know we're in for a treat with this movie.As usual with Van Damme films we are shown in the most subtle of manners how he developed his Belgian accent. We discover that Jean Claude was raised in Europe and learnt Ballet whilst his brother was raised in America by their father. I made the presumption the parents were divorced.Watching Jean Claude learn Mui Thai with Master Zian was awe inspiring and gave a true insight into the 'old ways' of mastering this martial art. He did not need to visit a Mui Thai school or perhaps indulge in a few evening classes. No, it involved having his legs pulled apart with ropes, kicking down palm trees, coconuts dropped onto him from a great height, raw meat tied to his legs so dogs would chase him, being kept underwater whilst performing various kicks and finally training in the ruined temple where he could hear the noises made by the ancient warriors.The best scene in the film is set in the waterfront bar, where Zian gets Van Damme drunk. Van Damme shows John Travolta a few moves, whilst wearing black patent boots, trousers pulled up to his waist and a tight vest top, he dances by doing the splits, wiggling his torso and randomly clapping his hands. The soundtrack is superb and the girls he is dancing with look totally lost, which is again, all part of the brilliance. The following fight scene is astounding, with Van Damme kicking 2 guys at once in mid air, kicking a short guy ramming him with a table, into the water and slapping someone with both hands on the side of the head. Bruce Lee, eat your heart out.I particularly enjoyed the scene with Freddy Lee in his Miami Vice style mansion and pool, full of bikini clad women.The clothes in this film are pure high fashion, sleveless denim jackets, high waist banded trousers with black vest and skimpy brightly coloured sports shorts.The final battle is a classic, Van Damme manages to land 5 or even 6 hits per punch onto Tong Po after nearly being shredded to death by his opponents glass clothed hands. Again, at the end, the credits roll with another fantastic soundtrack with lyrics like Never surrender, never say die, you've got the heart of a hero.This film borders on a comedy, and the more seriously it takes itself, the funnier it gets. Ignore the sequels, this is the one to watch. "},{"Title":"EFFECTIVE IN ITS SIMPLICITY","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  This early Van Damme vehicle is far more effective than much of his work in recent years.He was as hungry for success when this was made as the character he plays and the movie is sold entirely on his martial arts skills not on any misguided attempts at humour or characterisation.When KICKBOXER was made the star's fighting skills seemed fresh and new.We did not realise that as the years and movies progressed Van Damme would have no new moves and techniques to offer us,a couple of fancy kicks and blocks are all he has ever had to offer and he rarely takes on multiple opponents in an explosion of skill a la Bruce Lee.That aside,however,what you see is what you get and KICKBOXER delivers strongly with plentiful,sometimes brutal action and interesting locales.The supporting cast do not embarrass themselves either and this by the numbers martial arts action flick succeeds and rises above its limitations to provide a far more enjoyable viewing experience than something like THE QUEST for example.Van Damme,if he is to remembered at all,it will be more likely to be as a result of movies like this and BLOODSPORT rather than his later potboilers (HARD TARGET excepted) "},{"Title":"I like this one.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Its fresh, exciting, and funny.  This film after Blood sport made his carer. A simple story, but wow its true escapism and that's what action is about. I really like this one the fights could be described as incredible.  A really memorable bad guy is in this film.  Rent it. "}{"Title":"Straight-to-the-point action flick!","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This is a simple and straight-to-the-point action/sports movie, starring Jean-Claude Van Damme as Kurt Sloane, who wants to avenge his brother's paralyzing loss to kick-boxing Thai champ Tong Po (Michel Qissi). As a result, he trains in Muay Thai under Master Xian Chow (Dennis Chan).As a straight-to-the-point movie, the plot is well-paced and easy to follow, with plenty of well-choreographed martial arts scenes and action sequences, from Kurt Sloane's training to him fighting in the ring. The subplot of the Thai gang headed by the sinister Freddy Li (Ka Ting Lee) blends in well with the main plot and delivers some added intrigue and tension to the story.The acting is not really top-notch, as I thought emotions were forced at times and some of the dialog was a little cheesy, but it's still a good flick that action movie fans should enjoy.Grade B "},{"Title":"Fairly standard revenge film with a very much 'seen it all before' plot line","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Eric Sloane (Dennis Alexio) is a champion kickboxer who is invincible and seemingly untouchable in his home country. Having beaten everyone that he can in America, he's talked into travelling to the home of kickboxing in Thailand to see if he can take on the best that they have to offer. However, Eric ends up paralysed after a fight with Thailand's best Tong Po (Michel Qissi). Eric's brother Kurt (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is determined to avenge Po for what he did to his brother and sets about training and preparing for the fight of his life with the assistance of Xian Chow (Dennis Chan).Kickboxer seems to be remembered as one of the defining films for Van Damme and watching it again today I can't help but be reminded at how lazy and unimaginative that this film feels as a whole. Let's look at some examples....We have a Rocky 4 scenario at the start where we have a cocky champion that underestimates his opponent and ends up paying the price for this (albeit the champion's fate was much worse in Rocky 4, but the general consensus is the same).Kickboxer then switches tone and becomes a karate kid style film whereby an unassuming martial arts genius takes a pupil under his wing and provides him with the necessary training to defeat his opponent.This all sounds OK in writing, but somehow these elements don't translate quite as well on screen; for one thing this film lacks the entertainment value that Rocky 4 offered; sure Rocky 4 was agenda heavy, but it was entertaining. The other problem with this film is that The Karate Kid element is weak compared to Karate Kid; the training montages were dull and unimaginative for the most part (although some elements did make me laugh so this aspect of the narrative wasn't a complete failure). If we continue to draw comparisons then it's almost impossible to overlook the fact that Van Damme lacks the vulnerability of Macchio who looked like a 5 stone weakling in the Karate Kid. Van Damme is the 'Muscles from Brussels' so to see him training as a rookie in martial arts was a tough sell to say the least.Kickboxer is a predictable film which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but the clichéd turn of events at the end was almost too much to bear (Kurt is getting his ass kicked, but then when Po announces that he raped his woman Kurt seems to whirr into action). It's an obvious plot device and to be honest it would have been better if we'd have just seen Kurt kicking Po's ass because of all the training that he'd had).I noted at the start of the film that Van Damme was responsible for the fight choreography and for that he does deserve some credit. A lot of the fight scenes were intense and quite well-staged.There are other problems with this film such as cheesy dialogue, wooden acting and awful dubbing, but given the fact that this is a JCVD film these are forgivable flaws. However, the lazy and overly familiar plot line that plagues Kickboxer only helps to remind us of the better films that it tries and fails to emulate. "},{"Title":"One of Van Damme's most popular films","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer is simply a cult classic!!! it is one of Van Damme most popular films even till today. Just really shocked that this film is now a quarter of a century old, but yet, it never seems to get old strangely. I don't know why but Kickboxer is one of those films that seems to bring back memories of your past, well it certainly did for me because it was one of my favourite martial arts films as a child. My other favourite martial arts films being things like Fist of Fury and Enter the Dragon starring the famous Bruce Lee. The story is basically about a young man called Kurt Sloane (Van Damme) who despite having no fighting experience or interest, decides to learn martial arts under a trainer, so he can take on the dangerous and evil Tong Po and avenge his brother. Kickboxer is one of the films that basically kick started Van Damme's movie career. Van Damme was the real deal throughout the 90s, performing in so many successful martial arts and action movies. If you're a Van Damme fan, then I'm sure Kickboxer is up there amongst your favourites. If you haven't seen it, then it is worth watching. What I really loved about this film were the soundtracks. The songs were beautiful and fitted well with the movie. The movie is not too long either, so that's another good thing about Kickboxer. "},{"Title":"I'm not going to sugar coat this review...but make no mistake about it this is a fantastic movie.","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Sure, the movie can be cheesy at times, the dialogue a bit silly and the acting about as far from Oscar worthy as you can get, but then again, does Oscar worthy mean anything anymore? At any rate Kickboxer is a fantastically fun film to watch. It attempts to (and does successfully) explore the story of a man seeking Vengeance, learning to better himself and discovering ancient methods of training to fight that much of the world had forgotten ever existed.Jean-Claude Van Damme is in his prime here. Strong, powerful and about as masculine as a human male can get. In real life, Van Damme's combination of training methods brought something to film screens around the world that had never been seen before. A classically trained black belt in Karate, combined with a Kickboxing career and formal training in ballet. Yes, ballet. It sound like such an odd combination and yet it translates beautifully into a man who would become a world famous action star. Capable of amazing feats involving balance, flexibility and fighting combined with a muscular, ripped physique and dare I say a perfect set of facial features that make him insanely attractive. It's just astonishing and the only other actor I could even consider comparing him to would be Arnold Schwarzenegger. Although I think Schwarzenegger has better acting skills, he and Van Damme share that amazing unique set of god given talents both physical and mental that set them apart from almost every other action star that's ever lived. Now that I'm done drooling over Van Damme, back to the movie review.It truly is a fantastic, male oriented action film the likes of which Hollywood rarely turns out anymore. The film starts off with a light hearted happy feeling as Kurt (Van Damme) accompanies his older brother Eric to a fight where Eric, already a champion Kickboxer defeats yet another opponent and then announces his next fight will be in Thailand. Eric, on a high from all of his wins fails to realize that Thailand's champion is a ruthless fighter named Tong Po who's backed by the Asian mafia.When Eric finally faces off against Tong Po, Po not only defeats Eric but permanently and intentionally paralyzes him so that he will never fight again. In this instant, the light hearted feeling of the film is gone. Kurt and Eric are two Americans alone in a foreign land with no friends and no idea where to turn next. But Kurt knows one thing for certain, he wants revenge against Tong Po and he's willing to get it at any cost. After a lucky meeting with a fellow American (a former war vet who chose to remain living in Thailand rather than return to America) Kurt's hopes of seeking out his revenge are brought to life. At first reluctant, Kurt's new friend eventually introduces him to Zion. A master Martial Artist who has long since retired from training, but he hears Kurt's story, he sees Kurt's passion and sees something Different in Kurt. After a little coaxing and a few rather amusing tests, Zion agrees to train Kurt to take down Tong Po once and for all. At this point the movie takes on a whole new feel again, an often surreal and very serious tone reflecting mans connection with nature, with the past and with the ancient warriors who came before them.I won't go any further in my review, not because it will spoil the ending but because it would spoil everything else in between that leads up to a fantastic Rocky Style finale. It's all those parts in the middle though, all those moments all those genius bits of story that make this movie so worth watching. Oh the ending is good and well worth it but I assure you, watching Kurt train, watching him learn, face his fears and even fall in love. It's all of that, that's what really makes this movie.As a final note which I always live to add to my reviews, watching this film is like watching a Bruce Lee movie or a Chuck Norris film. It's so easy to understand why an entire generation fell in love with martial arts and new generations continue to do so to this day. "},{"Title":"Kick action","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer is a bigger budget action vehicle for JCVD which features location shooting in Thailand with popular tourist sites of Bangkok visible.The tale is a mixture of Rocky and The Karate Kid. Van Damme plays Belgian born Kurt Sloane whose US raised brother Eric gets brutally beaten and crippled after fighting the undefeated Thai kick-boxing champion Tong Po.Kurt Sloane wants revenge and fight Po and is introduced to Xian who agrees to train Kurt so that he can be good enough to fight Po. Over time his tough training regimes leads to improvements but Po's backers are not going to take things lying down.The better budget is there on screen, there is a lot of sly humour in the training scenes which reflect a lot of The Karate Kid movies and as the film progresses the Muscles from Brussels shows his trademark moves.The film takes time to get going after the initial kick-boxing fight, there is an obligatory love plot and although not as thrilling as some of Van Damme's films of the early part of the 1990's this is a good showcase of his talents. "},{"Title":"My favourite JCVD movie ever. Literally the best action film with JCVD, and one of the best films of the 80s.","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Literally awesome. Superb action film with thrilling action fight sequences and memorable moments. Sad beginning of course. Kurt and Eric Sloan (portrayed by Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dennis Alexio) travel to Bangkok. Eric Sloane, an American kickboxing champion is ultimately destroyed and beat down by Thailand's undefeated kickboxer, Tong Po after being warned by his brother, Kurt just moments before. After the brutal fight, Tong Po devastatingly kicks Kurt out of the ring and rips up Eric's title. After being dumped outside with no help whatsoever, retired (sorta) army special forces member, Winston, helps Kurt take his brother Eric to the hospital where he's later pronounced paralysed after Tong leaving him unable to walk. Kurt vows to avenge his brother, by ultimately defeating Tong Po, inside the ring. After some hesitation and reluctance, Winston tells Kurt all about the legendary trainer Xian Chow who currently lives in a remote area in the country. He agrees to train Kurt and lead him throughout, getting him prepared for this ultimate fight - Will Kurt get revenge for his brother by defeating Tong Po? Or will Tong break another one in the ring? You'll have to watch to find out! Amazing 80s action film with decent dialogue, splendid action, great martial arts and an awesome build up. This film, in particular, is magnificent. 9.5/10 - i would rate it a full 10 if it had better communication (dialogue) in it. BUT NEVERTHELESS! It's still an amazing action film. "},{"Title":"not on the same level with Bloodsport","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Weather you like it or not, this film is not as good as Bloodsport. Don't get ne wrong, this film is like Bloodsport. It's brutal, it's trashy, it's stupid (very stupid), ... it's an 80's flick. What's interesting is that the video quality is by far worse than the one in Bloodsport. I don't know why I'm nitpicking on that point but every time I watch them after another, I ask myself that question.As much as I like this film, I don't enjoy it as much as I enjoy Bloodsport. There's so much that doesn't fit in the story. I get what they were trying to get across. They wanted to mix Bloodsport with Karate Kid (just watch the training sequence and you know what I mean). Now don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong about Karate Kid. But TO ME Karate Kid is made for kids and not for Van Damme fans. We Van Damme fans prefer our action scenes bloody.It's a very entertaining film, never the less, but don't expect to much. For only 10 bucks this film is worth every single Cent. I would say give it a chance, but don't expect to much.P. S. DRUNK, DANCING JEAN-CLAUDE VAN DAMME !!! "},{"Title":"Another one of Van Damme's most appreciated","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" After Bloodsport (1988) was released, Jean-Claude Van Damme's career began to gain traction as a sport/action star. Even if his acting to many wasn't all that convincing, his physicality and choreographed fight scenes seemed to have a magnetic attraction to audiences. In between this movie and Bloodsport (1988) were two other movies but seemed to have not gone over well with viewers. It is not until this movie that Van Damme returns to what looks as some of his better performances at the beginning of his career.Like many of his other films to come after or came before, Van Damme plays a character with some kind of a martial arts background. Why - because that's the thing Van Damme had going for him at the time. If you were going to see a Van Damme movie, it was for that reason; his martial arts skills. So in here, it is obvious that he's going to play a kickboxer because that's the title of the film. It's a dead give away. The story is about a trainer (Kurt Sloane), who takes it upon himself to fight for his brother who is permanently injured after challenging an opponent who plays dirty.Playing the injured brother, Eric Sloane, is Dennis Alexio, a real life kickboxer. To be honest, I didn't find his on screen chemistry with Van Damme to be very convincing. It is explained to why they don't sound like brothers but it still sounds far-fetched. Making them close stepbrothers I think would have made things much easier and more believable. But as for characters, that's really the only weak link I found for that particular area. For Kurt, he must learn how to fight like the opponent who hurt is brother. The only way he'll be able to do that, is by being trained like the opponent.The person to do that is Xian Chow (Dennis Chan), an old hermit who looks old but still packs quite a punch. To be brought to Chow, Kurt befriends a man named Winston Taylor (Haskell V. Anderson III), an ex- marine from the Vietnam War, now living in what he calls paradise. Anderson's character is partially the reason why this movie deserves to be seen. The early Van Damme films seem to contain the most comical characters. Also let's not forget the obligatory love interest that falls for Kurt Sloane, which doesn't bother me in the least. I understand that these kind of films need one because what would they be without? The love interest is Chow's niece, Mylee, played by Rochelle Ashana.Let's also not forget the opponent who plays dirty. Tong Po (Michel Qissi) does a good job at making his character look like a jerk. Not only does he get away with several actions that are considered over the top brutal or disgraceful, he also has connections to crime bosses. Hmmm, doesn't sound very good. However this does dilute the character. If you look at Chong Li from Bloodsport (1988), he too was a mean and dirty fighter, but he had no connections. He was just in it for himself. With Tong Po, it's just another cliché - that every antagonist is connected with some crime lord.There's only one other thing I found to be unnecessary. At one point, Chow gets Kurt drunk and asks him to start dancing. Yeah,...I know there's a point to it in the end of that scene but it really isn't needed. I didn't choose this movie to see Jean-Claude Van Damme dance. No thanks. However, the fight scenes were cool and it was good to see composer Paul Hertzog return to make the score for the film, even if it wasn't as present like his score from Bloodsport (1988). Other than that I was relatively pleased with the outcome of the film.It is a little more cliché ridden than needed but it still works as a Van Damme sport film. The fight scenes as well as the characters are worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Winner....Palmtree....","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Another classic from Van Damme, and as the video sleeve told us...'revenge is a dangerous motive', beating Kill Bill by 14 years.It's a simple story, Van Damme is the weak one of two brothers, the other being stronger because he has a cool moustache and will never be in a film again. Lo and behold 'Tiger' Tong-po realises this and decides to break his back.Van Damme searches everywhere to get trained up, but no one wants to see him do the splits, apart from an old man who lives alone with his dog. the rest is predictable drivel, but it's the eighties, and we love a good fight.Another Popular van Damme film, this features more training this time, think a mature Karate Kid movie a your almost there. there are also sub-plots with the triads, and love interests, but again there is a delicious villain in the form of Tong Po, who you would love to smack for no reason at all.The film builds up to the climax, and what a fight we have at the end. Granted, the editing is poor and Makes Van Damme look like he is doing more than he actually is, but the final five minutes are so uplifting, you will find yourself rewinding over and over again.a perfect Van Damme movie, and getting nearer to the big time.a must for all Van Damme fans. "},{"Title":"Kickboxer","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This time Jean Claude Van Damme's formidable adversary is a bad dude with a pony tail named Tong Po. He's Taiwan's heavyweight champion and is feared/praised by fight fans as the best. Tong Po makes mincemeat out of American Kickboxing Champion, Eric Sloane(Dennis Alexio), leaving him a paralyzed cripple in a wheelchair, and his brother, Kurt(JCVD)wants revenge. Kurt seeks the assistance of expert master of the martial arts, Xian Chow(the charming Dennis Chan), hoping he will train him to be a great fighter, with the appropriate skills to combat Tong Po. Xian, utilizing Kurt's determination and dedication, molds and develops him into a superior martial artist, but can he withstand the attack of Tong Po? Tong Po's agent, Freddy Li(Ka Ting Lee), uses treacherous antics(..like kidnapping Eric, having Xian's trusty canine stabbed by a dagger, and the rape of Kurt's girlfriend, Mylee(Rochelle Ashana)at the hands of Tong Po)in an attempt to thwart Kurt's chances of defeating his foe due to a lack of focus and concentration, factors needed to properly fight. Freddy Li has made a big bet on Tong Po and informs Kurt that if he is to see his brother alive again he'll throw the bout, but do so while being pummeled by Tong Po. Through the collective efforts of his friends, including Xian and a retired Vietnam vet, Winston(Haskell V Anderson III), perhaps Kurt will be able to fulfill his desire for revenge, while successfully proving that he can be a fighter of superior skill.I feel like many fans of movies regarding kick-boxing will find this a tad disappointing for Kickboxer features precious few fight sequences of real worth. We see Kong Po annihilate Eric in a bout(..before this, Eric himself defeats an American opponent with relative ease, and being a renowned fighter in the USA has grown his ego to epic proportions)establishing the meat of the film's revenge story, but the bulk of Kickboxer has Kurt training with Xian in preparation for Tong Po. We see Kurt and Mylee's blossoming love, along with Freddy Li's shenanigans. The training regimen(..including their work in the fantastic Stone City, an ancient Buddhist temple ruins and around Xian's modest home where he uses natural objects as tools to train Kurt)envelopes a good 50 minutes of the movie. We do see a humorous scene where Xian wishes to challenge Kurt by taking him to a bar, getting him liquored up, and having Freddy Li's young fighters engage him in combat..to the chagrin of Li, Kurt obliterates them in short order, afterward showing that he can barely walk upright! As is often the case with these movies featuring Van Damme(or part of this burgeoning genre of this time when martial arts was starting to take off with western audiences), Tong Po is a muscled and mean force to be reckoned with, an intimidating enemy the hero must overcome through the use of his evolved techniques and physical development. Oftenin these flicks, we see how Xian, the trainer, is able to fashion Kurt mind, body, and soul into a superior fighter. The finale, I think, is sufficiently thrilling as Kurt, at first, must allow Tong Po an advantage, while also remaining distracted due to his brother's whereabouts and discovering Mylee was raped by his opponent. And, just as usual(..we wouldn't expect anything otherwise, would we?)Van Damme gains the upper hand when those encumbrances are lifted and he can take control. Kickboxer is a chance to see Van Damme in full form, landing every type of kick and punch in his arsenal..in slow motion or repeated two or three times to relive the blows as they deplete Tong Po until he's a broken, beaten, and bloody mass, without fight left in him. The martial arts Kurt is learning from Xian is Muay-Thai. I don't think Van Damme has ever looked better than he does here. As normal, JCVD performs the splits numerous times(..this time, there's a scene where his legs are pulled apart by Xian by ropes with sound effects featuring bone cracking). "}{"Title":"kick the tree","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This is possibly the greatest movie ever made in the history of mankind.Van Damme kicks some Thai ass as he seeks to avenge his brother ( Tom Selleck lookalike)after he ends up in a wheel chair. He is assisted by a great Thai boxing teacher who puts him through rigorous training schedule such as being chased by a dog. What more could you want in a movie , apart from possibly some wax on wax off ? In summary , this movie is fantastic , and if you enjoy seeing people having their faces kicked in by a Belgian ballet dancer ( pumped on steroids) , then this is the movie for you!!! minor spoiler ( he also pumps a Thai woman in this movie , and she is tidy). "},{"Title":"Van Damage in Thailand","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" The first time I saw this film I was in pig tails and still had all my baby teeth. Later this film made me fall head over heals for Van Damme! Its a story about two American brothers who travel to Thailand. The eldest becomes paralyzed in a kickboxing fight which provokes his younger brother (Van Damme) to learn kickboxing from an elder skilled in the art. Later, the highly trained younger brother sets out to avenge his brother in a match that could end up costing him his life. The only thing I found unappealing in the film was the music. However, the film also has some comedy points such as when his master attached a pork chop to his thigh and sends his German Shepard running after Van Damme. "},{"Title":"Inspiration in the strangest of places...","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" While not a great film, this is an awesome example of an American action/martial arts movie.Fight choreography is fantastic, I mean, let's face it, Jean Claude didn't get acting gigs because he is a decent actor, he got em because he's a great martial-artist. And it shows. So he was a never a prize fighter, so what? True martial arts is not about fighting, it's a mental/physical discipline, akin to religion in that to truly understand it you must devote yourself to it entirely.The revenge story is run of the mill but cool - Kurt's bro gets paralysed in the ring by the nasty Thai champion (and quite intimidating character) Tong Po, so Kurt, an inexperienced martial artist, seeks training from an old master so he can return and defeat Tong Po in an honorable, though brutal, underground kickboxing contest in Thailand.The real gem of this film is the second act, where Kurt trains in the jungle with the master Xian Chow. It shows some pretty full-on and very interesting scenes of harsh training, both mental and physical, and the forest setting is great. This part actually inspired me to pursue more intensely the martial art I was studying at the time, Arnis (bamboo stick fighting - originated in the Phillippines). Never did I think I would be inspired to better myself by a dumb action movie. Inspiration can come from the strangest of places.The romantic subplot is aided by a nice performance from Rochelle Ashana as Mylee, she is very pretty and a decent actress. Xian Chow (Dennis Chan) is also very good as the wise master.Can't help but mention the dance scene...it really is best experienced rather than described...The final fight is one of the best pre-CGI fight scenes ever put on film. At first it appears like a Rocky-style champ gets pounded by bad buy for 9 rounds then makes a startling comeback at the end but it is far more, and that makes it so memorable. If you haven't seen it just watch it don't read on. If you have...how cool is it? Kurt knows he can k*ck Tong Po from the second he walks in the ring. Kurt has trained like the warriors of old, while Tong Po is really nothing more than a very strong street fighter. The agony is palpable as Kurt knows he has to throw the fight...but as soon as he knows his bro is safe, his girl is safe...the gloves come off...the fear shows in Tong Po...and from that first kick to the head it's all over in great Van Damme style for the Thailand's Tiger! Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good Martial Arts Flick","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer is a gritty martial arts movie that is entertaining despite the predictable plot and shallow characters, the movie is a general feel good flick with some great fights and demonstrations of Van Damme's athleticism.Some interesting characters have been thrown in to lighten the feel and bring some humour to the film, and if you like this type of film it's very entertaining to watch.Call it what you like, cheesy, shallow, cheap, and i can't really disagree, but the essence of the film is successful, and it will definitely satisfy fans of the genre and of Van Damme.6/10 If you enjoyed this watch Bloodsport "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This is one of Van Damme's better movies. This movie is about Eric Sloan World Heavyweight champion, and his brother Kurt Sloan go to Thailand to fight. Eric loses his match is crippled by Tong Po the Thai champion.This is one of the better 80's martial arts movies. Van Damme does pretty good in this movie, even though he a fraud and NEVER once fought in the ring a day in his life. A rare film appearance by Dennis Alexio, one of the best Super heavyweight kick boxers of all time. Dennis does fairly well in this film. It seemed to me that Eric Sloan attitude was similar to Dennis Alexio's attitude in real life. Cocky and a little bit over confident.The fight scenes were done very well along with the training scenes. Overall this is a good film, for any martial arts fan to enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the best Van Damme movies with overwhelming combats and spectacular scenes","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" A man named Kurt Sloane(Van Damme) learns in Thailand the ancient Kickboxing style called Muay Thai for fighting the contender who paralyzed his brother named Eric(Dennis Alexio who was actually US Kickboxing heavyweight champion) . During world championship with the Kickboxing heavyweight champion celebrated in Bankok stadium, Eric was crippled by fighter Tong Po. Then, Kurt is seeking vengeance and he's only helped by an American ex-soldier(Haskell Anderson) and an expert trainer named Xian(Dennis Chan). The film contains some biographic note, as Kurt tells his sweet-girl he was born Belgium and lives in Los Angeles.The picture displays lots of violence, action filled, thrills and fierce combats. This is a colourful, Thailand set and quite budget movie; leave no cliché untouched , though the fighting are well staged . Van Damme performance reveals to be more of the Chuck Norris, Stallone style than the Stanislawski school of acting. Karate expert Van Damme co-wrote the script along with the producer-director Mark DiSalle .The breathtaking fights are magnificently choreographed and directed by Van Damme. Exciting scenes , such as Van Damme training over temple of stone, sympathetic fights in the bar and spectacular combat against tiger champion Tong Po and the crowd shouting, 'great white warrior'. The motion picture is professionally directed by Michael Worth and Mark DiSalle who tried repeat success with Jeff Speakman but he didn't achieve. The result is a strong entry for action buffs, though strictly for Jean Claude Van Damme fans. Followed by numerous unreleted sequels, such as, Kickboxer II, the road back directed by Albert Pyun with Sasha Mitchell; II Art of war directed by Rick King with Michell; IV by Albert Pyun with Mitchell; V by Kristine Petersen with Mark Dacascos. "},{"Title":"This is stone city. Where many ancient warriors come. While you train here, listen!","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" It appears that Bolo Yeung (Bloodsport) wasn't enough of a challenge, so Jean-Claude Van Damme sets a match with Tong Po. Of course, he is there to avenge his brother. Hmmm, wasn't he avenging his parents in Double Impact? He is always avenging someone - I think it was another brother (he must have a lot) in Lionheart.The movie is really a yawn unless you have a thing for an hour of looking at Van Damme's rippling muscles on a perfectly formed body shiny with oil.The ring action is so short and predictable that it is a real letdown. I mean, you absolutely knew the match would turn around once his brother appears, didn't you? "},{"Title":"A pretty good watch.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" JEAN CLAUDE VAN DAMME stars as KURT SLOAN, a young fighter who travels to Tailand with his older brother/kick boxing champ, ERIC THE ELIMINATOR SLOAN, to take on the eastern champions, but once in a match, Kurt's brother is dealt illegal blows & then crippled by the countries deadliest fighter TONG PO, seeking revenge, Kurt learns how to fight Po thanks to the help of an wise old man who's daughter Kurt falls in love with. Now it's time for Po & Kurt to meet in a fight, where their hands will be tied with rope & covered in broken glass, but besides having to worry about Po's henchmen & making sure he does not wind up like his brother, things don't go so easy. KICKBOXER was the first in a series of five movies, some of which were better than this & others not so good in some ways, but still watchable, plainly put, KICKBOXER is just a violent remake of THE KARATE KID & Van Damme's earlier film BLOOD SPORT, but with all that said, KICKBOXER makes for some good, if not exciting entertainment, the fights were well choreographed & the end match is exciting & suspenseful, keeping you on the edge of your seat. All the actors put in fine performances & the direction was perfect. Definitely worth a look for action fans! Followed by KICKBOXER 2 THE ROAD BACK *** stars "},{"Title":"Loved the training part of this gr8 martial art flick.","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer is one of Van Dammes best films (not as good as Bloodsport though). Muay Thai fight sequences are choreographed very well. It is a predictable film n full of clichés. Now comes the training part man, JCVD having his legs pulled apart with ropes (ouch the groin man), kicking down palm trees (the shin bone hurts man), coconuts dropped onto him from a great height, raw meat tied to his legs so dogs would chase him (Usayn bolt can learn something man), being kept underwater whilst performing various kicks (Mickey Mehta stole ideas from JCVD) and finally training in the ruined temple where he could hear the noises made by the ancient warriors (is it a fantasy flick man). Nevertheless I enjoyed this the first time I saw on a rented VHS during the early nineties. I still own a DVD of it. Fans of the genre shud definitely own a DVD or blu ray of it. Directed by Mark DiSalle n David Worth (The perfect weapon n Lady dragon respectively). "},{"Title":"Train for redemption","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This movie had a great story to it; however, the fighting sequences were not the greatest. In a way the fighting sequences were incredibly plain. In one of the matches, the two fighters were literally taking turns kicking each other one at a time. There was also a lack of any defensive skills. Almost every hit connected. It just did not make sense.Despite the fighting sequences lacking exceptional choreography, the story was well put together. Kurt Sloane, played by Jean-Claude Van Damme, was determined to train in martial arts in order to defeat Tong Po, played by Michel Qissi. Po had defeated Sloane's brother in a match earlier on in the movie. As a result of that match, Sloane's brother was paralyzed. So Sloane set out to train and learn the art of kickboxing in order to seek vengeance for his brother. "}{"Title":"Revenge is a dangerous motive.","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This is the kind of movie if I were watching and evaluating about twenty years ago I would have thought it a lot better. Today it seems seriously dated and let's face it, downright hokey at times, like with that very embarrassing dance sequence Van Damme does at the Thai saloon. I wonder what he'd have to say about that today.The main problem that I think most martial arts movie fans will acknowledge is that the story is formulaically clichéd. The revenge motive is ever present in these types of films, and the outcome is always the same - the hero wins, the villain loses. Sometimes the path to getting there is made interesting with a grueling training regimen and humorous elements introduced by a stoic trainer who's comic timing leads to some funny moments. You have some of that here, but it's counterbalanced by Kurt Sloane (Van Damme) whacking his leg against a palm tree full force (impossible) into a bloody pulp, and training immediately after with no visible bruising.And after all that, I don't believe Kurt used any Muay Thai in his match against Tong Po (Michel Quissi). I could be wrong on that score, but not invested enough to re-watch the fight. Going back those couple of decades, I can't remember if this was the first Van Damme flick I ever saw or Bloodsport. If I had to guess it would have been the earlier picture, but I don't know if I'm so keen on checking it out again and dimming another memory. "},{"Title":"Cult classics Van Damme's best martial arts movie ever!","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take an Van Damme classic's, best, action, street-fight-martial-arts movie, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Kickboxer (1989) was definitely one of my favorite best action street fight martial arts movie from Jean-Claude Van Damme. It Is still today one of my favorite Van Damme movies and I love it, when ever time I see it. I think it is one of Van Damme's best movie he ever did. It is a good decent movie that remain a cult classic film today. I love the training sequences and the fights. Pretty awesome decent action Van Damme's flick. I love this one. As far as the sequels, I don't mind them. Initially I was mad because they just flat out killed the characters from the first movie. But over time I got over it and enjoyed them for the low budget fighting movies they are. Both the original Kickboxer and Bloodsport are by far the best in their series, but Kickboxer's sequels are far better than the Bloodsport sequels. I don't care how good of a martial artist Daniel Bernhardt is.Pronounced Kee see. One of the things I never knew about Kickboxer was Dennis Alexio's voice was dubbed over. I think there's a clip on YouTube of his original voice during a hospital scene. Even tough it is one of my favorite JCVD films, I think it is his best film, alongside with Bloodsport, Lionheart, Death Warrant, Hard Target, Universal Soldier, Timecop, Sudden Death and Maximum Risk over this movie. The problem with this film I have is The style Van Damme performs throughout the movie is not Muay Thai, just some sort of low karate actions﻿. When his character was learning Muay Thai, Van Damme could at least performed that. I felt like van Damme taught his self, Typical martial arts movie. In here Van Damme to me already knew all martial arts from Karate and his brother being hurt was the trigger I just feel mixed on this one. I liked the fights and training sequences but that is it all. Dennis Chan (Xian) is a Hong Kong film actor mostly known for comedic roles so he's definitely no martial arts master. I think Streets of Siam is up there with Fight to Survive. I felt like there was really no kickboxing in the film and always wondered Why is it called Kickboxer when there really isn't any kickboxing in it? It could've been call Master Fighter or something. The reason why Van Damme fights were so fluent in Knock Off was because that movie had Hong Kong action choreographers, as did Double Team and No Retreat No Surrender. I think this movie is a good typical 80's late film, not my cup of tea or the best in the genre.The movie get's 10, by me the training sequences and the music score where awesome. The final fight on the end, between Kurt Sloan and Tong Po was good, only because of the music score. I wanted to point that out, I like it, but not love it. Even as a child when I first time saw it, I did not like it unlike I loved Bloodsport! However I do enjoyed and I love it today. The songs performed by Stan Bush The Streets of Siam and Fight for Love. Without those songs I would not like this movie, just my opinion. The Last thing In my opinion Michel Qissi is very underrated actor and he did a terrific job playing the Villain in here, I am glad that he did return in the sequel and that he played in Bloodsport and Lionheart! I love those two movies to death! Rochelle Ashana was also good playing Mylee, Xian Chow's niece. Haskell V. Anderson III as Winston Taylor former Vietnam Vet was also great in this movie. I liked his performance of playing his character. The last of the actor that I liked was Dennis Alexio he was a real life the greatest heavyweight kick boxing champion in the sport's history. He's fighting performance is the real kickboxing style unlike Van Damme's. I am hearing they are remaking this movie with Van Damme as a master in that movie. Good luck with that because the 80's and 90's are gone. Kickboxer is a 1989 American martial arts film produced and directed by Mark DiSalle, and also co-directed by David Worth, and starring Jean-Claude Van Damme and former world kickboxing champion Dennis Alexio.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Kings Road Entertainment, The Cannon Group Starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Dennis Alexio, Dennis Chan, Michel Qissi, Ka Ting Lee, Rochelle Ashana, Haskell Anderson Directors Mark DiSalle, David Worth Producer Mark DiSalle Screenplay Glenn A. Bruce Story by Mark DiSalle, Jean-Claude Van Damme Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 37 Mins. Budget $1.500.000 Box Office $14,697,005 "},{"Title":"Kickboxer is vintage Van Damme doing what he does best.","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer may be seen now as a dumb action movie but there's no denying that Kickboxer is still popular amongst many of Van Damme's fans as well as those that grew up in an era where audiences liked their heroes musclebound and the action violent and bloody. I last saw Kickboxer when I was 11 years old and I hadn't seen the movie in 20 years. Thankfully, the movie was still enjoyable and like a vintage wine you can still enjoy it with age. Kickboxer also showcased Van Damme's spectacular martial arts prowess and he does it with style.Kurt Sloane (Jean-Claude Van Damme) acts as cornerman and trainer for his older brother Eric (Dennis Alexio), an US kickboxing champion. Kurt and Eric travel to Bangkok, Thailand to challenge Tong Po (Michel Qissi), Thailand's undefeated powerhouse champion who ruthlessly pummels his opponents in the ring. Ignoring all of Kurt's warnings to pull out of the match, Eric remains proudly adamant that he is not going to back down from Tong Po in the ring. Kurt helplessly watches Tong Po brutally beat Eric in the ring and leaves him paralysed from the waist down, wheelchair bound and unable to walk again. Filled with grief and rage, Kurt swears revenge on Tong Po. Kurt finds a sole ally in Winston Taylor (Haskell Anderson), a retired US Army special forces soldier who helps Kurt enlist the help of a former Muay Thai trainer Xian Chow (Dennis Chan) who lives in seclusion in a quiet village along with his niece Mylee (Rochelle Ashana). Though reluctant at first, Xian teaches Kurt the ways of Muay Thai with primitive but extremely effective methods to transform Kurt into a hardened fighter primed to avenge his older brother by fighting Tong Po. The acting was never going to set the world on fire but there is no doubt Kickboxer is still exciting and enjoyable from start to finish. The fighting and martial arts showcased on screen are still a delight to watch many years later. Jean-Claude Van Damme in his halcyon days is still enjoyable to watch on screen. Though Van Damme's star has since faded and he is no longer the box office drawcard he used to be, a lot of his early movies still have a special spot in all of our hearts.Kickboxer is vintage Van Damme doing what he does best. If you are a true Van Damme fan, Kickboxer is certainly a movie to have in your collection.7/10. "},{"Title":"Most hilariously unintentional homo-erotic film ever made!","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Side splitting comedy from beginning to end!It opens up with these two hulking muscle boys holding each other while gliding down a river in a gondola. They're both really, really touchy and from the first scene forward, it's like... oh crap, I came here to see a karate movie but I think I'm in the wrong theater. I know what's going to happen next... someone's gonna get beat up... or down... OR BOTH -- oh good gawd no!Next, they go skipping hand in hand into a Bangkok hotel with '80s pop music blaring in the back ground... I'm totally scared at this point.One of the partners looks almost just like Freddy Mercury... only more muscular and aggressive and is clearly the dominant one. The other one is none other than a supple, Jean Claude Van Dam. He's young and muscular with a boyish haircut and attitude - Oh Jesus... Jesus Christ.The man with the radical mustache and young Jean get oiled up and proceed to frolic in the park in their skin tight tank tops for a bit. This is only like 10 minutes into the film...I laugh hysterically while simultaneously puking into my mouth a little bit. Good times -- next up is the first fight...The big, bad Thai-Guy comes out of his corner angry... with this hot dog shaped thing on his head. Next, the hulking Freddy Mercury look-a-like guy comes out of his corner in these silky, lavender shorts... As you may have guessed, he REALLY gets his butt pounded by the guy sporting the big hot dog thing on his head...This film is so hysterical that it would make Andy Warhol blush. It's like totally fabulous. You really have to see it to believe it. I don't want to give the rest away so, just; bring lots of tissues...It's like... really sad or something. WINK! ;) "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Brothers Alexio and Van Damme travel to Thailand for a kickboxing tournament, but when a rule-breaking (and back-breaking) assault occurs in the ring during Alexio's match by mammoth thug Qissi, Van Damme sets out to avenge his brother by learning the art of Muay Thai from trainer Chan. By-the-book martial arts flick is a tolerable time-killer, but Anderson and Chan's characters risk so much for nothing&#x97;what is their motivation? Despite the beautiful cinematography by Kranhouse and excellent fighting choreography by Van Damme himself, there are just too many failed opportunities to make the story slightly better that its pros cannot compensate for the instances of avoidable laziness.** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Kickboxer Review","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" When I saw this on Crackle just recently at first I didn't take it as seriously. Not because of Jean Claude Van Damme but because it was on crackle and I don't like commercial blocks in movies. Not because there are blocks but because they have too many stretched out and might be just the same one over and over. Also when Van Damme talks it's like his accent is too thick even for a French or Belgian guy. Anyway this movie starts out with Van Damme's brother fighting in a kick boxing tournament and winning.They then go to Thailand to fight this guy called the Tiger but his brother get's his back broken. Van Damme get's his brother to a hospital by this black guy Winston. At the Hospital Van Damme finds out his brother can't walk again after that blow to his spine. After that he goes around trying to do a montage and finding trainers for Muai Thai Kickboxing. The choreography for the kick boxing is okay for a Van Damme movie that is and I think he helped with it as well.Some of the dialog from the Thai people sounds dubbed at times if you look close enough. Or even care, but anyway Van Damme goes into some town for this trainer guy to help him. The trainer tells him to go to the store and after that there's another training montage. There's even this scene where the trainer and Van Damme go to a bar and after a few drinks, he starts to dance a little and he seems to do pretty well. He also find love with the trainer's daughter but after a bit she gets kidnapped and attacked by the Tiger.At the end Van Damme's brother get's kidnapped by the Tigers goons and threaten to kill his brother if he fights. During Van Damme's fight with the Tiger the trainer and Winston go to save Van Damme's brother. They arrive at the match and Van Damme beat's up the Tiger and wins.This is a pretty basic martial arts/revenge film but it seems to have a bit of a cult hit. "},{"Title":"The Muscles From Brussels at his finest","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" So the kickboxer stars Jean-Claude Van Damme as Kurt Sloan the trainer and little brother of world heavyweight kickboxing Eric Sloan. so the story is essentially the story of Kurt training with Mr Chan in the art of Muay Thai so he can get revenge on Tong Po the man who paralysed Eric in the ring. And that is what i think is the problem most people have with this movie compared with other martial art movies is the film doesn't really have a secondary plot line to go along with the karate kid had the sort of romeo and Juliet star crossed lovers secondary plot going for it bloodsport had Frank trying to avoid the cops so he could still fight in the kumite but what does kickboxer have. probably the closes it comes to a second plot line is the Eric trying to talk Kurt out of the fight. But if you come into the Film expecting nothing more than lots of fighting and martial arts i almost guarantee you will enjoy it if you come looking for a deep and meaningful martial arts movie your gonna be disappointed.As Jeremy Jahns would say this movie is a good time no alcohol required if you expect it to be what it is if not its a good time if your drunk "},{"Title":"Nok Su Kow","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" I have watched this film pushing towards the thousands, can speak the dialogue word for word including the soundtracks. Simply put this (in my opinion) is the greatest movie of all time. Van Damme is sensational in this movie (and in Bloodsport, which is the 2nd greatest movie of all time). The fighting choreography is awesome especially the scene in the bar and the final fight with Tong Po. The film has some very good comedic moments as well, mostly coming from Xian and Winston (and the old guy sitting outside of mylee's store). In terms of a remake staring Dave Bautista and Gorge ST Pierre I find a silly idea because if it is a straight up remake it will make no sense. Bautista looks nothing like Tong Po and if the rumours are true that George ST Pierre is playing Kurt, the size difference between the two is ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Good fun fighting B-movie","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Eric Sloane is an arrogant brash champion of kickboxing in America. He and little brother Kurt (Jean-Claude Van Damme) go to Bangkok to destroy the local talents. Only the Thai champion Tiger Tong Po breaks Eric's back and paralyzes him. With the help of Taylor, an American living locally, Kurt becomes a student under master Xian. He trains to face the powerful Tong Po himself, and falls in love with a local.This hits the trifecta of fight action B-movie. It's got cheesy acting, exotic locations, and an eastern fighting style. The music is full on 80s cheese. Van Damme does a reasonable job acting. The fights are a little bit disappointing. It's staged by experts but it needs experts to film it properly. Michel Qissi is a great villain in this. This is a B-movie that is better than most. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" So now I've finally seen all of the first three movies. I had Kickboxer in my TiVo but chose to watch the sequel first. You can see why if you go to my review of that movie. And I saw the second sequel before this one as well.Did it help to see the second one first? Certain details were less of a shock. However, the brother in the other movies in the series did not exist or was unknown to the brothers in this movie. And something else was inconsistent between this movie and the sequel. But I can't say what that was because it would be a major spoiler. Let's just say I was dreading the ending of this movie but it was much more satisfying than I had thought it would be. A term used on the CW Smallville message boards was Offscreenville. Perhaps something happened offscreen between the two movies. You watch Jean Claude Van Damme movies to see him fight. You do not watch them to see him act. He did smile a lot in some scenes with his brother. He almost never smiles. So here, he seems to have a more pleasant personality, at least in a few scenes, than what I am used to.Van Damme is shown as the director of fight scenes. I don't know precisely how you direct yourself, but Van Damme knows what he is doing. And all the fighting is really good.As was the case in the sequels, Dennis Chan does a very good job as trainer Xian. And there is a lot of comedy, though not nearly as much as in the third movie. The training here reminded me a lot of the training in the sequel very tough, sometimes funny. Xian would not let Kurt give up.Haskell Anderson is quite good as the man who gives Kurt and Eric so much help.I'm not sure why Michel Qissi was shown in the credits as Tong Po, but whatever his real name is he is quite fierce without saying a word, and terrifying when he does speak the one time.Rochelle Asana is simply adorable as Xian's niece who ran the village store.I am curious about how Xian knew Kurt was American. Kurt's accent, of course, is explained when he says his parents divorced and he was raised by his mother in Belgium and his father stayed with Eric in the U.S. Eric has an ethnic look, though, which is never explained.Is this a good movie? Maybe. It's no Rocky, that's for sure. But it's not bad. "}{"Title":"Best Van Damme Movie Ever","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" First saw this movie when I was a kid and I still love it! First rate martial arts action, good exposure to Thai culture, decent cinematography,and the baddest martial arts film villain ever...Tong Po.Fight scene at the end has to rank as possibly one of the best ever in this film genre. Eventually, the Kickboxer franchise produced 4 sequels. I never saw Kickboxer 5, but Kickboxer 2,3,4 were all great, despite missing Van Damme.Rob "},{"Title":"a classic martial arts movie, one of van damme's best","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" although i don't think its quite as good as 'bloodsport', kickboxer is a brutal, revenge pic, where van damme's fights the fearsome tong po, for putting his brother in a wheel chair. the training scenes are brilliant, and although the acting isn't always some of the best, as a martial arts action film, this movie delivers everything you expect and want from the genre. as its a late 80's martial arts movie, it cant help but be cheesy sometimes. but the final, brutal and brilliantly made fight scene, is a must see,and remains some of van damme's best work, there were a few sequels to this movie, but none of them starred van damme and they all got considerably worse, but this one remains a classic of action cinema, i highyl recommend "},{"Title":"A Real Kick","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Don't listen to what anyone says Jean-Claude Van Damme is a good actor. Pretending to be the naive younger brother of a far superior kick boxing champ, the action hero, known for his abundant ego, plays humble to the max. His big bro (Dennis Alexio) is crippled in a seedy backroom bout in Muay Tai by villainous rival Tong Po, a mohawked villain who plays tribal music as he circles his prey. Van Damme, aided by an African American Vietnam Vet, seeks training from a wise old sage and &#x96; like KUNG FU and KILL BILL 2 &#x96; the revenge-driven student goes through a torturous training session at a rural outpost, learning a method of kickboxing that you can't get anywhere else.This takes up most of the film, including terrific montage scenes as Van Damme gains strength, agile, and wisdom. And when the local mob moves in, the student proves his worth to protect a local love-interest. The exterior locations are beautiful and the fight scenes occur sporadically enough to appease hardcore action fans. There's a significant story-arc as Van Damme morphs from lamb to lion, and it's not easy. Especially after the bad guys kidnap his wheelchair-bound brother and Van Damme must survive the final match with Tong Po, while the side characters, never resorted to filler status, need to pull off a last minute rescue for our hero to turn the tables in the ring &#x96; to win the match and to save his life.For More Reviews www.cultfilmfreaks.com "},{"Title":"Kickboxer - review","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Without going into too much detail, Kickboxer follows the same formula as Rocky IV and, to a lesser extent, the other Rocky pictures and the Karate Kid films. Yet I found this film to be a lot of fun despite its predictability. Jean Claude Van Damme (playing the hero Kurt Sloan) is not a great actor, but his youthful exuberance, cheerful demeanour, and dashing appearance make him a very likable hero nonetheless. In addition, Van Damme is also not held back as much as in his later films when he goes through the indignity of saying fewer lines than the supporting cast. For me, the decision not to hold Van Damme back is a good one, because a hero can never hold our interest unless he has a well defined character to go along with his martial arts moves. Yet the best character in Kickboxer has to be Xian Chow (Dennis Chan) who trains Van Damme for his big fight with Tong Po (Michel Qissi). Xian Chow was obviously modelled after Mr. Miyagi from the Karate Kid movies, but his character has a few fresh elements. To begin with, Dennis Chan projects a dry sense of humour, like when he explains to Kurt Sloan why it is unwise to train a stranger in the art of Muay Thai. This movie was sold on its martial arts sequences, but the truth of the matter is that Dennis Chan steals the show whenever he performs on screen.The rest of Kickboxer consists of Van Damme's Kurt Sloan going through intensive training against a gorgeous backdrop of Thai architecture and great 1980s music, which is just as well since training sequences in an exotic martial arts form and amidst Ancient Thai architecture are reliably entertaining. This film, especially its training sequences, also has a subtle statement to make on life which was very much in keeping with the spirit of the 1980s. This statement, simply expressed, is that the route to success and lasting happiness is to suppress troubling emotions, pull yourself up by your bootstraps, and work incredibly hard to overcome adversity. Those people who fail to overcome adversity in this way only have themselves to blame. "},{"Title":"A Display Of Martial Art Skills.","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This is one of Van Damme best films,i always credit my top five personally as A.W.O.L,Kickboxer and Death Warrant/Double Impact,Bloodsport,Wake Of Death.Van Damme acting wasn't so great,especially in the hospital scenes.This is a classic revenge story of brotherly love.Van Damme showcases his martial arts ability here,which some say is not real Thai Boxing.Who cares? we watch this because we see people getting their asses kicked all over the screen.I first saw this when i was only about 8 years old and my older brother rented it along with Bloodsport.There is some funny parts in this movie,which make it more interesting and enjoyable.Tong Po is a real bad ass dude,you can see the evil in his eyes throughout the movie.But he plays his part well enough.The trainer Xian brings some light comic scenes to the film,And creates some classic lines like wood in a palm tree.This movie shows Van Dammes martial arts talent as i said,but it has a heart-felt story to it.This is a classic martial arts movie for any fan of martial arts or Van Damme.If you like this then check out the Kickboxer franchise,and just remember to enjoy as a time passing viewing. "},{"Title":"Give me Tong Po!","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This has to be the best Van Damme film. Surely. JCVD was a trained martial artist and fighter, not an actor when he first got in films. He is in his most impressive physical shape in this film and does the most impressive kicks than in any other film. This gives great insight into the training of Muay Thai. It shows a lot of will power through hard, physical training which is what I like to see. A lot better than the Rocky montage that I've seen, Kickboxer has become famous for the training scenes and his dancing scene in the bar. Hilarious.One of the best martial arts films ever made. Great story. Two brothers, one boxing champion beaten up and paralyzed by Tong Po, the Muay Thai champion of Thailand send Kurt (Van Damme) on a mission of revenge in Thailand against his enemy to prove to himself and his brother that he has what it takes to become a champion.Up there with Enter the Dragon, Bloodsport, Rocky and Raging Bull.10/10 "},{"Title":"80's Action Flick Alert - Bring Popcorn","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Back when I watched this, martial arts were all the rage. They had 2 basic formulas - person who was a complete novice and knows it learns ow to fight, or person has some skill but they aren't as good as think they are so they need to learn how to fight well. Van Damme was one of my favorites in this genre, and this movie doesn't disappoint, throwing the main characters into fights in and out of ring.The rape could have been left out without hurting the movie, but I guess they wanted to make you hate the already very hate-able character even more.Van Damme is in amazing shape, there is some lame humor here, but the great action and scenic shots make this an interesting movie. "},{"Title":"The Deadly art Of Muay Thai Fighting. Van Damme In A Class By Himself","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" ***J.C VAN DAMME IS MY HERO FOREVER***Jean-Claude Van Damme is in a class by himself. This film shows off his Kickboxing skills. He is nothing short of spectacular both in acting and fighting. This film shows us his most modest and loving character. He is a simple soul at heart ready to give a helping hand.Now about the film Kurt Sloan is the corner-man for his brother, U.S. kickboxing champion Eric Sloan. Eric has his next match in Thailand against an opponent he knows nothing about. He doesn't even know the art of Muay Thai his opponent Tong Po is a master of this deadly art.Before the fight Eric asks Kurt to fetch himself some ice to cool of his body. As Kurt is returning with some ice in some pails he hears some dull thuds and catches first glimpse of Tong Po who is hitting the support pillars of his room with his legs bringing pieces of the ceiling plaster down to the floor much to the shock of Kurt. He pleads to Eric to stop the fight. Eric tells Kurt to have faith in his his abilities.During the fight Eric is punished and paralyzed in the ring by and elbow to the back by Thailand champion Tong Po. When Kurt tries to intervene he is given a kick to the chest and throw out of the ring, where he is noticed by Winston Taylor a retired Vietnam War veteran. Eric is dumped outside by attendants much to the disbelief of Kurt and left there without even arrangements being made to take him to hospital. Winston Taylor arrives at the scene and he and Kurt take Eric to the hospital where he is later diagnosed as being paralyzed waist down as a result of the injury by Tong Po.He vows revenge against all of Winston's arguments that Tong Po is owned by a vicious crime lord, and that a direct attack on him would mean their deaths. Kurt's only chance is in the ring and that without any training it would mean his doom.Kurt tries to enroll in a Muay Thai school but is refused many times. Eventually Winston who has been watching him all the time tells him that he knows an old friend called Zion who could tutor him. With the help of Zion Kurt begins his first steps in the art of Muay Thai, and the eventual showdown between him and Tong Po. To mention the actor that plays Tong Po (Michel Qissi) is phenomenal.There is a sequel worth having Kickboxer 2 which doesn't star Van Damme but stars Michelle Quissi.Other similar movies of J.C Van Damme1. Bloodsport (Stars Bolo Yeung (Yang Sze) of Enter The Dragon),2. Lionheart a.k.a Absence Without Leave or AWOL (also stars MichelQuissi),3. The Quest (Stars Roger Moore).Full 10/10. Thai boxing at its highest level. Get your copy on DVD now! "},{"Title":"The Muscles From Belgium Kicks Exposed Bums!","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Yes, now we're into the realms of classic masterpieces! One of John Claud Van Damne's early films, Kickboxer has it all- fighting. Jean Cloud stars as Luc 'kickboxer' Deveroux, a fighter who wants to travel to China and enter a deadly Marshall Arts contest. His brother, Luke Deveroux was meant to go but as he was an unknown actor they decided to send Vin Darn instead. Off he goes, wearing nothing as always to make sure the female, gay, and curious portion of the audience get to drool over his well oiled, muscular and inviting buttocks. Soon he is being trained by a wizened old genius in the ways of kick boxing. He kicks empty cardboard boxes, flat packs, dodges boxes filled with ripe fruit and veg, and eats cardboard all day. The middle section of the film is simply various montages of this type of behaviour, showing his skills improving until he can do the splits balancing on top of a hundred stacked milk cartons. We also see him shaking his thang at a local bar, entrancing the local woman and igniting them into a sexual frenzy. Luckily when they approach he snaps their necks with swift roundhouse kicks. Thus he is ready for the tournament. Many fighters from around the globe and beyond have come to fight and win. We have Bolo from China, a sumo wrestler from Japan, a Viking from Norway, a funny little crab like creature from Africa, and various others, each with a unique fighting style. Shaun Claw Damn Van progresses through each round, beating everyone easily. In the final he has to fight a hard looking transvestite who trains by kicking holes in car doors and eating concrete. JCVCDVD beats him after a gruelling ten rounds by punching him in the nuts so hard that she/he becomes a he/she. We celebrate with a fist pumping 80s power ballad, possibly called 'Don't Let The Cardboard Box You In (Keep Believing, Little Boy)!'Best Scene When the Sumo sits on the little crab man and laughs, and you see all the arms and limbs underneath frantically flailing around, then stretching climactically, then trembling softly, then stopping. Always stopping. "},{"Title":"Van Damme at his best!!  A true classic from better days.","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" I first saw Kickboxer on VHS back in the early 1990s. It was a great time to be a kid. Street Fighter II was huge! Ninja Turtles was still booming and there was a big martial arts craze going on at the time. So there was nothing cooler than renting an R-rated Van Damme movie! Kickboxer comes from a long line of classics that spawned from the 80s and early 90s. It was truly a great time for movies and Hollywood had not yet burned itself out like it has today.For this film, Van Damme is in full form fresh from his breakthrough performance in Bloodsport. This time around, the plot is that of classic martial arts revenge and even more cool training. The best thing about this type of movie is that it doesn't try to be anything more than it already IS, and for that it truly succeeds. Van Damme demonstrates his classic (long forgotten) charisma that once made him a mega-star. Not because he was an amazing actor, but because he had so much HEART.The fight scenes are some of the best ever filmed. Van Damme really shows off his impressive physique and his unique martial arts form this time around. Nothing was cooler than Van Damme’s famous air born spin kicks.Kickboxer is not perfect, but it is very enjoyable and is always a big reminder of how cool these types of movies used to be before both Hollywood and Van Damme sadly burned themselves out.Awesome movie!! 8 out of 10 Classic! "}{"Title":"Probably Van Damme's best","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Let's face it, in the world of martial arts, Van Damme is a legend. I mean apart from all of his achievements in tournaments, kicks at head height or above are known worldwide as 'Van Damme Kicks'. He must have done something right!!!Anyway in this film, it's Van Damme in his cliché role, not that it matters, which is either revenge, being pursued or both. Revenge in this one. His older brother gets in a fight with a real bad guy, so it's up to Jean-Claude to save the day!!Even though he can act, despite popular belief (Replicant, Maximum Risk, In Hell) he doesn't concentrate on that here. He just shows us his breathtaking ability to kick down a brick wall with an aerial kick, and how he can, with ease, without bending over at all, kick with both legs well above his own head, with force too. He's not just doing fancy moves that mean nothing in the grand scheme of things. You have to really applaud his ability, he's incredible, he has his name up there with some of the best like Jackie, Jet and Bruce. He's also one of the most physically defined people I've ever seen, how much fat would you say? Maybe minus five percent?!!!! A true athlete, where he gets the energy to do what looks like about 4 or 5 hours of exercise a day is beyond me. How far can he stretch, too? It's enough to make you lose your appetite, but it's all good!Poor story, but that's not what we care for, great action, a bit of comedy to keep us laughing, and incredible training montage and fight scenes, with a soundtrack you want to get hold of yourself for personal use when working out! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Bad Acting, Lame Plot, Good Fighting","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" It's just one of those stereo-type low-budget action movies with bad acting, a lame, predictable plot but the entertaining fighting sequences cap it off to be an average movie. Very similar to Bloodsport in its own way, they want revenge, they fight to what it seems like the impossible villain and well you figure out the rest. I tend to enjoy material art movies, and this is one I enjoyed from a fighting purpose, look at it through acting and plot wise, well it's quite average. Like Bloodsport this movie has got the ultimate fighter (or villain) who is very dominate, ugly looking and does something to someone to make them want revenge. It's predictable but a moderate material arts fans should give this a watch sometime and check it out. "},{"Title":"Great for its time, but losing luster after 20 years.","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Van Damme stars as a kick-boxer who follows his brother, who's a champion. When they go to Asia to find new competition, they stumble across a strange form of the martial arts and competition in the ring leaves his brother paralyzed, whereas Van Damme swears vengeance on the man who put him in a wheel chair. The only problem is that he's not good enough to fulfill his vow and there's only one man who stands the chance of training him properly.This film was very good for it's time, but I've heard that it's lost its luster over the years. A lot of people don't think much of Van Damme anymore, but this film was made at a time when all the kungfu theater movies were dying out in the US and Chuck Norris just wasn't getting the job done. Enter Van Damme, a decent looking kid, a feeble, awkward ability to act, and what do you get? This! I remember first watching this movie on HBO when it originally came out, and I was residing in a household with several roommates and this movie was on the tube every time it came up, and yours truly was right there, watching it with everyone else. I feel Van Damme has lost some of his luster over the years, either due to bad roles or just a personal choice to sit out, but the man put out some decent movies in the 80's and 90's and this was definitely one of them! As far as the sequels, though, skip it, unless you find yourself wanting to fill your time with nothing in particular, which is what the sequels, basically, amount to.8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A motivational revenge tale of Muai Thai","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" KICKBOXER is deservedly a cult&#151;movie. Featuring a rising, ascending Van Damme, it has the note of unassuming intimacy and confidentiality and discretion of the older martial arts flicks. As a quite naive youngster, Van Damme has charm, niceness and even a certain naturalness. He made a few movies better than KICKBOXER&#151;and also many far worse&#151;so what I'm saying is that KICKBOXER has a place of pride in his career.Van Damme shows us a very nice persona in this action flick&#151;a nice youngster, set to learn Muai Thai from a master, Xian (Dennis Chan) in order to avenge his brother. This is the plot of tens of action movies; like the vast majority, this one seems drastically low&#151;budgeted, and it's made worth especially by the Asian performers&#151;such as the already mentioned Muai Thai master Dennis Chan, and his niece Rochelle Ashana ('Mylee' in the movie). The master can be funny when he so chooses.Most of the film details Van Damme's training; Xian takes him sometimes to the Stone City, to put him in line with the atmosphere of a place once visited by the ancient warriors. Also, by very harsh methods, Xian teaches Van Damme how to stretch&#151;using things that would make a professional hangman pretty envious. Xian's lesson to Van Damme is that, in order to learn kick-boxing, you have to learn more than just kick-boxing. There's a wider&#151;human&#151;reality. But rest assured&#151;the flick is thoroughly straightforward, you'll be spared lectures of Oriental wisdom.Van Damme's adversary is Tong Po, a Neanderthalian brute, very skilled, very strong, and extremely base&#151;he rapes Mylee before the match.KICKBOXER is a no&#151;nonsense fights flick, leaner than most others. "},{"Title":"My favourite Van Damme movie","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kurt Sloan (Van Damme) is corner man for his brother Eric who is the Kickboxing world champion, after beating every one there is Eric decides to go to Thailand where kick boxing was created too fight the people who know it best. unfortunately for Eric Thailand decides that he should fight Tong Po the best in the country, Kurt tries to persuade Eric not to fight after he see's Tong Po warming up by kicking a brick pillar, Eric thinking hes the best decides to fight and ends up getting paralysed. of course Kurt gets annoyed by this and decides that the only way he can feel better is if he starts training in Muay Tai so he can put Tong Po through the same pain his brother went though or something like that.When Van Damme did this movie he was on the top of his game, he had great speed and strength and excellent martial arts capability, apparently he could bench press 165 kgs.The fight scenes in this movie are fantastic i especially liked the fight in the bar and the final fight between Kurt and Tong Po, this movie really shows Van Damme's talent as a martial artist mainly with Muay Tai and Kickboxing but with hints of Karate. (Van Damme was European middle weight Karate champion back in the 80's) I think if you like too watch action movies for gun fights and explosions then you probably won't like this movie, but if you like Martial arts movies with Jackie Chan,Jet Li and people like that and you fancy something different watch kick boxer This is a Damme (lol) good movie and i would recommend it.I give it 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Martial Arts Flick","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This may not be as non-stop fighting as most of his other theatrical releases are, but this film is truly about honor and revenge. His brother, a world champ that looks like A.C. Slater on 'roids, gets paralyzed by the vicious kickboxer Tong Po, the champion of Thailand. Van Damage then takes it upon himself to train by the great master Xian to take kickboxing revenge on Tong Po for his brother's sake, and it's done well. there's about 2 to 3 fights in between the extensive training, which leave something to be slightly desired (except for the brilliant scene where he gets drunk then dances with two chicks and fights, like, 7 or 8 guys. really nice).Tong Po molests Xian's niece and Van Damme doesn't know this. He finds out at the final fight that it happens and he fights bare-knuckle. Really neat slow-motion kicks follow, as well as punches where he stares at his greasy fist afterwards and has this endless .....eeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh............. The direction of the film is really something special and well done, as well as dialogue and character development. And yes, people, Van Damme shows his butt once again. I recommend this film for people who just want to sit back and watch either an action flick or a martial arts film about valor and honor. And, of course, he has a make-out scene with Xian's niece by the woods in the dark while it thunders outside. Nice romance. Buy this film, but don't make the same mistake I did by getting the whole box set with sequels. Ugh. Have fun--8/10. "},{"Title":"A great Martial Arts film","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer is a classic Martial Arts flick staring Jean-Claude Van Damme as Kurt Sloane a man who's brother Eric Sloane ( Dennis Alexio) is crippled by Tong Po (Michel Qissi) a brutal Kickboxer that doesn't play by the rules, in a rage about what happened he goes to see Winston Taylor (Haskell V. Anderson III) who takes him to see a Master at Martial Arts Xian Chow (Dennis Chan) who trains Kurt Sloan to confront Tong Po.But some people working with Tong Po capture Eric Sloan and force Kurt Sloan to let Tong Po win or they kill Eric but Xing and Winston show up and save Eric while Kurt and Tong Po battle each other.Kickboxer has some great acting with a nice soundtrack and some fantastic fighting scenes. Kickboxer is a classic. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Van Damme really kicks butt!","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This movie Kickboxer, gives it name out well. Jean-Claude Van Damme showed his true feelings in this movie. Danny Alexio and him play the Sloan brothers who go to Thailand to compete in a kick-boxing. However, Eric Sloan(Alexio) is facing a lethal opponent. His name, Tong Po! The way he kicks that column, shows hardcore training. When Eric faces Tong Po, he is crippled by his blows. His brother Kurt(Van Damme) goes off, and wants serious revenge. Knowing that his fighting skills aren't enough to take on Tong Po, he gets help from a friend who's a war veteran(Haskell V. Anderson, III) finds a trainer named Xian(Dennis Chan). Knowning about the news of his brother, Kurt goes through some rigorous training. Then I like the part where Xian gets him loaded, and make him dance, then while loaded, he takes on some of the fighters of Freddy Li(Steve Lee). That was funny when Xian told the fighters that their mothers had sex with mules. He really gets vengeful when Tong Po raped Mylee(Rochelle Ashana). So there are two people to avenge. The fight scene was classic; broken glass, resin, and hemp gloves. Kurt really went medieval on Tong Po, hence the old saying, The gloves are coming off! The kicks are very skilled, and choreography is outstanding. I enjoyed this movie very well! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Responsible Martial Arts Flick  Receives Bad Marks","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Van Damme wrote this story to demonstrate that it takes a long long time to achieve the level of expertise that one needs in order to compete in a contest such as featured herein. The lion's share of film time is devoted to the rigorous training Kurt (Van Damme) receives in preparation of the upcoming bout with Tong Po. The story begins in the beginning, takes a hiatus to demonstrate the instruction necessary to get to the climax, and then runs straight into the climax.The problem is that most casual martial arts fans don't CARE about the training or character development. They just want action action action and then in the ending finale, they want action, with maybe a little story thrown in. If that is what you're after, this isn't that kind of film. This also isn't an intelligent film or anything Oscar-worthy, but if you want your teenager to see what is required to hone those tai kwan do classes into something real and formidable, plug this one in and explain the level of dedication one must invest to achieve that goal.If for no other reason, watch it for that.I don't know. I can't really say this is the most enjoyable of Van Damme's work. Frankly, I liked Cyborg and Bloodsport much more.This rates a 4.6/10 on the movie scale.This rates a 5.8/10 on the martial arts scale from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"the movie is pretty good,the songs are crap","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" kickboxer is one of Jean Claude Van Damme's earlier and better efforts.for a fan of the martial arts,it should satisfy.there aren't a lot of fight scenes,but what there is--is pretty good.there is however, complaint i do have with this movie,and it's not so much the movie itself.it's the sh*t songs in it.once again,we have bad songs by a band that wouldn't rate in the worst fleabag bar.if you can't have decent music(and i use that word very loosely),don't have any music at all.i did like the training montages.i thought they were kind of cool to watch,although they are pretty much the same as in Bloodsport, a previous Van Damme Vehicle.i don't think this movie is as good as Bloodsport,but it is still entertaining.for me,Kickboxer is a 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Average, somewhat dull early Van Damme flick.","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Kickboxer starts as Eric 'The Eliminator' Sloane (Dennis Alexio) is crowned the World kick-boxing champion, he decides he needs a new challenge & sets of for Thailand where kick-boxing is very popular. Eric & his brother Kurt (Jean-Claude Van Damme) head for Bangkok where he intends to prove himself to be the best by fighting hard as nails 'Tiger' Tong Po (Michel Qissi), Eric gets his wish but soon realises they play dirty in Thailand & Tong beats the crap out of him & just to rub salt into the wound breaks Eric's back which leaves him permanently paralysed & wheelchair bound. Eric's brother Kurt isn't happy about the situation & convinces an old Muay expert Xian Chow (Dennis Chan) to teach him the art of kick-boxing so he can gain revenge on Tong for his brother...Kickboxer is one of those rare films which is credited has having three director's, producer Mark DiSalle (who also is listed in the credits as playing a 'U.S. Reporter') & David Worth with a very young looking JCVD credited as 'fight scenes director' as well, I personally have never seen a film where three separate director's are credited during the opening credits, never. It's then perhaps a surprise that Kickboxer turned out as coherent as it did, I'm not saying it's a great film because it's far from a great film & it isn't even particularly good by JCVD standards but it ain't too bad & passes the time harmlessly enough. The by-the-numbers script by Glen Bruce is just so clichéd & predictable, a man sets out to avenge a family member/friend who has had some sort of injustice inflicted upon them & in that respect Kickboxer is nothing new. Also it's far too predictable, I mean is there really anyone out there who doesn't think that JCVD will defeat Tong Po & avenge his brother? I didn't think so. So what Kickboxer is all about are the fight scenes of which there are not enough, JCVD only fights on four occasions although I admit they are pretty good sequences. The rest of the time is mostly spent watching him get trained by some crazy old Chinese dude in scenes that reminded me of similar ones in The Karate Kid (1984)! It moves along at a reasonable pace & it passes the time but the character's are thin, it's predictable & it's nothing new.Director's DiSalle & Worth do OK with the talky bits while I have to admit JCVD does really well with the fight scenes, the choreography is actually rather impressive with brutal looking fights & kick-boxing scenes. The punches & kicks seem to have impact thanks to them being well staged & clever camera placement & I suppose JCVD's knowledge of martial arts & film-making comes in handy in this respect. Some of the Thai scenery looks quite nice & the early montage of Thai prostitutes & sex shops sets the tone for this lads flick. The violence isn't too strong, it's not overly sadistic or graphic. I was disappointed they didn't make use of the ropes wrapped around their hands with shards of broken glass stuck to them in a scene that is openly parodied in Hot Shots! Part Deux (1993), I mean one punch from those & it would have ripped your opponents skin to shreds.With a modest sounding budget of about $1,500,000 Kickboxer looks alright, the locations look nice enough I suppose & it's competently made. Apparently JCVD got paid $70,000 for this, it certainly wasn't for his acting ability though.Kickboxer is an OK time waster if you like martial arts type films or are a huge JCVD fan, if any still exist. I didn't think it was one of his best but nowhere near his worst, it's just very average predictable middle of the road stuff. Successful enough to spawn four sequels none of which featured JCVD, Kickboxer 2 The Road Back (1991), Kickboxer 3 The Art of War (1992), Kickboxer 4 The Aggressor (1994) & Kickboxer 5 (1995) although they seem to have stopped making them now. "},{"Title":"kickboxer vs bloodsport","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Bloodsport was a very good movie but it wasn't realistic, for example Van Damme was train by a japanese trainer but he knows the dim mak (that is a chinese move). Kickboxer was a good and realisitc movie. Good fights, beautiful Thailand and great Van Damme music. The training scenes with xian were great, better then Bloodsport. Bloodsport got better fights then kickboxer. The music of kickboxer and bloodsport were both great. I think bloodsport is a better martial arts movie then kickboxer. But kickboxer is a better movie.  "},{"Title":"One Of Van Damme's Best!","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" Jean-Claude Van Damme, Dennis Alexio, Dennis Chan, Haskell Anderson III, Rochelle Ashana and Michel Qissi star in this 1989 drama. This focuses on brothers, Kurt (Van Damme) and Eric Sloane (Alexio). Eric is a kickboxing champ and Kurt works in his corner. They travel to Thailand where Eric fights dangerous champ, Tong Po (Qissi) who brutally beats him in the ring causing him to be paralyzed. Kurt wants to avenge Eric so bad that he decides to learn an ancient fighting style from Thai master, Xian Chow (Chan) and fight Tong Po in the ring. Kurt also finds romance with Xian's niece, Mylee (Ashana). Anderson plays Winston Taylor, an ex-special forces soldier who helps Kurt and is Xian's friend. This is definitely one of Van Damme's best and I like Paul Hertzog's score. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"I prefer Blood Sport to this movie.","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This little Jean Claude Van Damme movie had its ups and downs, but in the end just was not up to his previous martial arts movie Bloodsport released the previous year. The movie has more of a revenge plot to it than anything as this guy who is the American champ of kick boxing goes overseas to fight another champion of some country in Asia I do not remember which. The brother is paralyzed by this champ and the other brother finds a guy to train him so he can defeat this super killer guy who took out the American champ in a few seconds. So the rest of the movie is Jean training to get back at the super kick boxer. The movie is okay, but it has problems too. There is only so much training one can take and this one has those scenes in spades. The super kick boxer in the final fight is a bit weak and that whole fight is a bit anti-climatic. And seriously they just dump the American champ outside after his loss? Why did the American agree to go over there without some sort of backing by the government to take care of him and sanction the fight, just goes to show you never go to an underground like fighting arena to prove yourself. Still, it is a watchable movie just not really my thing, I preferred the tournament of Bloodsport where they had rather big array of fighters. "},{"Title":"Pretty straight-forward revenge flick","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" If you liked Bloodsport, you'll like this one, because it's pretty much the same movie. Van Damme's out for revenge again, this time on some Thai dude who put his brother in a wheelchair. So he trains. And trains. And trains. A huge chunk of this movie is devoted to Van Damme kicking air or if we're lucky inanimate objects. Some of that stuff is actually pretty badass, like the scene where the usual wise trainer stereotype instructs him to take down a tree, but most of it just feels boring and overlong. The romantic subplot isn't any help either, around halfway I was just hoping they would bring out the fight already. So then they bring out the fight and it's actually quite good, well-choreographed and the climax is set up nicely. Only problem I'm having with the conclusion is that they shouldn't have made the villain talk. Or at least come up with something better for him to say. This movie is excellent within its genre, but obviously it's also very predictable. "},{"Title":"Not a Complete Flop, But Definitely a Dud.","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This movie was clearly a product of its time. It is a typical cheesy action movie from the one liners to the non-mood fitting 80's power ballads playing in the background. The plot was pretty predictable especially the very beginning how this was clearly going to become an underdog avenging his brother. The teacher student relationship and training was interesting, but nothing special compared to similar movie scenarios. Uncle Xian was funny sometimes but in general all of the dialogue was just plain corny. That dancing scene brought the quality level to its lowest. The whole movie lacked intrigue and it had nothing to keep your whole interest or attention. The fight scenes (which is why most people watch these types of movies) were not even that good. The final fight which should have been the pinnacle of the film, was quite a letdown with a low intensity level and mostly consisting of long drawn out yells and tacky moves. Not a complete flop, but definitely a dud. "},{"Title":"Cheapy video classic","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" So this would be classic Van Damme. A young man watching his brother getting crippled by a muay thai fighter vows ULTIMATE VENGEANCE! and goes to the villa of a master thai fighter to train for his final revenge in the box. Um, along the way he finds someone to love. Finally, near the end, things are ramped up a bit as his girl-to-be is raped and his brother kidnapped in an effort to destroy his chances against a highly bet-upon contest, but he kicks ass, takes name, gets the girl, all that.During the watching of most of this movie, I was wondering why so many people buy this movie even to this date, while much better action movies have been made before and since and the deathly 80s pall of egregious music and terrible hairdos makes this movie so laughably kitsch. It's because of the end; I kinda 'smagine most people just skip right to it, as it has some pretty good choreography and the whole ground glass thing adds some nice intensity. The rest of the movie is capable enough, though predictable and in a lot of moments pretty boring. At least they don't waste too much time on dialog, just getting to what needs to be done to get Kurt boy trained for his bigboy fight. Still, the movie could have used a bit more pep and a bit less pizazz.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Almost identical to Bloodsport, for those who just can't get enough.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  You either love or hate ol' Van Damme and his movies. For me, it's not quite possible to dislike a muscular male who gets off his kit once or twice per film. And if that's the sort of thing you're after, you'll be spoilt with Kickboxer, who's lengthy final battle is fought with both brawlers in mere beige loincloths.But onto more serious matters. If ever there was a blatant copy of another film, this is it. The whole thing is almost exactly the same as Bloodsport, right down to the singer who croons out the insert songs. But in Thailand. There's a nasty and brutal local champ who beats up a loved one of Van Damme, his brother this time. Note that, just like in Bloodsport, the beaten-up big bro of Kickboxer is a rather irritating blokey with unsightly facial hair, who's just too full of himself (there's a lesson in there... don't wear a 'tache on a fighting ring, probably). J-C v D goes out for revenge against the mean champion. And this is where the only real difference between Kickboxer and Bloodsport shows; here, Van Damme is still lacking experience in the domain of martial arts, and needs to undergo a long training before he'll stand a chance against the big nasty.This then leads to a big dose of scenes where the Damme-man undergoes harsh and slightly unusual training under an old master. Pretty much 2/3 of the movie are made up of these initiation scenes, and thus it seems like a much more slow and calm film than Bloodsport. It may also seem much more boring than Bloodsport to others, as there is fairly little actual fighting until the end of the film. Just a lot of long scenes where Van Damme strengthens himself, or scenes where we see some pretty Thai scenery. It's not that bad, really, and certainly less dull than it sounds, but this more sedate pace won't work for everyone.In the end, the film does sort of make up for it's lack of zest by throwing in a long and very intense final battle (and the nasty here is a good deal more genuinely evil than Chong Li was in Bloodsport). Thrilling as though the final scene may be, it is sort of hard to believe that the hero could've gone from being a mere beginner to an expert strong enough to beat a highly feared champion so quickly. It somehow doesn't quite feel as if Van Damme has really undergone many months of agonising training, gaining fighting experience...exactly because we haven't seen him fight all that much up to the last (and pretty much only) battle. Where did he get the experience in practise from? Reading a handbook?One thing to point out; the idea in this film is that Jean-Claude, unlike his badly shaven big bro, is the shy and sensitive intello of the two. Okay, so this point is only mentioned very briefly, but it still raises a lot of eyebrows. Jean-Clause Van Damme as the educated wuss in a family is about as plausible as Louis de Funès would be in a Swan Lake ballet (still, who knows...).With it's flawed pace and blatant cloning of Bloodsport, this movie isn't ideal. It's not exactly horrible either, and remains watchable enough, but only total fighting film junkies will really enjoy it. The whole loincloth scene also makes it commendable to fans of male skin-showing (errr...right, brothers?). Others don't really have a reason to check this out. "},{"Title":"The Same Ol' Crap","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  What a big rip off of Bloodsport; This movie confused me with Bloodsport. This movie should have been called Bloodsport 4 The return of Jean-Claude Van Damme because the movie have the same actor and plot as Bloodsport.It's the same thing; Van Damme fighting with other people in the ring is pretty much the same thing as Kickboxer.This is not Van Damme's worst movies (Knock Out was), but not a very good one. The acting is weak. This movie is still worth the rental, but if you seen Bloodsport. This movie will fell short. ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Kick or die...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" An American kickboxing champion is brutally beaten in a fight against the Thai champion and so his brother vows vengeance. Along the way he finds an old man to train him and whip him in shape because the final fight will be the ancient way. (Hands dipped in broken glass) and the mobsters have a lot of money against our hero. Jean-Claude Van Damme was the king of the tournament movies and Kickboxer is on par with Bloodsport. This is because of the fight sequences which are shot very well and choreographed with energy and detail. Also some cheeseball moments surface such as Jean-Claude Van Damme's drunken master act as well as some of the most overblown training montage music. This is all of course secondary to the mano-a-mano climax between the two fighters and it's well worth the price of admission.* * * out of 4-(Good) "}{"Title":"Van Damme's Last Best Film...until Replicant","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Kickboxer in my opinion was Jean-Claude Van Damme's last best film until he returned to good action with Replicant. Here, he comes up with the idea of using Muay Thai as the main art of the film. Professional kickboxer Dennis Alexio does a good job as Van Damme's brother, only appearing in 2 fights before spending the rest of the movie in a wheelchair. Michel Qissi was nothing but short of excellent in his best role...the deadly Tong Po. He was so good, he returned for Part 2. Dennis Chan was the great mentor in Xian Chow, combining some sarcasm with deadly seriousness. Fight scenes well done for this film...couldn't believe it was Van Damme himself who was the fight choreographer. Easily the ultimate in Van Damme entertainment.  "},{"Title":"martial art movies are unique","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  this is not exactly the greatest movie that van damme has starred in but still he does great martial arts movies eg bloodsport. i have seen this movie over 10 times and still would watch it again. the training is good and the final fight is not to bad.this is a half decent movie.  "},{"Title":"A normal Martial arts movie","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Kickboxers plot is same as in every other Martial arts- movie that you´ve seen. But the fight scenes are great and absolutely entertaining. Van Damme can kick pretty nicely but he aint much of an actor. Kickboxer is better than avarage but not a movie that you want to watch ten times. "},{"Title":"Formula stuff for the undemanding.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"     There are a hundred other 'martial arts revenge pics' out there, but this is one of the best.  Arrogant guy with about as much (or should that be little?) acting skill as Jean Claude Van Damme gets beaten up and Jean Claude decides to avenge him, being his brother and all.  The music is lovably naff and the scenery is pretty striking.  The villain is also someone you might be conceivably scared of.  There are numerous shots of Van Damme flexing his muscles, and there is also the obligatory love interest.  Van Damme, bless his cotton socks, tries to act and fails completely.  Still, he's good at what he does best; and that's fighting.  If you're after a 'classic' martial arts movie, I can't imagine you wanting any more than this (apart from perhaps more violence).  Oh, and in case you are wondering, Enter the Dragon is miles better. "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  This was a very good movie the fighting scenes were good the story was long and good but it just wasn't up there for a excellent movie.It had a lot of flaws in it the low budget hurt the movie to.This movie also hinted ''bloodsport'' a lot how it was very very very similar.If you want a good martial arts film go for a better movie like bloodsport. "},{"Title":"its like Bloodsport but different","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Well, our hero-VD has 2 get revenge on the bad guy after he paralyzed VD's bro. He now has 2 train, painful training. Great action. Plus, he does his helicopter kick-cool. Its in my collection.must see "},{"Title":"It's just Bloodsport again","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Bloodsport, Lionheart, Kickboxer; they're all the same thing. The only difference is that in this one, Van Damme's fighting for his brother. Actually, it's the same as Bloodsport; he fights for his friend. Bloodsport is the best out of all of them, so see this first, then see Lionheart and the see Kickboxer. This isn't that bad, it's just the same thing as the other ones. This and Lionheart are follow-ups to show how good Van Damme is at martial arts. This is the same thing as the other movies, but see it anyway. "},{"Title":"It's Karate Kid revisited...with Van Damme!...it can't be good.","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Well, well, what do you know, Van Damme directing the fight-scenes, if you didn't already know that it was his work, you could easily figure it out. It's like a bodybuilding video, and at the same time, they try to add some emotions and reflections. Kickboxer have a tendency to more or less (probably more)copycat Karate Kid,(POTENTIAL SPOILER)Van Damme simply practice, practice and practice through the movie, building up for that one fight that will give him his revenge. His training takes place at a wacky old mui-thai(martial art) fighter, an old man almost isolated from the rest of the world,(sounds a lot like Karate Kid, dosen't it?),he accepts Van Damme's request to be a great fighter.Van Damme proceeds to basically become unbeatable. They actually manage to squeeze in some fights between the beginning and the end of the movie, but it's very stale and one side, Van Damme dosen't even have to try. Although the horrific acting attempts from Van Damme is fun to watch. rate *(out of five)  "},{"Title":"Van Damme the ULTIMATE 80's / B-movie actor","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" This is a great movie. Not as good as Bloodsport, however, with its own quirky changes from the Van Damage movie formula. Yes, he does get trained after his brother is brutally beaten by a Muay Thai boxer, he does go through the hardship of training and yes there is cheesy romance. But this cheesy romance is saved by the fact that there is no sex scene, yet somehow Van Damme manages to get his token ass shot in there again! Brilliantly planned. This movie, like Bloodsport, has a support character called Jackson (maybe JCVD had a close friend by the same name...or maybe it is the only English name he can pronounce?), anyway he is a great character as he is really 'Nam American. He brings life to the movie as he acts out his role as the mentally effected 'Nam veteran. Furthermore, this movie shows Van Dammes acting ability at its finest when he is taken to the bar, made to drink till he is HIGHLY intoxicated and then test his skills on a bunch of little Thai guys (much like in Bruce Lee films where he proceeds to beat up 100 little Chinese guys). Regardless, his outfit in this scene is of envy to every die hard 80's child, and his capabilities as an actor shine. A must see blockbuster! "},{"Title":"This is a remake The original version was much different and better.","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":" I have seen this movie twice on In-Flight Movies on Thai International Airways flights from Bangkok. It was a low-budget film but with a great story line. I think that the title was simply Kick Box.The plot was There are two brothers. One brother is the World Champion Kick Boxer. However, in a fight to defend the world championship, he is severely injured. He is put in a wheel-chair and cannot box any more.His brother wants to gain revenge, so he goes looking for a grandmaster to teach him Thai kick boxing. After a long search, he finds the Grandmaster of Kick Boxing living as a recluse far out in the jungles of Thailand. At first the grandmaster denies that he is the right person. Then he says that he does not box any more. Finally with great reluctance he agrees to teach him kick boxing.There follows months of rigorous training. Finally the brother decides he is ready and leaves.We soon find out why the grandmaster was so reluctant to box any more, even denying who he was. The same boxer who severely injured the brother has been searching for the grandmaster too. He finally finds him in the jungle, they fight and the grandmaster is killed. The brother returns to find his teacher dead. Now the brother goes searching to gain revenge against the kick boxer who both injured his brother and killed his teacher.I finally got around to seeing this movie today in DVD format. However, there were major, major changes from the original version I saw as an in-flight movie on Thai International Airways. The changes are so big that it is almost a different movie. Here are some of the changes The Viet Nam War veteran Winston Taylor part does not exist in the original. There is no such person.The female lead MyLee does not exist in the original.The only female in the original is the hooker who the elder brother is taking into a hotel. The hooker in the original is a different girl and more beautiful.All or almost all of the actors are different. The bad guy Tong Po is a different actor in the original. In the original, that part is played by a very mean looking black man. He kills three people unnecessarily, and is killed himself in the end.The trainer in the original is a different actor. He is a much younger man who merely wants to retire from fighting, so at first he pretends not to be that person. We later learn that he is hiding from the Tong Po character who wants to hunt him down, kind of like in the old western movies where the two fastest gunslingers in the west want to battle each other to see who is the fastest.The final fight scene does not take place in an arena in front of a paying audience. Rather, the final fight takes place in the jungle and it is a fight to the death.With all these changes, one must wonder if it is really the same movie. Yet, it is clearly the same. The earlier part up to the point where the defeated and injured elder brother is taken out and left on the street is virtually identical to the in-flight movie I saw.The movie I saw was very primitive. It looked like it had been shot with a home movie camera. What I suspect is that some Hollywood producers saw the original I saw, realized its potential and purchased the rights and remade the movie completely.I still prefer the original. Perhaps they should go back and find the original if it still exists and remake THAT movie.Sam Sloan "}{"Title":"A movie for those who like the bargain basement deals.","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Before I start this movie review on Kickboxer, I would like to say that  there would be no way in which I would watch a Van Damme movie, unless I was getting paid. However I had no money to go out, and so this movie was on the television. Another thing which would be mention is this, POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!The story is like this; Man's brother is severely injured while fighting an evil kickboxer, and is not able to fight again. So it is up to the man to fight and gain his revenge on the one who has bought pain onto his brother. So he goes to a wise old man in the middle of nowhere, and is taught Mr Migayi style of training, like kick down bamboo trees down with bare feet. With the help of an old Vietnam vet, and a supposedly good looking Indo-chinese girl, this man goes and annhilates his brother's foe and therefore gains revenge. Sounds familar? That is because it is a basic rip off of The Karate Kid in terms of plot and in terms of the training up to the big fight. However the only difference between the two movies, is that Karate kid is much better. This movie was pretty bad, in terms of acting and in plot wise, however it did kind of held my attention. This is because I wanted to the good guy to win at the end. Somehow I feel that this is a typical Van Damme movie; lots of martial arts and lots of shots of him being half naked, which is not appealing to some people. If I would give it a rating i would give it two out of five, like all other Van Damme movies.  "},{"Title":"Bloodsport 2","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  This movie is nothing special.  You sit with the feeling that you've seen it all before(Perhaps in Van Damme's Bloodsport), and you wonder Why did they make this movie? And the answer is The scene in the bar! Without giving away too much I have to say that when Van Damme gets completely hammered and then proceeds to dance, it's the funniest thing I ever saw. You wouldn't believe the moves on that guy.  Besides from that the movie is nothing out of the ordinary. But if you're a sucker for action movies then it isn't all that bad. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sport","Review":"  Kickboxer stars Jean-Claude Van Damme as Kurt Sloan a martial artist who trains Muay Thai (Kickboxing) after his brother Eric(Dennis Alexio) is maimed in a kickboxing match by a sadistic kickboxer, Tong Po (Tong Po) Kickboxer moves at a swift pace and provides some truly excellent actionscenes in the process, although Jean-Claude Van Damme is a poor actor he is very fun to watch in action. The climax especially is worth the price of admission.  "}]