[{"Title":"Trashed by critics with no logic at all","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"51 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most common thing critics said to trash Harlem Nights was that it was too profane to be set in 1938. Well, this  statement here was completely without logic. Two points to back myself up1. In almost every 1930's/40's/50's gangster movie, the charactersare very profane. Look at any movie directed by Martin Scorcese and starring Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci for evidence of this2. What do you expect from a movie starring Richard Pryor, Eddie Murphy and Redd Foxx? If you expect these three men to watch their language, you are truly a stranger in the ways of their materialAs for the movie's sexist feel, I cannot dispute this. However, I can defend it. I am not a sexist young man despite being onlytwenty-one years of age. I feel that women should have the same rights as men. However, I think Eddie Murphy was young and dumb and only felt the way he did because he was not mature enough to understand women. Now he is happily married and expecting his fifth child, so I think he is a little wiser today.As for one review I read that said every white man was a bigot in this movie. Guys, come on, it's Harlem in 1938!Despite all of this, the movie is a well-made, well-characterized, entertaining film. It was taken too seriously when it was first released, and I'm glad many people here seem to agree with me.The plot concerns Sugar Ray (Pryor, who was sadly the only disappointing performer here) and his adopted son Vernest Brown, a.k.a. Quick (Murphy) owners of the hottest nightclub in Harlem. It becomes the target of gangster Bugsy Calhoune (an impressive performance by Michael Learner) and his buddy Sgt. Phil Cantone (A terrific Danny Aiello). They plot with their employees to scam him out of his money by placing a fake bet on a boxing match and leave Harlem.The movie is not without plot holes and the occasional bad line of dialogue, but other than that, it's funny and entertaining. A particular highlight are Foxx's nearsighted Bennie Wilson and Reese's Vera Walker, who exchange profane banter  throughout the film, which is hilarious. A cameo by longtime Murphy friend Arsenio Hall (whom I usually dislike) as a crybaby mobster is also very funny. Don't listen to the critics, this movie is funny as hell! "},{"Title":"I can't believe this movie is a 4.8!!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"47 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, yeah this movie is full of profanity and I see other users saying that Eddie couldnt decide if it was a comedy, drama, etc. I personally thought the movie was hilarious and quite clever. I never really thought it was anything other than a comedy. Tell me how a movie this good gets a rating of 4.8, when an awful movie like The Thomas Crown Affair (the remake) gets a 7.0!!! Try this everyone, sit down, relax and don't try to read anything into this movie......just enjoy it... "},{"Title":"Three comic legends in a great film","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harlem Nights is a great that stars the funniest three black comics to ever grace a comdey stage. Eddie Murphy knew what he was doing when he decided to cast Redd Foxx and Richard Pryor in the other two male leads. The film has great one-liners and a amusing fight scene between Eddie and Della Reese. If you've never seen this film, you're in for a treat. "},{"Title":"Bullets and Blue Language, But Laughs, Too","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of people have commented on the violence and profanities in this movie.  I guess it could have gotten by without so many foul words.  But this movie is still funny!  The most hilarious scenes are Eddie Murphy's fistfight with Della Reese, and his shootout with Arsenio Hall.  Say what you will about Eddie Murphy, but he can still crack you up! "},{"Title":"The BEST Eddie Murphy comedy of all time....","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...Thats right the best. This movie was a hallmark for standup comedy. For the first time you had all the greats in one movie, Eddie Murphy, Richard Pryor, Redd Foxx, Robin Harris. Especially since the last 2 have passed away and Richard Pryor is too ill to do a movie again. When he made Nights he had to sit in his wheelchair when he wasn't filming, hence you never see him do anything physical in the movie. I first saw this movie one I was 10 with my dad, uncles and my grandmother. Of course she was turned off by the profanity but we all were laughing untill our sides hurt. I also remember all the things the great voices of cinema said about this movie. And to that i say how can you look down at this movie for profanity and praise movies like Goodfellas and Pulp Fiction (great movies by the way) when they have twice the vulgar langauge. And to those that say, well why did they portray the white mobsters as the bad guys? Well its Harlem in the 30's and ask any black person who owned a place of buisness then how hard it was. To me this wasn't just about Eddie, Eddie, Eddie, this was an epic for comedy and I hate to use the clinche but Black movies as well. The only other Murphy movie that comes close is Nutty Professer. I hope the sequel to that is half as funny as Nights. One last point that I think why critics panned this movie is, we all now Eddie is a comic genuis, but people were so use to seeing him play to a white partner or sidekick (i.e. Trading Places, All the Beverly Hill Cops and 48 Hours) But to a comedy standup fan like me, Murphy, Pryor, Foxx, Hall, Harris in one movie was like giving a Star Wars fan (as I am) premire tickets to Ep. 2 & 3. If you haven't seen this I recommend it just for the fact that half the cast had passed on and this was their last work, but its also a fun take on the mobster movie craze of the 30's and 40's. "},{"Title":"Great to see these 3 awesome comedians together","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Three of the greatest (and dirtiest) comedians ever together in this one movie. Funny, hilarious, yes at bit off color with the many uses of the f word but still a great movie with a nice sting at the end. Get over the F word! If you haven't seen this movie in a while, go back and watch it. The first time I watched it, I was lukewarm about it. Now I go back and watch it, grateful that it was made especially since the passing of Richard Pryor (and Redd Foxx). If you haven't heard any of their stand up, go listen. It's awesome. Richard Pryor is the best. My only complaint is that Arsenio Hall's character was stupid. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be very enjoyable. I do have to say there was a lot of profane language but that was probably why it was made for adults. I would recommend this movie to the comedy lovers,(that don't mind the language), and give it a solid 7. If you give the movie a chance you will probably like it...  "},{"Title":"Ignore the critics on this one.","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of Murphy's best works. Ignore what the critics say. They just didn't get it. I am a mid-aged white woman - and even I get it. It is a misogynistic as any stylized Western you may have seen. And the language is just what you would expect from Murphy and Pryor. This is stylized Harlem, guys.I do not think Murphy set out to break ground plot-wise. Its meant to be a very traditional good vs. bad mobster movie. In this rare case we get to see the other side of tracks version. Why not??This movie is a rare joining of a classic team of talents including Richard Pryor, Della Reese and Red Foxx. Della was my favorite and her rapport with Foxx is classic. "},{"Title":"Overall, a good movie","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to popular belief, this is actually a pretty good movie.  The problem is that people go in expecting a goofy comedy.  If so, you will find this movie to be terribly boring.  The movie is more of crime and drama mixed with a little comedy here and there.      The cast is excellent. The acting is superb, though its expected with names like those.  The set is also good . You feel like your in the time period that the movie is supposed to be in, there are no goofs. The first half of the movie will seem a little boring with few laughs, but then the second half is much funnier.  The best , and funniest line of the movie was when Dela Reese is hounding Red Fox for only leaving a swallow fill of orange juice.  He responds by saying Well swallow it and shut the F*** up.	  The plot really picks up in the second half.  Murphy and Pryor attempt to pull a sting on their enemies and in the end are successful. The plot is very interesting, with twists and turns here and there.  You never know who to trust.  Overall I would give the movie a 7.  If you go in not expecting laughs, you will find it to be a very enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"It isn't terrible at least","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some might think that this effort from Eddie Murphy (who wrote, directed, executive produced and starred in) might not be up to his and the co-stars efforts.  They might be a little right, but it isn't a waste to say the least.  The talent is still vibrant even with a not too great script from Murphy including him, Richard Pryor (who gives his best, most recent performance to date), Redd Foxx (one of his last) and Danny Aiello.  So sure it may be profane with a story that isn't too credible, but that's fine. Not great, but in truth, not to be missed either.  B- "}{"Title":"Very underrated!","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rated R for Strong Language,Sexual Content and Violence. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating18AHarlem Nights is the first and only film that Eddie Murphy both directed and starred.I heard that the film was bad.It got some Razzie nominations and it has a low score on IMDb.I watched the film about two years ago and I could not find anything bad about it.I have seen plenty of Eddie Murphy films and he is a very funny actor.I think this is one of his best films actually.The film also stars Richard Pryor,Redd Foxx and Della Reese with a small appearance by Arsenio Hall.The film is basically about some casino owners in 1930's harlem who must face policemen and a gangster.Harlem Nights is funny, entertaining and very underrated.Worth watching! "},{"Title":"One fired up good time! contains spoilers","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What can I say about this movie except that it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen!With an all star cast of Eddie Murphy, Redd Foxx, Richard Pryor and Della Reese, you can't go wrong.Pryor stars as Sugar Ray a candy shop owner who deals in a lot more than candy. With gambling, music and dancing and lots of ladies for company, Sugar's sees it's fair share of good business and more.Eddie Murphy stars as his son Mr. Quick and together the two of them run a business like no other. Mr. Quick is the man to see if you need business taken care of. With a quick wit and even quicker gun he can handle any situation that presents itself.Michael Lerner stars as a very convincing Bugsy Calhoune a big time heavy who doesn't like Ray cutting into his profits. Bugsy has his fair share of establishments and doesn't appreciate the business he loses to Ray. Enter Danny Aiello as crooked cop, Phil Cantone and the plot twists and thickens until you wonder who is deceiving who. Stand up, hilarious banter between Della Reese and Redd Foxx will keep you in stitches until the very end of the movie. Della Reese is knockdown, dragout, funny as the wise talking, tough as nails but tender hearted Vera Walker who keeps the ladies for Ray at Sugar Ray's and Redd Foxx will split your sides as Bennie Wilson as he runs or rather tries to run the gambling tables. He just has one problem, he can't see what's in front of him!Add an entertaining performance by Arsenio Hall as The Crying Man and you have a non stop action movie that will tickle your funny bone and have you wishing you could have seen Harlem in its glory days.I would highly recommend this movie for anyone who likes their movies with glam, glitz, comedy and some of the most rapid quips and comebacks ever to grace the silver screen! "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm very disappointed at the rating given to Harlem Nights. This is a very funny movie. Eddie Murphy is at his best. One of the last movies he did in the 80's where he ruled. I'm a black man and maybe there are cultural differences with humor but there are a lot of white comedies I love and I put Harlem Nights in the mix with those. I think people try too hard to find things wrong with a movie instead of just sitting back and enjoying it. Movies are suppose to entertain. You wannabe be IMDb critics need to relax. It's offensive when a movie Harlem Nights is disrespectful to women and trashed for its foul language? However, a movie like Me, Myself and Irene has the same foul language and disrespectful language towards women but yet is ranked higher because the movie stars Jim Carrey? You need to get off your double standard.Harlem Nights 9/10. "},{"Title":"i'll shoot your pinky toe off.....","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Along with Battlefield Earth, this has to be one of the most notorious vanity projects out there. I've had the film in my possession a few times, and i decided this morning i would out myself out of my misery.The opening credits say it all, When you see Murphys name come up at least five times, you know your going to be in trouble. And then there's the film. Both the leads look more and more lethargic as the film goes on. Pryor looks more and more disappointed, and Murphy spends the remainder of the film trying to cover his expanding waist (this was the start of his 'fat' years).So thank heavens for Red Foxx and Vera who make the film an absolute delight whenever they are screen. Their banter is legendary, and shows that Murphy can write a decent line or two.The story is the pits, and the rest of the film feels confused and tries to make excuses to make another derogatory remark to someone or another. I'm not offended by stuff like this, i just don't like it when the film is boring.But more so, this is the film that ended Murphys reign as Hollywoods biggest comedic movie star. With the minor exception of Boomerang (which was deemed as a sort of comeback for him), he hasn't had a bona-fide hit since, which wasn't aimed at kids, or a remake of a classic film from yesteryear.Which is a big accomplishment. And a big shame, because i liked the profane Murphy, with his silly laugh and incredible put downs.Now we have to endure the Haunted Mansion with Pluto Nash. His films are not bad, but there no Axel Foley either. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad - it spoofs itself on purpose","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The over the top acting of Arsenio Hall was not so different from some of the acting of Lucille Ball. Face it, Harlem Nights was much more enjoyable to watch than any of the Godfather movies, all of which were too dark and took themselves too seriously. People actually were thinking of the Godfather movies as romantic! Watching those depressing Godfather movies many years later, I would gladly watch Harlem Nights, the sequel. Eddie Murphy was spoofing those movies. "},{"Title":"Profanity Yes, But Also Funny","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I agree that the movie is laced with profanity--but then again, some of the profanity does add humor and I am an adult!  Enjoyed the sets and costuming, loved the poke they took at the old gangster movies, the sting made me laugh thinking the mobsters got what was coming to them.  Perhaps the most colorful character for me was was Della Reese and her interactions with Eddie Murphy--had me roaring.  I gave it a 6, but maybe I need to change that to a 7. "},{"Title":"Murphy fans sure to enjoy this","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Writer-director Eddie Murphy completed a dream when he finished Harlem Nights, a film about Harlem in the 1930's, and starring his favourite stand-up comedian and hero, Richard Pryor.Murphy plays Pryor's adopted son 'Quick', and together they run an after hours establishment which has been threatened by the local heavy who wants it shut down. This is no gangster film, and the thin plot doesn't allow for serious cinema. To his credit though, Mr. Murphy keeps proceedings light hearted, and produces some very funny scenes. Never a consistent movie, and full of Eddie's trademark foul language, this is one his fans are sure to enjoy.Monday, November 16, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Stylish, funny in places better than it's IMDb rating for sure","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As I write this the film rates a lowly 4.9 on IMDb which is rather surprising as this isn't a bad film and I have to say Eddie Murphy makes a decent film in his first (and at present) only stint in the directors chair. He certainly got his casting spot on with a host of character actors in main roles and casting Richar Pryor alongside himself as the stars.The film takes place in stylised Harlem of the 1930's as two small time crooks make a living running a night club but success soon brings the big time crooks calling can our hero's make it out alive and in profit? The film looks stylish and the direction soaks up the lavish elegance of the period and it's refreshing to see black characters represented in a period film as more than token characters. I think where this films slight problem rises is that it tries to bridge two genres the straight gangster movie and the comedy movie. Overall its a good film and I think it's a shame Murphy hasn't stepped into the directors role again.Pretty good 7/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie's Lavish Vanity Piece that Probably Looked Great on Paper...","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Produced at a point in his career, where he had the juice to do whatever he wanted, Eddie Murphy took on the task of producing, directing, co-writing and starring in HARLEM NIGHTS, an expensive-looking but ultimately empty gangster saga about a group of black nightclub owners/gangsters running a ritzy club during the 1930's, headed by a wisecracking hot shot (Eddie Murphy)and his adopted father (Richard Pryor) and their attempts to avoid being overrun by white gangsters who think they are taking over turf that, it seems, they think is rightfully theirs, simply by virtue of their color. This was an idea that probably looked great on paper but it definitely lost something in the translation. This was a vanity piece for Eddie and I think he spreads himself a little too thin here trying to be the whole show here. Admittedly, it was a pleasure seeing Murphy and Pryor together on screen, but the rest of the large supporting cast, including Arsenio Hall, Redd Foxx, Della Reese, Michael Lerner, Danny Aiello, Jasmine Guy, Thomas Mikal Ford, Stan Shaw, and Eddie's brother, are really given precious little to do (though I will admit Murphy's fight scene with Della Reese is hysterically funny and probably, the movie's best scene). Murphy clearly poured a lot of money into this film and a good deal of it shows on screen. The art and set direction are impressive and the breathtaking costumes should have won an Oscar, but this one was a big miss for Eddie as he definitely tried to wear too many hats. "},{"Title":"A mob leader is trying to throw a good running nightclub out of the business","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I expected more from this movie from Eddy Murphy. Especially with Richard Pryor and Redd Fox starring in it. There are some funny lines and dialogs and a little too much use of the F- word, but the film is not particularly funny. A Pity. The storyline is rather thin the plot very simple. A nightclub led by Sugar Ray is doing too good in the eyes of a gangster. The gangster's night club is loosing business. Spicy detail, Sugar Ray's club is only frequented by colored people. And the gangster's club only by whites. Helped by the police detective Phil Cantone( a great performance by Danny Aiello) the gangster is trying to make Sugar Ray go out of the business. Of course you feel sympathy for Sugar Ray and his nightclub gang. Especially when you see detective Phil Cantone operating. Sugar Ray's adopted son Mr. Quick wants to fight his way out and suggests to take out the gangster. But Sugar Ray being the older and the wiser has a wittier plan to ruin the gangster. However simple and predictable the plot is, there's a nice twist to it. "}{"Title":"Too much in some areas, but too little in others","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harlem Nights is an incredible as semblance of comic talent, with Eddie Murphy, Richard Pryor, Redd Foxx and a cast of great supporting actors and actresses, ranging From Michael Lerner to Della Reese.  With such a pedigree you would expect so much more.  What you get is pretty funny, but imagine how much better it could have been.Richard Pryor plays an illegal casino operator in the 1930s.  He is about to be shut down by the top gangster in town. Eddie Murphy plays hi young partner, and Redd Foxx plays their mentor.  The costumes are incredible, as all of the people here are very well dressed, and the scenery is priceless, but the technical aspects of this movie cannot save the serious lack of a coherent script which is funny but too dirty sometimes, and sometimes just a little too boring.Sometimes there are patches that don't make sense, like (SPOILERS)  Della Reese getting shot in the foot, Arsenio Hall crying entirely too much, while he is shooting at Eddie Murphy, and some other very strange scenes.  But there are some very good moments.  Parts of the film will have you believe that this movie is a less complicated version of The Sting, but even then that element of the movie is not prominent enough, and really doesn't add anything.In Plains Trains and Automobiles Steve Martin said to John Candy `If you're going to tell a story have a point.'  That is the problem here, the movie has good moments but it does not have a point.  The movie tries to be a dirty comedy, a costumed 1930's drama, a gangster movie, and another version of The Sting.  Some elements work of each, but not nearly enough to make this movie float.Eddie Murphy was much younger here, and he wrote and directed this movie.  I think he thought this movie was going to be such a success he really did not put much thought into it.  It is good, but he has done so much better.  Eddie Murphy is a very hit and miss movie star, and overall, while it has it's moments, and is worth watching, I would consider this one a miss.     "},{"Title":"Murphy's only directorial effort is memorable","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the late 80's to early 90's, black entertainers were not only making an impact in front of the cameras but behind. Directors like Spike Lee and Robert Townsend were trail blazers in the black film movement. Eddie Murphy, the decades biggest star, faced heavy criticism for not breaking ground for black filmmakers and actors until he included a predominantly black cast in 1988's Coming to America. And now with the Black Film Renaissance in full swing, Murphy wanted to direct. 1989's Harlem Nights was Murphy's first and last foray into film-making. Harlem Nights is a period piece set in 1938 Harlem. Sugar Ray (Richard Pryor) and Quick (Murphy) are owners of an illegal casino and they're being chased out of business by rival gangsters and corrupt police. The cast, which included the likes of Murphy along with Pryor, Redd Foxx, Robin Harris, Della Reese and a then unknown Charlie Murphy, is stellar. With all this comedic talent in one film, you'd expect a lot more laughter. The film is hilarious but Pryor's role is limited, as far as comedy goes. With all these comedy legends you'd expect to be bleeding internally from laughter. That is probably the only flaw in this film. Aside from the comedy, the films set decoration and wardrobe puts you in the prohibition era, and led to its Academy Award nomination. Harlem Nights also spawned one of the most memorable square offs in film history between Murphy and Reese. Watch that scene and you won't argue with anyone when they tell you that this film is a classic.Harlem Nights - *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Since when did Eddie Murphy choose to direct?","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Eddie Murphy has a enormous talent that has been shown in big blockbuster comedies like Trading Places, 48 HRS., and Beverly Hills Cop. Those three movies jump-started his career in the movie business. Whether playing a streetwise hustler or a wise-cracking convict, Murphy does the job well. But, in 1989, Murphy wrote and directed a movie called Harlem Nights. My only question is since when did Eddie Murphy choose to direct? Well, to start off, let me explained to you what Harlem Nights is all about. The movie takes place in the 1930's in Harlem, where Murphy plays a nightclub owner and his guardian, played by Richard Pryor, who also owned the nightclub as well, deals with some gangsters that we've seen hundreds of times in period pictures. It's no wonder why great period movies that involved gangsters in the story are true to its own right. Harlem Nights doesn't match any great period picture that I've seen. One thing I will say is that Eddie Murphy, who is responsible for this movie, can't direct. Here is a actor, who is talented and has a very good sense of humor. But, why did he pick this project? Obviously enough, he didn't really care about directing this movie. All he wanted to know is where is the next party going to be. Another reason why Harlem Nights is not a good movie is the characters don't talk in 1930's language. Instead, they drop 4-letter words and 12-letter words and act very cruel to women. Even racism is even brought up in this movie. I think you can say that Harlem Nights put Eddie Murphy into a slump after his other film, The Golden Child, which I found interesting and fun, and that slump only lasted 7 years. After 7 years, he starred in The Nutty Professor, which got him out of his slump. Harlem Nights is probably one of the worst movies of 1989. It's unbearable and not funny. And one other thing, Richard Pryor is in the wrong movie. Redd Foxx also shouldn't be in this movie either. He and Pryor shouldn't even been in this mess. ★ 1 star. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy write/direct/star but should drop 1st 2 jobs","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Eddie Murphy writes, directs, and stars this movie with comedic icons Richard Pryor, Redd Foxx among others. Too bad this movie is filled with sad pathetic stereotypes. The humor is unfunny. We have this group of massive comedic talents. They seem to have a good time together. Sadly it didn't translate. The fact that this tremendous group of talent was wasted is all the more reason why this is so disappointing.Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor have a nightclub in Harlem. It's extremely successful and therefore has come to gangster Bugsy's radar. Bugsy sends his corrupt cop crony played by Danny Aiello. None of it is helped by the laughably simplistic scheme at the end. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the first movie i remember with the brothers actually don't die early and come out on top. its quite funny and my favorite line is at the end when cantone says to quick i cant for the life of me figure out why you want to make a withdrawal from a bank closed for 5 years and quick responds not making a withdrawal but making a deposit You. and cantone says not much air and quick says if you take short breaths you may last an hour or two. It is one of my top 5 behind shawshank redemption, dirty harry, the good bad and ugly and the longest yard (original). this movie is too funny. and Bennie (red foxx) needs some glasses. della reece is good also with arsenio hall crying and shooting his brother in the back of the head. then that one shot pistol. "},{"Title":"Entire Movie","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this, I laughed so hard that I cried when Arsenio Hall's posse attempted to kill Eddie Murphy. Regardless of what other people think, this movie is exactly what it was made out to be-A GREAT FILM. Everyone played their parts well, and if you know nothing about past times, you wouldn't understand it.The drama, the action, the suspense and the comedy-ALL in one, is what makes it GREAT.A lot of profanity in the movie, but that's why it's made for adults.Robin Harris didn't really do a great job and I was disappointed in his role as previous critics had said following his untimely death after the making of the movie. "},{"Title":"Underrated. Not as bad as the critics made it....","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While definitely not being a masterpiece Harlem Nights is a movie most people should enjoy. First of all a lot of great actors are in it - including legendary Richard Pryor (although his illness at this time was very obvious, and his physical acting is extremely limited. You can see he's having a hard time moving his hands and body), Red Foxx, Eddie Murphy of course, Jasmine Guy and many others... I think it was pretty well written, and if Murphy would've kept it at being a straight drama, the outcome would've been much better. Don't get me wrong, the comedy parts are kept to a minimum, but almost all of them are awful, repetitive and just not funny. It's labeled as comedy/drama, but it's mostly drama. As a drama/action movie, it would be very good. The acting was very good by most actors, and I'm sure a better director would've made Harlem Nights a bigger success, because it sure had potential - with the story, and great actors involved. The bottom line is that critics were way too harsh with this one. But the audience is the better judge here, and it was successful at the box offices, so it wasn't that bad after all, was it? "},{"Title":"A must see!!","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is 22 years old and I remember the venom from the critics in the media when it was released. Now, its tame by today's standards. There are several great things about this movie that one should appreciate a)the other great actors in this movie alongside the headliners- The young lady playing Sunshine was a young Lela Rochon in either her first or second movie- she was fabulous; the actor playing Richie Vento- Vic Polizos- has been in numerous movies and TV shows, and in this film he is hilarious. His line- Theoretically, I don't look at the coloreds but she is f-ing beautiful! -is profound and really stupid at the same time, and his phone call to home-Vera, this is Richie, I ain't ever coming home, see ya!- is comedic genius that was delivered like he was one of the of the film's top comedians. Stan Shaw's scene as the champ attempting to hail a taxi is cruel, demented, and a truly, truly funny scene...I can't help from laughing at the thought of that scene. b) the superb musical soundtrack; and c)some of the subtle comedy (fat bitch by the parrot; Vera- ...I got nine good toes left...!) I did not even realize until subsequent viewings! I applaud Eddie's effort and I salute this fantastic film! I recommend viewing it uncut at least 3 separate time to catch everything. This movie ranks in my top five best comedies ever-Animal House, Caddy Shack, Victor/Victoria, Nutty Professor(Eddie's), Harlem Nights "},{"Title":"A Genius Production Packed with a Cast of Comedy Legends!!","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a previous member of the performing arts, I am always amazed at how comedy seems to be the bastard child of the film industry. Much of history has dictated that a comedy is often overlooked for the ostensibly more revered dramas (a lot of whom I classify as emotico profoundo). Eddie Murphy was a genius at writing for and directing some of the most talented individuals in film history. Think about it - Eddie Murphy, Richard Pryor, Redd Foxx, Della Reese, Arsenio Hall, Danny Aiello, Jasmine Guy, etc. - ALL IN ONE FILM! Those actors - without exception - gave remarkable performances. I particularly enjoyed Della Reese in her honest and earthy portrayal of Vera. I will concede that there were moments of comedic camp (specifically Arsenio Hall and his crying scenes), but even those made sense when the punchlines were dropped. I believe that this film was released before its' time. The language was strong, and it featured a cast of mainly (gasp!) African American actors, which at that time weren't matter-of-fact issues. I honestly feel that if it were released now, it would be received in a much better light. If you want some honest-to-gosh gut-splitting fun, rent this film and get the popcorn ready. I give it an unequivocal A! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you are looking for a movie that is entertaining and interesting at the same time then this is it. This was one of my favorite movies for years and was the first DVD that I ever bought because of that. When you have this many great comics together, unless you are trying, you cant go wrong. All of them are on top of their game and none of them try and outshine the others. This, to me, was the greatest ensemble cast ever put together. The way it came across on the screen was that there were no ego's involved, just everybody trying to make a funny and good movie. There are few movies that I can watch repeatedly and laugh at the same jokes each time. This is one of them and #1 on my list. "}{"Title":"A good movie, but it could have been better","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It has an interesting, and not to implausable, story line;  for the most part, the acting was well done;  and the outcome was not entirely predictable.  In short, except for one scene (Vera fighting with Quick), and one character (the crying man), this movie wasn't too bad.  But it would have been better if it wasn't for all the foul language.  In fact, I would most likely have voted 2-points higher than I did just because of the language.Why do producers think it's necessary to gross everyone out.  Don't they have enough confidence in their story, in their actors, in their ability to put together a movie people will watch.  If they don't, why would they even be in the business?  Guys, you could have cleaned this thing up and made a killing at the box office. "},{"Title":"Murphy's Law","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is hilarious entertainment. It features an all-star cast with the three giants of comedy, Redd Foxx, Richard Pryor and Eddie Murphy. You get to see Della Reese, Arsenio Hall, Jasmine Guy and Lela Rochon at their glamorous best as well as Danny Aiello and Michael Lerner as corrupt cop and crime lord respectively. This is Eddie Murphy's directorial debut and it's an admirable turn. The story, I understand, was also written by Murphy. The musical score is the brainchild of Herbie Hancock.The pace of the direction is more naturalistic than mechanistic. There are stretches in the middle where the predominantly African American cast are simply enjoying being family together and this comes across palpably as a good vibe to be enjoyed by all. The lead characters all have good bits and there is plenty of action and shootouts and tricky maneuvers complete with an explosive ending. It's great to see Eddie Murphy as Quick and Richard Pryor as Sugar Ray work their way out of a tight spot between cops on the pay and mobsters working to close down their modest casino operation.At parties all across Detroit during the nineties, this is the film on video that would most often pop up to slip into the VCR to bookend the night. It's a guilty pleasure, admittedly, but blacks love anything where they are seen to be smart enough to outwit whites. Such stories and films fly into the teeth of portrayals of blacks as victims ready made to be exploited in order to service the plot. This movie is underrated because it bucks two themes found as common threads in storytelling involving black males. The first theme is how the angst of the Black Man can be easily manipulated to accomplish his own self-destruction. The second is how it is impossible for the Black Man to survive without the knowing, benign guidance of members of the White Race willing to mentor him. I will leave you to think up your own examples about this.HARLEM NIGHTS successfully reverses these themes and I believe that is why it is a favorite in the black communities. There is an obvious mentor relationship between Pryor and Murphy as both seem to be just one step ahead of their enemies at all times. Sorry Hollywood, but these are the black men and women I grew up knowing and admiring. There is also a sense of extended family in the film. It is just great to see so many well renowned African American entertainers in one film together and we all were hoping this would be the beginning of many more such conventions of black talent as it has proved to be over the years.No, HARLEM NIGHTS is not the wittiest, most sophisticated, urbane comedy about manners and morals you are likely to find. It has something different going for it that makes it a Black Comedy Classic. Firstly, Redd Foxx as the elder statesman of Black Comedy, the legendary Richard Pryor as Master Oral storyteller, and the comic genius of Eddie Murphy. You could say their reputations precede them. This makes it sort of its own historical document. It is its own version of Night at the Apollo Theater on film and feels like it. But instead of watching these performers under the lights, it is like we are backstage just before they go on and are privy to all the banter that goes on between them with all the vulgarisms thrown in for spice.HARLEM NIGHTS is all hustle and gangland polished to a high sheen of black burlesque. "},{"Title":"Lousy","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Putting Eddie Murphy, Richard Pryor and Redd Foxx in the same movie clearly wasn't a bad idea. Instead, the bad idea came in the form of Murphy deciding he could write, direct and produce that movie.Everyone in this film felt like they were wasting their talent. There's something about Della Reese saying kiss my ass for the twentieth time that makes it not funny anymore.As for the plot, its dramatic and comedic parts conflict with each other, as if Murphy got the script to a really bad mafia movie and then decided to put some lousy jokes in it.The movie should have been subtitled Three Iconic Black Comedians Get Outclassed by Arsenio Hall Crying and Screaming for Five Minutes. "},{"Title":"Lots of cussing but still a great movie despite.","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" First off, if you have virgin ears, this isn't the movie for you AT ALL. But even if you don't mind a little profanity, this flick is over- the-top with it.One IMDb trivia post says The F-word and its various derivatives are spoken 133 times. I haven't counted the uses in the many times I've watched the DVD of this movie, but I wouldn't doubt that total at all. And that's to say nothing of the other profanity liberally spoken besides the F-word.That having been said though, this movie is one of my favorites. (Of course, I love any movie with 1920s an 1930s gangster type plots, old time cars, machine guns and fedora hats.) But, I dig this one out a couple times a year and rewatch it. Here's why* Even with all the profanity, it's just a great movie! * All the actors gave command performances. * Some of the dialogue and one-liners in it are just real rib-cracking funny! (Della Reese's Kiss my ENTIRE a**! has me cackling with laughter every time. And The Champ's comment to the other fighter Try not t-t-t-t-o t-t-take this ass whippin' uh-uh-uh personally is another one that busts me out laughing every time!) * And Lela Rochon is H-H-H-OTTT!!!!The amazing way they end it and wrap up the plot was masterful. Doubtful you'll see it coming. "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A great cast full of amazing comics, solid writing, and fun situations detailing the changing of the guard in NYC's criminal past make this movie one of my favorites. It isn't a laugh a minute, and isn't supposed to be, but it keeps a light-hearted spirit and a general tenor of good nature even in it's darkest moments. The cast is excellent and brilliant at keeping the movie well-paced and engaging and the characters are fleshed out just enough that the comedy behind them shines through. Completely entertaining and features Eddie Murphy at his prime (although it's certainly a bit of Eddie patting himself on the back for being so damned charming and brilliant as writer, director and star, but he's honestly done a great job. The man knows funny.) In a word fun. "},{"Title":"Comic actors playing serious roles.","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a good movie, and for one reason Danny Aiello. He carries the movie. The other characters are shallow two-dimensional facsimiles of gangsters. Aiello injects an element of reality into the story. His character is malevolent, and explains why his is angry he observes all around him that crime pays off while he, a police officer, has nothing. This theme, that crime pays, pervades the entire movie. Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor are not properly casted for their roles as gangsters. They cannot transcend and suppress their comical natures. The problem is that their characters are not funny. Hence, their performances come off as phony. This is a problem for the comic actor to be taken seriously when performing a dramatic part. Also, much of the acting is stagy, with the exception of Aiello's and Redd Foxx, who delivers a surprisingly serious and subdued performance in a supporting capacity. Yet, despite these shortcomings, the story is engaging and is worth watching. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Hilarious,Underrated Comedy/Crime Drama From Eddie Murphy.","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harlem Nights is an excellent,hilarious and underrated Comedy/Crime Drama that combines great direction,a terrific cast,wonderful laughs and a fantastic score and soundtrack. All of those elements make Harlem Nights a memorable film that is Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor at their best.Set in Harlem,New York during the late 1930s,Harlem Nights tells the story of Quick(Eddie Murphy)and Sugar Ray(Richard Pryor)who both run the nightclub Club Sugar Ray and the club is doing well until Gangster Bugsy Calhoune(Michael Lerner)and corrupt cop Phil Cantone(Danny Aiello)want to embezzle money from the club. With their backs against the wall Quick and Sugar Ray come up with a plan to rob Bugsy Calhoune of his money and try to survive on the streets of Harlem.During the period between Coming To America in 1988 and The Nutty Professor in 1996 Eddie Murphy's career was at a crossroads with two categories of movies that were not critical successes but Box office hits(Boomerang,Another 48 Hrs,The Distinguished Gentleman)and movies that were critical and Box Office failures(Beverly Hills Cop III and Vampire In Brooklyn). A film that falls into the former category is Harlem Nights in 1989,a terrific and memorable Comedy/Crime Drama that was the directorial debut of Eddie Murphy that was a passion project for Murphy and was the first and only film with his idol Comedian Richard Pryor. While Harlem Nights was a Box Office success it was panned by critics which is a shame because Harlem Nights is one of Murphy's best and most underrated movies and is a movie that Eddie should be proud of. Harlem Nights is an hilarious movie and one of the funniest films I have ever seen that is entertaining from start to finish a movie that combines laughs,period piece and a Crime genre all in one film a movie that mixes jokes and laughs with violence and intrigue. The Comedy and laughs in Harlem Nights are funny and amazing mixing silliness and black humor with some scenes and dialog that are over the top that is done like a Coen Btothers film or A Rage In Harlem. But while the Harlem Nights has a lot of funny and over the top moments there is also a lot of serious and dramatic moments to the movie thanks to the atmosphere and Crime Drama/Gangster elements that make the movie work. Murphy gives Harlem Nights the right tone and feel for the film with a great balance without making the movie feel uneven. What I also enjoyed about Harlem Nights is the photography(Woody Omens),production design(Laurence G. Paul),Costume Design(Joe I. Tompkins,who received on an Academy Award nomination for his work on the film). All of those elements make Harlem Nights feel authentic and accurate making viewers feel like they are in Harlem during that time in the 1930s and giving the movie a beautiful and glossy look. As stylish as Harlem Nights looks there is plenty of substance especially with the two main characters Quick and Sugar Ray who are great characters while they are both business partners they are very much like Father and son. While there is differences between the two(Quick is young and ambitious,Sugar Ray is older and more patient)Quick and Sugar Ray find common ground when the Mob decides to come after them the to come together against all odds and defeat their enemies. The relationship between Quick and Sugar Ray is fascinating and is one of the many things that drives the film. The ending of Harlem Nights is wonderful and is filled with laughs and surprises that will greatly satisfy viewers. A terrific conclusion.The cast is amazing. Eddie Murphy is is excellent,hilarious and at his best as Quick,with Murphy bringing laughs and playing it straight. Richard Pryor is outstanding and at his best as Sugar Ray,Quick's Father figure and has great scenes with Murphy. Redd Foxx(in his last movie role)is terrific and funny as Bennie,a man in charge of Dice games. Danny Aiello is amazing as Phil Cantone,a corrupt cop. Michael Lerner is fantastic as Bugsy Calhoun,a vicious Gangster. Della Reese is delightful as Vera,a madam who works at Club Sugar Ray's. Jasmine Guy is terrific and beautiful as Dominique La Rue,Calhoun's mistress. Arsenio Hall is very funny in his small role as Crying Man. Vic Polizos(Richie),Lela Richon(Sunshine),Stan Shaw(Jack Jenkins),Berlina Tolbert(Annie),David Marciano(Tony),Thomas Mikal Ford(Tommy Smalls),Miguel A. Nunez Jr.(Man With Broken Nose) and Desi Arnez Hines II(Young Quick)give good performances as well. Also,Lookout for cameos by Robin Harris(Jerome)and Charlie Murphy(Jimmy)The direction by Eddie Murphy is fantastic and stylish,with Murphy moving the camera and giving the movie a visual stunning look and pace. Great direction,Murphy.The score by Herbie Hancock is outstanding,intense and beautiful and truly adds to the film. Wonderful score,Hancock. There is also plenty of great Jazz songs on the soundtrack including Drop Me Off In Harlem by Louis Armstrong and Dike Ellington.In final word,if you love Comedies,Crime Dramas,Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor,I highly suggest you see Harlem Nights,an excellent,hilarious and underrated Comedy/Crime Drama that is Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor at their best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The setup Sugar Ray is the owner of an illegal casino, who contend with the pressures of vicious gangster and corrupt policemen who want to see him go out of business. In the world of organized crime and police corruption in the 1920s, any dastardly trick is fair.The verdict HARLEM NIGHTS is plagued by plot holes and inane dialog. Many scenes do not feel believable, but great performances help to enhance this amazing story. All the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods, and there are verbal fisticuffs back and forth. I think it is still a reasonable film. This film is not as bad as they say. "},{"Title":"Comedy at its finest","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" great chemistry ....alot of great comics throughout the movie.....if u love to laugh this is a great movie to smoke to....if u compare it to the crap that comes out now..that is supposedly black comedy....this would win an Oscar...Sure it has strong language..So it is not for kids.....Eddie Murphy...Redd Foxxx..Charlie Murphy...Robin Harris..Arsenio Hall...this movie is almost 20 years old.. i downloaded it and laughed all night..Of course it took a couple of blunts..but hey whats a great comedy without weed...A few jewels in this one.. such as don't be friends with the police...again i will say...this movie is not for kids....the language is a little harsh... but hey who hasn't seen southpark..Got it off torrent so that was cool...for the free "},{"Title":"How is this only a 5.3 rating?!?!","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. How am in the minority on this one? Seriously, a 5.3 average? That's for movies that you find on Mystery Science Theater 3000. This movie is hilarious and has some true comedy legends. I truly don't get how the average rating is so low. Meanwhile Once Upon a Time in America is in the top 100 movies. I just finally suffered through that this week. All of the great actors in that movie couldn't save the looooong drawn out story line that went nowhere. I'm as baffled at that movie's high rating as I am at this movie's low rating. But I digress. This movie is classic and I hope not too many people are dissuaded by the rating average. "}{"Title":"One of the best films of all times...","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There has never been a film have so many African American classic comedians, actors and celebrities in one film. I really respect and appreciate Eddie Murphy doing this film. It is really good to see so many of these actors looking so good (Robin Harris, Richard Pryor, Redd Fox, etc.). A lot of them or no longer with us. I loved the fact that he put Roberto Duran in for a brief cameo. I loved what Arsenio Hall did as well. It was good to see blacks in a film figuring out how to get their piece of the pie in an already corrupt environment. It was double bad for blacks in that time period. Nice to see that their was a group like this that managed to live well and do their own thing. I hadn't seen anything like it until I saw this film. I feel like there were definitely stories coming out of Hollywood that avoided these kinds of topics. "},{"Title":"wat u talking about?","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" i don't understand what they talking about! harlem nights was one of the funniest, most inventive movies ever to come out! A 5.1 rating? u gotta be kidding me! this movie is a classic, they have 4 of the greatest comedians on here of all time in this movie, but everybody entitled to their say, no matter, how stupid it is! i jus want people to be more realistic when they talk about a movie, jus look at a movie at least 4 times , to be able to form a real opinion about the movie! harlem nights is one of the best movie ever, and if people cant see that, then they need to get their ears un clogged and their eyes checked out, because i saw a hell of a movie and funny as hell, and i cant wait to watch it again! "},{"Title":"The beginning of Eddie's decline","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harlem Nights is beyond bad - it's narcissistic, misogynistic and extremely mean-spirited. There's maybe two funny moments in this shrill directorial bomb from Eddie Murphy, and breaks absolutely no new ground in its tale of gangsters, speakeasies and double-crosses. In this limping vanity production, Murphy's script isn't in the least bit clever or surprising, his characters are bland and the dialogue is stultifying. Murphy hasn't done as well by himself, though. His directorial work is amateurish at best. And as a performer he looks as if he is in agony, as if his mother made him stand in front of the camera for punishment. The script is painfully workmanlike, the pacing is comatose and the entire movie radiates a sense of overindulgence. "},{"Title":"Good but couldve been better","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eddie Murphy put a lot into this movie by directed wrote starred and produced this story about two nighclub owners in the 30s who try to fight mobsters and corrupt cops from taking over their club..a great cast in Murphy Redd Foxx, Richard Pryor, Danny Aiello, Della Reese, and a gorgeous Jasmine Guy that would make it worth seeing on its own..but the story just doesnt hold up interest or give the great cast enough to work with.. on a scale of one to ten..a 4 "},{"Title":"Another lemon of a clunker on cinder-blocks of a star vehicle.","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" by Dane YoussefI was kind of looking forward to this one. I enjoy Eddie Murphy and I love it when a star hand-makes a vehicle for themselves or when someone who writes decides to mark their own directorial debut. But when the star's head gets too big for the rest of his body, there's always a danger of a big-budgeted Hollywood vanity production.Will the filmmaker keep it real&#x85; or will he just waste amounts of money (the studio's, ours) and time (the studio's, ours & his own) patting himself on the back for an hour in a half? Sadly, it's the latter here.Another thing I really like is when someone breathes new and fresh life into an exhausted and dried-out genre. None of that here. The warring nightclub movies have become so worn-through that even the parodies of it are dreary and done to death. Murphy does neither. He does the most clichéd He plugs into a routine conventional formula gangster picture and plays it as seriously as if it were The Godfather. It's like a script where the next draft, they put in the jokes and the new ideas. But it seems like someone with clout just looked at it and went No&#x85; this is fine.Probably Murphy. He is credited all over this. In the opening shot of beautiful white satin sheets, his name headlines across the credits about five times.THE PLOT A young orphan saves Pryor's life and Pryor adopts the little ragamuffin. 20 years later, Pryor's dump has become a first-class hot spot. They're pulling down big money and a gangster wants their action. He's even got a dirty cop in his employ. But Pryor comes up with a scheme, a la THE STING. Murphy's screenplay plays like an unfinished first-draft that nobody had the pair to call him on. The actors aren't really allowed to stand-out much, if at all. Even the almighty Murphy seems to be on auto-pilot. Pryor shows class and gentlemanly manners as Sugar Ray (perhaps it would have been better to name his character BROWN Sugar Ray&#x97;further evidence that this one needed a polish), but everyone here is basically just on vacation. The Oscar-nomination the movie received is richly deserved (Joe I. Tompkins' Best Costume Design), but the production values are the only part that makes the '30's feel authentic. Some sets look somewhat fake, but this is supposed to be a comedy of sorts. It's rare one movie gets nominated for both a Razzie and an Oscar (unless it's one of Lucas' new Star Wars chapters).It's 1938 and everyone is talking like it's 1988, particularly the comedians. This is a prehistoric white man's formula. And with all these black comedians and satirists, you expect them to skewer the genre or at least bring new life to it. Nope. Murphy is pretty much just coasting here.The great Roger Ebert summed it up perfectly when he remarked in his review Murphy approaches his story more as a costume party in which everybody gets to look great while fumbling through a plot that has not been fresh since at least 1938. Jasmine Guy is perfectly cast and seems to be indulging herself in her role and Michael Lerner has all the looks, evil and mannerisms of the prototypical mob boss down pat. And there are moments where Pryor gives you an idea of what a more interesting leader and authority figure would sound like. He gives every scene he's in a feeling of dignity.Would it have been too much to ask that Della Resse sing? Or at least quit embarrassing herself with all her Kiss My Ass talk? And the late Redd Foxx doesn't get to leave much of a swan song here. He has some back-and-forth with Resse which could have been some great stuff. Nope. Murphy wastes another opportunity again here.Murphy's Quick is charismatic and likable. But those moments are few and far between for sure. Murphy has never looked better and never been duller. His character made me laugh twice throughout the whole movie.Stan Shaw's boxer with a horrible speech impediment isn't just painful and embarrassing, it's annoying. There's more to comedy than simply showing something unpleasant. You have to incorporate some kind of light touch and funny situation. Watching him strain even the some of the easiest words just makes us feel sorry for him and annoyed with Murphy.Can Murphy write a screenplay? Well&#x85; there was Raw, but that was really stand-up material. He wrote the outline for Boomerang and Coming to America for sure. But her didn't have the last word there. Maybe a team of ER-like script doctors could've revived this one.Murphy's direction is so slow and quiet, you'd swear he was asleep at the wheel some of the time. He has too many static shots and doesn't seem to know how to build and release suspense. On some level, I think Quick is the real Eddie Murphy. Angry, young, hot-headed and ambitious. But occasionally charming. Now if he were only funny sometime.There's a scene in which Murphy has a femme fa-tale in bed who plans to make love with him and kill him. You can probably guess how it turns out. Like everything else in the movie, this could have been better, but&#x85; Surprisingly, Murphy has not directed another movie since (he got a Razzie nomination). And he no longer writes the finished draft for his films either (he WON the Razzie for writing this!) It's great to look at and the music is beautiful, and there are a few really nice scenes. But that just falls under the category of gems among all the junk. Not enough of them.Couldv'e been. Shouldv'e been. Wasn't. Oh, well.by Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"No rose for this garish Harlem...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eddie Murphy has his good days and his bad days.  On his good days, he can make the stoniest of faces laugh with his effortless charm and command of comedic timing (48 Hrs., Trading Places, The Nutty Professor).And as for his bad days...they're perfectly embodied by Harlem Nights.You can tell this is a vanity project from about twenty miles off.  This guy did practically everything but brew coffee on the set (as least he didn't sing on the soundtrack.  Thanks, Eddie.)  I mean, here he had a chance (as writer and director) to do something really sharp, funny and charming.  Instead, he does a black version of The Sting in which Della Reese gets shot in the foot, people get murdered right and left, the main bad guys are ALL white and the funniest comics on the planet (Pryor and Foxx) are turned into straight men in Eddie's one-man show.And here's the weird part this is SUPPOSED to be a comedy.  A COMEDY (you know - ha ha ha, yuk-yuk-yuk, lotsa laughs?).  So, why are the big moments in this film all DRAMA?  That's right; they play it straight, as if the story was a companion piece to all the Warner Brothers single reelers from the '30s with Edward G. Robinson and Jimmy Cagney.  It's stupefying.   Really.Actually, a spoof of those kinds of movies would be fun to see, especially with a cast like this one offers.  Unfortunately, Eddie realized this was a once in a lifetime opportunity to show the world that he was the real deal, so to speak.  So instead of focusing on a project that would deliver major laughs, he instead lumped together a plot full of murder, deceit, robbery, double-crosses and femme fatales that would of wowed the execs back in 1932.Any good parts?  Two - Arsenio Hall as The Crying Man (that's how he's billed) has the best role as a man out for Eddie's blood when he thinks Eddie killed his brother.  Now THAT scene is exciting and funny, Hall's extended crying jag throughout is a riot and if for nothing else, you HAVE to see how the shootout between them ends.  Hall's best line - Oh, REALLY??!?!And the other good part is Aiello as crooked cop Phil Cantone.  He actually bothers to put in a performance, in spite of everything.  As a jovial frontman for crime boss Bugsy (?) Calhoune (Lerner), he is smiling one minute, frothing the next.  Unfortunately, so little is done with his character that he's sorely missed for entertainment value when he's not on-screen, which is too often for me.But what about the star/writer/director?  Eddie is really kind of bland here.  No, strike that REALLY bland.  He shows no sense of humor, no charisma, zero interest in the proceedings and hardly changes his expression throughout the whole film - kind of a bored, distracted look.  Maybe he was wondering if he was getting enough screen time?  As for the rest, it's a pretty package with next to nothing inside the box.  Eddie's smarter than this, he knows what's funny, and it certainly isn't Harlem Nights.  What was he thinking?  Certainly not about a sequel.I hope.One star, for Hall's and Aiello's contributions.   And as for Eddie - stay in front of the camera, will ya? "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A period drama whereby you are allowed to engage with the black community in America post World War One and pre-World War Two. Although there is no significant storyline, it was interesting watching all the research that went into getting each detail correct in the film. One thing that Murphy as actor/director on the project is that it is way too exhausting to act and direct. You either direct a production to get a good overview, or you get someone who you can trust to direct the picture. To do both is to commit suicide. "},{"Title":"I think Harlem Nights is one of the funniest movies.","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think the movie Harlem Nights is one of the funniest Eddie Murphy movies I've ever seen. It might even be one of the funniest movies of all time, period. I thought it was well-acted, as well as well-scripted. I would like to see a sequel to the movie so we can find out what happened to the characters after they left Harlem. "},{"Title":"FFFFFFFFF.....","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are overly sensitive to the f word, this funny, funny movie may be fatal. A costume-rich 1930's Harlem is a style-pleasing background to Murphy-Prior-Foxx and Company. Della Reese is a scene-stealing madame at Sugar Rays a hot Harlem nightclub, gambling parlor, whore house. Eddie Murphy at his best pre-Cheshire Cat grinning phase. Prior actually plays straightman to the well picked cast. Arsenio Hall's sickenly over-acted bit part does not detract from a fun film. "},{"Title":"After more than 20 years, I watched Harlem Nights for the first time and found it not as deserving of critical scorn as it got then","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After about nearly 25 years of mostly hearing negative comments about this movie, I finally watched Harlem Nights on Netflix Streaming. My verdict I thought it was funny enough even with all the killings, bombings, and other things considered too ugly for a comedy. Executive producer, director, writer, and star Eddie Murphy has made a pretty good period piece taking place in '30s Harlem and assembled what must have been a dream cast for him starting with his idol Richard Pryor, and then adding other legends like Redd Foxx and Della Reese. Together they run Club Sugar Ray with Pryor playing that club's owner, Murphy as adopted son Quick, Foxx as nearly blind Bennie Wilson, and Reese as madam Vera. Their enemies are such white figures like officer Phil Cantone (Danny Aiello) and gangster Bugsy Calhoune (Michael Lerner). In addition to them, other supporting players include Belinda Tolbert-best known as Jenny Willis Jefferson on The Jeffersons-as Sugar Ray's mistress Annie, Stan Shaw-like me, a Chicago native-as boxer Jack Jenkins (who has an amusing stutter), Jasmine Guy-who was playing Whitley Gilbert on A Different World at the time-as creole lady Dominque La Rue (whose character is from the state I now live in-Louisiana), Vic Polizos as Richie Vento, Lela Rochon-years before appearing in the blockbuster Waiting to Exhale-as Sunshine, Thomas Mikal Ford as Tommy Smalls, and Arsenio Hall as his brother though he's credited as Crying Man (and he's quite hilarious doing so!). Like I said, I thought the lines were funny enough and the profanities weren't as frequent as I thought but since I'm so used to these performers using them, I really didn't feel offended by them. So on that note, Harlem Nights gets a recommendation from me. P.S. Aiello's son Rick-who I found out also appeared with his father in Do the Right Thing as one of New York's finest-plays someone credited as only Man # 1 here. And how awesome to hear many Duke Ellington songs including the credit-ending Drop Me Off in Harlem with New Orleans' own Louis Armstrong. "}{"Title":"Loads of comedic talent and the film is a bore.  It just makes no sense.","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film should have been the ultimate laugh riot. You had Eddie Murphy in the flick and though I am not his biggest fan there are times when he truly shines. Not only is he featured in this flick, but so too is Richard Pryor and I do enjoy Richard Pryor movie. To top it off you have Redd Foxx and he is an absolutely hysterical. You also have a cameo by Arsenio Hall who was at this time still relevant. With all these very funny people, why did I find myself bored to tears watching the movie? I can not answer, but suffice to say while not all bad and with a few chuckles here and there for the most part I was disappointed with this one. Seems Richard and Eddie just do not make a very good team as the two did not have a good chemistry together on the screen. I would much rather see Richard paired with Gene Wilder as they had great chemistry together. It is like Eddie and Arsenio, they actually seemed to be a rather good team as evidence by the success of Coming to America (though I did not care for that one much) and they also were part of one of the very few funny scenes in the movie. Redd Foxx is not featured nearly enough to really make an impact either positive or negative, but at this time he was close to having the heart attack that would end his life. When you look at the cover of this one and look at the stars you just know this film has to work. Alas, with the exception of a scene or two it does not. "},{"Title":"Dreadful movie","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This takes place in 1920s Harlem. A black owned nightclub has to deal with gangsters and corrupt policemen.Terrible vanity project for Eddie Murphy. It tries to mix comedy and drama and fails at both. The comedy simply isn't funny and the drama is boring and badly acted. You think a film with three comedy legends--Eddie Murphy, Redd Foxx and Richard Pryor--would be great but it isn't. There's nonstop swearing and the OPENING scene has a young boy shooting a man to death (this is shown as being OK). Also we have the beautiful Della Reese degraded into playing a madam. One of the comedic highlights has a long, unfunny and terribly vicious fight between her and Murphy. A boring, offensive and stupid mess. Not the worst Murphy movie but pretty close. A 1 all the way. "},{"Title":"no nights to remember","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1989 was already a year in where Eddie Murphy wasn't that longer hot and started making movies that soon would be forgotten. Funnily enough, it was also the year in where Murphy directed his first film, but it also would be the first and last experiment. Harlem nights wasn't exactly what you can call a success even if it was great to see the two best black comedians together namely Murphy and Richard Pryor. Don't blame it on the actors as they all played their roles like you expected them do, even if you have to face (again) the typical Murphy-laugh. The worst thing from Harlem nights are both the scenario and its terrible decors. Everything is set in the roaring twenties and everybody has their profit from the forbidden clubs. Sugar Ray (Pryor) and his adopted son Quickie (Murphy) are gathering easily 10000 dollar per day but of course soon the mob and the corrupt police come around the corner to claim their part of the cookie. Sugar and Quickie aren't guys who give their money for free and have their own plans. You can watch Harlem Nights that's for sure, but if you puke from the moment you hear the name Murphy you better avoid as after all this movie is nothing but a lame excuse to see some good jokes. "},{"Title":"An appalling waste of film","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is truly one of the worst movies ever made--and I don't mean in a so-bad-it's-good kind of way. Eddie Murphy is a great comic, and it is a testament to how bad this movie is that it nearly killed his career. The writing and direction are inept, the sets and staging about as imaginative as a Brady Bunch episode, and the acting shows just how bad a great cast can be when they have absolutely nothing to work with. If it weren't for the costumes--which, aside from Eddie Murphy's ego, seem to account for the major part of the budget--you would swear this thing was slapped together by a bunch of high schoolers wasted on peppermint Schnapps. That anyone could find this travesty in any way funny or entertaining is mind-boggling. It's probably no coincidence that the misguided souls who are praising this stinker are barely literate. But if your idea of hilarity is Della Reese getting her pinkie toe shot off, then by all means, put aside your drool cup and go rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's Ego Trip","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor team up in this would-be comedy about nightclub owners being squeezed by organized crime.  Eddie Murphy wrote and directed this obnoxious ego trip, and therefore has no one to blame but himself for its failure.  This is a genuinely bad film, so completely devoid of energy and humor that it serves only as a example of Murphy's contempt for his audience.  It would be remarkably easy to continue beating up on this movie, but I will show it more mercy than it showed its audience and stop now. "},{"Title":"Predictable plot, lousy acting!","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just read through the other comments here, and was a little surprised to find that no one had said anything about the acting or plot.Richard Pryor and Eddie Murphy can both deliver an amazing Stand-up comedy show. Great actors they are not. Enough about that.As for the plot? Oh man. Every time the movie tries to fool you into believing the good-guys are going to lose, you know those scenes What? The good-guys loses? Oh.. I see, it was just a trick, it's done so terribly bad, you can spot it a mile away.It had 2 or 3 funny moments, but not enough to save the day.It's a little silly that these comments has to be 10 lines now. A lot of people will fill it up with crap, for it to be eligible. Being brief is an art. "},{"Title":"Harlem Nights","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Flat comedy about the sting of a white mobster trying to take over a Harlem nightclub owned by Pryor in the 1930's. Runs in so many different  directions that you lose track what the film is supposed to be; drama? crime? comedy? Aiello is the only bright spot in this all Murphy  project who wrote, directed and starred.  "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wasn`t expecting much with HARLEM NIGHTS but I wasn`t expecting it to be as bad as it was . Without doubt the worst aspect is the obscene language , it really is awful the amount there is in this film and before anyone accuses me of being a wimp let me point out two things...1 ) Amongst my fave films I would include GOODFELLAHS , PLATOON , RAGING BULL while my favourite movie of all time is APOCALYPSE NOW2 ) My all time favourite American television show is the HBO prison drama OZ so you see films and television shows with massive amounts of swearing don`t normally bother me but the problem I had with HARLEM NIGHTS is to do with the fact it`s supposed to be a comedy but it seems the production team came to the conclusion that an audience laugh everytime someone ( Especially if that someone is black ) says a rude word and decided to subsitute funny situations with swearing all the way through the film hoping to get a laugh. Well I thought I`d never start laughing and I didn`t  "}]