[{"Title":"Quite possibly one of the best sequels of all time...","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"57 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 2 is the type of sequel you don't screw with, for fear of getting seriously beat up if you do. Luckily the praise comes as easily as the film is good -- and boy, is it good.If you haven't seen Lethal Weapon (1987), get off your computer, drop that Cheez-It out of your hand, rush to your closest video outlet and buy it. If you have seen it, then drop that Cheez-It out of your hand, rush to your closest video outlet and buy the sequel, Lethal Weapon 2. It's a real ball-breaker, a bruiser, the type of film where the heroes get beat up mercilessly but when they get mad, boy are they mad, and they tear apart everything in their path that is standing in their way. There's a particular shoot-out scene aboard a docked ship where Riggs (Mel Gibson) goes on a rampage and really kicks butt with a vengeance.But I think I'm getting ahead of myself.The film opens with a high-speed car chase on a freeway in Downtown LA. Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are in hot pursuit, tearing up Murtaugh's wife's brand-new car as they chase the speeder through an underground tunnel, up a bridge, and so on and so forth.When they finally catch the speeder they find African gold hidden in the back of his truck. Soon they are being threatened to stay off of the case by African diplomats, one of whom Riggs really enjoys annoying. They can't arrest them because of diplomatic immunity, so Riggs goes in and shoots up the place where they're staying.Riggs finds himself a new girl (Patsy Kensit), while Murtaugh protects a federal witness named Leo Getz (Joe Pesci), a lovable little blabbermouth who likes being one of the cops. He waddles around throughout the film like a little eager puppy, ready to do anything he's told. Of course Riggs and Murtaugh pick on him throughout the movie, but their friendship is a sort of love-to-hate, explained in Lethal Weapon 4 (1997).What a hard action movie/sequel this is. I had heard nothing very positive about this movie until right before I saw it. I sat down, watched it directly after I watched Lethal Weapon, and realized just how great of a sequel it really is. It's not repetitive -- it continues the character progression and friendship seen at the end of Lethal Weapon, while at the same time adding a bit more humor than the first film.One of the things I praise about the first Lethal Weapon movie is that the characters didn't just suddenly agree to like each other at the end of the movie like so many films. They gradually learned to trust each other throughout the film, adding a sense of true friendship and realism to the film. In Lethal Weapon 2, the friendship between Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh is definitely expanded more to the point where they're best buddies. Most of the time when there is a sequel to a cop-buddy film, the directors and writers are afraid to continue the friendship. They seem to forget the end of the original film, and in the second film the characters hate each other again and the progress of friendship starts all over again. (As seen in such films as Another 48 Hrs.)But Lethal Weapon 2 is brave -- it isn't afraid to continue the story. I think that might be part of what makes it such a great, well-rounded series. It never really repeats itself, it always seems eager to move forward and ignore the past. The first film was a humorous, hard cop-buddy film about two opposites learning to trust each other. The second movie is a continuation of their friendship. The third film is almost a full-out comedy. And the fourth film is a tribute to the first three. Darn good film-making here.Lethal Weapon 2 is quite possibly one of the best sequels of all time. It avoids repetitions, it avoids cop-buddy clichés, and when it all comes down to it, Mel Gibson and Danny Glover and Joe Pesci are such an amazing trio, that even if this film did follow the routine procedures I'd still love it. And you can't say that about many movies. "},{"Title":"An action movie with heart","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Many action flicks over the years have been called loud and dumb. This is no exception. The Lethal Weapon series has never been especially noted for its intellect but it has something that a lot of action films lack heart. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover's winning chemistry created some of the most tender moments in the series and Lethal Weapon 2 excels because they make the audience care about their characters. This movie is by far the best in the series with tones of moments registering directly to the viewer. Gibson and Glover provide these characters with depth that could easily have been lacking and the ending of this film leaves the audience actually feeling the love these two men have for each other. And, as a bonus, Lethal Weapon 2 digs even deeper into one of the protagonist's past, shedding even more light as to why he is the way he is. "},{"Title":"God, I love this job!","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"40 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" First of all this movie is almost as good as the original. It retains all of the elements that made the first film so darn entertaining and adds some new elements.As all actors from the first movie appear in the second one as well its pretty clear what you can expect acting wise and surprise, surprise The acting is still stellar, close to perfection. Mel Gibson is always good and in the second installment of the series he gets to be a little more wild and add even more nuances to the character. For example we get to see Riggs hit on women which adds an entire new side to him as the side we saw in the first film was of him mourning. Also we find out how his wife dies in a beautifully underacted scene (if you want to know how she dies you'll have to see the movie). Danny Glover returns as well and he plays the character pretty much as he did in the first film which is good because the character he plays is the one who is not supposed to change. He is meant to be square and combined with the character of Riggs this becomes highly entertaining. However, a new element is put into the mix to make it even more entertaining, Leo Getz, played beautifully by Joe Pesci and is to this day still one of his most memorable characters. He is funny and fast talking but most importantly he is a crook and when you put him together with Riggs and Murtaugh the mix becomes explosive. The main villains are played by Joss Ackland and Derrick O'Connor and they are also good and a bit more developed than the villains of the first movie obviously because they had to focus more on the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh in the first movie. Riggs' love interest is played Patsy Kensit and she is good if a bit underdeveloped. The story is excellent and is almost better than the story in the first one. It is entertaining and funny and best of all the incredible chemistry between Mel Gibson and Danny Glover is maintained and is almost as good as it was in the first movie. Furthermore the addition of Joe Pesci was a very nice touch because he immediately makes the scenes with him, Gibson and Glover even more interesting and entertaining. The plot with the villains is kept relatively simple like in the first film, which is good because the goal for the film is entertainment not to be thought provoking.The action of the film is kept in the same style as in the first movie and it is still both exhilarating and entertaining. The effects are still relatively realistic and this of course gives the movie a level of credibility that is sorely needed in many modern action movies.All in all a worthy sequel and an excellent film on its own. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A really lethal sequel","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mel Gibson and Danny Glover return to kick heads and shoot bad guys for the second time, as Riggs and Murtaugh, the Oscar and Felix of law enforcement in Lethal Weapon 2. This timearound, the boys are forced to become the 3 Stooges when they are assigned to guard a feisty, foul-mouthed federal witness named Leo Getz (the frantic Joe Pesci) from a group of sadistic Afrikaner thugs (led by the usually dark-natured character actor Joss Acklund). At the same time, Riggs meets a new love namedRika (the hot Patsy Kensit), who happens to be a pawn in thevillain's dangerous games.The action is faster and more furious in this sequel to theslam-bang original. Even the banter gets a boost, thanks to theadded comedic riff by Pesci. Watch for his slightly annoying,yet hilarious speech on a Subway tunafish sandwich! "},{"Title":"Pure Magic","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first one was hard core.  It was all about drugs, intrigue and Vietnam. It was also about Riggs' suicidal tendencies.  It was serious.  Too serious. That was awesome.  This one is about a lighter, gentler Riggs.  The same Murtaugh I'm afraid but a lighter gentler Riggs-for a while that is. Reasons why this film is better than the original  1.  Leo Getz,  2.  Same chemistry but with a tighter bond,  3.  Comic relief,  4.  Truly despicable villains, 5.  Revenge story that pops out of nowhere really (this is quite surprising for a Gibson flick mind you).  This one's the best of the series. Part three was a joke.  Part four...I dunno what the hell that one was. Part one was pure setup baby.  This is the one.  >  "},{"Title":"Double the lethal, double the weapon, double the fun! D","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A terrific sequel to one of the first action duo films that worked well. Adding Joe Pesci to the cast, what a great choice! He was so funny, together, Mel, Danny, and Joe are the three stooges of Lethal Weapon. They work together so well. This movie has everything that you could want action, romance, comedy, and drama.Again, like in my last Lethal Weapon comment, must we go on for ten sentences? I mean, is it just me or isn't that a little silly? I think so. It's like, you can't just put down you liked the movie or hated it? I miss the old IMDb! *sob!* 8/10 PS Ask me questions about the movie if you have doubts about me witnessing it's glory. "},{"Title":"Good, But Original Was Better","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In keeping up the tradition of the original Lethal Weapon, the sequel still continues the time-honoured tradition to providing the the action, the humour, and the thrills that made Lethal Weapon I one of the best buddy-cop movies in the history of cinema. The chemistry between Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover)is still remarkable. The only thing now is that Riggs is less self-destructive as he was in the first movie, but I guess it's so that in the first he tries to get over the loss of his wife and he somehow has moved on. Not as exciting as the first, but still very believable. Some historical-political elements that provides some surprising educational facts are delivered here in the movie that's obscurely mentioned in classrooms. Here it takes aim the the South African apartheid fiasco that ran from 1948, up until 1994 by Nelson Mandela who over-turned the government and became President of South Africa putting a stop to apartheid. During it's dying stages, the government provided segregated communities to it diverse ethnics and tried to promote theocracy. The South Africans depicted may have been over the top, but the political upheaval was executed immaculately. In spite of that cultural reference, there's a setback to it as well. I don't understand why did the South Africans killed Riggs' wife and now have targeted his girlfriend. What's up with that? The whole logic was completely null and void and has no logic to it at all. Some editing should have been taken to consideration. It's still an enjoyable film, but the first one stands above them all. "},{"Title":"A complete review in as short as possible...","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 2 A complete review in as short as possibleIf you're looking for an extremely enjoyable movie, in all aspects of the word enjoyable i seriously recommend this masterpiece! It has everything anyone can ask for a star-studded cast, excellent performances, masterful directions, engrossing story, amazing action-sequences, witty dialogue, sensational sound track, and this is just the beginning! And if this is not MAGIC then I don't know what is!Gibson's Riggs and Glover's Murtaugh are amazing, the chemistry here is absolutely amazing! Each complements the other perfectly and the inclusion of Pesci's Getz is the best thing that could have ever happened to the movie.It's not just the performances either. LW2 is an excellent follow-up to the original that spawned 4 sequels and is a MUST-SEE. As a matter of fact, I personally find it to be the best movie throughout the series. Do not pass this one up!Oomph!-scale (from 5)  ***** "},{"Title":"A fine Sequel","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riggs and Murtaugh now face a bunch of south African criminals hiding behind their diplomatic immunity. The duo have to fight for their right to fight back, as the criminals declare war on the cops, and arouse the lethal weapon in Riggs.The introdction of Joe Pesci's character is a little annoying at first but it soon grows on you and he adds a focus for the comedy element.Richard Donner again directs the cop duo and again we have a movie well worth watching.Plenty of action, a few more laughs and a lethal weapon that is still just as sharp, all combine to deliver another great outing for Riggs and Murtaugh.8/10 "},{"Title":"America's pot calling South Africa's kettle ..er...black.","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Richard Donner shows off his liberal credentials with this ludicrously overcooked simplistic attack on the politics of South Africa.It's not as if America is the cradle of racial harmony and brotherly love - and further irony is added by the fact that the movie is set in the city that was the home of Rodney King and glorifies the Police Department that did so much towards community relations with their brutal racist behaviour. So Donner's salt and pepper pairing who clearly have a late = developing teenage crush on one another do their own thing with fine disregard for the rule of law or the rules of evidence and no one worries because the bad guys are white South Africans - surely a worrying example of police racism in itself? Inside Rudd's (Joss Ackland - eminently hissable) office the decor is designed and lit to resemble as far as possible the Fuhrerbunker and just in case some rather dumb moviegoers miss the point,he and his men are referred to as nazis at regular intervals. For me the only bright spot in the movie was when Mel Gibson turned up at an anti - apartheid demonstration carrying a banner bearing the inscription End Aparthied Now. The intensely irritating Joe Pesci is introduced into the franchise to take some of the weight off the boys' shoulders by following them around yapping incessantly like a badly-trained puppy.This would be bearable if there was the remotest possibility of him ending up in a concrete overcoat,but sadly he survives to irritate another day. Miss Patsy Kensit seems in a world of her own,perhaps not believing her luck at being cast opposite Mel Gibson who has little trouble sweeping her into bed in his mobile home which appears to have been washed up on a beach somewhere.Shortly after consummating their affair they come under fire from a number of helicopters that fire enough rounds into Mel's caravan to keep the U.S. Army in Iraq going for six months. Fortunately he has a pet dog who is not afraid to cause coitus interruptus just as they are going for seconds and his barking warns them of the imminent attack.I hope he got a special bone as a reward. The film climaxes(without interruption from Mel's dog) on a cargo ship bound for Nazi Germany (sorry,South Africa),when Mel and Danny murder so many members of the master race that I lost count.Despite jiggling around like Bonnie and Clyde under the impact of a hail of bullets,Mel survives,curled up in his partner's arms like a small child with a wise and benevolent father.Take that,Apartheid! "}{"Title":"Not bad, some interesting points","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first point I found interesting is that it was evident they used real South Africans as extras in the film. In one scene one of the extras called out Jou Moer to our intrepid heroes.Jou Moer translates into English, quite unmistakenly, as You C*nt. As this was still in it, years later, when I just saw it for the second time, I feel that nobody in America check unidentified words for their true meaning.This has given many South Africans high amusement over the years and they may not be well disposed towards me for spilling the beans.Another thing was that Patsy Kensit played the part of an Afrikaaner (A Dutch descent South African and, whilst an English descent South African might say she (or he) hates his country, an Afrikaaner would never say that. He or she might say they hate the government but they would NEVER say they hate their country.But apart from that, a good film, and it gave me so much amusement to see they hadn't cut out the offending word.From an English rooinek.Andrew "},{"Title":"A powerful message? No, rather simplistic","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's a fun movie, but having lived in South Africa for some time, there's not much that rings true. One user comment said it contained a powerful message for him, since he's black and never quite understood apartheid.Well, if this is what you're going to base your knowledge on, you're very far from the truth. Don't get me wrong, South Africa was racist, and many Afrikaners were rather backward redneck types, but the characters in this movie aren't even caricatures. The actors ham it up with no character research at all.You want to understand South African racism? See Cry the Beloved Country, or something. Lethal Weapon is a cheap action movie. Don't mistake it for something that tries to deliver some deep and meaningful message. It doesn't.Though it is unintentionally ludicrous if you're South African, it's watchable. "},{"Title":"The adventure continues","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The adventure continues with Lethal Weapon 2.  All the great characters are back and with some new ones, as well.  Joe Pesci enters the Lethal Weapon-series as the annoying and witty Leo Getz(ok ok ok ok?) Riggs and Murtaugh must fight against a South-African diplomat, who`s a big drugdealer.  The classic mixture of action and comedy is also to be found here.  I have never seen another series of movies (except Die Hard), where all the chapters are just as great as the original film. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Revoking the visa...","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This time our favorite mismatched cops (Mel Gibson and Danny Glover) take on South African diplomats (who I think are German) who are taking advantage of the system by using their status to deal drugs, after numerous warnings from the dealers, as well as near death experiences, our favorite two cops go out with all pistols blazing in a thrilling climax which ends in explosive fashion. I think the main reason why in 1989, I couldn't enjoy the ultra-lame Tango And Cash which came out that year (though at the end of the year) was because I had seen this earlier and this to me was the real thing. Lethal Weapon 2 is one of those movies that still manages to entertain years after its release. I saw this as a teenager and thought it was the greatest thing ever and even now this is one of my most prized DVDs in my collection. Lethal Weapon 2 is a very exciting movie and when I look at other enjoyable movies that fall in the mismatched buddy/cop genre (Lethal Weapon 1, I Come In Peace, Beverly Hills Cop 1+2, Last Boyscout and Rush Hour) Lethal Weapon 2 always stands head and shoulders above the rest, indeed it is tied with 48 HRS as my favorite Cop/Buddy movie off all time. I think the thing that gives this movie that extra enjoyment is that we actually care about characters, the acting is very well done and overall it's directed with a brutal punch which back up the action. Also Joe Pesci's comic relief wasn't annoying (like it would be in the later sequels) in fact his comic timing actually works. This is a great example of genre film-making and is a must see for fans of the genre.* * * * out of 4-(Excellent, a must see!) "},{"Title":"The traditional output from the Hollywood Left","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film has little in the way of artistic merits, but even if it had something in the way of artistic merit, it would be difficult to like this film. It is a traditional film produced by the very smug and self-assured Hollywood Left and the liberal élite portraying white South Africans in favour of the retention of apartheid in a one-sided negative light. This film is sadly just another testament to how Hollywood is full of itself and views itself as being ahead of the curve. When it was conceived, it was not yet known that apartheid was going to fall, although Pieter Botha's government had made some extremely limited reforms. However, given Mr. de Klerk's election in 1989 (the year of the film's release), it suddenly lost its raison d'être. It has some historical accuracy in that sanctions-busting activity took place during the apartheid regime, but drug-smuggling was not among the activities widely practised and the portrayal of South Africa as a gangster state is inaccurate. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Sequel.","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 2 (1989) was a lame and useless sequel. Why was this made? To make more money! The first film was a surprise success. So a sequel was in order. What I hated about this movie was they changed the back ground story line. Riggs suddenly got younger but Murtaugh grew even older than he was in the first film. Riggs background was changed to suit the inane storyline.Like I said in the last comment. The series became more homo-erotic as the series continued. Another strike against the film are the cartoon villains. The only thing missing was them sporting thick mustaches and smoking big cigars. I hated this movie. The action scenes were over done and realism only mattered when it suited the story line. Adding characters and making overt and annoying political statements date this lame movie even further. While the first film was fun, this one blows chunks. I don't like it very much.Overrated garbage. "},{"Title":"Don't forget, the lethal weapon is Mel Gibson and his gun","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 2 (1989)The first half hour of this movie is such an empty mixture of very fast chase scenes and some dull talking between supposed bad guys you might not get to the final hour which is fun and funny and as good (in a way) as the first Lethal Weapon from two years earlier. Same cast, same crew, same assets.The problem at first is partly that we don't know who the bad guys are. We have no reason to fear or hate them. We just know that Mel and Danny have to be in on some new awful crime situation. That requires faith, so okay, we keep watching. The opening chase is highly kinetic and violent and spectacular, if you like that kind of thing. It is also a heads up for a couple scenes later that are also really spectacular &#x97;a ridiculous machine gun festival from a helicopter (if they have helicopters that have rocket grenades and boom, that's that), and a really ridiculous yanking down of a spectacular building with a GMC pickup truck (an amazing highlight of the movie).Yeah, it's a wonderful mixed bag. By the end I was loving it the way you love things like this&#x97;not as film studies, but as a lowbrow good time. There are some classic scenes, also ridiculous&#x97;like the great toilet one&#x97;and some filler, of course, but it clicks along and is a worthy sequel. If you liked the first, you'll like the second.However, it's worth saying the first one has an elegance at times that makes it not just more artful (who cares?) but more compelling. Just the way the first scene is handled (in the first movie) makes you want to know what's happening, and you worry about the next few scenes because of the first one. Here, it's more a continuation of affection&#x97;which means you might have to see the first one before this, in case you haven't! "},{"Title":"A winning formula - better than the original","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the first Lethal Weapon movie (admittedly I was underaged at the time) I thought a better flick could never be dreamed of.  I was wrong, its all here the chemistry between Glover & Gibson is better than ever, the action is faster and to my lasting surprise the comedy has been much improved.The inclusion of Joe Peschi as the whinny Leo Getz was a master stroke and finally completed the picture.SEE IT! "},{"Title":"It accentuates some of the things we didn't take to in the 1987 original, while removes a lot of what we did.","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Most sequels just aren't usually that good, are they? Lethal Weapon 2 is the sort of film in which characters tumble out of fifteenth storey windows; land in a communal swimming pool; thrash around in the water for a while, before getting up and out so that they may dust themselves off and move onto the next set piece. That was fine in the first film, because it was nonsense and we knew it was and the film knew it was as well - what was important was the fact it was propping up this really intimate and often touching story about a man going through a process of shelving his suicidal ideation and rediscovering the love for his job. Mel Gibson's Martin Riggs was that character in the first, someone stumbling once again upon that wash of emotion often referred to as job satisfaction, a man once bent on mourning the death of his wife and generally uninterested in living for much longer - the first scene in this second instalment has him state his love for this job as he hares down the street in an unmarked police car chasing some villains. Go figure.This second Lethal Weapon film is, at least to a degree, again Riggs' film; a piece depicting his dissipating grief as he sees fit to kick off a relationship with a newfound woman, as well as allowing him to tie up some rather personal loose ends when the true extent of his wife's death becomes clearer through the adventure he undertakes here. This would have been fine had there felt as if there was some actual heart to proceedings, and the said content didn't feel like a papering over what are essentially a series of stunts involving helicopters; cars and exploding toilets. If there was a mite of honesty to what transpires, and forgive me if it strikes you as a premature reveal, then I dare say Gibson's character should have passed on there and then in faithful accomplice Roger Murtagh's (Glover) arms on that container ship during this edition's finale.The good news is that Gibson and Glover are good value. Their combination, as was with the first, plays off itself with a series of binary opponents where Murtagh wears his suit to work, Riggs is more laid back and casual in his dress; where one of them finds cheap office humour hilarious, the other deems a good deal of maturing is in order, in fact the two actors rebound off one another really well and they genuinely look as if they're enjoying one another's presence. It is Murtagh's contemplations this time that dominate, a man nearing retirement but without a hobby to occupy his time, while his disassociation with the large family he bares begins with the fact he eats tuna when all others have stopped and realises just how old his daughter is getting when she appears in a television advertisement which, in a few words, takes him aback.The adventure involves South African politicians who use their stature as a front to disguise that of a smuggling ring. The leads are effectively in it together to fight racism, what with the fact this group are South Africans in favour of the then-ruling South African Apartheid regime and act as the film's villains. It is here the film takes a shy, if unbalanced, glide into the deep end of issue movie making, or the addressing of an issue for a piece of mainstream entertainment, when it attempts to systematically raise true to life awareness on top of telling this tale on top of dealing with this meagre character content. There is an uncomfortable sense of the South Africans being there - they are easy targets, and the film will win fans cheaply in this regard.Of all people, a Joe Pesci character named Leo Getz is implemented into proceedings; a witness who needs protecting and who is assigned to Riggs and Murtagh's care but whose presence soon sees both of their paths more intrinsically linked than first appears. Leo is good value for a while, but is misused; Pesci has played characters who have had a tendency to dominated dialogue driven scenes, but always as the intimidator &#x96; if we're going to watch a film in which mismatched men acting like kids jabber on and on uncontrollably, either have Pesci do it to a much sinister-a degree or sideline him for the central pairing, because Getz's presence quickly wears thin. The plot about the Afrikaan cartel is nonsense, but of course it is; much like the techniques used by the best cops around when they consistently leave Getz by himself and no one bothers to guard Murtagh's house in spite of the fact he's already been hit there once by the enemy. With an uneven tone made possible by scenes of terrific violence and terror lined up beside more light hearted and more throwaway moments, not to mention a cackling chief villain at the centre of it whose reoccurring line is the roaringly amusing ......dip-lur-mat-ic immu-ni-tie! said in that way only a South African could, Lethal Weapon 2 is the sequel to the film that was clinging on by its fingernail for a recommendation in the first place, and of which doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Slightly better than the first","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A worthy sequel. In fact, I think it's a bit of an improvement, with tighter plotting and more kinetic action sequences. I also liked, to my surprise, the addition of Joe Pesci as a witness Riggs and Murtaugh are protecting. Yes, he's more than a tad annoying, but he's annoying in a mostly funny way. I also very much liked Mel Gibson's love interest, played by the cute Brit Patsy Kensit, who unfortunately never made it very big. The sequence with the bomb attached to Murtaugh's toilet is classic, and the shot with the woman cop getting blown off her diving board is (unintentionally) hilarious. Also side-splitting the aging henchman played by Derrick O'Connor, who becomes a master of kung fu whenever the shot gets dark enough for a stunt double to take his place. "}{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 2 Substandard Follow-up","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really really liked Lethal Weapon for a whole host of reason, but the sequel certainly doesn't stand up to its predecessor.The character development, which in the first film was pivotal, is dropped and your just expected to enjoy the character of Riggs and Murtaugh on the merits of the first film alone, which is alright at the start of the film, but soon it is revealed they are simply shadows of the previous multi-dimensional selves (especially Riggs).The film lacks the dark underbelly of the first, in which despite having a good plot, the screwed up achololic and weary senior officer's transformation in to coherent unit was nothing less of genius.Plus this film has the terrible Patsy Kensit in, whose South African accent is actually terrible, and can't act for toffee.Its a shame, because I really wanted to love this film, as much as the first one, but despite not being a bad movie it just doesn't live up to the original. "},{"Title":"This one is pretty bad.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers!!I hate this one, but it is better than the others after this, they just keep getting worse.  I hope Gibson has the smarts to stay out of the next one.  A lot of the same with humor, ie the toilet, kids, etc.  How much farther can we watch their relationship evolve.  Drugs, bad guys why South Africa!  I found that unbelievable, maybe South American, some country in the Golden Triangle would have made the script better.  It seems the late 80' early 90's had the blond bad guys ie Die Hard, the mighty Ducks play Ice Land Gary Busey in the last Weapon, etc. Hollywood repeats itself over.  This one with a similar story has to go over the top.  The attacking the police, the beach condo scene, and the fight at the end, and way over the top Gibson's girlfriend killed by the copper attack were too much.  Like many part 2's, they get worse, and 3 or 4 in this series picks up speed downhill. 3/10 "},{"Title":"What a thin plot","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riggs and Murtough are back but the magic of the first film has disintegrated. The story line is just awful! I mean really, South African diplomats smuggling the mythical Krugerrands into the U.S. It's just painful! And the accents are absolutely abysmal! Can no one get an Afrikaans South African accent right? Or will we forever hear the British or Americans making them sound like drunken Hollanders? The only guy who got the Afrikaans accent right was Tim Robbins in Catch A Fire. Another thing about this movie that i disliked was when Danny Glover so artlessly describes an Afrikaans accent as being shitty! I mean what a slap in the face to the Afrikaans. There's also enough hypocrisy in this film to make me vomit. I mean Mel Gibson's character is like so against the diplomats but then sleeps with their P.A. type! Don't waste your time watching this rubbish non-researched film. If you want to see a film that doesn't completely insult a cultural group then rent Die Hard 2. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Sequels Ever Made","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm probably in the minority, but I think this is better the the first movie, and is the highlight of the series.Plot In A Paragraph The boys are back in town as L.A.P.D. officers, Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) who must protect an federal witness (A brilliant Joe Pesci), while taking on a gang of South African drug dealers hiding behind their diplomatic immunity.I love the chemistry between Gibson and Glover, they seem to have a real affection for each other. Joe Pesci is a welcome addition to the cast and Patsy Kensit looks absolutely gorgeous. The surprise to me is how menacing Joss Ackland was as Arjen Rudd the villain of the movie. Well directed with great pacing, and the perfect balance of big action and big laughs.Although I'm not sure how I feel about the happier ending than what Shane Black wrote, but without it, there would be no Lethal Weapon 3 or 4. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels ever made","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riggs and Murthaug are back and it's good that there back because that means that we will watch a great movie. I have seen all the Lethal Weapon-movies and they are all great, well except the last one. But I'm here to review Lethal Weapon 2. I have always liked the chemistry between Riggs and Murthaug. They have a real partner ship between them. All the time they are going to a new adventure and the can always make you laugh. The movie is the best Lethal Weapon I have seen and the movie is entertaining. The movie has a great plot and the new characters in the movie are great also. We will also see the first time Leo, who is played by Joe Pesc, who is one of the funniest characters in this movie. There is nothing I don't like i this movie. Watch it now! "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is an excellent sequel to an amazing movie.  This movie has the great duo of Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are back this time, thwarting South African diplomats.  they are joined by Joe Pesci, who might I add is very good.  The plot is simple, as I told the plot before.  The direction is very good, as was the last one.  Sadly, I have to say, this one set off the not so great part 3.Overall the movie is good on many angles and very enjoyable to watch. Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worthy Sequel","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What can you say about this movie, other than it's the same two guys (Gibson and Glover), new wisecracks, new story, and a new character (Joe Pesci). The addition of Joe Pesci at first had me worried, but it really worked out. The three embark on an adventure filled with action and humor.****/***** Stars "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 2","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" i thought the opening sequence was great,, the chase scene,, the rubbers scene was good too, making fun of Murtaugh's daughter's commercial,, this one gets serious bunch of cops get killed in this one,, you also find out what happens to Rigg's wife from before the first one,, this time Riggs and Murtaugh are dealing with the South Africans,, and Krugerands,, Joe Pesci seems to brilliantly steals the show as Leo Getz,, get it, what you want Leo Gets,, haha lol, so anyway he's just has the best line ever in this,,, they f you at the drive thru,, wow amazing,, very true also,, i liked the fast pacing of this movie,, the stunts were great,, the house on the stilts.. the guy that gets the surfboard where his brain used to be,, this just really doesn't get any better than this,, Mel Gibson's line, that's downtown L.A. on the 3 days of the year you can actually see it , without all that smog, just a great movie,, funny as heck also. "},{"Title":"Excellent! My favorite of the four installments...","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is without a doubt, my favorite Lethal Weapon film. It has all the things I love in an action movie, and I don't even like action.Mel Gibson and Danny Glover, take the lead again in this almost seemingly never ending story of two police sgts. sent out to do the dirty work, by cleaning up the town of bad guys. The opening scene gives us no breather, by any means. It's already a chase scene with our future enemies throughout the entire film.There's a great deal of comedy in this one too. Joe Pecsi joins the cast, and is in several scenes of the film, always leaving us laughing waiting to see what he will have the two cops saying next.Patsy Kinst is also a favorite in the film. She's the naive yet sexy love interest of Riggs (Gibson), and plays her part very well.There's every single element in this movie which makes up great action, and film. Sex, fighting, guns, comedy, explosions, beautiful women and rough and tough all-American policemen.I love the film, and can't wait to see it again. An A+ in my estimation. "},{"Title":"The greatest action film in the Lethal Weapon trilogy!","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take the second sequel of a buddy cop action movie in the Lethal Weapon series, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Lethal Weapon 2 (1989) is one of the greatest action films of all time! Mel Gibson's performance as sergeant Martin Riggs is fantastic as well. This is a great must see movie! Martin Riggs becomes a bad ass in this movie, when his woman is killed. And also the movie gives more back story on how Riggs wife died from the first movie. I love this sequel but I have always enjoyed Lethal Weapon 3 much more than I did have enjoyed this one, but still a good awesome flick. I an a lot of opinions it is better than 3 & 4. It is my third favorite sequel in Lethal Weapon trilogy and I have enjoy Lethal Weapon 3 much more than I did 2. I love this sequel the same that I love 1 and 3, but 2 is one grade lover for me than 1 & 3. In the year of the Batman, Lethal Weapon 2 brought back Riggs and Murtaugh for the summer of '89. Man what a jammed packed summer that was. Lethal Weapon 2 lost it's darker tone but amped up the action elements and tossed in Joe Pesci (who was lost in cinema oblivion) until his turn in this movie, plus my cousin Vinny and eventually Home Alone and Goodfellas. His performance as Leo Getz introduces the comic relief that would go on through the next two movies. Lethal Weapon 2 offers up a fun ride with old friends an deeps the trust we have with Mel and Danny. They truly make a great cinematic team. Lethal Weapon 2 is the second installment in the Lethal Weapon film franchise. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover returns as Detectives Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh, who find themselves assigned to protect an accountant (Joe Pesci) whose testimony involves a large money laundering conspiracy that involves South African diplomats during the time of apartheid. Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Patsy Kensit, Joss Ackland, Jenette Goldstein, Derrick O'Connor and Dean Norris did a terrific outstanding job portraying their characters. In the first movie there were drug smugglers, former Vietnam vets of a Shadow Company, this time they are South African diplomats who are smuggling drugs, weapons and gold coins from South Africa. I love the opening scenes that are in the middle of a car chase through the 4th Street tunnel in downtown Los Angeles. Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover), partners in the LAPD's homicide division, are in pursuit of a red BMW, while their colleagues are converging on the car from the opposite direction. It's a suspected drug bust. Riggs kicks it open and hundreds of South African krugerrands (gold coins which were illegal in the U.S. at the time due to the South African apartheid government), come spilling out. Murtaugh and Riggs head for the docks in search of the cargo ship, the Alba Varden. Murtaugh tells Riggs that it's scheduled to sail for South Africa. They find the ship and see three men standing near a container waiting to be loaded onto the ship. They ambush the men and take their weapons, then break into the container to investigate. Inside, they find Rudd's Mercedes sedan and numerous pallets piled high in shrink wrapped United States currency, in multiple denominations. The last showdown in the docks on the ship was pure action scenes and action sequences. The gun play was delivered with a lot of weapons. There was a lot of action scenes. (At one point Riggs fires his Beretta 92FS at an attacking helicopter and kills one of the henchman's.) Riggs (Mel Gibson) fires back at Rudd's henchmen atop his mobile home with a Heckler & Koch MP5A3. I have enjoyed the second movie a lot and the action sequences I still love this movie, I always love watching it and I just love all Lethal Weapons movies. I am giving this movie a 9 tough I gave Lethal Weapon 1 & 3 a 10, this movie deserves a 9, because I didn't like the scene It's just been revoked! Closeup of Murtaugh's Smith & Wesson Model 19 the moment before Murtaugh fires on Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland)in the head, when his gun was empty and the guy shows his South African diplomatic I.D. I don't like that scene and I think what Murtaugh did was just wrong in my opinion I am sorry. I am wondering what happened too Patsy Kensit? I have never seen her any other film role or on any other movie anymore. Lethal Weapon 2 is a 1989 American buddy cop action film directed by Richard Donner, and starring Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci , Patsy Kensit, Derrick O'Connor and Joss Ackland. It is a sequel to the 1987 film Lethal Weapon and second installment in the Lethal Weapon series.9/10 Grade A- Studio Warner Bros. Pictures, Silver Pictures Starring Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Joss Ackland, Derrick O'Connor, Patsy Kensit Director Richard Donner Producers Richard Donner, Joel Silver Screenplay Jeffrey Boam Story Shane Black, Warren Murphy Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 54 Mins. Budget $25 Million Box Office $227,853,986 "}{"Title":"A wide variety of objects and materials can be put into a meat grinder and it will still all come out as sausage","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" These are our bodies. Life is the parade of bodies before your eyes, and death is merely the place where all those bodies go. Death is a bank, no withdraws, deposit only. What is the value of the totality of all our struggles? What is the value of our individual struggles? The best of all the Lethal Weapon movies, but all that that means is a formula worked well once and has since then been less and less effective. This movie has action sequences, and comedy! This movie was made in the 1980's, 1989, but still, its an Eighties movie! Nostalgia is poison gas that is gingerbread scented, breathe deep! Yes, Lethal Weapon 2 has nudity, yes the bad guys die at the end. "},{"Title":"Buddy cops Gibson and Glover are back for a sequel better than the original","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Released in 1989, Lethal Weapon 2 stars Mel Gibson and Danny Glover as L.A. cop team, Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh. In this sequel they team up with a witness (Joe Pesci) to take down big-league South African drug dealers who have diplomatic immunity. In the meantime Riggs romances an employee of the consulate (Patsy Kensit). Jenette Goldstein is on hand as a fellow cop.I wasn't impressed by the first 30-40 minutes, but the three main characters drew me in from there with their warm camaraderie mixed with a bit o' comedy. Like the original, this is an over-the-top, cartoony cop thriller with ludicrous James Bond-isms. You have to accept the outrageousness in order to enjoy it, just as you do with the Bond flicks and similar cop thrillers, like 1977's The Gauntlet, although the latter's superior IMHO, as are the Dirty Harry films. While some aspects are predictable, there are a couple original and impressive parts, like the toilet sequence and the money-explosion scene. The film also scores pretty well on the babe front with Kensit and Goldstein, plus a couple others. Anyway, I marginally prefer this one to the original.The film runs 118 minutes (Director's Cut) and was shot in the great Los Angeles area.GRADE B "},{"Title":"The characters make up for the lack of action.","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon was just the beginning. It sets up the relationship between Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Well) well, with a strong story to boot. The second has the cops in a tight knit, their banter brushing off each other with satisfying effects. Murtaugh is still angry, and Riggs is still crazy, just less suicidal. They're the cop duo others try to replicate. LW2 carries over LW's best bits, while adding extra bonuses for all to revel in. Newcomer Joe Pesci ('I'm Leo Getz, and whatever you want, Leo gets.') is great but does grate, repeating 'ok' so many times I didn't know whether to laugh or cry. The only drawback to LW2 is too much time and effort's spent on character development, as the South African criminals they face have no personalities. This is made up for by a shocking twist involving a key character's past. "},{"Title":"An action gem","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'Lethal Weapon 2' is the absolute perfect example of why the eighties were the renaissance of the action film. I've seen so many bad action films that it becomes hard to decipher what makes an excellent one but I feel that 'Lethal Weapon 2' should be studied as an example. It has all the ingredients I think are essential to making a good action film. The movie most importantly has incredible loud action sequences that have weight because they aren't mired in computer effects or post production trickery and have stunt performers. It also isn't fearful in indulging in violence without being gratuitous. It isn't realistic and there's theatricality but it's not at the two extremes of cartoony blood or PG-13 action fast cuts when someone gets shot. It has grit and blood but it's also so alive with great characters.Most importantly are the characters and the acting. This film solves the problem of the first film in having memorable villains. The whole South Africa apartheid villainy is played for all the hate you can project on these goofy characters. Joss Ackland is so delightful. His performance masterfully skates at being just campy enough to get all the smiles you can without going into the ridiculous. But of course the bulk of the praise must go to the leads. Glover and Gibson are so charismatic and likable that the scenes where they drive to the shoot outs are still highly entertaining. I had a ball revisiting this one. "},{"Title":"Crazy action sequel!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is an action-packed cop sequel pairing up again Mel Gibson as Martin Riggs and Danny Glover as Roger Murtaugh on a mission to stop a gang of South African diplomats using their immunity from U.S. law to commit crimes. From start to finish, it's a non-stop rush of humor and action, from the gun-totting showdown at the diplomat mansion to high speed chases.Gibson and Glover continued their at times frustrated partnership but spelled great chemistry together and delivered enough humor to keep the film engaging enough to go along with the mad rush of all the action scenes. Riggs' suicidal tendencies and Murtaugh's too-old-for-this-s?it mantra continue to become two intriguing focal points in the story. The addition of Joe Pesci as Leo Getz spell headaches for the cops and adds onto the craziness, but I thought he was very annoying in his acting and his voice is very cringe worthy.***spoiler ahead*** The ending is a little anti-climatic as I think it was a little rushed and were wasn't enough lasting drama in places were it is supposed to be serious ***spoiler ends*** Overall, it's one of the better action sequels out there.Grade B "},{"Title":"The unbeatable chemistry continues on from the original Lethal Weapon.  Still just as good as the original.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 2 doesn't recycle ideas and plot points from the first movie, but instead expands on the first movie by developing Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh's personal lives, the introduction of new villains, and the addition of a third sidekick which adds plenty of moments of humour. The action is still just as good, and there is still plenty to enjoy about Lethal Weapon 2.Lethal Weapon 2 wastes no time getting started as we see LAPD Detectives Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) in the middle of a police pursuit through the streets of Los Angeles with an unidentified suspect driving a red BMW which turns out to be transporting a trunk full of gold Krugerrands. There is an illegal smuggling operation which is being spearheaded by South African consul-general Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland) and his chief enforcer Pieter Vorstedt (Derrick O' Connor) however they are blatantly doing so while hiding behind the fact they have Diplomatic Immunity. Captain Harris (Steve Kahan) assigns Riggs and Murtaugh to babysit the irritating, obnoxious and overeager Leo Getz (Joe Pesci), a federal witness who is going to testify against the South African smuggling operation. Riggs also finds himself a love interest, Rika Van Den Haas (Patsy Kensit) who is also Rudd's secretary at the South African Consulate. Rudd and Vorstedt continue to deceitfully continue their smuggling operation while hiding their diplomatic credentials and Riggs and Murtaugh vow to take them down.Lethal Weapon 2 adds a lighter comedic element with the introduction of Joe Pesci as Leo Getz. It's hard to believe upon seeing Leo Getz that Joe Pesci would later net himself an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor as the volatile Tommy De Vito in Goodfellas (1990). Here in Lethal Weapon 2, Pesci's Leo Getz is nothing more than an irritating annoyance but enhances the comic relief to counterbalance the violent action scenes.It was great to see Mel Gibson and Danny Glover continue their dynamic partnership as Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh. Lethal Weapon 2 is a perfect example of a sequel that continues the story and introduces more elements rather than rehashing the story from the first movie. Joss Ackland and Derrick O'Connor were excellent as the chief villains of the movie. Patsy Kensit adds sex appeal as the beautiful Rika Van Den Haas who finds herself caught up in the war between the LAPD and the South African criminals.Keep an eye out for Dean Norris (TV's Breaking Bad), Jeanette Goldstein (Terminator 2 Judgment Day) and Mark Rolston (The Departed) in small roles.Director Richard Donner has continued to weave his magic as a director and has struck box office gold with the success of Lethal Weapon 2 as one of the biggest movies of 1989.What can you say about Lethal Weapon 2? There's never a dull moments with plenty of action-packed scenes along with plenty of humour. A definite must for all Lethal Weapon fans as well as fans of action.9/10. "},{"Title":"A good buddy cop adventure with an amusingly annoying third wheel.","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Detectives Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh Danny Glover) are back in this action packed sequel, beginning the movie with a car chase through the streets of Las Angeles. They discover illegal gold coins being transported and stumble into a money laundering scheme by a South African diplomat. Along the way they meet Leo Goetz (Joe Pesci), a former mob moneyman who helps them crack the case.This movie is funny, mainly for the addition of Pesci who delivers some very quotable lines (They f*** you in the drive-thru!). Riggs and Murtaugh have changed as well, having adjusted to each other and gained a close friendship and changing the mood from the first movie to a more comedic one, in spite of some horrible events.The action is good and the script was halfway decently written. However, the movement from comedy to action to tragedy all seems jumbled together, like the writers couldn't decide what mood to go for. Mainly, I blame this lack of consistency on the inclusion of Goetz. His character is just made to be laughed at, in spite of murders and bombings happening every which way.In all, it's above average for its time and genre, but not great. The real treat here is the acting. Everyone seems natural in their roles. The good pacing and flow help make the movie watchable and suspend disbelief in spite of the writing. "},{"Title":"Not as awesome as the first movie but still a great ride","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This didn't live up to the awesomeness of the first film for me but it was still a hell of a ride. Unfortunately there's so many big action scenes here that it loses a bit of its charm, heading into over-the-top territory. Joe Pesci's character didn't help either, and I found his interaction, as the third wheel with Riggs and Murtaugh extremely annoying. Thankfully the plot moves along at a supercharged rate and he gets overshadowed.Still this is better than a lot of sequels, as LA detective Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover) reprise their roles and chemistry this time battling a vicious South African drug cartel.I also enjoyed the quieter side here and seeing how Martin's relationship (and mental status) had progressed, in particular in his scenes with Rogers wife and family. Sadly he has bad luck in love again and a sore shoulder. 07.13 "},{"Title":"Riggs was originally to die on the boat, but the producer decided to make more movies, hence his survival, after being shot three times.","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Richard Donner directs again, and Mel Gibson and Danny Glover return as LAPD partners, their relationship smoother now that Gibson's character has recovered from his maddening grief over his wife's death. But the reckless Mel and cautious Danny equation, good for a million laughs, settles into place in this story involving a South African smuggler and a new girlfriend (Patsy Kensit) for Gibson. The movie is hardly comfy, though. The last act gets nasty, and a climactic fight between Gibson (who gets the worst of it) and some high-kicking villain is ugly. The chemistry between its leads, make this a playful, entertaining sequel.Sequel Includes a smashed car full of Krugerrands, a hillside house blown off its stilts and a bomb set under a toilet, the point of Lethal Weapon 2 is that Mel Gibson and Danny Glover get to race around in all that chaos, acting crazy.If you liked Lethal Weapon, you'll like Lethal Weapon 2; it's almost as simple as that.Worse than the first, but better than the rest. it's nice to have a big-audience action movie attacking apartheid and the slaughter of sea mammals, instead of acting as an enlistment poster for the Army Air Corps, local vigilante groups or the reopening of the Vietnam War, the sentiments don't really transcend the car crashes.Pesci's terrific comic performance really gooses the proceedings, but the film also works because of its exciting action content, the presence of Patsy Kensit as Riggs' love interest, and the series-best interplay between the two lead characters. Despite the film's anti-South African stance, it was passed uncut by the South African censors and became a major financial success in that country. .The films' writer, Shane Black, walked away from this sequel after he decided to kill off the character of Martin Riggs. Warner Brothers disagreed with that decision, and he left the project.The body count is 33, the highest of the 'Lethal Weapon' series. During production, Richard Donner was shocked when Mel Gibson confided that he was drinking five pints of beer for breakfast. Despite his alcohol problems, Gibson was known for his professionalism and punctuality. In the original script, the South Africans were even more vicious. At one point, they even torture Riggs in much the same manner as Mr. Joshua in the original. Its a Strong and funny sequel but if went with original ending would be even more classic.Still its one of the finest examples of the genre its a Kick ass sequel by concentrating on the often frustrating, funny relationship between the three men, the film gains in humour but loses some of the momentum and panache which distinguished the original.Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, and Richard Donner have all stated that this is their favourite film of the Lethal Weapon series. "},{"Title":"You give a whole new meaning to the word 'dropcloth'.....","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Soon after finding one million dollars of South African currency in a crashed BMW, Riggs and Murtaugh are assigned to keep an eye on Leo Getz, who is scheduled to testify in a case. But Arjen Rudd, the minister of diplomatic affairs for South Africa, doesn't want Leo to testify. Rudd turns out to be the man that Riggs and Murtaugh were after in the case they were working on before Leo was placed in their custody, which doesn't look very promising when Leo is kidnapped by Rudd's men. In a confrontation with Rudd's right hand man, Riggs is told the true circumstances behind the death of his wife, and this sends Riggs over the edge once more.......The essence of Lethal 2 is more of the same, but bigger, louder, and more comic book. And seeing that this took the biggest film of 1989 off the top of the U.S. box office, it's clear that Silver and co. were on to a winner.As with the first film, this relies on rich dialogue and wonderful set pieces to win over the audience, rather than narrative.It starts as it means to go on, with a brilliant and funny opener, and after a wonderful break from the action, featuring Murtaugh's daughter in a commercial, the film goes a little darker in tone, and the writers add a wonderful dimension to Riggs with the revelation concerning his wife's demise.It's a rollicking action movie, nothing more and outside of the Murtaugh extended network, the rest of the characters are just your action movie stereotypes.But it still has the best bathroom scene ever... "}{"Title":"Great Sequel that Dosen't Disappoint from the Original,","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 2 is a brilliant movie with a very well developed storyline and a very good cast.The movie is just as good as the first Lethal Weapon.On terms of action and storyline, the first Lethal Weapon is certainly better,but with humour, Lethal Weapon 2 is much funnier.The chemistry between Mel Gibson and Danny Glover seemed much better this time around,they obviously got to know each other after the first,also the edition of Joe Pesci was a great decision,he is both a great actor and a very funny one too.Lethal Weapon 2 is filled with action and comedy and fans of the first shouldn't be disappointed.Martin and Roger are hired to take care of an accountant who's life is at risk,however this job also puts their own lives at risk. "},{"Title":"They're back. They're bad. He's black. He's mad.","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first Lethal Weapon film was great, and this sequel is even better. It manages to keep everything from the first film that made it so great, and add onto it, making Lethal Weapon 2 the best entry of the whole series. There's more comedic relief this time around, most of it coming from new and hysterical character Leo Getz. But none of the serious elements are sacrificed for the comedic relief, a plot element from the previous film rises again that has much impact, and result in great performances. Riggs and Murtaugh's chemistry remains legendary, about as good as it gets in the buddy-cop genre.The action is superb, the whole third act is an extravaganza of it, but not in a way so that it becomes boring. All the action is very important to the story and never feels pointless. The villains outdo Mr. Joshua from the previous film, and that's no easy task. It's all a perfect balance, the first film was slightly too serious, and the next two sequels were too focused on comedy. They got the mix just right for this one. "},{"Title":"Great chemistry enhanced by funny Joe Pesci","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are back. The movie opens with the cops in hot pursuit of some drugs. It ends up with a big action chase and a helicopter to fly the bad guys away. The bad guys are South African and they threaten Murtaugh and his family. So the captain gives them an easy job babysitting a witness Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) who turns out to have laundered around half a billion dollar worth of drug money. And somebody immediately tries to kill him.The chemistry is still great for the two guys. The car chase scene right off the bat only highlights their relationship. Joe Pesci adds a fun comedic element into this duo. This is energetic fun. It's funny, and it has good action. The only thing off is the South African bad guy. He is too much like a Bond villain. That's a different franchise. "},{"Title":"Homelier lack of density","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first film works marvelously in the way it is balanced. It has a cartoonish plot about drug trafficking that pops out with explosions, but still emerges from a softer noir night. Riggs and Murtaugh had a leg in each of these, wacky action heroes in the cartoon and weary detectives in the noir night. A shattering war, Vietnam, that left scars in the detective loomed over it like it often did in noir 40 years before.The characters as fleshed by Gibson and Glover were always one of the main attractions. But here one aspect overpowers the other. They go from noir pair of detectives to a comedic duo. This is underscored in a dozen small ways through the film. Laurel and Hardy on TV. Riggs 'performing' with the straightjacket for an audience of coworkers. The Leo Getz character so we can have lots of slapstick between them. Indicative of this shift is that Gibson is now a friendly kook around the house, part of the family. It makes sense, his wife's death was still fresh in the first. It's just a different thing overall, cosier to watch. This is how I remember the franchise as a teenager from countless reruns in 90s TV, a pleasant watch if you have pizza around. I still miss the evocative density of the first. "},{"Title":"We're back, we're bad, you're black, I'm mad.","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sequels are usually disappointing. There are very few that can keep the magic of the original going.The difference here is Mel Gibson (Martin Riggs) and Danny Glover (Sergeant Roger Murtaugh). They are perfect partners and can keep it going forever; or one would hope so.Joe Pesci is added as Leo Getz (Whatever you need, Leo Getz. Get it?) He is a perfect set up man to the antics of Riggs and Murtaugh.And, this movie feature people you really want to hate as the bad guys. I mean who can possibly be more sinister and sleazy than Africaners? Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland) is outstanding in the role of the man you most want to see get a bullet in his head. And, Vorstedt (Derrick O'Conner)? He has his own nasty secret which makes him Public Enemy #1. His dance with Riggs at the end is movie magic.We would be remiss if we did not mention the incredibly luscious Patsy Kensit as Rika, Rudd's secretary, who only wants to stay in America. Da da da da da da da da, Detective Riggs to the rescue! Who could blame him? Humor, action, romance, tragedy, evil villains, and good friends. this is what movies are made of. "},{"Title":"Ranking The Second Film","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Hello fellow readers once again, now to the review of the second film in the Lethal Weapon series, Lethal Weapon 2. As you might know I have a review for each of the 4 films where I rank them throughout they're review. So lets get started shall we? Lethal Weapon 2 could have easily been my favorite if not for some scenes which I don't like and which really could have been replaced by other, cooler scenes. The film is definitely the most overrated of the series, number 4 was better than this as well as number 3. This film is very good near the end when Martin Riggs goes out for revenge, I mean, I still like the film in a way but when I have to rank these films its probably my least favorite. But yes, this film should have gotten a 6.4 or something making it one point below the 4th installment. And thus concludes my review on the second Lethal Weapon film and the worst of the bunch. "},{"Title":"On a par with the first.","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" With the possible exception of Martin Rigg's mullet, which actually looks like it's been given a bit of a trim, everything about Lethal Weapon 2 is bigger than the first movie the explosions are more explosive, the shoot-outs more shooty, the car crashes more crashy, the widdly guitar more widdly, and the warbling sax more warbly. As 80s action flicks go, this is definitely one of the best for spectacular vehicular chaos, ballistic mayhem, random acts of death and destruction, and tuneless music.Jeffrey Boam's script delivers on all counts, matching Shane Black's original in terms of wit, pathos, and excitement, and although it does introduce what would become one of the most irritating characters in cinematic history&#x97;fast talking money launderer Leo Getz (Joe Pesci)&#x97;at least Boam has the good sense to inflict a lot of pain and suffering on the guy in the process, Leo getting more than a few bruises as the story progresses.Seasoned Hollywood director Richard Donner handles proceedings well, balancing the light-hearted moments and the gritty action just right (a trick he seems to have forgotten come part 3), and with the benefit of a bigger budget than before, he gets to pull off some truly impressive action scenes, including the amazing destruction of an entire house on stilts.Part 2 also benefits immensely from a pair of memorable villains&#x97;South African diplomat Arjen Rudd, played by Joss Ackland, and his truly wicked henchman/assassin Pieter (Derrick O'Connor), and the welcome presence of the wooden but still very lovely Patsy Kensit, who very kindly strips off for a sex scene (the price we must pay for that pleasure is yet another Mel Gibson ass shot, but at least it's only a side view&#x97; not a full on crack shot like in the first film!). "},{"Title":"Sequel Is Just As Good.","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Mel Gibson & Danny Glover return in this equally fun, action packed film as they are assigned to protect a government witness(Joe Pesci) whose life is in danger from South African gangsters who want to preserve Apartheid, something which both Riggs and (especially) Murtaugh oppose. The case becomes more complicated when the gangsters go after Murtaugh in his home, then Riggs discovers that these crooks have a far more personal connection to his life than he had realized.Film starts off with a bang, and seldom goes wrong; one of the few sequels to measure up the original, with interesting story turns and character development, and a refreshing use of continuity.A winner. "},{"Title":"It was good when it came out - not so much anymore","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" How is it that the forth movie in the series seems to romp all over the movies before it. Lethal Weapon III was really bad, though this movie is a little more enjoyable. The plot is clear and clichéd, though it does have a little twist. The bad guys are simple drug lords (if there is such a thing as a simply drug lord, though that does tend to be the case in Hollywood movies) making millions from drugs. The catch is that they work for the South African consulate and are hiding behind their diplomatic immunity.This movie opens with a car chase through the streets of Los Angeles, though the chase I don't think is a gripping as some that I have seen. It has lots of explosions and machine gun fights, violence, action, death, and the humour of two cops that seem to go really well together. The overall action of the movie though is not all that great and does not drag me back to it. I remember when I first saw it, I loved it but soon got sick of it.Lethal Weapon II introduces Leo Getz who plays a more major role in the next two movies, though Gibson's love interest is not Rene Ruso, but rather a consulate worker who is killed. The purpose of this is because they obviously don't want to bring her into the next movie yet create Gibson's character as one who will not dump one woman for another.All in all this is a typically average movie. I remember that when it came out it created a lot of interest but in the end it is quite dull and I think will pass easily away, if it has not done so already. "},{"Title":"i love it classic 80s entertainment humour , action great acting .","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Defiantly one of the most funny films ever , it is just class the acting is great the plot gives suspnce the picture sound is 80s gold and the picture is great the lethal weapon team are back to take down some bad butys this is one of the better ones of 80s . Every one can enjoy this duo in this film i watched it 5 times in a row at Christmas thats what you need to do buy now , it failes from outstanding but is brilliant and is very funny every time and to add the fun on joe pesci is a great actor and is in this extra fun buy its good . 8.o out of 10.0 not outstanding but great film . Fun comes in a lot this sequel is one of them that shocks very good surprid "}{"Title":"A great sequel","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the second of the Lethal Weapon movies and it is just as good if not better then the first and thats not something you see often with sequels so this was a pleasant surprise. Glover and Gibson are back as a crime fighting duo who fight crime, make jokes and have a very powerful friendship.This movie is about Riggs and Murtaugh who are after South African diplomats who are using their diplomatic immunity to commit crimes in American without being arrested.This is a great sequel to the original. Not only is this a great action movie but also has comedy and a very good story of friendship between the two cops. "},{"Title":"The archetypal buddy action comedy","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There's nothing not to like about LETHAL WEAPON 2, a follow up to the Mel Gibson/Danny Glover-starring smash hit that improves on the first film in every respect. It pretty much follows/sets up the template that we've seen played out over and over again, more recently in the likes of the RUSH HOUR trilogy. Gibson is the crazy one, Glover is straight-laced, and together they have to team up to bring down a gang of criminal nasties.Watching this film for the first time in many years, I was surprised by how fresh and inventive it felt. The comedy comes thick and fast with Glover's hapless ageing cop acting as the brunt of many of the jokes. As much as I like Glover here, the film really belongs to Gibson, whose crazed persona adds endless vitality to the movie. It never feels like he's acting, more like inhabiting the role.The ham acting of the performers playing the South African villains (headlined by Joss Diplomatic immunity! Ackland) is a cheesy delight and the film follows the template of including one great over-the-top set-piece after another (the toilet bomb is a highlight, I think). Things culminate in a finale that's dramatically satisfying to the nth degree, although of course with a film series this successful it wasn't long before a third movie came along. "},{"Title":"Not the adult movie of your favorite pornstar (dad)","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Those two lethal weapons are rather Mel and Glover doing a sequel to their great cop duo. The recipe doesn't evolve a lot nervous and dynamic action sequences mixed with comedy. The criminal case is always thin, anorexic but courageously puts the spotlight on the late racist state politic of Apartheid. The big feature here is the add-on of Pesci who plays a very talkative but sympathetic crook. The family life begins well with the episode of the advertising but it's a pity that the family disappears in the middle of the movie (and notice that since the beginning, the mother Darlene Love has never left the kitchen!). Kensit is a good pick for Mel's interest but it was useless to kill her, all the more that they shot an the alternative ending with her character still alive. In the same vein, it was stupid to mix Mel's deceased wife. In conclusion, it's a good movie but with sometimes clumsy spots. "},{"Title":"Back for Round 2","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" As an action movie, to its credit, LETHAL WEAPON 2 has all the iconic scenes the series is known for the bomb on the toilet (Boom! You're Dead), the stilt house, the helicopter attack on the beach, the car in the storage container. And it does deliver on the promise of more explosions, car chases and shootouts. It's that skew towards the comedic that hampers this. Riggs and Murtaugh are more Odd Couple than oil-and- water, and for most of the movie's running time, it's all about the jokes. On the bright side, there is Joe Pesci, and he's hilarious. But it's in the third act when things get really dark and the movie bears the teeth that made the original so great. Things get serious, our heroes run headlong into a deathwish, and the score's going to be settled one way or another. Riggs and Murtaugh are two guys that, even though they've been through hell, and probably won't make it out alive in the end, still charge in to take the bad guys down anyway. This is my favorite aspect of this series. And even though it'll never again be this good, it's still the part that makes me return and sit through the comedy.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good action","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What a hard action movie/sequel this is. I had heard nothing very positive about this movie until right before I saw it. I sat down, watched it directly after I watched Lethal Weapon, and realized just how great of a sequel it really is. It's not repetitive -- it continues the character progression and friendship seen at the end of Lethal Weapon, while at the same time adding a bit more humor than the first film.One of the things I praise about the first Lethal Weapon movie is that the characters didn't just suddenly agree to like each other at the end of the movie like so many films. They gradually learned to trust each other throughout the film, adding a sense of true friendship and realism to the film. In Lethal Weapon 2, the friendship between Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh is definitely expanded more to the point where they're best buddies. Most of the time when there is a sequel to a cop-buddy film, the directors and writers are afraid to continue the friendship. They seem to forget the end of the original film, and in the second film the characters hate each other again and the progress of friendship starts all over again. (As seen in such films as Another 48 Hrs.) But Lethal Weapon 2 is brave -- it isn't afraid to continue the story. I think that might be part of what makes it such a great, well-rounded series. It never really repeats itself, it always seems eager to move forward and ignore the past. The first film was a humorous, hard cop-buddy film about two opposites learning to trust each other. The second movie is a continuation of their friendship. The third film is almost a full-out comedy. And the fourth film is a tribute to the first three. Darn good film-making here.Lethal Weapon 2 is quite possibly one of the best sequels of all time. It avoids repetitions, it avoids cop-buddy clichés, and when it all comes down to it, Mel Gibson and Danny Glover and Joe Pesci are such an amazing trio, that even if this film did follow the routine procedures I'd still love it. And you can't say that about many movies. "},{"Title":"Entertainment!","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'Lethal Weapon 2' is Entertainment, in it's truest form. This Blockbuster Hit offers everything you would want to see in a film. It has humor, it has great action, it has an interesting story to tell, and it has, it's leading men delivering superb performances! Like it's prequel, this one too, is a winner! Gibson and Glover respectively reprise their roles as LAPD officers, Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh, who protect an irritating federal witness, played by Joe Pesci, while taking on a gang of South African drug dealers hiding behind diplomatic immunity. 'Lethal Weapon 2' is as entertaining as 'Lethal Weapon' was. As mentioned, it's a film that offers great entertainment. The Screenplay by Jeffrey Boam is first-rate, and is full of memorable moments. Richard Donner's Direction, like always, is note-worthy. Cinematography & Editing are nice. Action-Sequences are very good. Performance-Wise Gibson and Glover deliver superb performances in here. The both of them, share a flawless on-screen chemistry and deliver wonderfully from start to end. Joe Pesci is stupendous. Patsy Kensit is good. Joss Ackland is excellent as the bad guy. Others lend good support. On the whole, A Winner All The Way! Grab a Popcorn and Get Ready For Some Great Vintage Entertainment! Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"So what if it's the same as the first. I would have thought that a good thing...","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I think the director of the Lethal Weapon series Richard Donner coined the phrase 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it'. Even if that is not the case it is definitely his personal motto.Lethal Weapon 2 is a very efficient replica of the original, so much so that I am willing to grant it Great status even though precious little has changed. Lethal Weapon 2 might be the same as the first, but when they are both equally entertaining you can forgive that, and this film might have the same ratio of action to comedy but here the jokes are funnier and more of them hit the mark.After Lethal Weapon 2 opens with a kick-ass car chase that serves to both get the adrenalin pumping, and reminds us that Riggs (Mel Gibson) is the crazy one and Murtaugh (Danny Glover) the more staid one who is 'too old for this sh*t and about to retire... still.We learn quickly that the new foe are a nasty South African crime group with management in high places, and half the things said or seen in the early stages serve as omens for the final 40 minutes or so.The boys are also given another task in this film and have to babysit a diminutive, motor-mouthed money launderer named Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) who has luck would have it has ties with the very same South African gang that Riggs and Murtaugh are after. Leo's OK, OK, OK jabber is amusing and annoying in equal proportion, so thankfully Leo gets more a bit part than a supporting role.All Lethal Weapons have great setpieces and action sequences, but this film is remembered for three things- The exploding toilet scene - DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY! - Mel and hottie South African secretary Rika getting' it onnnnnn.The fact that South Africa was right in the middle of apartheid when this film was released added a new wrinkle for the pair, obviously Roger, and made shooting white people cool again.Of course both Riggs and Murtaugh get their own personal nemesis to deal with and everyone nearly dies multiple times, but only those with less than 4 lines of dialogue actually bite the dust.Lethal Weapon 2 shouldn't work but thanks to the chemistry between the two leads, the efficiency of the action and the just right blend of action and comedy, you'll go a long way before you see a sequel as good as Lethal Weapon 2.Final Rating - 8.5 / 10. I didn't want to label this as Great but it's just so damn fast paced, funny and entertaining that I had no alternative. "},{"Title":"A great sequel to a classic buddy-cop movie","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Mel Gibson and Danny Glover return in a rare sequel that's just about as good as the first. Everything's new; it's not just a rehash. In the movie, to find the bad guy they have to get help of a man named Leo Getz. He's played by by Joe Pesci who is the new addition the movie. He's an accountant who has figured out a foolproof way to launder vast quantities of illegal drug money. He's very funny and is great to watch in every scene he is in.What Riggs and Murtaugh stumble over is a complex plot, never quite explained, by which South African diplomats are dealing illegally in gold and other contraband. It is unclear exactly what their plan is, but they are ruthless in its execution. The action has Murtaugh in the bathroom about to sit up when he finds out if he does a bomb will go off. That scene has Gibson and Glover with their most chemistry. It's pretty funny and dramatic. Also Gibson's trailer being shot up by a helicopter as he escapes is cool. And some pretty good chase sequences.Richard Donner returns as director as he will do in further installments. The only thing I miss is the Mel Gibson being suicidal. I know he really can't be but it was a pretty interesting thing in the first. And for a period of time in the middle Danny Glover is no where to be found and it focuses on Gibson's character. But in all this is darker than the first and with the introduction of Leo Getz this is a really good movie.3 1/2 stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Return of Gibson and Glover bogged down in the Afrikaans","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Even though Lethal Weapon 2 is a must see film, it doesn't come close to the breathtaking originality and raw entertainment of the original. This is almost certainly because Mel Gibson and Danny Glover nailed their roles so well in the first movie, that the impact during another outing is diluted somewhat. We now know that Glover is the warm, respected family man whilst Gibson is the loose cannon who will shoot first and ask questions later. It is perhaps a mark of the success of the original that the sequel doesn't quite paper over the cracks of the set pieces that stretch credibility - we've seen it all before, basically. That said, this is still an entertaining movie. Patsy Kensit is a puzzling piece of casting that plays our Mel's love interest, whilst the choice of villain this time, equally strangely, are the South Africans. Given the imminent demise of the Cold War at the time, it was a strange choice, but this in turn gives the movie an easy target of apartheid - especially with the scenes when Glover's character is abused. This sequel also went much more for comedy - and again strangely Joe Pesci is bought in to ramp up the comedic value. Not an automatic first choice for a comedy part, but Pesci does deliver admirably well, even though his character becomes more than a little irritating by the end. Good movie, well worth watching, but not a patch on the original of course. "},{"Title":"A very fun sequel","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The 80s was a great period for action films, with hits like The Terminator, Predator, Aliens and Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark. It was also a period where the buddy cop genre growth with 48 Hours and the Beverly Hills Cop Series. Sequels too were becoming more popular, such as the Back to the Future trilogy, Mad Max series, the Karate Kid series and Indiana Jones trilogy being major examples. With Lethal Weapon being a hit in 1987 a sequel was commissioned, with Richard Donner, Mel Gibson, Danny Glover and Shane Black returning.Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are now friends and partners in the LAPD. There are on the case of foreign drug dealers importing heroin into the United States. But when Murtaugh and his wife are threaten their captain assign the two officers to protect Leo Getz (Joe Pesci), a loudmouth money launderer who has become a federal witness. Getz is targeted by the drug dealers Riggs and Murtaugh are thrust into action to arrest them. But there are South African diplomats lead by Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland). There are protected by diplomatic immunity so our heroes have to come up with other means to stop the cartel.With the characters established in the first film, Donner was able to jump into the action straight and what better way is then a car chase in the middle of Los Andreas. Lethal Weapon 2 was also able to streamline the plot, forcing mostly on the battle of minds and weapons with the South Africans. There are not as many subplots, but the ones that are in the film do work. Donner keeps Lethal Weapon 2 going at a face pace, with plenty of action and tone wise the sequel is more light hearted and overtly humorous to it's predecessor. Most of the humour works, like when Murtaugh goes to the South African consulate pretended he wanted to emigrate to the Apartheid nation. There is also a running joke about Murtaugh's wife's new car repeatedly getting damaged because of the police wok. But there are a few scenes which try to be funny but do not add anything to the film, like when the cops and Getz argue about going through a drive through. Donner continues using traditional techniques for the action sequences, using stunt work and keeping the action real. It is also so good to actually see what is going on during a shoot-out or fight. The final fight scene between Gibson and Derrick O'Connor was better in this film then it was in Lethal Weapon because Donner used a lot of wide shots and used less cuts in the fight. Donner and his writers also find some interesting ways to kill people in rather humorous ways.Acting wise Lethal Weapon 2 was alright, Gibson and Glover has good chemistry together and now much more light hearted. Most of the other actors did a decent job, but Pesci's character was very annoying and he works best with Martin Scorsese and Robert De Niro. Some of the actors playing South Africans were also not able to master the accent, sounding more Australian/New Zealander, but that's a minor problem.However, a minor plothole in the film is if South African security forces started to kill American cops then you could imagine the response of the American government would have been.I found it very ironic that Gibson made fun of the South Africans for thinking there are the master race and calling one of them Adolf, considering we all now know his views on Black and Jewish people, women and homosexuals.A fun film. "}{"Title":"The best of the four!","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I don't know what it is about Lethal Weapon 2 but I have always found it the best out of the four. Gibson and Glover return as cop-comedy duo Riggs and Murtagh on the tail of a South African syndicate that deal in money and drugs that all have diplomatic immunity from the law. But that dosen't stop Riggs. There is plenty of terrific laughs between Gibson and Glover with Joe Pesci joining them as Leo Getz. The comic chemistry is fantastic as ever (thanks to a great script) mixing with the action. The action sequences, which are very entertaining are choreographed excellently with great acting from all involved including Patsy Kensit who plays Rigg's love interest and makes a lasting impression.The story itself has a surprising twist that connects to Rigg's deceased wife that makes him lose it. He certainly gets lethal in this one. This is a roller-coaster ride of action and laughs from start to finish. A fantastic and very enjoyable sequel. Great fun! "},{"Title":"Whatever Leo wanted...we Get.","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" My parents actually took me to see Lethal Weapon 2 in what still consider the greatest summer movie season of all time 1989. I hadn't seen the original but you absolutely don't need to; this incredibly stand-alone sequel tells you everything you need to know about the two leads, Riggs (Gibson) and Murtaugh (Glover) in the very first 15 seconds.I was absolutely blown away from the get-go and planted at the edge of my seat in the theatre the entire screening. Now, 21 years later and probably that many, or more, viewings, I'm still on the edge of my seat with excitement and awe in this fantastic film. In fact, this recent time I watched it, all the magic (SEE Movie Poster) was back and I couldn't help but clap in the closing on how much fun I had for the 21st time watching it.A lot of films advertise the multiple number of improvements in sequels in reference to the # in the series. For example, 2x The Action, Three times the Suspense, etc. This one, if I recall, did that obligatory 2x times the action, 2x the comedy, 2x the fun, or something like that. Though I liked the original Lethal Weapon, this did take everything to the next level. In fact, they elevated the magnitude of all that was right in the first one not by 2 but by ten.Though Pesci (Leo Getz) is a great and comedic addition to the gang (though no matter how many times I've seen this, I still can't follow his laundering money speech) with such classic lines like They F**K you at the drive-thru. *Repeat*, nothing beats the original members. Gibson is on top of his career as the rejuvenated lethal weapon from the first installment and Glover just goes along beautifully for the ride. You can sincerely see both having a blast, as if when they're laughing on screen and Director Donner yells cut, they continue rolling in laughter.The boys are back in L.A., this time researching the mysterious cougarans and the racist South African diplomatic immunity protected baddies while babysitting a state witness, Getz. The three cause city-wide chaos, uncover a mystery left open in the first Lethal Weapon and Riggs getz some. No, not with Pesci.Throw in some political statements (SAVE THE DOLPHINS!) which I literally hate when I see them either obviously or subliminally inserted in this series, and that's it. Really.I've heard that they had some rough outline of the script and the Director let the actors mostly improvise. So be it; this movie was hilarious, action-packed, deep, well paced, starts with a bang and ends on a justifiably tearful note. From beginning to climax, it's just one incredible scene after another and the writer/director knew enough when to give us a break, but not for too long &#x96; just enough to get ready for more excitement/humor.Oh, and the score's great, the soundtrack's wonderful George Harrison's Cheer Down, The Beach Boys's Still Cruisin' (After All These Years) and Eric Clapton's Knockin' On Heaven's Door are three of my all time favorites for movie music, the acting and even the over-the-top at times action sequences are believable and the lines were classic. 21 years later, I find myself quoting this movie, and most people I speak them to, know exactly what I am referring to, or can finish it for me. Such as the They F**K you&#x85; and my friends will fill in the &#x85;at the drive-thru! or Whatever Leo wants&#x85; &#x85;Leo Getz. Get it? This is a MUST-SEE for any fans of the action-comedy and is the ultimate buddy-cop film. Two decades later, it holds up beautifully today as if it were just made.Side Note Later in 1989, or perhaps in early 1990, I only owned three videocassettes that I watched over and over and over, well, because they were the only three I had. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade and Lethal Weapon 2 were my very first two, followed closely by Batman. So, I did watch and rewatch the second installment of Lethal Weapon multiple times, even without seeing the first until years later. Heck, I don't think I saw part one until after the third one came out in theatres. I was a tad bit disappointed in the original, only in reference to seeing all the action and comedy of part two whereas the first was more of a serious take on the lethal weapon Riggs. Nevertheless, part one's still good, but&#x85;Lethal Weapon 2 is a classic.Side Note 2 The only other times that comes to mind where the first installment is really good and the follow-up sequel tops in spades Star Wars Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, The Godfather Part II and Aliens. "},{"Title":"Somewhat better than the first time around....","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethat Weapon 2 is, surprisingly, a bit better than the first time around. The script is better, and the action is a bit more focused, though the plot is incredulous. This time the knuckleheads stumble across bad guys who, in this opus just prior to the fall of Apartheid in South Africa, are moving tons of Krugerrands out of the country (U.S.) under cover of diplomatic immunity. What does not square is the ending, and it is left up to the viewer to draw his/her conclusions. Lots of blood, guts, and killing going on for you viewers thirsty for action. At one point during the film, the bad guys appear to have declared war on the police department. The diplomatic aspect of the film is quite interesting, though it is never played up to full effect. The racial aspect has an edge on it as well...in those days there were dis-investments in S Africa by businesses and institutions of conscience, and the racists in S Africa were definitely feeling the heat, which led to its eventual downfall. Not all whites in S Africa are of a racist bent, nor do they fit the profile...but government policies had the same effect as rain...rain falls on everyone there, the fair-minded S Africans a well as the racists. But the movie itself is not a political statement. It is just action packed entertainment. I do not recommend it highly, but I found it to be something of an interesting watch....much to my amazement. "},{"Title":"Lethal Sequel","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The second Lethal Weapon movie develops the buddy relationship between hotshot Mel Gibson (as Martin Riggs) and graying Danny Glover (as Roger Murtaugh). In the first film, they gave each other a new lease on life (more for Mr. Gibson, of course). Here, Mr. Glover does not seem as retirement-oriented; and, the once suicidal Gibson seems practically happy-go-lucky. The duo is asked to watch over money-laundering Joe Pesci (as Leo Getz), who is planning to squeal. Unfortunately, Mr. Pesci comes with some really mean South African drug-runners. They want to kill the Los Angeles police department employing Gibson and Glover.Director Richard Donner moves it excitingly, with a lot of violence and a little sex. This time shirt-shedding Gibson gets to mate with a pretty blonde, Eighth Wonder singer Patsy Kensit (as Rika van den Haas). Gibson thinks it's Rika Haagen-Dazs and gets her shirt off, too. You have to admit, they both have cute nipples. Also, Glover's pretty daughter Traci Wolfe (as Rianne Murtaugh) does a condom commercial which, Pesci says, Makes me wanna buy rubbers. Gibson cuts down on his drinking and smoking, and learns to get out of a straight-jacket like Houdini, which comes in handy, as you'll see. Glover gets a big toilet joke.Too bad filmmakers couldn't find a way to bring back the tremendously effective Mitchell Ryan and Gary Busey from the first film; but, replacement team Joss Ackland (as Arjen Rudd) and henchman Derrick O'Connor (as Pieter Vorstedt) make you miss the original villains less. The soundtrack is very nicely done, with The Beatles' George Harrison, The Beach Boys, and Eric Clapton contributing original material. Still Cruisin' was released as the accompanying single, but stiffed at #93 on the Hot 100 chart. Mr. Harrison's tuneful Cheer Down (heard over the closing credits) wasn't a single, but became a #7 radio Track hit.This, the Director's Cut of the movie has, Over four specially added minutes, according to the DVD notes, which are described as Riggs wows the pretties at a hotel spa before getting to Getz. Murtaugh receives bad bodywork news from an auto repairman after his beleaguered station wagon sees some Riggs-piloted street action. Plus, feisty Leo shares a newly included scene in which he recalls a suspect's address by complex spins of numbers that, well, no one can tell it like Leo. And no one would follow his lead but Riggs and Murtaugh. It's police procedure, 'Lethal' style. It's an enjoyable, franchise-moving sequel.****** Lethal Weapon 2 (7/7/89) Richard Donner ~ Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Derrick O'Connor "},{"Title":"Enjoyable follow up to the original","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first Lethal Weapon is not only one of the best cop-buddy movies but it is also by far one of Mel Gibson's best movies. And this second instalment is still a fun ride!The acting is nothing short of excellent. Especially Mel Gibson portrays the deeply disturbed Martin Riggs with great finesse and his ability to create nuanced characters shines through in this movie. You genuinely feel with him and feel the incredible weight of his wife's death on him. Danny Glover is also great in his role as the aging family father. The on-screen chemistry between the two actors is excellent and the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh has been weighed more heavily than in the following movies that were to come.The action in the movie is excellent for an 80s movie. All in all, a movie where basically everything works and is perhaps underrated by the voters of IMDb. "},{"Title":"A thrilling and often humorous sequel","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon, a successful action blockbuster from 1987 starring Mel Gibson and Danny Glover, spawned a total of three sequels. This one, Lethal Weapon 2, released in 1989, was obviously the first of those three. I saw the original Lethal Weapon for the first time just three months ago. I was less than a year old when that one was released, and just under three years old when this first sequel came into theatres. Since they're R-rated movies, I obviously wouldn't be seeing them anytime soon. I was unaware of the existence of the entire series until sometime within the past couple years. However, as I expected, I was impressed with the first one when I saw it this year. I wasn't expecting this one to be as good, but still had reasonable expectations, and wasn't disappointed.As Sergeant Martin Riggs and Sergeant Roger Murtaugh of the L.A.P.D. chase after a criminal in a red BMW, it crashes. They go to arrest the driver, but find out he has escaped. Riggs and Murtaugh search the car, and discover that the trunk is filled with Krugerrands, South African gold coins! After Murtaugh is threatened in his bedroom by a group of South African thugs, who warn him to stop the investigation, the two L.A.P.D. officers are assigned to protect Leo Getz, a witness in a drug case who will soon testify! They learn that this man has been doing business with South African drug smugglers, a group lead by Arjen Rudd! Rudd is the one Riggs and Murtaugh are after, but unfortunately, he is the minister of diplomatic affairs for the South African Consulate! He and his organization are diplomatically immune, meaning it will be hard to arrest them! Like the original, Lethal Weapon 2 features a good amount of action, suspense, and humour. The film starts off humorously with the car chase, showing the two main characters with a very different attitude towards it. After that, a lot more humour follows, with Riggs and Murtaugh's awkward relationship. Joe Pesci plays the goofy Leo Getz, a comical character who also amused me. I laughed quite a bit during the film, and also found myself in suspense many times, with the two heroes in pursuit of the dangerous criminals! The part with Murtaugh stuck on a booby-trapped toilet is good for both suspense AND laughs. The two stars, Gibson and Glover, made a good pair in the original 1987 blockbuster, and do it once again here. This sequel may not be quite as consistent as its predecessor, but at least it comes close. The biggest problem I have with this second installment is that it seemed a tad overlong to me, but apart from that, there's not much I can complain about. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel!","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a great follow up to the first Lethal Weapon movie. Unlike most people, I generally like sequels. This film is no exception. The things that made the first movie a success made this film a success. There is still plenty of action and comedy mixed in with each other.Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are back as butt-whooping cops. This time around, they must protect Leo Getz, a talkative con businessman. Before they do much, they get into trouble with the South African people.The acting once again is splendid. Gibson and Glover have great chemistry. It's not everyday when you see old guys play successful bad guys. This certainly did me in.Overall, this is a great sequel. I liked everything about this film. My favorite scenes involves Rianne and commercials. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Even more lethaler!","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The sequel offers more comedy (great buddy action between Riggs and Murtaugh, with Joe Pesci coming in as brilliant comedic sidekick Leo Getz, okayokayokay ...) and more over-the-top action, and even less of a coherent plot. While Riggs was an ambivalent and unhinged guy in the first part, he's more like the Australian answer to Bruce Lee and James Bond rolled into one here (hordes of villains keep attacking him with nuclear weapons -- Riggs wards them all off with his trusty Beretta and the occasional roundhouse kick) -- which unfortunately also makes him a lot less intriguing.I would really have preferred a less ludicrous and more together plot. I thought it was a nice touch to throw in a bit of current politics and to give the South Africans (then still a racist régime) a hard time, but the movie goes way over the top here in painting them Blofeld-evil and likening them to the Nazis. It's just silly and schematic. Riggs repeatedly busts this one fat South African guy murdering babies and stuffing them with drugs, to which the insidious Kaffir-hater will always retort by claiming diplomatic immunity.Overall, this franchise lingers under the he usual weakness of the plot and narration department, but is still often enjoyable. It's one of those movies which is fun to watch, then afterwards there is this uncomfortable phase where you unsuccessfully try to make sense of the plot, and then you forget the whole movie quite quickly. "},{"Title":"More explosive and dramatic than the original","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Danny Glover and Mel Gibson as cops Murtaugh and Riggs had enough chemistry in 1987's Lethal Weapon to generate more than four times the film's estimated budget that it easily green-lit a sequel. Lethal Weapon 2 gives us further development of that relationship, but what you didn't necessarily expect was that the story and the action in the sequel would improve too. Well, Richard Donner and Joel Silver bring the heat once again in this sequel. It's just as witty and clever as the original and even more stuff explodes. The action even takes a turn from cool to serious as the bad guys (members of the South African consulate who use their diplomatic immunity to cover up their crimes) seem to be everywhere and taking everyone's life. You really don't like them at all. The film also deepens the humanity of Murtaugh and Riggs (specifically Riggs in this one) at the same time, which is pretty admirable for an action script back in the 1980s.The gunfire does get excessive at times and much like the original there's some crazy new scene unfolding around every corner with little lead in, but by some point in this film you just accept that as part of the Lethal Weapon universe--the bad guys are everywhere and there's always something going on. It really allows the film to pack in as much action as possible.Donner in the director's chair also deserves more accolades this time around. He simply gets how to weave action and drama by focusing on the characters a lot while also capturing the scope of the action sequences.Glover and Gibson really are a great tandem. They are both untypical for action heroes because they have such a wide range of emotions. They both joke around, take their jobs seriously at times, can be filled with hate or revenge and they truly know what's most important to them. Too many cops in films are one or two-dimensional but Shane Black's characters are not.Perhaps the only thing wrong with the film, other than it's odd racial undertones in tackling Apartheid South Africa, is that it forced writer Shane Black to walk away based on where Silver and Donner wanted to take their blooming franchise. Hard to argue with a gross more than double that of the original though. "},{"Title":"Nearly as good as original","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riggs and Murtaugh return once again in this fun, action-packed sequel.This time around, they are met by South African diplomats, led by Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland). They seem to have the upper hand in taking down Rudd's gang until they realize one very menacing thing about Rudd and his gang...they have diplomatic immunity and cannot be arrested.Like the first Lethal Weapon, the enemy is an evil gang with its super-evil leader, and its clear cut who the enemy is. What's different is the methods they use and the action/fighting scenes. Also here, there is a new member of the gang, the hunted, klutzy Leo Getz (Joe Pesci).I feel this movie's action scenes were great, but the character development wasn't as good as the first. Also, a few scenes could have been done better, but I won't complain all that much as Lethal Weapon 2 is not a movie to be messed with.8/10 "}{"Title":"South African input","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I liked the movie and did not want it to be tarnished by incorrect understanding of the foreign words used.The Afrikaans phrase jou moer comes from moeder which means mother (it is also an old word for baarmoeder which means womb). It vaguely refers to the concept of your mother but is seldom used as the c-word. It is used in a slightly crude but funny and fairly well accepted sense in South Africa.For example moer big means a mother of a size. And if you moer someone, you give them a mother of a beating. Jou moer is not directly translatable but means something similar to screw you or your ass!. (Jou means your, not you in this case). It's only perhaps if you say Your mother's moer! (if you really corner the word), that you indirectly probably referring to a meaning that it is not usually used for.The truth is no-one knows what it really means anymore, but it's nice to say and a versatile adjective, adverb or verb. It is used by young and old alike, in colloquial conversation, but it would be improper to use it in formal situations.Just a point of interest the South African actors are unlikely to be real South Africans - judging by their accent. We roll our R's to begin with ,and even English South Africans know how to say moer properly - it is a short, abrasive word, not like in the movie. But they must have had some South African input none the less.The movie was quite popular in South Africa as Afrikaans seldom features in Hollywood films, let alone slang Afrikaans. So it was fun to watch. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover were a good choice of actors and delivered well. The racial tension issues did not detract from the main storyline - to get the bad guys. "},{"Title":"A fun sequel!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" MEL Gibson & DANNY GLOVER'S characters RIGG & MURTAUGH return to blow away the bad guys in this equally fun sequel to the equally fun original. This time the boys with the help of chatter box LEO GETZ (JOE PESCI) a defendant that the two must watch over & save from attempted assassinations, must deal with a south African diplomat who is selling drugs & using his diplomatic immunity for protection, but that doesn't mean he's protected from these two cops & soon they are blowing away these cold blooded villains by the dozens, while Riggs learns that his late wife's death by car accident had more to it than what he thought. LETHAL WEAPON 2 is a very exciting movie that should quench the thirst of all action movie fans, it's got an equal dose of scummy villains, lots of fights, shoot outs & chases & even more humor than what the original had. The actors were tremendous & RICHARD DONNER really knows his stuff behind the camera, as he delivers another great directing gig. Action movie buffs, this is a must see! Followed by LETHAL WEAPON 3 **** stars "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a pretty good sequel.  I liked the action scene's and the scene's with Gibson, Glover, and Pesci were good.  The one thing I didnt like was that they barely gave a sh*t about the plot.  Half the time they werent even talking about it.  I like action movies where you dont have to think much but I at least like the stars to care about why they are fighting.  This is the problem with the other sequel's, they dont take the plot seriously.  Still, there are plenty of good action scene's and good chemistry between the stars that make this a good movie.  4/5 "},{"Title":"The magic truly is back","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 2 is a great sequel to a great film. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are back providing more great chemistry, action and laughs. Joe Pesci becomes part of the franchise and steals almost every scene he's in as Leo Getz. I love these movies. "},{"Title":"Even better than the first one!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 2 is even better than the original. Gibson and Glover are back as Murtaugh and Riggs, and this time they're after some diplomat using his immunity to commit murder and crimes typical, but still great! Lethal Weapon 2 has it all. Romance, Action, Comedy...the whole deal! The magic is definitely back! "},{"Title":"Mel and Danny are at is again, and Joe Pesci is along for the ride.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mel is back as Detective Sergeant Martin Riggs and Danny Glover is still his partner, Detective Sergeant Roger Murtaugh but besides having to deal with evil minded South African diplomats they have to babysit Joe Pesci as Leo Getz their mob informant turned amateur Detective.  They've done it again and you will laugh. "},{"Title":"There's Been Some South African Money Smuggling and LA Detectives Gibson and Glover Are On It!","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS        They're back and even more crazy than last time! Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh are chasing a speeding driver down the freeway. When they catch him, well after the car crashes, they discover Krugerands, a whole bag of them in the trunk.          Murtaugh's daughter, Rianne, is going to be in a commercial.They watch it and it turns out to be a comdom commercial. Murtaugh is awful embarrassesd, and if that wasn't bad enough, they soon get to participate in the witness protection program. A guy named Leo Getz is the man they gotta protect. He's staying at a huge hotel so they go there. Riggs and Murtaugh take an immediate dislike to Getz.Whatever you need, Leo Getz. Ya get it? Then a thug breaks in theroom. Riggs get's the jump on him, then the thug, Riggs, and Leo go flying out the window and into the pool. The thug got away. He was an assistant to Arjen Rudd, a crime boss hiding behind diplomatic credentials. Leo worked for them at one point (all he did that was a crime was launder a billion dollars), so he, Riggs and Murtaugh head out to the House on Stilts. Chaos and alot of action ensues. Riggs meets a girl that he become fond of.        The three stop at drive-thru and Leo gives a speech on why you shouldn't go to the drive-thru. Murtaugh and Riggs also learn of South African aparthaid going on. Not only that, but one day Murtaugh discovered there was a bomb on his toilet. If he stood up, kaboom! But Riggs was there and so was the bomb squad. They made itthrough in one piece! Also, Arjen's men were assassinating cops; Murtaugh hears the name Alba Varden and thinks it sounds familiar, sowhile Riggs and Rika Van Den Haas, his new girlfriend, are at histrailer, Murtaugh and Leo go to Murtaugh's house. Leo stays in the car, but is soon abducted by Arjen's men. Murtaugh discovers that Alba Varden is a ship.        Back at Riggs' trailer, a bunch of Arjen's men in helicopterszoomed down and began shooting. Riggs took'em down but they were soon captured. Riggs learned that it was Arjen's henchman, Pieter Vorstadt that was responsible for Riggs' wife's death. They had run her off the road. They had killed poor Rika. It was personal now, so Murtaugh and Riggs travel to the house on stilts, rescue Leo and knocked it all down. They had Leo drive back to the station in Murtaugh's car while he and Riggs went to the shipyard.        Even though Arjen Rudd is hiding behind diplomatic immunity, Murtaugh revokes it by blasting him away. They soon terminate all the bad guys and once again the city is saved thanks to LAPD detectives Riggs and Murtaugh.      Joe Pesci adds a great touch to this movie. I like his dirty speeches on why not to go to the drive-thru. If not for Joe Pesci, I never would've seen the Lethal Weapon movies. This movie is as good as the original, I guess, see it for yourself. I think you will like it. --              "},{"Title":"Funny with a bang!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought it was better than the first film.For only 2 reasons. 1.Joe Pesci's Hilarious Leo Getz. Who adds so much to the film. 2.Patsy Kensits characters relationship with riggs. Plus all the buddy cop humor,drama,and action that we have come to expect.For me LW2 was the best in the series. "},{"Title":"Action Packed, Funny, Better Than The Original","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'v seen all the Lethal Weapon Films, but this one by far takes the cake. It's Action Packed, Funny, and better than all of the other Lethal films. Mel Gibson gives a great performance as the Wacko Seargent Martin Riggs, Danny Glover is in the role he was born to play the Easy Going Seargent Roger Murtaugh, and Joe Pesci delivers some excellant comic relief, I guess You could call him The Third Stooge. Joss Ackland and Derrick O'Conner perform well as the diabolical South African Drug Dealers. In my opinion, however Joe Pesci steals the show with his wise guy comments and mannerisims, He is The Comedy of this movie. This One should be up there with the rest of the great action films like Die Hard, Terminator, Dirty Harry, etc. Seven Out Of Ten! "},{"Title":"Murtaugh and Riggs return!","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mel Gibson and Danny Glover return in this sequel to the box office blast lethal weapon. This time the two are taking on South African (how politically correct) diplomats who are using their diplomat status to hide a drug smugglng ring. New characters include a love interest for the high strung Riggs, played by Patsy Kensit who does the best she can with what she is given. and Joe Pesci as a fast talking con man.  As much action as the first this sequel also did very well at the box office. The villans are of course played to the hilt but very well. Joss Ackland does a very good job in his love to hate role. On a scale of one to ten ....7 "}{"Title":"Great characters far outweigh repetetive action","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say I'm a huge fan of the Lethal Weapon series and I've seen them all far too many times. In terms of action movie franchises, Lethal Weapon is second only to the Bond movies.    Like the Bond series, the Lethal series began with a serious, violent thriller and evolved into spectacular action blockbusters with plenty of humour. Unilke Bond, however, the Lethal series got better with every installment, reaching a peak with 1992's Lethal 3, before returning one last time for a not-quite-as-good final installment in 1998.    So, Lethal 2 is better than the original, not as good as Lethal 3 and about on par with Lethal 4. What does that mean in real terms? Well, it's very violent, intense action of the eighties rather than the more stunt-based, spectacular action of the nineties. It mainly consists of machine gun shoot-outs and bloody fist fights, like the original, but already begins to move away from the seriousness of Lethal 1 by creating more elaborate, unlikely deaths for the villains that are therefore less exploitative and less nasty. Unfortunely, there are almost no really memorable action scenes in Lethal 2 apart from Riggs' Raiders of the Lost Ark-style attempt to take control of a truck whilst in motion. The final shoot-out is so cliched and unimaginative it beggars belief almost. Isn't the &#145;rule' that the good guys have to  fight the bad guys pyhsically at the climax? Not just shoot them? Riggs does get to kick ass, but it's bullets over fists here.  Still, very enjoyable stuff with great characters. And that's far more important than action anyway, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Once again Riggs and Murtaugh are back in this explosive sequel","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you liked the first one you will love Lethal weapon 2 non stop action great car chases shootouts and comedy.The villains are good played by Joss Ackland and Derrick O Conner who play South African diplomats that are up to no good . Riggs and Murtaugh soon get involved in the case when they are given the job of babysitting Leo Getz who laundered the South Africans money.I give Lethal weapon 2 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Soft at first but it got better","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok. This movie started out a little soft.I mean the whole thing with Riggs being so mushy with people. But later on when he found out what really happened to his ex-wife then we saw the Riggs from the first Lethal.I was not all that fond of the villains. They did not have that edge that made the First Lethal the best.Anyway, the story was ok. Could have been better "},{"Title":"The Best Lethal Weapon","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 2 is the best film out of the 4 Lethal Weapon films. The main reason that this is the best one is because it has more comedy than the other films in the trilogy and the reason this film is so funny is because Joe Pecsi who plays Leo Getz. There is more action in this film also, I highly reccomend this film. "},{"Title":"the best LW film!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i am not such a big fan of this series, Lethal Weapon was a bore, LW 3 sucks majorly, and LW 4 was even worse. I didn't have such high hopes for this one when i saw it on tv, but finally i liked it very much! This film is definitely the best in the LW series it has the best story and best action and best villains and best humor. I just loved Joe Pesci, he's got a tendency to whine, but he's very funny (anything you need, Leo Getz, get it? It's very good, i use it to break the ice with my clients). The scene with the bomb in the toilet was great, very funny, although i think Roger's character was a bit wasted throughout the film. Anyway, the chemistry between Riggs and Murtaugh is better than ever and the scenes with Riggs and the nazi's or whatever they were, were very funny. I recommend this film to action and comedy fans. "},{"Title":"Lethally Funny","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gibson and Glover are back at it again. This time with the comic relief of Joe Pesci this film may rival the 1st in popularity. It has action, adventure, thrills and spills and it's down right silly. Watch for one of the funniest moments in film history when Pesci and Glover go to the South African embassy. Maybe the film is not intended to be a comedy but it sure makes it a watchable feature. The film is just great so go and see it ok, ok, ok.  "},{"Title":"Getting Lethal for the 2nd time","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Riggs and Murtaugh are back, and with more of the same laugh and violence riot just like the 1st L.W., but they've got another factor on their ride, a sleazy little creep named Leo Getz (Joe Pesci, who in my opinion is his funniest role since Harry from Home Alone!!). Now, it's no longer The Odd Couple for the series, it's now the Three Stooges with Pesci as the 3rd stooge! Need I say more? > >Gibson and Glover are the kings of the bickering buddy-cop genre, and they both play it with the same funny glitch as this flick's predesessor. Then they get Pesci into the line, and it keeps getting better and funnier! This time around, our heroes tangle with a bunch of South African druggies, who are just itching to get their a**es kicked and their heads blown off! Can Riggs, Murtaugh, and Getz kill the bad guys without killing themselves first? Watch Lethal Weapon and find out yourself.  "},{"Title":"A great follow-up to a great action movie","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This one has more production values - better sets, bigger stunts - but what makes it all work is the chemistry between Glover and Gibson. I have to admit, Gibson could have chemistry with a can of Spam, but Glover stays right with him.There is more of a focus on the plot in this one and Gibson's acting is less intense because of it. David Warner was a nice surprise as one of the bad guys, and he has one of the best lines in the movie. But there is still one of those silly kickboxing sequences. "},{"Title":"Good action, good laughs-but 1st one's better","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a funny and entertaining follow-up to the first one. As mentioned by another user, most sequels try to re-hash what made the first one so great.  Thank god Lethal Weapon 2 built forward instead of pounding on the same nail.  My favorite scene is Joe Pesci's whining about drive-thrus, and my favorite character is Vorsedt, the Adolph Hitler look-alike with the funny accent.  Despite all this, it still falls just a little short of the original on freshness, even though the series built forward with this film.   "},{"Title":"They're Back!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   There is a few decent things about this film that make it tolerable          a)Mel Gibson's scenes with Jock Ackland are so funny.           b)The added comical humour of Joe Pesci.And then there are the annoying useless scenes         a)Every scene with Patsy Kensit.          b)Gibson's underwater 'Houdini style' escape. All in all, Lethal Weapon 2 does not do the first one justice. Danny Glover's extensive use of the line,I'm too old for this s**t carries on for another two films. Patsy Kensit is too mousy for her character and plays the part badly. It seems to me, the writers missed a great chance here, which is shame because the others in the series are very good. Rating=2/5P.S. I am the same Joe Elliott that did the review for the first Lethal Weapon at joe elliott(john@whitekibworth)   "}{"Title":"Not too bad for a sequel.","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The unbearable cop are back in a somewhat violent sequel.Watchable sequel is pretty much the same thing but enjoyable.Rating***1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Could almost stand as it's own movie","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Make no mistake, Lethal Weapon 2 is a sequel. But, as such, it is almost as fresh as the first film.Unlike many movie sequels which simply try to re-create and recapture the flavor of the first, the Lethal Weapon franchise is allowed to grow and mature to an extent in LW2.  Riggs is no longer the maniac suicidal (well he still is a maniac) and Murtaugh now works much more in sync with him. The pair are now like a well oiled machine, although they still have their disagreements. Humor is one element that is taken to a higher degree in this film, and it is an effective tool in moving the film along, where as in the first, suicide contemplation and other dramatic scenes served a similar function.The film however, could not have succeeded without heinous villains, and despite the fact that their activities are never explained, the South African diplomat/criminals serve as formidable adversaries.Lethal Weapon 2 does of course require the viewer to have seen the first film in order to fully understand the characters and certain references, but still, as a companion piece to LW1, or as its' own film, LW2 is solid entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts off with Riggs and Murtaugh in a chase. It had some action to it, but I think what ruined it was the mushy stuff. Riggs wasn't really that suicidal anymore. Joe Pesci did ok. He complained a lot in this one.  Lethal Weapon 2 wasn't bad but you know what they say. Nothing can beat the original  "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  To me I think the movie is very entertaining.  The action was brilliant. Mel & Danny are great together and Joe Pesci adds more comic and pleasure to the movie.  Patsy Kensit was alright I guess,  but I think she's done some pretty bad stuff in this movie and others in her little Madonna past times. Some movies she's great,  others it's too much.  But all in all it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Some good, but not as much as original (becomes a standard action flick)","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In a nutshell, this has the fun action craziness of the original, further develops the relationship b/w Riggs and Murtaugh, and profitably adds Pesci to the still excellent comedy, but lazy and very unrealistic plot contrivances let it down. It's good that Riggs has grown out of his semi-suicidal state which largely drove him in the first film (since at the very least, he's now got a friend and a defacto family with Murtaugh). But what we're given to replace that feels really cheap and manipulative.What I really didn't like was creating motivation for Riggs by conveniently having him drop his new girlfriend back at her flat for the bad guys to kidnap, and the oh-so-convenient revelation that the same bad guys sadistically killed his former wife (previously thought to be a car accident). Plus killing off the new girlfriend - OK, that's a bit novel since the girl doesn't get saved this time around, but then again it's just used as a way to motivate Riggs (and probably clear the way for a new female in the next movie).Regarding the villains, with the warming relations between Russian and the US, plus the fact the Ruski's had been done to death as movie antagonists, sooner or later racist South Africans were going to be a logical choice as bad guys for this kind of flick (and for what it's worth, I don't believe this film portrays all white South Africans are racist - Patsy Kensit's character is obviously intended to provide some balance on that point). But actually, why stop with using the villains' nasty character as an *excuse* to blow them away? My suggestion.....involve a victim of these guys who is *in South Africa*, and use that as the motivation for Riggs, rather than continuously putting his family/partners/families at risk. Ambitious maybe, but then again, so was the first film, making the hero a guy who quite possibly wasn't mentally stable at all. This sequel defaulted to standard 'good guy must be damaged by bad guys personally in order to kill and blow stuff up' clichés. "},{"Title":"Not as lethal as the first film","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'll be honest and say that I wasn't overly impressed with the first film. I found it to be watchable and fairly enjoyable, but it wasn't what I would call 'fantastic'. In this second film, there were a number of problems which (for me) made this film merely 'average'. The opening 10-15 minutes were great and I really thought I was in for an exciting sequel, but after this opening sequence the film just seems to plod along and fails to keep up the momentum.For me, I just didn't find the plot of this film to be particularly engaging; South African diplomats using their immunity to engage in criminal activities. The leader of the South African diplomats is Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland)- whilst Ackland's acting was fairly good, I found him to be a fairly forgettable villain. There was also a distinct lack of character development in this second film. In this second film, we are introduced to Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) who is a witness which Riggs and Murtagh are assigned to 'protect' before he testifies at a trial. However, complications ensue when it turns out that Getz has been dealing with the South African diplomats and confesses to stealing a large amount of cash from them.In addition to the rather weak plot, I also found a few implausible scenarios (Riggs managed to pull a building down with his truck, Riggs managing to shoot a villain in a helicopter from long range in the pitch black). The first film was a bit silly, but this film felt ridiculous at times rather than silly.The good thing about this second film is that the chemistry was still good between Riggs and Murtagh. I also felt that Leo Getz was a great addition to the film (although he was clearly introduced more for comic relief than anything else). Pesci is a great actor, but I felt that the writers let him down here as his character's dialogue was repetitive and at times it did get a bit tedious.This is a tough one for me as all the ingredients from the first film are there; humour, good chemistry between the leads. However, it's let down by a weak plot and at times I felt somewhat bored (which is not something that I can say about the first film). To sum up, Lethal Weapon isn't a complete disaster, but it's definitely not as good as the first film. "},{"Title":"Excellent, suspenseful, funny, and action-packed thrill ride","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, LETHAL WEAPON 2 is an excellent, suspenseful, funny, and action-packed thrill ride. I thought that Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover) made a good detective team, especially when they were doing detective work. A few things I liked about this film were the romance between Riggs and Rika (Patsy Kensit), whenever the bad guys got their a**** kicked, and Leo's (Joe Pesci) wise remarks. Those parts really made me feel good and smile. In conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent, suspenseful, funny, and action-packed thrill ride to all you Mel Gibson or Danny Glover who have not seen it. When you see it, buckle up and hold on tight for a ride of pure thrills and laughs. "},{"Title":"A sequel that is much better than expected!","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 2 is a rare sequel in which compared to many movie sequels, this one could be ranked as one of the many great sequels along with being one of the better action movies of 1989.In 1987, movie fans were introduced to partners, the wacky but volatile Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and cool but cautious Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) to a little known movie called Lethal Weapon. Two years later the cops are back for more ass-kicking and blowing up the bad guys than before where there is more than meets the eye.Riggs and Murtaugh just finish chasing down a couple of bad guys where they noticed that there's a load of stolen money before realizing its from drug traffic. The subplot involves a ruthless villain played by Joss Ackland who's pretending to be a diplomat for South Africa where they could do their crime in Los Angeles; there's also a witness that both Riggs and Murtaugh look after by the name of Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) who can't seem to shut the hell up at any cost. Leo's a witness to bringing down the fake diplomat whereas Riggs discovers that one of the criminals wanting to kill him, Murtaugh and Leo has ties to his wife's death.Lethal Weapon 2 still proves to be a wham, bam, thank you ma'am movie where it feels like between the action, the relationship of the characters and the talking, this sequel proves to outshine most sequels. "},{"Title":"more fun and mayhem with Mel Gibson and Danny Glover(and Joe Pesci)","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" the rating for this movie on this site is 7/10,which i would have to agree with.to me,this is a better movie than the first one.it's got much more action,it's more exciting,and faster paced.it's also funnier.the characters are better defined,and the storyline is better.i also think this movie had a better villain than the first.this time,along with Danny Glover and Mel Gibson,Joe Pesci is along for the ride,and provides some laughs.also,there is more banter between Gibson and Glover. the movie is just more compelling all around.the first one was a bit slow at times,but not so with this one.for me,Lethal Weapon 2 is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"The film that blew James Bond out of the box office in 1989 will blow your mind!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Carrying on from where they left off in the original, Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are back with more incredible stunts, machine gun dialogue, and red hot action than ever before. Reprising their 'good cop, mad cop' routine, except with a greater emphasis on the lighter side of Riggs's character, the comedy is enhanced further by the significant adaptation to the series of pint-sized motor-mouth Leo, played by Joe Pesci (Raging Bull). Along with the full set of characters introduced in the original, such as the police chief, the psychiatrist, and Murtagh's family, we are treated to an even greater range of gun fights, car chases, explosive fist fights, and dramatic confrontations as the duo become involved in an investigation into heroin smuggling.The bad guys, who are depicted as stereotypical Afrikaner racists (boo, hiss), are nevertheless played by deliciously by Joss Ackland and Derrick O'Connor, who spit out their dialogue in as guttural and vicious way as possible, accentuating the unusual use of the South African accent (in Hollywood, anyway) to create characters immediately identifiable as villains, but whom it can be great to imitate anyway! The actual 'plot' of the drug runners hiding behind diplomatic immunity takes third place to the other two plot strands, as the police come under attack for their intrusion and Leo enters the new treble act with Riggs and Murtagh.Visually, LETHAL WEAPON 2 will always go down as the most memorable of the series, mostly due to the famous 'bathroom scene', which should be textbook material for any writer in how to take a unique dramatic situation, and turn it on its head to create comedy. In effect, that is the entire LETHAL series in a nutshell. We do get another long hard look at the dark side of Martin Riggs, and once again Gibson is completely believable as a man driven to the edge of rationality by his enemies, as he makes a terrible discovery about the death of his wife. Also notable for the appearance of the stunningly beautiful Patsy Kensit who does a great job keeping up with Gibson (why she married Liam Gallagher I can't imagine), the first sequel to LETHAL WEAPON is a worthy successor and in some regards actually succeeds in surpassing its illustrious predecessor. "}{"Title":"This is not good","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was kind to part one because it was okay but as with every hit movie comes a sequel and boy was this not good. Danny Glover and Mel Gibson seemed to go into this one less motivated. It had the same old storyline and The combination seems to have reached its peak so I don't know how they decided to make part 3 and 4 but for some reason they did. I stopped watching after this one not good don't waste your time and if your watching on video why did you waste you money. Mel Gibson doesn't act that great either I have seen him much better in What Women Want and Brave Heart this was a travesty. 2 out of 10 the 2 going to Mel and Danny who had to carry out this poor script  "},{"Title":"Just as 'lethal as the first.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ***Starring Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, and Patsy Kensit.AHHHHHH! It's the attack of the South African smugglers! For the love of God run for you freaking life! Well those are the bad guys in the film who will eventually get the crap beaten out of them by Riggs and Murtaugh.  The movie is just as lethal as the first and has a great new addition to their cast, Joe Pesci. "},{"Title":"Sequel that falls short...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can only imagine how difficult it must be to live up to the expectations of a great movie like the original Lethel Weapon.  A sequel to the great action flick was a must!!  Unfortunately the first sequel is not everything it should have been, and in some aspects it was too much of some things.  Joe Pesci being the too much.  The story line seemed jumbled and hard to follow.  Diplomats from South Africa are hiding behind their diplomatic immunity in order to carry out a drug smuggling organization and some other things that are forgettable or too hard to figure out to remember.  Gibson and Glover are nonetheless perfect as Riggs and Murtaugh.  The two best friends and partners are closer than ever and on their toes.  Unfortunately they don't have a lot to work with when it comes to the bad storyline.  Joe Pesci is brought into the mix as a witness that they have to protect from the diplomats who are also money laundering or some fool thing.  The movie starts out promising with action packed scene in grand Richard Donner tradition.  The comedy in the film between Riggs and Murtaugh, their one liners, and bantering between the two of them is hilarious and perfect, but all of a sudden completely unnecessary Joe Pesci comes in and he is just too much...he is definately the Jar Jar Binks of Lethel Weapon.  He is barely funny and is just slapstick comedy that doesn't sit right in the movie.  The bad guys are not scary and we don't hate them, in fact, they are forgettable and easily defeated.  Riggs also finds himself falling in love again with a beautiful diplomat working for the bad guys.  She doesn't like her boss and she hates what he's in to and eventually he becomes her demise in a very touching scene.  The romance is very good, and we feel for Riggs losing another lover.  Riggs also discovers that one of the men working for this bad guy is the man who killed his wife...which is an interesting and a good storyline but it's handled very poorly.  Riggs doesn't get the kind of revenge that perhaps we would like to see him get against his wife's and his new lover's killer. The movie was also chock full of bad language that is completely misplaced and annoying...it's gratuitous.  As well the body count rises as Riggs and Murtaugh kills everyone in their path which is TOO unrealistic and borders on crazy.  Even certain explosions and car accidents would have killed civilians but that is never mentioned either.  Usually in an action film this is overlooked but there is just sooooooo much of it that you can't miss that fact of it.  Overall it's a sequel that falls very short of the amazing original.  However, it's a must see just because of Gibson and Glover and it's part of this wonderful action series.  I have given it harsh words but it entertained me and despite the negatives it's not bad.  I give it a 7/10...which falls far from my review of the original. "},{"Title":"Gibson And Glover Are Back!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  	The tone is a bit lighter, but the `lethal' action continues unabated and non-stop as two of L.A.P.D.'s finest go after a South African consulate, dirty up to his neck in drugs and hiding behind diplomatic immunity in `Lethal Weapon 2,' directed by Richard Donner and once again starring Mel Gibson and Danny Glover.  Still crazy, but no longer suicidal, Riggs (Gibson) continues to hunt down the bad guys with partner Roger Murtaugh (Glover), and this time around they find their lives in danger when they get too close to the underhanded dealings of South African Arjen `Aryan' Rudd (Joss Ackland) and his band of thugs.  Along the way, they're assigned to baby-sit an informant in a money laundering racket, Leo Getz (Joe Pesci); and Riggs at last finds someone, Rika Van Den Haas (Patsy Kensit), who helps ease the pain of his wife's death, while also discovering who was responsible for the automobile accident that took her life. 	As he did with the first `Lethal Weapon,' Donner keeps it all moving along at a brisk pace, though he allows the intensity level to drop somewhat this time while infusing more humor.  There's some `Stooges' on hand, and a bit that finds Murtaugh the target of some office gags after the debut of a television commercial, starring his daughter, Rianne (Traci Wolfe), for a product that takes him by surprise, but the real laughs come courtesy of Pesci, who's upbeat, manic characterization of Getz becomes a real scene stealer.  Though serious at the core, this movie is more of a joy ride than the first, though there are moments of true menace and apprehension, as well as a sobering resolution involving one of the featured characters. 	Performance wise, Gibson is as charismatic as ever, by now settling comfortably into Riggs' skin while further exploring the more intricate details of the character's personality.  Glover, too, manages to take Murtaugh to the next level, leaving no doubt as to who this guy is and what he's about, from his dedication to the job, to his even more stringent dedication to his family.  And, most importantly, these two really click as a team, and Donner knows just how to bring out the best in them.  What really raises the bar in this second installment, however, is the addition of Pesci, who makes Leo Getz a truly memorable character.  Inserting him into the mix was a real stroke of genius, and Donner wisely uses him just enough to effectively lighten the mood and counteract the drama. 	The supporting cast includes Darlene Love (Trish), Derrick O'Connor (Adolph), Steve Kahan (Capt. Murphy), Mark Rolston (Hans) and Jenette Goldstein (Officer Meagan Shapiro).  With snappy dialogue, plenty of action and some good guys to root for, `Lethal Weapon 2' is a thoroughly entertaining sequel that more than does justice to the original.  Donner knows his territory, and his stars know their stuff and how to deliver it, and that's a `lethal' combination any way you look at it.  And what's even more gratifying, is knowing that they didn't stop here; after all the action of the first two, you know there's another one waiting for you.  At this point, do not pass go, do not collect two hundred dollars; `Lethal Weapon 3' is available, and it's yours for the asking.  I rate this one 9/10.                     	       "},{"Title":"Worthy Sequel to the Popular Original","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 2 does not try to get cute.  It stays with what worked in the original and succeeds in being an enjoyable film.  This time the boys (Gibson and Glover) are trying to stop a group of bad guys from South Africa.  Joe Pesci joins the series and adds even more comedy and action to the film.  Not quite as impressive as the original, but very close.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Same old stuff.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have to wonder if they made this movie for any other reason other than a nice paycheck. The main reason I wonder this is because it seems like everybody is just runnng thru the paces here. The screenplay by Jeffrey Boam is well done but why the need for so much wasteless comedy. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are good as best friends with a little banter back and forth. But they decided to bring Joe Pesci in for more comedy relief that isn't even needed. Pesci plays one of the most irritating characters I've ever seen in the movies and this character almost brings the whole movie to the level of slapstick. Richard Donner does a good job keeping the action rolling but ultimately must have had a blast with Gibson, Glover and Pesci. There are a lot of scenes that just didn't need to be here. I was entertained but confused. "},{"Title":"Wonderful action packed film with a  message","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riggs and Murtaugh are back and better than ever in this sequel that stacks up as worthy to the original! Mel Gibson and Danny Glover along with a squad are in pursuit of diplomats that are using their ties to engage in illegal activity through the streets of LA with shots being fired and explosions happening with the squad members in pursuit. First, they chase a red BMW that contains Kugerands (the criminal escapes via helicopter) and then Murtaugh receives a warning to lay off the lead he discovered. After the warning to lay off they must protect Leo Getz (played wonderfully by Joe Pesci) and it is now revealed that he was in league with the same South Africans they were chasing--money laundering was the name of the game. When one of the South Africans disguised as a waiter attempts to kill Leo, they are once again in pursuit and find a stilt house. A car chase ensues and the squad shows up to the house of Arjen Rudd, who hides behind his diplomatic status to evade capture. Riggs and Murtaugh are now in hot water as the State Department is breathing down the captain's neck and they have to issue a formal apology. After Arjen sees Riggs just about everywhere and Murtaugh raises a ruckus stating Free South Africa; Riggs comes in, beats up some of the thugs but not before grabbing a vital clue Alba Varden Thursday. The diplomats turn the heat up when they start killing cops on the case and even Murtaugh is targeted again with a bomb on the toilet. Riggs after all the commotion is gradually taken up with a young lady named Rika Van Den Haas (all the murders happen on the same day) and they have a night together--only to end with Riggs' trailer shot up and Riggs being the gentleman and taking her home--only to be killed by her colleagues and Boss and Riggs being kidnapped and thrown in a river with a straight jacket on. After dislocating his shoulder, he gets up and kills the two South Africans that dumped him in the river. However, before he was thrown in the river, he was told by Pieter, the muscle of the operation that he was the one that killed Riggs' wife Victoria. Now, it's personal and they take out all the South Africans one by one--until only Rudd is standing who shoots Riggs up and shouts Diplomatic Immunity. Murtaugh does his trademark neck crack and shoots Rudd dead after stating Just been revoked ================ I am not sure how accurate the accents are, or how apartheid was and neither am interested in understanding apartheid. It was a racist system that made the majority subject to a minority race. As a work of fiction, I am soo glad that this was written to show the ugliness of apartheid as well as balancing humor in its action. Top notch film! "},{"Title":"At times it even surpasses the original.","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is at least as good as its predecessor, at times it even gets a better movie than the original.Just like Lethal Weapon this movie is just very basic action material. It has got a standard script with basic stereotype villains and plot. But yet Lethal Weapon 2 and all of the other Lethal Weapon movies are better than just your average action-flick. It's better because of a very simple reason; it has good Riggs and Murtaugh in it, played by Mel Gibson and Danny Glover. The two of them (and director Richard Donner) have a great chemistry together. A very welcome addition to the cast is Joe Pesci as Leo Getz. His character is also one of the reasons why this movie is perhaps even better than its predecessor and original.The story is standard but it all is very well executed. There are some nicely done action sequences and some good villains, who are always important for a good action movie. Main villain of the movie is being played by Joss Ackland and he is quite unforgettable and strong in his role, even though his character is a bit underused in the movie perhaps. There are some great sequences in this movie that are close of becoming classic some day, such as the 'bomb on the toilet' sequence. But seriously, the only reason why this movie is so great to watch is due to the chemistry Mel Gibson and Danny Glover have together. The dialog and the way they handle the situations are very realistic and fun to watch at the very same time.It's a very basic but very well executed and fun movie, that gets two thumbs up from me.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Soulless","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While the Lethal Weapon series never exceeded being a hyped-up police drama, the sequels effectively ruined whatever emotional context the original tried to create.  No better example comes to mind than Lethal Weapon 2, even more hollow and cliche than the first.  All the usual cop/killer formula elements are here, except this time the police superintendent isn't black.  The usual white villains abound, as do a higher bodycount and finding more ways to kill people.  In short, it's a darker sequel.  I give credit to the screenwriters for trying to maintain some series continuity, but this time around the series is trying to be alone to itself rather than the other referential films (namely the first and third).  Furthermore, Joe Pesci--and, by the end, the entire movie--is just a loud, obnoxious, warp-speed waste of time.  The series itself keeps getting more and more shallow as time goes on.Overall, don't even bother with these made-for-TV action movie sequels.  1.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Perhaps even better than the original","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've often wondered which one is a better movie, original Lethal weapon or the first sequel. Maybe I should get a hobby or something, what do you think...? Naturally it goes without saying parts three and four are pretty damn good and entertaining packages of fun too. However, search for the best movie of the series will definitely create a tight battle between first two flicks. Of course, original is always the original. It's fresher and it doesn't have that bitter taste of repetition or greed for more money.On the other hand part two gets straight to business because the audience is already familiar with the two hero cops. It's funnier and not as dark as Lethal weapon from time to time turns out to be. Best of all, sequel introduces new hilarious character, Joe Pesci's energetic Leo Getz I'm Leo Getz and whatever you want Leo gets - certainly one of the biggest bundles of fun in parts 2-4. All and all I have to admit that Lethal weapon 2 might just be the best part of the series although there's always going to be people who claim exactly the opposite. Make your own decisions, this is just my opinion. "}{"Title":"It could be better.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This really isn't the best of this four film series. Pesci brings it very low down by his stupid and pointlessly light heartedness. The main bad guy's motives are badly explained. On the other hand its still entertaining and the Glover and Gibson are still perfect as the odd couple cops. Even so it could and will be better. 7/10  "},{"Title":"A good Action drama but too heavy on the politics.","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was almost a great movie but they went too deep in the politics of Apartheid and a lot of dialogue about race.  It  didn't help us enjoy the movie more.  Once again great Chemistry with Gibson & Glover.  Overall great plot, intense, more background and a lot of emotion for how much these 2 cops enjoy, respect and care for each other as partners and friends.  More gags and jokes which helped.  Pesci was also great too.Worth seeing but not quite the edge of the first one. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 2","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The action continues in this entertaining follow up to the 1987 hit with Gibson and Glover returning as cops Riggs and Murtaugh. This time they take on a group of South African officials dealing in illegalities...mainly murder. A bright spot in this film and for the rest of the series is Joe Pesci's scene stealing performance as whiny informant Leo Getz. Richard Donner directs once again and keeps the action, thrills and laughs coming at you at full speed.  "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 2","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first film was a very good action thriller with a few good laughs, this sequel from same director Richard Donner (Superman, The Omen) is pretty much the same film, but concentrating a little more on laughs. The film starts with L.A.P.D. officer partners Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) chasing a car which when it crashes they discover is filled with valuable gold coins. After Murtaugh is attacked at his home, he and Riggs are sure the car chase guys that got away are linked. But Captain Ed Murphy (Steve Kahan) assigns them to guard witness in a drug case, Leo Getz (Joe Pesci), who they find out has contacts to the men who attacked them,. They are in fact carrying out cocaine smuggling, and one of them murdered Riggs' wife! So after the death of Riggs' new lover, secretary Rika Van Den Haas (Patsy Kensit), he and Murtaugh seek both revenge and justice against the head villain, Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland). Also starring Derrick O'Connor as Pieter Vorstedt, Darlene Love as Trish Murtaugh, Traci Wolfe as Rianne Murtaugh and Mark Rolston as Hans. Gibson and Glover are still an enjoyable bickering duo, Pesci is a little annoying, but that's what makes his character funny, and there are I suppose one or two good chase and explosive sequences, so not all that bad. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound Effects Editing. Mel Gibson was number 17 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"They're back, they're bad. He's black, he's mad.","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The topical plot of Lethal Weapon 2 may seem a little dated now, but Soud Av-ree-gan villains are always despicable and who doesn't love to them get blown away.In this second installment in the LW series, Riggs and Murtaugh babysit FBI witness Leo Getz (a wimpy, eager to be friends Joe Pesci), much to their displeasure. Stuck with nothing much to do, they decide to investigate the criminals Leo is testifying against-a rude lot of Soud Av-ree-gan diplomats with immunity to commit as many crimes as they want. Riggs also takes a fancy to their secretary Rika (Patsy Kensit), but obviously their romance isn't going to last. She might as well have a death-clock counting down on her forehead.Richard Donner seems more involved in making LW2 a better film than the original. This time he shoots in Panavision (why he didn't do this first time around I don't know), allows more time for character development and tries hard to make a political message out of the South African Apartheid situation. Even in his previous film Scrooged, which came out a year earlier, he had anti-apartheid messages. And, if you're really sad like me, you'll notice that Riggs and Rika bang their heads together when they first meet in the exact same way that Frank Cross and Claire Phillips do in Scrooged. And his then pro-NRA posters are still hanging around in the background. Donner later reversed his opinion on this organisation.I always felt that the original Lethal Weapon was far too plain and straight-forward. It lacked spark in every way, but LW2 introduces more characters, has more sophisticated action and a better plot. Michael Kamen however pretty much cuts and pastes his score from the first and even rips-off his own Die Hard score in a couple of cues. This got worse in LW3.The ending could have killed the series off had Riggs died, which is what Shane Black originally intended. We would have been spared the awful LW3 had this been so. But instead Riggs manages to fight off death and stay alive in Murtaughs arms despite being shot about 86 times. A nice touch having Bob Dylan's Knockin' On Heaven's Door playing over his potential last moments alive though.After this the series became too comical and diluted. They SHOULD have killed him. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon II rekindles the excitement and action packed success generated by the original film two years earlier.  Roger Murtaugh and Martin Riggs team up again for another great action film.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  No time is wasted in the second installment in this now classic action series. Lethal Weapon II starts out immediately with a car chase, starting off what is to be a very entertaining film. Murtaugh and Riggs have the same personalities that they had before, and as is to be expected, they worked excellently on screen. Roger is the family man again, having major crises over the fact that his coming-of-age daughter has landed a spot in a condoms commercial (which he is teased about for the remainder of the movie), and Riggs is still the hyperactive cop with a few screws loose. Riggs now reveals that he has a talent for popping his shoulder in and out of its socket, one of the elements of the film that worked well as far as helping the story along, but that is just ridiculous in reference to real life situations. If you were wondering if a person could pop a dislocated shoulder back into place, painfully or otherwise, by smacking it on a wall or on the side of a car, I can pretty much assure you that it just doesn't work that way. It was funny to watch though, wasn't it?This is the installment where we are introduced to Leo Getz (played hilariously by Joe Pesci), who is the anxious but mostly unwelcome addition to Riggs' and Murtaugh's partnership. I think that they overloaded his mistreatment just a little too much for the film, Leo seemed to take entirely too much from Riggs and Murtaugh to keep cooperating with them. Nevertheless, this was still a great action film. In a memorable scene in Roger's bathroom involving a toilet bomb, he and Riggs are even able to successfully display an emotionally charged scene, even for this type of fast paced action film (in which almost any type of emotional involvement is usually clumsily thrown in to attract a larger audience (females) in true Jerry Bruckheimer form). And they even manage to jerk a few tears near the end in regards to Riggs' stunningly beautiful new girlfriend.As has become tradition in the Lethal Weapon series, there has to be at least one scene where just as the &#145;normal' police arrive, Riggs is staggering away from the destruction of a flaming crime scene breathlessly saying that everything is under control. This is done and overdone in the entire series, and it never seems to get tiring. The gunfights are great, the chases are better, and the action overall is excellently done by Richard Donner for the second time, but there were some things that just should have been left out or changed completely. For example, the helicopter shootout scene at Riggs' `house' was a little too excessive. It was too hard to believe that he and his girlfriend could have dodged THAT many bullets. It was cool to watch, but there's no way they could have avoided getting hit at least once. Also, I refuse to believe that ANY pick-up truck could have pulled the stilts out from under a house like it was done in the film. That was just too much. Even if some super-powerful pickup was ever able to do that, there's no way it could have gotten out of the way of the falling structure fast enough to avoid getting crushed by it.However, despite such disturbing weaknesses as these, Lethal Weapon II was a great movie. The things I mentioned above were badly unrealistic, and probably couldn't even be pulled off by a professional stunt team, but they worked really well with the story. The shootout scene with the helicopters created some good tension, regardless of how unrealistic it was. Also, with the kind of people who were in that house, you WANT to see the foundation pulled out from under them, and having Riggs do it not only fits perfectly with his personality, and it also almost makes you want to get up and cheer for him. This is a very good action film. It is virtually non-stop action from the opening scene, and it has a good ending, which is in my opinion one of the most important parts of any kind of movie. A bad ending can cancel out an otherwise good movie, and Lethal Weapon II is good from beginning to end. Excellent show.  "},{"Title":"A sequel filled with action","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel can't reach the original movie from 1987. But, this one is too very funny, action filled and nice made. Gibson is cool, had to say that.  We're back we're bad, you're black i'm mad!  The coolest replic ever...maybe... Role dais 4 "},{"Title":"Not Lethal Enough.","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 2 (1989) Dir Richard Donner / Cast Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Patsy Kensit, Joss Ackland Inferior sequel to Lethal Weapon opens in the middle of a mindless high speed chase where cars flip and crashes abound without much thought on innocent civilians. Mel Gibson returns as Martin Riggs and he is fired up and seems to keep going despite obstacles. His partner, played by Danny Glover is attacked in his home along with his wife by masked assailants. There is a tie here to what happened Riggs and his departed wife. Glover springs some humour when his daughter's big acting break comes within a condom commercial prompting ribbing at work. Joe Pesci is also quite comically engaging as a witness they are assigned to protect. Pesci is loud and obnoxious yet seemingly likable. Patsy Kensit plays the secretary to the film's villain. She hates her job and becomes the next romantic interest to Riggs but one cannot help but dislike the handling of this character, especially given the already dreaded past of Riggs. The villains have all the life of a store window mannequin with laughable thugs with shampoo looking long hair that seems fresh out of a commercial. The action is over the top with lots of bullets flying and Riggs going full force on survival. In the end the original film packs a much higher lethal delivery. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"The best of the four","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 1 started the love for the duo, but Lethal Weapon 2 defined it and made it certain that everyone will queue up to see Lethal Weapon 3. The dynamic duo this time is up against South Africans and we get to see the tie in between how Riggs wife died and the films subplot. The score as usual was just efficient, reason why efficient is the word is that it is just perfect, the jazz vibe just adds to the fun and makes the film grand.This action comedy was released two years after the first and the leads Danny Glover and Mel Gibson reprised their roles as Murtaugh and Riggs respectively. The movie's plot is very insightful and the lines were timely. The introduction of Joe Pesci (Academy Award winner for Best Supporting actor in Goodfellas 1990) was all that this movie needed to make it the best out of all the four in the film series, he introduced some laughs and he had a more prominent role in this film than he did in the other two.The movie plot is about this two Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) and Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) against a South African diplomat who was using his immunity to carry out criminal activities. While they were on the case they met Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) who also crossed the South African.The movie is very intense, we get to see both parties in tight corners and this time Riggs was the one that had to experience a personal attack on his home. This flick was the most brutal of the four from my own view and some of the police officers cast in the first film were killed off.The movie was a critical success and it has the highest approval rating of all the four films, and the movie was also a commercial success. Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, and Richard Donner have all stated that this is their favorite film of the Lethal Weapon series and we get to see Riggs dislocate his shoulders twice which later became a regular in the film series.After this film Richard Donner who also directed the first went ahead to do two more and Leo Getz was also a part of the remaining two films.Word is out that a Lethal Weapon 5 will be done soon and two new leads will be employed to come take up the role of Roger and Martin, I just hope they can live up to the standard that this two has set.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Not only it's great, but it's almost greater than the first ...","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Just when you thought you had enough to make an anthology book, the film starts with one hell of a car chase sequence, catching you totally off-guard, and another one with an unforgettable conclusion, -although a bit gruesome, but take my word that the bad guy 'had it coming'. Just when you thought no explosion would ever surprise you, Lethal Weapon 2 is remembered as the one where Murtaugh is trapped with a bomb in his toilet, although I found the explosive diving board more shocking and disturbing.When you thought you had 'good' bad guys in the first, wait until you meet the villains in Lethal Weapon 2, the mastermind is Arjen Rudd, the ministry of affairs for the South African consulate, played by Joss Ackland and his hit-man, the slimy and evil Vorstedt (Derrick O'Connor). To give you a glimpse of their level of evilness, not only they belong to the government that was practicing segregation (the apartheid still existed in 1989) but they use their diplomatic immunity as a bullet-proof vest to cover some cold-blooded killings, among other malevolent actions.You have villains who not only kill but can't get killed and if I said that Hans Gruber from Die Hard was slightly superior to Mr. Joshua, it's like the writers finally understood that vileness could be scarier, more effective and more infuriating when it uses the appearance of respectability, like when you have a bunch of LAPD officers pointing their guns at them, on the verge of a successful arrest, and then are forced to leave. The comparison with Nazis through the 'Master Race' insult is a historical shortcut but not necessarily irrelevant regarding the context, but the film cleverly avoids a blind Manichaeism by inserting the character of Rika, a young South-African secretary who doesn't approve everything from her country.And through Rika, it's two birds hit by one stone, because she and Riggs fall in love, and trust the script that it's not a romantic subplot for the sake of it. Everything has a purpose in Lethal Weapon 2 and serves as a build-up for a final confrontation that would be ten times more spectacular, thrilling, violent and emotionally driven than the first opus. And we all know how a formulaic or conventional climax can ruin even the greatest action films. I remember I gave a positive review for Commando but the climax of Lethal Weapon 2 would almost make me reconsider my opinion. Anyway, the writers know that the more you'll hate the bad guys, the more you'll cheer at their demise.And it works indeed. Martin Riggs will be enraged as he's never been and Murtaugh himself, who plays the good cop, or the too-old-for-this attitude, can't let the bad guys get away with some crimes they committed. Well, let's just summarize the whole film, otherwise, I would end up spoiling it, the script makes the final confrontation personal, so personal than the last bullet shot and the line that accompanies it is the perfect pay-off to all the little bits that angered us. And although it's an overused line, the 'this time, it's personal' never resonates as something cheesy and forced. We're so engaged with Riggs and Murtaugh, that we share their laughs and joys as much as their sadness and fury.Besides, personal is a word I like when it comes to the Lethal Weapon series because the action, as spectacular as it always is, never distracts from the motives, from what goes through Riggs and Murtaugh's hearts and minds, and the plot's center of gravity their relationships. In Lethal Weapon, they had to know each other to get along, in Lethal Weapon 2, they're inseparable and even their constant disagreement is the cement of their complicity. The toilet-bomb scene manages to distract us from the comical aspect of Murtaugh's position through some genuine interaction. At one point, Murtaugh, wants to say something to Riggs, no word is spoken but Riggs understands, and so do we, that's friendship at its best and we understand them because in a way, they also became our friends.Naturally, we find Riggs and Murtaugh in their opposite lifestyles, Murtaugh's family has grown up and one of the film's running gags concern a condom ad where Rihanne acted, Riggs still live in a trailer in the beach with his dog, Sam, he still loves the Three Stooges. The power of a sequel is to create newness with old material, but Lethal Weapon 2 doesn't take it for granted, yes there is some Riggs and Murtaugh of the first opus in the opening car chase, but it would have been tiresome had it lasted the whole film. Lethal Weapon 2 didn't recycle the same kind of interactions for different situations but rather featured different interactions for similar situations, and the strike of genius from the writers is the insertion of Joe Pesci's character Leo Getz, a crooked accountant who blew the whistle about his client's money-laundering activities.Riggs and Murtaugh are assigned to protect him, and then the duo becomes trio. Pesci plays a small, loudmouthed, annoying character, punctuating his sentences with so many OK OK OK OK the only answer you want to give him is Shut up! along with some pinching and slapping. But far from being a simple comic relief, Leo consolidates the two characters' interaction by giving them a same target and happens to be indirectly linked to the bad guys, so in his own way irritating way, he's so significant that it's impossible to imagine the film, let alone the franchise, without him.It's obvious to me that Lethal Weapon 2 captures the magic of the original film with such efficiency it would less qualify as a sequel than as a continuation of the level of greatness initiated by the first, and I'm not even exaggerating because whatever made Lethal Weapon memorable is twice as great in the second opus. "}{"Title":"The magic is back!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ... and there's just enough moments of wonderment in this one to keep me amused.It's certainly not a retread of the first, which is good in a way I suppose, but there are odd moments where it just doesn't feel like a Lethal Weapon movie and seems to be modelling itself on more traditional and straightforward action movies, instead. Only in the last 20 minutes does Riggs recapture the edge to his character that I thrive on when I watch the original. I like Joss Ackland as an actor and he's a steely villain but he's not particularly threatening - the film treats his death almost like an afterthought; plus the addition of a 'lovable comedy sidekick' further dilutes the tension in a way that I don't think was necessary. Mel Gibson is funny enough as Riggs on his own, someone else to make us laugh wasn't needed, I felt.On the plus side, Derrick O'connor almost singlehandedly restores the menace as henchman Vorstedt, who for me is easily the best baddie of the entire series. He has a great climactic fight with Riggs which is appropriately brutal. Watching it makes me nostalgic for the days when our hero knew how to handle himself in a scrap even with a knife in the leg, and didn't get his behind handed to him by Jet Li... *sigh*There are some great individual scenes that definitely still make this worth watching, but as a sequel I prefer the third entry, where the elements of the story seem to fit better and everything doesn't feel quite so fragmented. "},{"Title":"Cuts to UK version ?","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Can anybody tell me what is missing from the UK version of the Directors Cut of LW2 ? The original version received a 15 certificate from the BBFC, which involved cuts being made to tone down the violence. I know that this was a commercial decisional on the part of the distributors to get the film a wider (thus more lucrative) audience, but according to the BBFC website, the Directors Cut, although receiving a more restrictive 18 certificate, still has about 30 seconds missing ? What's missing and why was it taken out ? Any info would be great. Also, does anybody know where I can get an uncut version that will play in a region 2 DVD player. Thanks. "},{"Title":"One of the very best buddy action movies","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Lethal Weapon series is perhaps the most watchable of any I've ever encountered. I happen to believe that LW 2 is the best of the four. It surprises me to hear that some folks found Joe Pesci's character annoying and peripheral; I think he's terrific and only gets better in the later films. It's been great to watch these guys mature over the years. This is Mel and Danny at their best. It's obvious to me that they really have fun doing these films. I'd love for there to be a an LW 5, but I don't agree that Riggs needs to die-- I mean, he's got a family now, right? There is too much unexplored material for them to cut it short by ending the series. As long as all of the characters are having a good time, why not continue it?  "},{"Title":"wildly entertaining sequel","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Volatile, pumped-up sequel reunites cops Gibson and Glover for another round of hijinks. This time the duo are assigned to protect a material witness in the form of obnoxious money launderer Pesci, which brings them head-to-head with a deadly South African crime syndicate led by a smug and nefarious diplomat. Slow at first, as the film is bogged down in plot, but the laughs and likable chemistry of the two leads eventually picks up, and the violent action only piles on as it nears the finale. The cast seems to be having even more fun in this film than they were in the first one, making this a rare and fortunate case of a sequel that lives up to its predecessor. *** "},{"Title":"Good sequel","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As far as follow-ups to blockbuster films go, this is one of the best. The chemistry between Riggs and Martaugh is back, but now Leo Getz is also in the mix. That results in many hilarious moments. Leo How do I know you are the police? Riggs When I shoot you through the door you can examine the bullet. LOL. Also you'll be treated to Martaugh's daughter's first acting job, in a commercial for a product we all love but don't really talk about too much. The action is also top notch and there are some great stunts falling six stories into a swimming pool and a funny surf board death among others. Plus the story of this film ties itself into the story of the first. Most sequels don't really do that. Die Hard 2, for example, only resembles the first in having the same protagonist. Watch this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"These films are like toys, but good!","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Let's say the truth the Lethal weapon series is pure entertainment, action and humor. These films are like toys you take them as they are, without expecting too much (but the elements I just mentioned). Once you know that, you can relax and enjoy yourself!I'm not a big action movies fan. I mean, there are many of such films... Among the only ones I love, there are the 007 films and the Lethal weapon (LW) episodes. Whereas Bond films (for me the best action movies ever) are elegant, suave and sophisticated, LW movies are more American, more urban and more comic.Lethal weapon 1, 2, 3, 4 work because of Mel Gibson and Danny Glover -two irresistible actors, who really are having fun! From the second movie there's the charachter of Joe Pesci, extremely funny too. Action and stunts are exciting and fanciful. We can see that an expert director like Richard Donner is always able to deliver every time a  different show.This series is also one of the few examples in which sequels are better than the original -especially the second and the third chapters, funnier, lighter and with more passionating stories. A good action franchise.    "},{"Title":"Better than equal sequel","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  LETHAL WEAPON 2 (1989) ***1/2 Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Joss Ackland, Patsy Kensit, Darlene Love, Traci Wolfe.  Sequel equally great as its predecessor with Detectives Murtaugh and Riggs back protecting stool pigeon mob accountant Pesci (who steals the film as the third stooge) okayokayokay involved with some South African narcotic smugglers.  Finely executed stunts and lots of laughs and still...chemistry, baby, chemistry! "},{"Title":"They're Back!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mel Gibson and Danny Glover returned as Detectives Riggs and Murtagh in this equally entertaining sequel to the fantastic Lethal Weapon.Yes, the crazy detectives are back, annoying both the bad guys and their superiors. The beautiful Patsy Kensit is also here as Gibson's love interest and we meet the talented Joe Pesci who plays Leo Getz. Yes, all the stars are here.What can you expect in this movie? The same stuff from the first movie. Car chases, shoot-outs, fights, tragedy and all that other stuff. And some of the best dialogue you'll ever see in any cop movie.I won't go into detail about any of the scenes because I do not wish to spoil it. There's some classic dialogue in this movie too which I also won't spoil. All I will say is this-put your crazy head on, strap yourself in and go on one wild ride with the two zany detectives.Despite what I have said, this isn't a comedy. It has it's comedy moments but it is mostly action, and plenty of it. "},{"Title":"Terrible language in the film","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was amazed at the language. It is evident that they used real Afrikaans actors, possibly those who have emigrated to America? Anyway, to have one of them shout out Jou Moer which means You c*nt came as a bit of a shock. It was probably the Afrikaans actors ad libbing because they were annoyed at the Afrikaaners being the villains -) "},{"Title":"They're back, They're bad, One's black, One's mad!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just as good as the first, Lethal Weapon 2 stunned me on how much action, adventure and humour can go into one film. Gibson and Glover continue the adventure of two cops doing what they do best. Lethal Weapon 2 gives sequels a better name.Buddy-cops Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh are back, trying to keep a key witness and themselves alive. Murtaugh is still the rock solid family man. Riggs is still the reckless daredevil, but now he counts the odds before bucking them. Lethal Weapon 2 is fun, exciting and will take your breath away.To say that the cast of Lethal Weapon 2 is better is an understatement.  Regulars Mel Gibson and Danny Glover kept their special onscreen relationship going on, though their cop instincts are a little bit different. Enter funny man Joe Pesci. He plays Leo Getz, a pip-squeak and a nuisance. Director Richard Donner said in relation to Pesci, With Mel and Danny, Joe is the third stooge and I have to agree. Pesci starred as the bad guy in the 90's classics 'Home Alone 1 and 2' with child star Macaulay Culkin. I remember he was very funny in those films. The leading female in Lethal Weapon 2 is Patsy Kensit, with that gorgeous accent and cute face she was great as Rika van den Haas. Her love scenes with Rigg's were a nice touch and calmed down the movie for a small time. The bad guys are heartless in Lethal Weapon 2. Joss Ackland was the South African Ambassador Arjen Rudd, who knew he could not be touched. I remember Ackland from the Original Mighty Ducks film, he wasn't nice in that either. Likewise Derrick O'Connor, played the henchman of Rudd's and was very cruel and callous in his job. Bad guys are important in these cop movies, the wrong choice and it can hurt your film. Lethal Weapon 2 has some incredible scenes. Again the start is terrific. The funniest scene would have to be at the start of the film, when Murtaugh's daughter (played by Traci Wolfe) starts her TV advertising career. I love the reaction of Murtaugh after the commercial, and the line She makes me wanna buy rubbers!. When Riggs and Murtaugh first meet Leo Getz it's great, with Leo and Martin crashing through a motel window, just amazing. Then the craziest scene to be thought up in my time of movie viewing would have to be when Roger is booby trapped on his toilet. This is hilarious when the Fire Brigade, Bomb Squad and Police Department are involved in helping this guy off the dunny, and Murtaugh claims I'm gunna die on the toilet aren't I? Again the end of this film is extremely good, with tension, passion and action that left me dumb-founded. This movie also has some great stunts in it. Nothing is better than the scene where Riggs chases after one of the bad guys, clinging for his life. Getting the chance to look behind the scenes really allows you to appreciate how much is involved in bringing us this kind of movie. The other scenes with great stunts would have to be at Rigg's beach house, flying helicopters and shooting the good guys would have been difficult to do. Plus the destruction of the chic hillside stilt house would have taken weeks of careful planing and was great to watch. Credit for this part of Lethal Weapon 2 needs to go Charlie Picerni. Credit again must go to Lethal Weapon director Richard Donner. His precise and charismatic direction, took me on one wild roller-coaster ride. He is truly a great director, with an inventive mind and very humorous touch. So overall, Lethal Weapon 2 didn't seem like a sequel, in fact it had a very original feel to it. With creative stunts, a refreshed cast (including the silly Leo Getz) and funnier humour, Lethal Weapon 2 was brilliant. Plus I will never forget the image of the toilet hitting the Murtaugh's car, just priceless. Bring on more of this Hollywood legend 'Ok, Ok, Ok'.Rating 4 Stars or 9/10   "}{"Title":"Best of the Lethal Weapons","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This definitely is the best LW of the four. The plot and the setting are perfect and Gibson and Glover are at their best. As well as being one of the most engaging action films ever made, there's plenty of crude jokes and cop banter thrown in. The anti-apartheid aspect to the film must also not be underestimated and is often overlooked. It strongly criticises and mocks white South African fascism, and the film was a definite cultural sanction/pressure on the Apartheid regime. Perhaps because I lived in that part of the world I'm biased to the film but I still reckon the Naziesque coldness of Ackland and O'Connor, combined with the liberal, mad duo of Riggs and Murtaugh make this an unforgettable film.......also the music at the end as the camera sweeps over a dusky LA is superb. "},{"Title":"Mel is hot!","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The anti-apartheid theme is now outdated, but it's still an important learning experience. Mel Gibson is sure HOT in that lovemaking scene with the South African girl! It's very revealing and very passionate. And he's nude! He looks better in this film, his hair is more styled and he isn't as crazy as he was in the first Lethal Weapon. However, you'd think his partner would protect his family and home by having a security guard on the premises, right? Especially AFTER the bad guys broke into his home, tied up him and his wife with duct tape and threatened to kill them. Despite that, he doesn't even lock the front door. He opens the door without checking to see who is ringing the doorbell. As a detective, he should know better! However, it's great escapist entertainment and Mel looks incredible! "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the original....","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The above comment is totally correct but i think if you ignore the original film everything works good. This is a new movie, lethal weapon 2...and i loved it just as much as the first. People change and grow older, and thats what this movie shows. So it is very original. A new story, aging and new characters. Joe Pesci cracked me up and the action was good. Thumbs up!! The love interest of rigs was very hot but it was a real shame she had to die. Bad things about this movie was rigs was less crazy in the head as we all loved in the original. The story was almost as good but not quite. The movies after this are junk and should not be viewed by anyone. "},{"Title":"An  outstanding  example  of  how  an  action  movie  should  be","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Mel Gibson has always been one of my favorite actors,and though he recently got himself in a tight spot over his remarks about Jews, he still remains as loved as he always was all over the world.I recently watched this classic on DVD at a friends' home, and could not help but compare it with action flicks that are released by Hollywood every other week. So, what makes this action movie so much better ? To begin with, it has Mel Gibson. This is one fine actor who shines in every role he plays , but the thing that makes him especially delightful to watch is the fact that he does not bother to be suave or eloquent in any manner,but chooses to play his act as he did the first time- that of the out-of-control,devil-may-care cop who doesn't bat an eyelid before shooting at the bad guys, and to hell with all the laws of the land. His version of the hero cop remains an original which has not been imitated by anybody till date. Probably because no one would be able to pull it off the way Gibson did! It is the first factor that makes the Lethal Weapon series the classic that it is. And then comes the Danny Glover factor. There has not been a more humane cop on the silver screen . He brilliantly portrays the warm , doting father who loves his job as much as he loves his family.When hew gets furious over the fact that his daughter is in a commercial for condoms, we not only laugh but also sympathize with him too. I do not think that any other actor shared the same chemistry with Gibson as Glover did.The rest of the cast are just sideshows, but one cannot overlook Joe Pesci. He is as humorous and lovable as he always is, and his inclusion in the plot makes for some very funny moments. And yes, who can forget the glamorous Patsy Kensit ? Her role is brief, but nonetheless,memorable. All things considered,this is one film that will remain a model for any director who wants to make an entertaining,absorbing action flick without CGI or doses of casual sex thrown in for good measure. It was made in 1989, but I feel that even today, it will be a great watch for any teenager who sees it for the first time. Director Richard Donner did a great job indeed, supported by a great cast. "},{"Title":"Probably the most entertaining of the series.","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Martin Riggs (Two Time Oscar-WinnerMel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) find themselves on the case of corrupted South African Diplomats (Joss Ackland and Derrick O'Connor). Which these diplomats are smuggling money and weapons to the United States. But Riggs and Murtaugh are forced to baby-sit an obnoxious fast-talking com man Leo Leitz (Oscar-WinnerJoe Pesci). Who was once involved with these diplomats.Directed by Richard Donner (Superman 1 and 2, Maverick, Night Moves) made an wilder, crazier action thriller that improves on the original. This sequel is extremely silly, breathless and exciting. This was one of the biggest hits of 1989. Great entertainment. Screenplay by the late Jeffery Boam (Innerspace, The Lost Boys, The Phantom). From a story by Shane Black (Lethal Weapon, Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, The Long Kiss Goodnight) and Warren Murphy. Director's cut runs 118 minutes. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Number 2 Getz It!","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the second installment of the Lethal Weapon series, we see Mel Gibson and Danny Glover going after South African diplomats. The diplomats who they are trying to apprehend, coincidentally are smuggling illegal gold into the United States. In the meantime, Riggs falls in love with the girl who is the secretary for the diplomats.And we see Joe Pesci in his first Lethal Weapon movie, as Leo Getz, the quick talking little banker who tried to steal money from the South African diplomats. Most of the plot deals with Leo and Martin Riggs, which makes the film very entertaining.In this film, we find out what happened to Rigg's wife a few years earlier, and to Rika, the secretary as well. Both had the same fate, but you must watch the film to find out.I give the film a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This sequel is even better than the original Lethal Weapon","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The good news is that the movie avoids the opening credit sequence found on most movies---you go right immediately into the exciting action where Murtaugh and Riggs, along with several other officers, try to chase down a few members of a narcotraffic gang. At the end of the chase, they kick one of the suspect's cars and out comes South African money called the Kreugerrand. After I saw those foreign coins, this was the part that was going to make Lethal Weapon 2 much different than the original.Later, I realized that this drug gang, masked really as members of the Consulate of South Africa, are using their immunity from prosecution and arrest (since they are actually diplomatic agents) to commit drug-trafficking and its related crimes. I also saw some new details on Riggs' characterization. Realizing that he was involved with counterinsurgency tactics and martial arts in the original Lethal Weapon, I realize that he is also a die-hard Houdini fan, during a scene at the police headquarters where Riggs, already bound with a straitjacket, tries to free himself. He does free himself but he slams his shoulder right into the hard wall, on purpose!...With this absurd act, I realized something new in Riggs... in some cases, he loves being hurt (that is, he loves pain) in situations where other people don't want to be involved with being hurt.One of the most serious parts of the movie almost put an end to Murtaugh's life. The movie doesn't reveal it verbally, but the reason why Murtaugh was on a toilet rigged with a C4 explosive bobby-trap behind the toilet (which was ready to blow up if he got up) was that the drug dealers ignored his warning earlier in the movie to stay away from them because they are from the consulate. After bobby-trapping Murtaugh, the gang locked up the house so that Riggs could not get in. (This almost directly shows the type of sectarian violence under apartheid in South Africa around the 1980s.) But Riggs did get in by kicking down the front door. Riggs was the first one to find out that Martaugh was bobby-trapped, especially when he saw the phrase on the bathroom tissue, Boom! You're Dead! When Riggs called the bomb squad, I knew the Riggs and Murtaugh had their friendship on the line--big time! Their only saving grace, says the bomb squad, was to put LN2 (liquid nitrogen) on the device and for Riggs to pull Murtaugh into the tub since the tub would absorb most of the explosive impact.The narcotraffic gang's last straw was when Riggs' strongly befriended Rika Van Den Haas (played by Patsy Kensit)....and Arjen Rudd (the main bad guy in the movie) orders the gang on a bombing and assassination wave against all of the L.A. officers involved (for example, officer Collins blown away by a booby-trap explosive as she was going to dive into her swimming pool, or officer Wyler being shot in the head by a 9mm) in taking the drug dealers down. Murtaugh came close to his death himself against two of the gang members before he both knocked them out with a nail gun, but not until other assassins kidnap Leo Getz (played by Joe Pesci) and take away Murtaugh's car. At the same time, Riggs and Van den Haas both came close to their deaths by assassins using automatic weapons fire on the house trailer Riggs lived in the first Lethal Weapon movie. Fortunately, there is the same characterization in the previous Lethal Weapon movie--his strong black-bag skills in Vietnam stopped the police-killing assassins in their tracks...saving both him and Van den Haas. This part almost screams James Bond for Riggs but not exactly. This also reminds me of True Lies, where the protagonist and his love interest (of course, I am talking about Jamie Lee Curtis and Arnold Schwarzenegger) are involved in shootouts with renegade terrorists also with automatic weapons.Patsy Kensit's acting role as Rika is almost like a Dutch version of Madonna....moreover, her character is considered very gentle, especially in her voice. She sounds like as if she should be a presidential candidate to appease the violence in South Africa. The only problem with her that she sometimes speaks too fast. "},{"Title":"We're back, we're bad, you're black, i'm mad!!!","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Best line of the movie (the title).Anyway, this is the sequel to Lethal Weapon, and although it isn't as good, it still is pretty darned fantastic! In it, Riggs, who is no longer suicidal (but still quite a death-defying psychopath when it comes to fighting crime), and Murtaugh, who is still Murtaugh, are going after diplomats who commit crimes and then use their diplomatic status to be immune to arrest.The action is better than the first, and the laughs are still there. I thought that the movie was a little light on laughs for the first 30 or so minutes, but after that it really picked up and there were quite a bunch of hilarious moments.There are also a lot of great buddy moments between Gibson and Glover.Joe Pesci is also a great addition to the series as Leo Getz, a con artist who talks a whole lot. He has many hilarious moments and Pesci does a fantastic job.In fact, everyone does a fantastic job! There's also a love interest for Riggs this time around, played by Patsy Kensit. She does a fantastic job, like everyone, as i mentioned before.The end sequence I also found to be very emotional, fantastic, and the execution of it could not be more perfect. It was one of the most amazing movie experiences i've ever had.All in all, I love it. A lot.I give this movie a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great sequel, lots of comedy to go along with.","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you thought the first Lethal Weapon movie was something, well you haven't seen anything like this one. Lethal Weapon 2 has got the action like the first one, yet there's a little more comedy to give some relief to it. Here you have Riggs(Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh(Danny Glover) who are at it again, with their shenanigans. Then enter Leo(Joe Pesci), a money launderer, and key witness, who life is at stake, and will do anything to help fight crime. When the South African crime lords who happen to be diplomats in L.A., Riggs and Murtaugh do their very best to stop them. When they attacked them, they don't realize they made a fatal error! They were responsible for the death of Riggs wife, that was the reason he was nuts. Riggs should dislocating tricks was a major payoff for him, after the drug dealers try to weigh him down they killed Rika. Riggs got the revenge he deserved on those killers. And Murtaugh put their leader in his place by revoking his diplomatic immunity status. Lots of gratitude is put into this movie. Richard Donner for making it, Danny Glover for his part of his crusade against apartheid in South Africa, Mel Gibson for bringing his character back into gear, and Joe Pesci for the comedy relief. A well made film! Rating 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Just as good as the original","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Richard Donner re-teams with Mel Gibson and Danny Glover for the second installment in the Lethal Weapon franchise, this time joined by Joe Pesci. A perfect blending of comedy and action make this buddy flick worth watching again and again. ThHeres the summary written by Colin Tinto cst@imdb.com Riggs and Murtaugh are at it again in this sequel to the original Lethal Weapon in 1987. When a red BMW crashes while they are chasing it, they discover the trunk is full of South African Krugerands. Their boss assigns them to protect a federal witness named Leo Getz to try and keep them out of trouble. When the witness reveals he has been doing business with South Africans, the story evolves into a fast moving chase.So I hope you enjoy this great action buddy film. "}{"Title":"Still one of the better action comedies","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Normally I don't like sequels because most of the time it seems like the writers have lost all inspiration and are simply looking for an easy way to make more money. This time however I have to admit that I had a good time watching this movie. I know, it isn't even trying to be original, but it sure has plenty of the same kind humor and action to offer as we saw in the first movie.This time Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are chasing a gang of South African diplomats, who also work as smugglers. Because their superior wants to protect them, he assigns them to a witness protection project. They have to protect Leo Getz, a money laundering loud mouth who has decided to help the justice department. But in stead of sticking to their assignment, they still try to catch the South Africans.What you get is the same kind of humor and action that you probably saw during the first movie. The acting is good and I really had to laugh with it several times. However, if you weren't a fan of the first movie, than I'm sure that you won't like this one either. Personally I find it one of the better action movies / action comedies that I've seen lately. That's why I give it something between a 7/10 and a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Big big sequel.","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Intrepid cop partners Riggs & Murtaugh are on the trail of South African diplomats who are using their diplomatic immunities to engage in criminal activities.With the success of Lethal Weapon in 1987 it made common sense to follow it with a sequel. All the same elements were in place, cast, director and writers were all back for another slice of buddy buddy action bonanza. The only change of course is the villains, here represented by Joss Ackland & Derrick O'Connor's weasel South African bastardos. Joe Pesci enters the fray as the comical Leo Getz, a Federal Witness that the cop duo have to babysit till trial.Right from the off the tone of the film is set as our ears split and our eyes get dazzled by a high speed car chase. Riggs & Murtaugh are in hot pursuit whilst exchanging a now customary difference of opinion as regards police work. We know they are mates and we know that Riggs is still the lethal weapon and Murtaugh is old school copper. So whilst there's nothing new in that the formula remains the same, the makers do flesh out the relationship more as the film progresses. With one or two scenes absolute gold dust as the boys' lives come under serious threat. We are now, in spite of the carnage that surrounds them, involved with them, yes, such is the charm of their relationship, we care. It's good writing, regardless of the charges from some quarters that these film's are nasty shallow excuses for making money.It's fair to say that this is Gibson's movie, because it's written that way. Some of Riggs' back story is filled in and he even gets a love interest in the slender form of Patsy Kensit. Riggs cracks the jokes and does the outrageous mental stuff, while Glover's (still doing fine work in Gibson's shadow) Murtaugh continues to be the counter opposite. Tho some of the astute written sequences involving Murtaugh and the South African core of the story are excellently handled by Glover. But regardless of character development and nifty political observations, it's the action that dominates proceedings. Director Richard Donner has a wail of a time putting the cast thru their paces. There's explosions, fights, shoot-outs, more high speed pursuits, and on it goes till we get to the finale, a potential cliffhanger one too.Two more inferior sequels would follow, all of which still made serious money. But this serves notice of the last time that all the elements came together successfully. A stylish Hollywood action comedy with two impressionable lead actors providing a lesson in on screen chemistry. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Crammed full of action","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This action-packed sequel is a lot louder than the first as we find the boys knee-deep in South African nasties this time. The teaming of Mel Gibson and Danny Glover is still fresh and quite a bit of fun, as they blow up and shoot up most everything in sight. Stunts and special effects are impressive, especially the amazing destruction of a massive house on stilts.Richard Donner has stuck with his more than successful formula from the original film. And even though Lethal Weapon 2 lacks a little humour, it is more than made up for by its frenetic pace (if that is any compensation). Fun to watch!Saturday, August 22, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"One of the Best Sequels ever","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dear Readers,Lethal Weapon 2 is the very best of the series. The chemistry between Riggs and Murtaugh is even better, Joe Pesci's character is hysterical and the villains are just cold-blooded brutal.The movie starts immediately with an awesome car chase scene through the streets of LA. One of the cars crashes, unloading around a million dollars in illegal Krugerrands, the currency of Apartheid South Africa. After a vicious warning by the bad guy's second in command, Pietre Vorstedt, Murtaugh and Riggs are put in charge of protecting a witness who will testify before a grand jury about the bad guys. We quickly find out that the bad guys, who work for the South African Counselate, want the witness dead because he laundered half a billion dollars of their money. As Riggs and Murtaugh dig deeper, the warnings get more brutal and vicious, love blossoms, and the truth of what happened to Riggs's dead wife is revealed.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 2! A great sequel!","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Lethal Weapon series is an explosive and exciting one that is always exciting with a lot of action and great acting from the stars. There's Lethal Weapon 1, Lethal Weapon 2, Lethal Weapon 3, and Lethal Weapon 4 all starring great actors Mel Gibson and Danny Glover! Also Joe Pesci and Rene Russo are in the later editions! Steve Kahan, Paul Tuerpe, and Mary Ellen Trainor are in all four as well. Shane Black did a great job with the writing! I also like how the series has the same composers Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton, producer, Joel Silver, and director Richard Donner has directed all four! Lethal Weapon 2! It stars Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Joss Ackland, Derrick O'Connor, and Patsy Kensit! Also in the movie is Jenette Goldstein, Grand L. Bush, and Jack McGee. Look for Pat Skipper and Danny Wynands! Ackland is really a good villain in this picture! There are some really neat action scenes and Gibson puts on an excellent performance! Good music by Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton! Looking for action and love Mel Gibson and Danny Glover? Watch Lethal Weapon 2 today! I strongly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Comes very close to the original","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The sequel to 'Lethal Weapon' is as entertaining as the first and the only things it lacks is the originality we saw in the original 'Lethal Weapon'. Now we already know how Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are but when two characters are this much fun together that doesn't really matter.This time they have to face South African diplomats, in a year where Nelson Mandela had not leave his island yet. I could tell you more about the story, but story is not really the issue here. Not that it is bad, it is actually pretty good, but it is mainly there for great action sequences and perfect moments of comedy. The scene where the black Murtaugh is trying to move to South Africa is hilarious.The movie gives us to things that makes the movie different from the first. The first is a love interest named Rika (Patsy Kensit) who works, in the innocent way, for the South African diplomats. The second is Leo Getz (Joe Pesci). He is a key witness and Riggs and Murtaugh must make sure nothing happens to him. Instead of doing that they take him on their missions. Pesci is great in his role.Besides that things are familiar, but done so good that it feels fresh. This is a sequel that really lives up to the original movie and that alone is something to appreciate. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Leathal Weapon 2 i think is a fantastic movie. There is so far 4 Leathal Weapon movies. I hope there will be more of these in the future. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover i think are fantastic actors, they are great working together. I give the movies 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The honest truth about one of the most beloved action/comedy series in the movie industry.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR ALL FOUR MOVIES!!1 - was fresh, innovative, edgy and hard. It had everything a good action movie needs to make it successful; excellent character development, imaginative direction, professional performances by the cast and crew, a clever and witty screenplay with intelligent dialog, and action...lots of good fast-paced, well-delivered action. It had a fresh comedic element without ever turning to camp or juvenile antics to solicit a chuckle from us. The comedy was educated, intelligent and expertly-delivered. The characters were lovable, and we got the feeling that we knew them, cared about them, wanted them to succeed. Riggs's character felt less like a character and more like a person, due to the high-level of development his character received. True, the gun handling left a lot to be desired, but the vast majority of audiences would not realize that you can not get 20 shots from a 16 shot clip. Nor would they realize that you can't just leave those empty clips on the ground; they cost MONEY and no CoP would do that because law enforcement officers are typically not highly paid. That aside, this was an excellent movie with wonderful entertainment value. One of the best of its kind.2 - gave us Joe Pesci's character, Leo Getz. Because of Getz, I honestly found this film to be rather endearing. Getz is one of the best characters to have been introduced to this series. Unfortunately, the edge and freshness is toned down way too much, and the action is really rather predictable. I thoroughly enjoyed bearing witness to the further development of the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh, and was not in the least bored with that aspect. It is still a good movie, even though its edge is shelved for a more marketable product.3 - is just as good as 2. Riggs now has a new love interest and it seems as though all will be well and all manner of things will be well. It is still a few months away from the press release concerning the Glover/Gibson signing for 4 & 5, so it seems the series has wound down, rather than up. The action is still quality, though there are fewer and fewer unpredictable moments. The comedic aspect which was enlightened and intelligent is now a bit puerile and tired. And while the performances are still professional, it seems as though Riggs and Murtaugh both are well on their way out.4 - is the perfect ending to this series. Honestly. The characters have developed as far as I can bear to witness; Murtaugh misfires his gun in the locker room of the precinct, Riggs gets his butt kicked by a rookie cop in the boxing ring, and Riggs and Murtaugh are both just too old for this action thing anymore. (Gods help us with 60-something-year-old Harrison Ford in the upcoming Indiana Jones 4.) Their CHARACTERS speak constantly of being too old, and I'm not talking about Murtaugh's well used line, I'm getting too old for this sh*t. It is far beyond that. And now, with Riggs's marriage to Lorna, Murtaugh's daughter's marriage to Butters, the new babies and all the smarmy crap at the ending...enough is just enough.5 - should never happen. I don't think I can bear to see anymore smarm from these two. The characters we all loved are already gone. Like in Invasion of the Bodysnatchers, they've been stolen from us. The edge from Riggs's character is gone. He's a bit hapless now, and sad rather than the lunatic mayhem we want and NEED from his character.The only way to pull off a 5th installment would be to kill off Lorna's character, the baby AND Butters. Either put Riggs back where his character was in 1 & 2, or don't bring him out of the moth balls. PLEASE. I loved these movies, but for the love of Mike! NO MORE!If you liked any of these movies, I highly recommend Tango & Cash, an excellent, much-overlooked, highly under-rated Buddy-Cop movie.1. 9.2/102. 8.8/103. 7.6/104. 6.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Best of the sequels. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Audiences made LETHAL WEAPON 2 even bigger than the original when most discovered it on video and decided that they wished they had seen it on the big screen first time around. Such is the power of cinema.This is a superior sequel with a tremendous sense of humour and danger and with all the elements that make a Joel Silver film what it is. It also expanded the character's worlds and gave Martin Riggs a more-rounded sense of worth.I do long for more films like this from Silver, as later efforts like ROMEO MUST DIE and THE MATRIX, although technically virtuous, don't have the heart and soul of the earlier films.A smart move by Donner to put the focus of frustration of the two leads on Joe Pesci's Leo Getz character heightens the brilliance of the humour on show.Interestingly enough, the uncut version of this film was shown by mistake by UK's Channel Five station a few years ago which I spotted. (The scene where Riggs kills baddies after they chuck him, straitjacket and all into the sea and he discovers Rika in the water was cut for film and video in the UK on it's initial release, so it was interesting to see this deleted scene briefly)Generally though, this is a rollercoaster ride of a cop thriller and one which deserved to do well on it's original cinema release in 1989 "},{"Title":"Worthy and exciting sequel!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Riggs and Murtaugh are back in the first sequel to the classic &#145;Lethal Weapon'! The duo are hot on the trail of a South African drugs cartel but efforts to arrest them prove fruitless as the criminals have diplomatic immunity from arrest in the US.&#145;Lethal Weapon 2' is in my opinion a worthy sequel to its predecessor and in some ways better. Enhancing the story from the original rather than trying to change it we are now confronted with a `lighter' Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson). The strong friendship that has grown between the two is beautifully portrayed in a scene where Riggs puts his life on the line to save his buddy's Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover). Although the scene in question is in some ways amusing the well constructed dialogue and the acting abilities of Glover and Gibson make it easily one of the most touching and suspenseful scenes in recent film history. Murtaugh's character remains the same as he tries to cope with the madness that Riggs always brings but you can tell that he is rapidly becoming accustomed to it and, to some extent, has even started to enjoy it. &#145;Lethal Weapon 2' succeeds primarily in the touching and emotional portrayal of the friendship of Riggs and Murtaugh so much so that the heart-wrenching final moments and final shot from Murtaugh's gun have so much more impact than one would expect.&#145;Lethal Weapon 2' also brings in a comedy element that the original did not have (and understandably so) in the form of Joe Pesci as Leo Getz, a witness for the state who laundered drug money that Murtaugh and Riggs were forced to protect. From the first moment these three people meet each other there are constant giggles but thankfully the jokes are a lot more restricted than they became later in the series. By &#145;Lethal Weapon 4' there were far too many jokes which distracted attention away from the action and storyline. Luckily, in &#145;Lethal Weapon 2'  the jokes were used to enhance the film and the main storyline as well as some explosive and thrilling action sequences were still the central focal point of the movie.From the exhilarating car chase that opens &#145;Lethal Weapon 2' to the battle that ends it there are plenty of well choreographed, directed and entertaining action sequences. The script for &#145;Lethal Weapon 2' is very strong, as it was for the original, which makes the whole movie have a feeling of leading up to something which is an excellent quality for a movie to have. I have already commented on the acting abilities of Gibson and Glover who were on top form for this picture but I feel I must also compliment Patsy Kensit for her somewhat short role as Rigg's love interest Rika and also Joss Ackland and Derrick O' Connor for their excellent performance as the leaders of the criminal gang.I certainly recommend this movie to action fans and any fans of the original. &#145;Lethal Weapon 2' delivers exhilarating action and adept performances complimented marvellously by great direction and a tight script. My rating for &#145;Lethal Weapon 2' &#150; 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"good sequel","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 2 reteams Mel Gibson and Danny Glover as, respectively, loose cannon LA detective Martin Riggs and Riggs' cautious family man partner Roger Murtaugh. The villain this time is a South African diplomat (Joss Ackland) who doubles as a drug dealer. Though Riggs knows what's going on thanks to characterless character witness Leo Getz (Joe Pesci), he can't touch the villain because of diplomatic immunity. After perils too numerous to mention, Riggs and Murtaugh shoot it out with the heavies on the deck of a South African cargo ship. The film sometimes strains credulity to the breaking point, notably by having lead villain Joss Ackland turn out to be the same man who killed Mel Gibson's wife in the first Lethal Weapon. I loved this sequel adding Joe Pesci was a great move there and the toilet bomb scene is a movie classic. Lethal Weapon 2 was overall a very enjoyable and good sequel.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first but still fantastic (Possible Spoiler)","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie. It was so funny. And to top it all off, they put Joe Pesci in the middle of the movie which makes it 10x better in comedy wise. I thought the acting was great by Mel Gibson, Danny Glover and Joe Pesci. I thought this was an important movie to make because in this movie, they told what happened to Martin Riggs' wife. It was powerful to see the emotion Martin Riggs had in this movie about his wife because it showed how important she was to him and it showed how much he missed her. The most dangerous thing to do is getting under Martin Riggs' skin but never talk about his wife in a bad way because if you do, there is no doubt that you will be badly injured. I think that's the message being brought into this film and that is very important. This movie was a great movie because it did have a lot of action, comedy and suspense and I recommend this movie to all viewers who like the Lethal Weapon film and who are Mel Gibson fans. I give it ***!!!!! "},{"Title":"Filled With TONS of Action!","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is filled with tons of action. Crime-fighting, shooting, it has it all. The acting is great, and keeps you paying attention the whole move. Great hit for all cop movie fans to see. thumbs up for Lethal Weapon 2! "},{"Title":"Great Sequel...my favorite of the series.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is my favorite Lethal Weapon movie.  Murtaugh and Riggs have to protect a government witness from these South Africans running some kind of illegal business...I think it is drugs or something of the like.  They tried to go after these people, but unfortunately they are actually diplomats and have immunity from prosecution.  I don't think you can just run crazy and commit crimes like they did in the movie in real life though.  Joe Pesci who was actually working for the criminals as a money launderer plays the witness.  This movie is just great.  It has it all action, comedy, and drama.  Pesci is a great addition to the cast as well as he provides for some good laughs.  Though the highlight in this one has to be where Glover's character Murtaugh is caught on the toilet with a bomb on it.  Gibson's character Riggs, falls in love with a gal working with the diplomats/criminals and you know will have the feeling watching it that it won't end well.  All in all a great movie that is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Lethal Review 2","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first Lethal Weapon movie was awesome and this film had a great plot and follow up but somehow it fell short.Incredibly SHORT!The problem with this movie is that to begin with the story was never really constructed properly and the action sequences were pretty weak. This is perhaps the only film in the series which is bad. (2(**)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Probably the best Lethal Weapon","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first Lethal Weapon lay out the ground for the characters and it's also the most important thing in the movies namely the great chemistry between Danny Glover and Mel Gibson. When you had gotten to learn them in the first movie there was a lot to build on in the LW2 and they sure succeeded in doing this. It's is truly the best of them all it's funnier; it has better action and better performances from the actors and especially from Joe Pesci. Still, the three others are also nice action-movies. The story is good, nothing great but good; it's more or less similar to the other movies.In overall an excellent and superior sequel to Lethal Weapon, a job well done! 7,5 out of 10         "},{"Title":"A good comedy action mix","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie like most of the other Lethal Weapon movies was very enjoyable for an action movie.  They are sort of the beginning of the action movies that tie in a little bit of comedy.  I think that Mel Gibson gives a little more of a serious role than in part one.  All of the stunt scenes are realistic which makes for a really good action movie.  And the ending almost completely surprises you.   "},{"Title":"my number 131 movie ( contains story + spoilers )","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 2 is my number 131 movie. I like all of the Lethal Weapon movies, and this one is after part 2 the best one. I usually like action movies, so I was almost supposed to like this one, too. And I did.The story  Two policemen ( Martin Riggs ( played by Mel Gibson ) and Roger Murtaugh ( played by Danny Glover )) ought to protect a principal witness ( Leo Getz played by Joe Pesci ) get in contact with drugs smullers from South Africa. The film has good action sequences and is funny, too. ( my favorite part has to be when Mel Gibson calls the guy from Austria just &#132;Adolf, because he cannot spell his actual name ). That is very funny. I think part 2 is better than part 1 and 4 and worse than part 2. I think they are all between 8/10 and 9/10, and this one I rate 8.6/10.  I recommend it to fans of action films, especially of the Lethal Weapon films, of course.CU; Rinho  "},{"Title":"Best of the series after 4, of course","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I like Lethal Weapon 2 for three reasons the action, the laughs, and the last and most important reason is it delivers a powerful message.  The first reason I like Lethal Weapon 2 is because it's full of action.  From the opening chase scene to the destruction of the stilt house to the final shootout, nonstop action.  Reason #2 The laughs.  Joe Pesci adds what I think is some much needed comic humor.  As some reviews have said, Joe Pesci is sort of a third stooge in this film.  Reason #3 and the most important Lethal Weapon delivers a very powerful message. Now I'm 15 and I'm black.  I was 12 when I saw this film for the first time.  I admit I didn't understand all that stuff about racism and apartheid and the problems facing South Africa but now I do.  Lethal Weapon 2 hits these issues dead on and hits them well.   10/10 "},{"Title":"Twice the Fun","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One thing about this series is how they keep adding onto what they've already got. In the first we got Riggs and Murtaugh; now we get Patsy Kensit and Joe Pesci. Patsy's nice to look at and Pesci brings Pesci. Pesci really lifts it. Screenwriter Black goes from superlatives to even better - and somehow manages to weave in the story line from the first one as well, and that's not exactly easy.This one even has heart. It warms on all fronts even as it's a roller coaster ride that doesn't let up. From the first frame it just takes off and the scenes vary from total action to uproariously funny. There are memorable quotes here which are truly memorable.Even on the music front things get really buddy-buddy. There's a sort of 'Wilbury' thing to it - I will say no more. Classic it might not be, but it may be a pleasant surprise nonetheless.Black is going to keep on going from success to success until he finally hits a dud with the hopefully forgettable 'Long Kiss' which surely was an embarrassment for at least the principal actress. And next you'll see Pesci return and bring Russo along with him. And it's good too, but this one is arguably the best of the lot.When this one went up at the biograph, just moving right in with no further ado, audiences went wild and cheered. Of course they did. They remembered the first one and they love roller coaster rides. And they weren't disappointed and neither will you be. "}{"Title":"One Of The Best Action Films and Sequels Of All Time. An Absolute Classic.","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 2 is one of the best Action films ever made and not only that it is one of the best sequels of all time. Filled with great direction,amazing cast,excellent action and a great score Lethal Weapon 2 is a true classic of the Action genre and is one of my favorite films.Set two years after the events of the first film,Lethal Weapon 2 brings back Riggs(Mel Gibson)and Murtaugh(Danny Glover)who now have to deal with South African diplomats who use their diplomatic immunity to do criminal activities. At the same time Riggs and Murtaugh have to watch and protect fast talking accountant Leo Getz(Joe Pesci) who used to work for the South Africans and is now testifying against them. Now Riggs and Murtaugh have to protect Leo and stop the South African diplomats once and for all.Lethal Weapon 2 a film that I have loved since I first saw it when I was a kid and was the film that introduced me to the Lethal Weapon films. Mel Gibson,Danny Glover and Richard Donner have always said that Lethal Weapon 2 has always been their favorite film of the the franchise and it has been my favorite film of the franchise because Lethal Weapon 2 takes the Action and brilliance of the first film and raises it higher giving viewers an intense,powerful and Action packed experience. One of the reasons I think that Lethal Weapon 2 is one of the best sequels of all time and one of the best Action films of all time is because LW2 while a sequel to the first film is different from the first in terms of story and execution where the Action is bigger and louder and much more violent than in the first film. LW2 is a also a great sequel because it works on it's own where it is not necessary to watch the first film because when you watch LW2 you are pulled in by the main characters and you know them as the film goes along. The screenplay by Jeffrey Boam is well-written and filled with great dialog that matches Shane Black's great script in the first film. The Comedy and Humor in LW2 is funny and gives the film a much lighter tone than the first film because of the situations and dialog between the characters Riggs,Murtaugh and Leo a relationship that would go on in the other films and the Comedy and Humor is a great balance to the serious tone of this film. Most Action films during the 80s were known for having a political and social commentary and LW2 is no different with LW2 commenting on South Africa,Apartheid and racism and while the film isn't overly political there is enough social commentary that gives this film an edge. LW2 moves at a great and relentless pace and moves so fast that you barely have time to catch a breath or take a break because LW2 grabs you by the throat and doesn't let go until the end and that is one of the things I love about the film. Riggs,Murtaugh and Leo Getz are a great trio in this film and the rest of the series because the dialog and situations between the three is hilarious because the personalities are all different. Riggs is crazy and mad,Murtaugh is straight laced and logical while Leo Getz is fast talking and a loud mouth. Leo Getz is a great character because while he talks a lot and annoys Riggs and Murtaugh,Leo is smart and knows how to get things done and sometimes gets things done in a hilarious way. The South African villains in this film are classic villains in the LW series because of their vicious and cold hearted way of doing things and using their diplomatic immunity to do their illegal activities whether it is killing people or smuggling things into the United States. The South Africans are great foes for Riggs and Murtaugh. The Action and fight scenes in the film are brilliant and well-executed and are handled in a much bigger scale than in the first film and every Action scene is suspenseful and exciting and the Action scenes in this film are something you will never forget. The final 20-30 minutes are thrilling and Action packed and is a excellent conclusion that will have your eyes glued to the screen. A great ending to this amazing film.The cast does great jobs in their roles. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are brilliant once again as Riggs and Murtaugh and once again have great chemistry. Joe Pesci is great and hilarious as Leo Getz,with Pesci having amazing chemistry with Gibson and Glover. Joss Ackland(Arjen Rudd) and Derrick O'Connor(Pieter Vorstedt)are menacing and fantastic as the South African villains. Patsy Kensit is great and beautiful as Rika,Riggs love interest who also works for Arjen. Steve Kahan(Capt. Murphy),Mary Ellen Trainor(Police Psychologist),Darlene Love(Trish Murtaugh),Traci Wolfe(Rianne Murtaugh),Damon Hines(Nick Murtaugh)and Ebonie Smith(Carrie Murtaugh)give good performances as well.The direction by Richard Donner is excellent,with Donner always moving the camera and giving the film a great energy and pace while also doing well with the Action scenes. Wonderful direction by Donner.The score by Eric Clapton and Michael Kamen is excellent and intense and fits the tone of this film. A great score by Clapton and Kamen. There is also a great song from George Harrison(Cheer Down)and a memorable use of the Bob Dylan classic Knockin' On Heaven's Door(covered by Eric Clapton,Randy Crawford and David Sandborn).In final word,if you love Action films or the Lethal Weapon series,I highly suggest you see Lethal Weapon 2,a classic Action film and sequel that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sequels have a mostly bad reputation in the Hollywood system, with many a screenwriter believing that simply repeating previous work will be sufficient. There's also a small group of sequels that build on and so improve upon the original. Lethal Weapon 2 falls into a third category. It is neither better nor worse than the original. As Tommy Chong would say, it is basically the same thing, only different. Given that the original was a stunning example of how much better action films were when the MPAA had not yet decided that films had to be suitable only for children, this is certainly good enough for the discerning viewer.Lethal Weapon 2's principal difference from the original is that the lead character, Riggs, is played with a more light-hearted, even gentle tone for the most part. It is not until the final act, when the links with the original are properly resolved, that the angry, violent Riggs we saw in the original Lethal Weapon comes back to say hello. Unlike what happened in the latter two sequels, Lethal Weapon 2 does not take the lighter side of Riggs too far. Instead, Riggs is a very human character with more than two dimensions, a fact that was especially missed in Lethal Weapon 4. Even the introduction of a romantic interest, played with aplomb by Patsy Kensit, works wonderfully because of these all-important depths to Riggs' character.The biggest problem with Lethal Weapon 2 comes in the form of Joe Pesci. This is not so much Pesci's fault, as he is a very capable actor. The problem is that his character is as one-dimensional as most of those that populate the next two Lethal Weapons. By the time we are finished with his introduction, we are just about ready to feed him to a paper shredder. Fortunately, the acting skills of Danny Glover and Mel Gibson give Pesci something to bounce his rather flat material from. But the real surprise here is the quality of the antagonists.It is a well-known law in action films, or indeed many a genre, that your protagonist can only be as strong as your antagonist. Derrick O'Connor and Joss Ackland are two of the best antagonists that have been depicted on film. So much so that they manage to overcome the anti-apartheid message we are often beaten over the head with during much of the film. Director Richard Donner's tendency to push a political ideal in his films often works to the detriment of his films, so it is a testament to the strength of these two actors' performances that the film works so well. The viewer loves to hate them, and they truly seem to enjoy earning it.In all, I gave Lethal Weapon 2 a seven out of ten. It isn't the most brilliant film you will ever see, but it sustains multiple viewings quite well. And let's be honest here. Where else can you see men riding on the front of speeding cars or being killed with surfboards? "},{"Title":"Ranked #3","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike most others, I actually think the Leathal Weapon movies improve with each sequel - thus #4 is the best and #1 is the least good. Don't hate me for it. I think they're all good. But the brainlessness of the films are easier to explain (and appreciate) if one sees them as action-comedies.#2 is a lot more entertaining than it's prequel, mainly becase the characters are already worked in and can go on with their business (shooting everything that looks suspicious and going on like a couple of cranky radio hosts) without the introduction. Riggs' suicidal tendencies have calmed a lot and he is easer to deal with (personally, not professionally), and Murtaugh has accepted his weird and violent new partner. The story, however, is kind of lame and feels a bit awkward at times - but the final showdown is very slick and cartoonish, and brings the film up to speed again. "},{"Title":"A Very Poetically Symbolic Message, Part II","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If there are any real heroes left in the world, I'd sooner include even a future heroin dealer who got off anything but easily, before nominating any grandson of slaves with a concept of law which still can't even look a simple child in the eyes, with the kind of answer he needs about whom that law is really glad to shoot! . . . That is, a concept of law which intimidatingly flaunts its own vulgarly intoxicating duty to bypass, not only the most legitimately overriding sense of personal debt, but also nothing less than the First Principle of the Nuremberg Tribunals!&#151;Right?&#151;or Wrong? Wrong!&#151;Right!&#151;and Right!&#151;But, this time, about as lightly as the Miranda concept is trivialized, as an opposing mirror image! . . . That is, at least until Due Process is just as questionably exchanged, even for a general's time to die; just as it had only thus been for a family member, grounded under punitive asylum; as if these allegedly opposing images lacked an operationally identical point of origin, obscured by eternal contrasts made manifestly relevant only after the fact, minus any optional way to die. . . . That is, as well as contrary to their own insufferably paternalistic insistence that the lesser substance by nature leads to the greater, but with the same Bad Faith behind their raving that sellers would be impossible without buyers, until the truth is ironically taken hostage, against even the most consistently incoherent incentive not to know. . . . Ordinarily, I'd have been much-too-negatively overwhelmed by the misleadingly pretentious duplicity of such a twistedly-discordant composite, were it not for the way even those more bitterly offensive elements had been Divinely grafted in; albeit with the aid of those who already have their reward, save for the very dismal fact that it has barely begun to be paid in full! . . . That is, as a reminder not to continue cursing our civilized heritage, even for let-alone through its grossest misinterpretations of just about every genuinely moral principle it even more self-indictingly knows so very well how to preach, and just as demandingly impose! . . . But, rather, let us mourn for it, as it continues, right to the very Razor's Edge of every rapidly-narrowing Shade of Gray, to demonstrate that its is the kind of Superlatively Idealistic Imagery which needs be just as artistically, compellingly subdued; via a few jolts of shock therapy which cut so anorexically thin that one is almost doomed to say&#151;Good Night! . . . Yes, right up to the closing cemetery scene, with its tenderly somber and solitarily meditative mood; which speaks so clearly of the love I'll always have for my own Victoria Lynn, and of a metamorphosis which just may succeed at putting me again in touch with my deepest feelings. . . . That is, contrary to an inner sense of emptiness which still projects only the illusion of her absence, as well as a very serious form of blindness which time cannot for very much longer afford to indulge&#151;before even its Diplomatic Immunity is fatally revoked--and involving the real meaning, here and now, of Ezekiel 2415-27! "},{"Title":"We Don't Need A Nuther Hero!","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Burtdog and Hicks return with some guns blazing in this film called Lethal Weapon 2. Buddy movies and sequels were all the rage in the 80s, and this is amongst the best or the worst depending on which way your wind blows. Crazy Gary Busey and Patsy Klinesit also co-star with Crazy Joe Pesci in this crazy romp. Crazy cop Melanie Gibson goes off the rails when his wife is killed by drowning. He teams up once again with Danny Glove to get into action and kill all the water in the world. The problem is, Fanny Lover is also scared of water and keeps getting stuck on toilets so isn't much help. It turns out that Tyrannical (Saurus Rex!)Busey is a surfer who can send tidal waves at sunbathers. He has been steadily growing this power so that he can unleash a huge wave at San Fransico and kill everyone (when he was younger he was rejected by the flighty San Fran crowd for not being flamboyant enough). Rather than going for the logical solution and calling the coast guard or Superman's cousin Water (man) Mel Griffith and Danny Glick decide to take on the wet Bush meister themselves.This film ups you auntie from the first film, and is bigger, better, and not as good. There are plenty of quips and spark between all the cast members (in actual life they are all related to each other and grew up in the same house), and we have car chases, boat chases, surfy chasings, and lots of guns and bombs. This should all add up and equal a good film, but for some reason it doesn't. Maybe they forgot to carry the one. They seem to have done something like 3 + 5 + 5 + 4 = 10. Don't not do not get me wrong, right? Because it is still good, just not as good as it should have been. They would reach new highs with the third film, which is easily the worst of the Octology.Best Scene When Riggs and Barry are chasing Bushell in the water and he suddenly leaps out at them, yelling paranoid conspiracy theory rhetoric at them before sinking back into the gloomy depths. Gibson turns to his lover and delivers one of the great movie one-liners 'We might need a bigger boat!' "},{"Title":"A sequel that stands in the shadow of it's big brother","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Detectives Riggs and Murtaugh investigate a South African diplomat who may be involved in shipping illegal barabonds across the world using diplomatic immunity to cover their operations.  Whilst protecting federal witness Leo Getz and falling in love with Rika Van Den Haas the two must hunt down the criminals.This had a lot to follow and it doesn't succeed.  The plot is a little silly.  It tries to link to the first film in absurd ways and tries to stay fresh by bringing in Joe Pesci as comic relief.  The story relies on OTT action but lacks the rough edges of the first film - making it more of a fantasy action film.Gibson and Glover are OK but you can tell that they aren't totally convinced about what they're doing or who their characters are meant to be - Riggs is halfway between being a relaxed action hero and the madman of the first movie.  Pesci is funny and does manage to bring life to the film, however he is quite incidental and does get irritating.  Ackland is a poor bad guy and Kensit is pretty much a non-entity.Overall a disappointing follow-up to a solid action film. "}]