[{"Title":"In Peter Yates' film,  bad cops become dangerous predators&#133;","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film opens with sequences conceived to present Selleck as a loving husband and a devoted airlines maintenance supervisor&#133; His name is Jimmie Rainwood&#133; One night, a couple of crooked narcotics cops break down Rainwood's peaceful door...Jimmy&#151;who had just taken a shower&#151;comes out with a hair dryer in his hand&#133; He is shot twice by the anti-drugs cops who have caught a shadow of what looks like a gun&#133; So to justify their error, they concocted an entire fairy tale planting drugs in Jimmy's home and a gun in his hand&#133;Rainwood ends up in jail&#133;Luckily, he is befriended by Virgil Cane, played by F. Murray Abraham&#133; Cane was the character to keep your eye on&#133; He is a 'schemer and a charmer.' Virgil disagrees with Jimmy's sensitiveness as a straight man&#133; This is an 'insane place with insane rules' that tests the human consciousness, yet survival will never be the same without some sort of sacrifice&#133; A group of degenerate prisoners make life unbearable for Jimmy until he learns how to really fight back&#133;The film had its fair share of bloody moments and did not shy away from the nasty things that go on in men's prisons&#133; "},{"Title":"Very compelling","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Selleck is absolutely fabulous in this movie! Hollywood usually is very bad with jailhouse movies. They tend to go to extremes when depicting what it's like to suddenly lose your freedom and always neglect to portray the mind-numbing boredom, lack of privacy and constant noise that is for years part of a prisoners daily life. Having spent time in prison myself may make me a bit biased in favor of a movie where a convict actually gets revenge on the cops who set him up-so be it. I can remember only one other movie as good as this that came close to showing the reality of prison life and that was 'Short Eyes' a movie filmed in the Tombs in Manhattan-a place where I was a guest more than once. Check out the wonderful performance of F. Murray Abraham in this flick as the tough old con that give Selleck advice on how to survive in prison. Jailhouse movies made in Hollywood always seem patently phony to me as a rule-like some director's idea of what he thinks jail should be. This one is a huge exception to that rule. I recommend it highly and think you'll like it.  "},{"Title":"Correct  film about a good man in a dangerous prison","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie talks an ordinary family man (Tom Selleck) who works as an airplane engineer and married a good woman (Laila Robins) . He's accused by two baddie policemen (David Rashe and Richard Young) as peddler and he's sent to a hard jail . There he is harassed and humiliated until that fury and revenge emerge . He's only helped by a veteran convict (F.Murray Abraham) framed for prison life.It's an interesting film developed in two parts  in and out of prison . The best part is narrated into prison because of it reflects the astonishing existence of the inmates , with fights, threats ,murders and where rules the strongest's law . In the picture there are suspense, violence, drama , tension and a bit of action in the final confrontation . The picture obtained moderated success , it was not a smash hit neither a flop . Tom Selleck's interpretation is fine but F.Murray Abraham is better , he makes a terrific acting as the veteran con who teaches naive Selleck to take on risks and dangers of the gaol . Many of the film's prison scenes were filmed at the old Hamilton County Jail in Cincinnati, Ohio , also known as the Cincinnati Workhouse, had been permanently closed prior to the location filming of the movie and it had been built during the Civil War . It was closed due to being inhumane, cruel and unusual by modern jail standards . Atmospheric music by Howard Shore who subsequently achieved many hits and one Oscar for ¨Lord of the rings¨. Nice cinematography by William A.Fraker , photographer of various classic films . The motion picture was rightly directed by Peter Yates . The story will appeal to prison genre enthusiasts and Tom Selleck fans. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I accidentally stumbled upon this while looking for something to watch and I don't regret it. I saw this on a movie channel on cable and man, who knew Tom Selleck could make such a good movie? F. Murray Abraham is excellent as Tom Sellecks Obi-wan, the one who guides him throughout the movie and helps him bust the cops that framed him. Muy Bien! "},{"Title":"Clichéd , Contrived , But Watchable Enough","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Making a film set in an American prison is sort of like making a horror film. When making the latter all you have to do is keep the lighting low , hold the camera close up on a characters face , have scary sounds out of view and there you have something that will effectively scare an audience . With the former all you have to do is put an ordinary joe in a prison , surround him with a bunch of black men and have a guard say Time for a shower you scum  and you'll have the audience biting their finger nails.***** SPOILERS ***** Tom Selleck plays the everyman character of Jimmie Rainwood fairly well in this film and you really can empathise with him as he gets mugged by the home boys on his way back from the canteen , and the following scene made me aware of something I hadn't known at the time - American prisons are factionalised along ethnic lines . I know this now after reading up on it and watching documentaries on the American penal system which did slightly spoil the credibility of THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION for me .In no way should THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION and AN INNOCENT MAN be compared of course , but this film is very entertaining and sometimes chilling as the prison clichés come one after the other . The white prisoners despise Jimmie for supposedly showing the white race to be weak while the black prisoners show what's in store for him by letting Jimmie witness a gang rape in the gym , and if you look like Tom Selleck you've got to worry about being popular in prison for all the wrong reasons . My main criticism about AN INNOCENT MAN is the rather weak ending where it's revealed that the cops who fitted up Jimmie are corrupt which lets the screen writers - just like Jimmie - get out of jail .All in all a good prison drama . If you like the HBO prison drama OZ you'll certainly enjoy this . The day after it was shown on the ITV network a TV presenter even referred to it on a news feature dealing with juvenile crime "},{"Title":"simple and realistic","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  an airplane mechanic gets accidently caught up in a bungled drug bust by two bent cops and is sent to prison. Tom Selleck, always calm in his roles seems to take it lying down at first, but when he is constantly picked out by the usual jail hoodlums and is still haunted by the cops who framed him, he can take no more. dont listen to any of the negative comments for this film unless you prefer the comic book jail films like Stallones Lock Up (1989) because this film is realistic and the storyline is simple and NOT full of hero prisoners on a revolt who finally get the president himself to give an official pardon. Tom is always great in whatever he does and you can be sure that this is another great effort from him. i love the dialogue...like..now you dont have a problem with that now...do you white boy Not your type of movie? i wouldnt bet on that!!!9/10  "},{"Title":"An underrated prison movie-Selleck and Abraham are great.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the best prison movies in recent years. Selleck is very good and Abraham as the hardened con is excellent. Abraham has some great lines-  Don't you be turnin your neck at me when I'm trying to give you a solid. Yea, he didn't know enough, did he.  You did a piece of work and you kept your mind. "},{"Title":"Tense, Suspenseful - A Great Find","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a great example of a character thrust into an awful situation - a situation where you question, What would I do in his shoes? For that reason, it is very tense and suspenseful throughout as Tom Selleck's character tries to navigate prison life. I really felt for his character - his acting was great. Sure, there are some moments of cheesy lines and overdone composing and a bit of over-acting by the various villains, but for the most part, this is one of the better character thrillers I've seen in awhile. Selleck is great, as if the man who befriends him inside the prison. Can't find anything new to watch? I recommend checking out this little gem from 1989! "},{"Title":"A Great Selleck Flick","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This little under rated gem is a great flick.Witness the transformation of Tom Selleck from all round nice guy to bad ass dude as his life is turned upside down by two corrupt cops who make a mistake on a bust. This is a very enjoyable flick and well worth a look its definitely one of Sellecks better films and seriously deserved better treatment at the cinemas than what it did.If you've got nothing better to do on a rainy afternoon then this is highly recommended viewing,its not The Shawshank Redemption,which is my favourite jail film,or even The Green Mile but it is still a great little film and a great time filler.Sometimes I wonder what Sellecks career would've been like had he of made a little film called Raiders of The Lost Ark perhaps his film career would've gone through the roof,he definitely deserves a better film career than what he had. "},{"Title":"That's Virgil Cane man, Lone Ranger ain't got nothing on him.","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" James Rainwood (Tom Selleck) is a real stand up guy, with a loving wife and in a dream job where the company just couldn't cope without him, his life is just dandy. That is until two corrupt cops make a mistake and burst into his home believing it to be host to a drug deal. Thinking his hairdryer is a gun, one of the cops shoots Rainwood and it's then that the cops realise they have made a monumental error. So planting drugs around the home they set Rainwood up as a dealer who shot at the cops. Believing justice & honesty will see him OK, Rainwood refuses to cop a plea, and is promptly sentenced to a hell hole prison for six years. Where the affable Rainwood needs to wise up quickly or face a brutal and torrid time in the big house.Earlier in 1989 we had seen the release of Sly Stallone vehicle Lock Up, a film, that for all its many faults, was a dream come true to the action movie fan who also has a bent for any piece involving incarceration. So up steps Tom Selleck, who after recently showing himself to be a more than effective light entertainer in film's such as Three Men & A Baby and Her Alibi, is looking to break out into other, more rounded, genres (he also made Quigley Down Under in 1989). For the most part it's a good choice by Selleck and the casting director. The role of Jimmie Rainwood calls for someone charming, elegant and reeking of pure homeliness. That's Selleck to a tea. But the problems for many observers has been, and will be for first time viewers, the transformation of homely Tom into cocksure daddio prison geezer. Thrust into a world of violence and male rape, Rainwood simply must shape up or face a few years of brutality and a stripping of his soul. We know this, and once he starts to be guided by Virgil Cane (F. Murray Abraham adding a touch of class to a stereotypical role, the film for the rest of its prison section is sign posted for us. And it's hard to swallow, even for someone like me who is a fan of the film.As for the other elements in the film, the various sub-plots hold few surprises. Rainwood's wife (Laila Robins) is loving and crusading for her man's release, but writer Larry Brothers has her very much by the numbers. As he does for Badja Djola's Internal Affairs investigator, John Fitzgerald. The latter of which is a shame as Djola holds his scenes very well and is aching to put more meat into the character. Then there of course is our dirty cops played by Richard Young & David Rasche. Young's Danny Scaliese is the calm thinking one, Rasche's Mike Parnell is the aggressive and borderline psychotic one. It's hard to tell if Rasche is playing it for ham or really attempting to layer the madness lurking within? Either way it's very entertaining, if ultimately miles away from the brilliance that was his Sledge Hammer! TV series. These cops are of course in desperate need of a fall, the question is are the makers here merely reverting to formula or do they have some tricks up their sleeves? Well it's directed by Peter Yates and the writer is hardly an inspired scribe, you do the maths. And lets face it, Selleck is no Stallone. A better actor for sure, but when it comes to shanking and shooting who you gonna call? Rambo or Magnum?I do like the film, but I love the genre it belongs to. And I literally will watch Abraham in anything. So take my 7/10 rating purely with a pinch of salt and call it a 5/10 time filler instead. "}{"Title":"New Rules for survival","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think An Innocent Man proved that whenever he decided to end his Magnum PI series, Tom Selleck was going to have no trouble in getting good parts. And not those that were a variation on his Thomas Magnum persona.This is one really powerful film about An Innocent Man getting caught in the criminal justice machinery because of a pair of dirty cops, David Rasche and Richard Young. These two who are decorated heroes in the Long Beach PD for all the arrests they rack up are actually just putting out of business all the independents in the narcotics trade for the local organized crime boss and making a nice side living in the process.They get an address wrong from an informant and they invade Selleck's home, shoot and wound Selleck, and then plant evidence to make Selleck out as a dealer. He gets convicted and sentenced to six years hard time and I do mean hard which it is for anyone who's not a professional in the criminal trade.Fortunately he gets himself a mentor in old time con F. Murray Abraham who also has a score to settle with those two cops. Abraham teaches him all the new rules for survival in the joint, housed with men who are by nature incorrigible and don't play by civilized rules. Selleck does things that were against his old nature.When he does get paroled from inside the joint Abraham quarterbacks a revenge scheme that Selleck participates in.Besides those mentioned I should also single out Laila Robins who plays Selleck's wife who stands by him and Bruce Young who plays a violent convict that Selleck has to deal with in the joint.An Innocent Man is one of the best made for television films done and should have gotten big screen theatrical release. "},{"Title":"Guilty Until Proved Innocent","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Riveting entertainment of someone accused of a crime that they didn't commit and how the system can be tainted or shuffled against you on a whim. The shocking part is there is nothing you can do about it. I suppose that is why it takes 13 years to execute someone in this country too. We want to be sure before we take a life. Good story, acting and plausible more times than not. The characters draw you in and you either hate them or root for them, but sitting still is not an option with your emotions in full play. This movie activates the emotions. There are plot holes, but we trade them for the raw adventure to be found in watching the movie and joining the characters. There are 4 movies that depict life in prison accurately. 1. American Me 2. Blood In Blood Out 3. The Glass House and this one. If you want to scare someone straight, there is the line-up to remind them to behave them selves now or fight for your life later. This movie also reminds us of how power and money can rule and how we end up serving those things. Then, they finish us off all the worst for it. Catch this movie without interruptions, have a snack ready, and be entertained. I did a bowl of home made double roasted sunflower seeds. I recommend this over biting your nails or smoking to relieve the tension found in this movie at times...Bon Voyage "},{"Title":"quite good","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this was a good film about being framed and getting revenge. Tom Selleck is great in his role as the title character. Two crooked cops make a mistake (in more ways than one) when they go to the wrong address expecting to find a drug dealer, break into his house, mistake a hair dryer he is carrying for a gun, and shoot him. They then realize that they are at the wrong house and try to amend their mistake by framing Selleck as a drug dealer. Everything goes their way, and Selleck winds up in prison. Three years later, he is paroled and seeks revenge. During those three years, he is faced with the harsh realities of prison life and is beaten up more than once. F. Murray Abraham is there for him, fortunately, and helps him survive. (Abraham plays another inmate.) I liked this film even though it did follow a formula and was a typical revenge type movie. It was a great role for Selleck, who was perfect in his part.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Very realistic.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was Tom Sellecks finest work. I never cared for Tom Selleck until  this movie.Tom plays a nice guy who  gets framed by none other than the dirty police.Rainwood (Tom Selleck) gets  convicted and sent to jail.Rainwood  has to learn what it takes to survive  in jail.He even kills a man.After  being released from jail he still  was hounded  by the same cops that framed him.Finally he (Rainwood) gets  even with the dirty COPS that framed him and they land behind BARS.I loved  it.It was REALISTIC. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST Prison Movies EVER!","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the best prison movies ever! Selleck is very good and Abraham as the hardened con is excellent.The worst premise how do you prove you are innocent ...Dirty cops high on coke made a fatal error and enter the wrong home. An innocent man is shot; arrested; and imprisoned.His life is ruined. His life will never be the same again. Prison life is hell.What does a man of integrity and character do in prison, unjustly accused??!!His wife is obsessed with proving his innocence.So compelling ... in my husband's top 10 of all time! "},{"Title":"Really good, highlighted by Tom Selleck","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My father had been recommending this movie to me for a long time because he had seen it in the theaters back in 1989. Well, I was glad to finally see it today because I was blown away. This movie was fantastic and Tom Selleck was real good, I think this is one of his best performances ever. And the movie pisses you off because you want to see the bad guys get what they deserve so much! All the supporting actors were good in their roles as well. This can very well be a family movie too depending on what you let your kid see, there's some violence but not too much and there's some language but not a lot and there is no nudity. And the ending was perfect! So my recommendation is a must see, especially if you enjoy revenge movies and like Tom Selleck!! 10 stars! "},{"Title":"The Incredible Mo's adventures in the big house","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie looks like a TV-movie. But that's okay, because I was watching it on a TV set.Tom Selleck plays Jimmie Rainwood, and aircraft engineer living in the seaside 'burbs with his wife, Kate (Laila Robins), who suffers the old 'wrong place at the wrong time' thing when two highly decorated (and highly corrupt) cops, acting on a tip, hit his house, which is on Oak Lane, mistaking it for Oak WAY, where the real drug deal is going down.Jimmie's just taken a shower while he contemplates the salad Kate left for him in the refrigerator (she's working late) when the two narcs burst in. Mistaking Jimmie's hairdryer for a gun, coke-addled detective Mike Parnell (David Rasche) shoots Jimmie.Not wanting to tarnish their distinguished careers, the two cops frame Jimmie and the legal system fails him and he winds up sentenced to 6 years.While Jimmie learns how to survive in the big house from lifer Virgil (F Murray Abraham), his wife writes letters, harrasses people etc to try and get him out, including clever manipulation of Internal Affairs Detective Fitzgerald (Badja Djola), and the corrupt narcs do their best to keep Jimmie and Kate silent about their collossal screw-up.A pretty formulaic prison-drama revenge-story, An Innocent Man has strength in it's performances and in it's realistic depiction of prison-life, particularly the tendency for some more experienced inmates to take pity on the new guy and give him some pointers so he stands at least some chance of surviving beyond his first week. And Laila Robins is really good as Rainwood's wife, remaining steadfast in her belief in Jimmie's innocence. And it steers clear of most of the jail-movie-clichés we are used to, like the oh my god it's a shower scene...don't drop the soap, or the sadistic warden character.This was never meant to be a dialogue-driven character study, nor a psychological examination of what incarceration does to the human soul. It's a revenge flick, a Tom Selleck action movie (you gotta love that he simply adds some 'handlebars' to that ridiculous moustache for his tough-guy jail-look) and a bite of after-dinner entertainment that delivers. Todd Graff deserves a mention as the hapless Robby, a repeat offender who offers Jimmie some initial tips when they first arrive, though he gets doused in petrol and set alight about 10 minutes in...he's really good though, playing the loser who knows what every prison on the eastern seaboard looks like.F Murray Abraham is worth the price of admission alone. He has some great lines. Oh, wait...yeah and that flying leap Tom Selleck does out of nowhere to take down Det Parnell...classicly weird and entertaining. All in all, worth a look. "},{"Title":"Decent Payback Flick","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I never cared for Magnum P.I. and I had no hand in the rental of this film when my friend brought it home from the video store for all of us to watch, so I didn't know what to expect. ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***All-in-all not a bad 'payback' film, although nowhere near the league of 'The Shawshank Redemption'. Basically, it's the familiar story of a man who's wrongly accused of dealing drugs after a couple of crooked cops set him up when a drug bust goes awry. Of course, Selleck comes out the better man, toughened by prison life and seeks his revenge on the 'bad' cops. Not a bad story.... 6/10 "},{"Title":"Delivers from start to finish","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here is a good old-fashioned story about a man accused of murder, all because two cops (actually, one of the two cops) don't want to admit their mistake of picking the wrong house. Tom Selleck is ideal to play the innocent man. For some strange reason, I expected not to like it. But I was pleasantly surprised. In fact it's a movie worth buying. Even if the DVD is out of print (and I'm not saying for sure it is), it nevertheless is a movie worth keeping. The movie is simple and straightforward, it doesn't condescend to the viewer, and has decent acting. It's not as dark in tone like most prison movies, however.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Great Movie Definitely underrated","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" the movie is an accurate portrayal of how prison life can really be.This is an underrated and excellent movie when it comes to prison movies. Right up there with Shawshank Redemption.One of the more underrated prison movies there are.I highly recommend watching this.the unwritten rules between convicts.Great movie and awesome case.Definitely a good prison flick I recommend this to anybodyA wrongfully accused man set up by crooked police, learns the difference between the real world and prison world. The story of him having to stand his ground to prove that he is an innocent man "}{"Title":"Pure revenge film","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pure revenge film all the way is this drama from the pen of Larry Brothers which tried to be a serious movie about the prevailing of justice when An Innocent Man (Tom Selleck) is framed by a pair of corrupt narcotics detectives.Peter Yates never stood a chance of making this a film with a message due to its obvious direction, conclusion and its total lack of life's ever present ambiguities. Tom Selleck's character is just too pure and righteous, and his loving wife is far too good for words, while the bad guys are just so, so bad it's annoying. F. Murray Abraham is probably the only slightly believable, and enjoyable, character, as he doesn't mind helping out a friend, yet we know he has a dark past. An agreeable showing from the one time Academy Award winner.This is the only highlight though in what is essentially a two dimensional movie lacking completely in originality. Howard Shore's surprisingly below par score is also a let down. Recommended just for audiences who either love Tom Selleck or love seeing the nasties get their comeuppance.Thursday, August 25, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"c'mon its a con movie and aren't they all?","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you don't forgive any movie's faults, you'll go through life VERY disappointed at anything you watch.  It was nice to see Tom Selleck taking on a different role than a cowboy.  He gets railroaded at the beginning of the movie, earns the respect of his fellow prisoners by not taking being a pushover, and gets even with the dirty cops who framed him to start with. Granted, this is not rocket science but who cares?  This is meant to be entertaining!!!  SPOILER COMING!!!!You got to love Virgil's parting comment, Hey, officer!, Ain't life a muther$%^&*@?   I can watch that scene 100 times and still get a great feeling...........Let's not forget, they are about a couple a pea-brain #$%^-less #$%^heads....Ausgezeichnet!!   Take a chance on this and just relax back and enjoy this movie for what it's intended to be  a slice of revenge entertainment. "},{"Title":"Just The Best","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In my 35 years on earth, I've been to just 2 movies that aroused an actual standing ovation from the audience in the theater Speed & An Innocent Man. I was only 9 years old when this movie came out, so it's only right to first thank my parents for always allowing me and my brother the privilege to see R rated movies at such a young age. There's just something about this movie that stirs up your emotions like none other. While some might call this a B movie, to me, the acting is just so real to life and spot on, much more realistic than say for people who are more purists when it comes to the art of movies.There are several stand out performances here. David Rasche to me, should have won an Oscar for his role as one of two the dirty cops. He probably plays my favorite bad guy role of all-time, is just plain masterful every time he comes on the screen. Anybody who can make a bad guy like-able by being so over the top corrupt, you know there's something special going on.Bruce Young as Jingles was another all-time classic character, another charismatic villain with a sparkle of gleam in his eyes. F. Murray Abraham was fantastic, as he delivers one of the best ending lines to a movie of all-time.Honestly everybody who participated in An Innocent Man was on their A game, I can mention every single character here. I can talk about this movie forever, give you a standard IMDb review but I am not going to. I will simply say that if you really haven't seen this movie, you are missing out on something very magical. This is my favorite prison movie ever made, slightly better than Shawshank for how down to earth it was. If it doesn't rattle your emotions you must be some type of surrogate. That, or a spiritual robot.... "},{"Title":"A Film That Forces Us To Look At Ourselves As A Society","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film shows some of the unspoken truths about the U.S. criminal justice system, as well as the horrors of state prison. We probably would be shocked to learn just how many innocent people are in prison, many for life.We would probably be equally shocked to find out who, in the judicial system, knows just who these innocent people are. This is an extremely important issue in contemporary culture, and one that many, including myself, are afraid to talk about or to get too close to. While An Innocent Man, and Tom Selleck, both, do an admirable job in exposing how this can happen to any one of us and what we would have to do to survive, I detracted one star because it depicts a scenario only about 1/3 as horrible as real life in state prison In real life, Jimmie Rainwood would have had multiple, simultaneous enemies, not just one. As soon as he killed one, another would have appeared. The rapes and murders in the prison were accurate and realistic. Selleck did a great job of sounding not-totally-convinced of the truth of his words when he told his visiting wife I can handle this place. I can. While this is an extremely important film, sociologically speaking, I must remind the readers of this review of the day-to-day torture, beatings, murders, rapes, suicides, solitary confinement, deprivation, mental breakdowns and thick atmosphere of evil and insanity permeating and pervading state prison.An Innocent Man approaches these subjects, as well as the critical issue of innocent people being sent to prison by a corrupt institution, too rigid and unethical to admit its mistakes and shortcomings. For this rare and courageous look, I am grateful. "},{"Title":"Prison drama glued in mediocrity.","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The name Peter Yates is not bandied around a great deal amongst movie fans, which is quite surprising since he is the director who brought us such fondly remembered classics as Summer Holiday, Bullitt and The Hot Rock. Yates is also behind the camera on this Tom Selleck vehicle, but there's little here to remind one of the halcyon days of his earlier classics. If anything, An Innocent Man has about it the air of a competent but totally uninspired made-for-TV prison drama (in actual fact, this is not a TV-movie but a major big-screen release, complete with relatively big stars). It is not a bad film, merely one that never rises above mediocrity at any point.Airline mechanic Jimmie Rainwood (Tom Selleck) leads a normal life. He works nine-to-five like any ordinary citizen, pays his bills, and loves his wife Kate (Laila Robins). His existence is shattered when two narcotics cops mistakenly raid his house and shoot him. The cops, Mike Parnell (David Rasche) and Danny Scalise (Richard Young), have been holding back drugs from some of their busts and selling them privately for big bucks. They were only in Rainwood's house because of an address mix-up linked to another bust. Fearing their profitable scam might be exposed unless they take drastic action, Scalise and Parnell plant narcotics in Rainwood's house and make it look like they were there on a legitimate raid. As a result, Jimmie is convicted of a crime he never committed and sent to a tough penitentiary for several years. While her husband is inside, Kate works tirelessly to clear his name, bringing in honest cop John Fitzgerald (Badja Djola) to investigate her suspicions of police corruption. But it's a slow process, and in the meantime Jimmie must learn to survive in the dangerous prison environment. A tough, experienced convict called Virgil Cane (F. Murray Abraham) teaches him how to cope, but Rainwood's peaceful life prior to imprisonment makes him struggle to adapt to his new surroundings. After many hardships &#150; including having to kill a prison bully &#150; Jimmie is finally released. Hardened by his experience, he sets out to track down the dirty duo that set him up in the first place.There's nothing hugely wrong with the basic story (scripted by Larry Brothers) other than the fact that it is somewhat familiar. The problems with An Innocent Man are more to do with issues regarding the general handling of the film. In the acting stakes no-one gives a really strong performance; in the music department Howard Shore provides a bland, lazy score; photographically the film is totally conventional and play-safe; and in the directing stakes, Yates goes about his job in strictly by-the-numbers fashion. When thinking about the film afterwards, words like inconsequential, unmemorable, unremarkable and routine spring to mind. Nothing about it stands out in a good nor bad way &#150; it's just typical 5-out-of-10 fodder from first frame to last. One of the main purposes of the film seems to be to give the star a more hard-edged role than usual, but apart from dollops of foul language and extra fake blood during the fighting sequences, it's still Tom Selleck playing Tom Selleck. An Innocent Man is easy to watch - it's even easier to forget. "},{"Title":"Realistic to the bone","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was a film about life..about circumstances that we never imagine that could happen but it happens all the time around us.. While I was watching that film I just wanted to kick something,my nerves where full of anger just because it gets too deep in the main character and it makes you feel you are him. It's surely one of the best films about corruption and it has a very strong ending. It is not a happy film, it's a hit to the bone film. take it or leave it. I cannot categorize it into something like society film or thriller, it is a life film I should say better and it is brilliant. Its one of those films that you always remember from the 90's as the one film that you didn't think it would be good but finally changed your whole month... "},{"Title":"This one has aged well","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just caught this movie today on USA.   This movie has aged well.  This movie, with a fairly simple plot does keep you hanging on throughout.  THis one is much better than the formulaic and cartoonish Lock up with Sylvester Stallone, which came out around the same time, if memory serves. "},{"Title":"A very realistic prison movie","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that this was one of Tom Selleck's best movie roles.  Also, F. Murray Abraham was excellent. "},{"Title":"In a blink your life can change!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A law abiding airplane mechanic is caught in a drug sting by a couple of dishonest cops and finds out that even being innocent isn't good enough to keep him out of trouble.Tom Selleck, F. Murray Abrams, and Bruce A. Young give excellent, honest performances in this all too believable tale of prison life.  Having no where to turn but Virgil Cane, another con; Jimmie Rainwood learns from Jingles that life on the inside isn't like his old life and he must learn new skills to survive.  Jimmies wife, Kate, works as hard outside to get him freed and this tale of lies, and struggle challenges each of us to examine our survival instincts.  Trust is no longer taken for granted. An excellent movie to make you think! One of Tom's best performances "},{"Title":"Have to Stand Up in Here, but not speak up","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I caught this movie one night on TV, unplanned, but stayed with it to find out how this guy gets out of the trap that others dishonestly put him in -- see how the evidence played out.  I was hooked on a memorable quote in the movie during the prison stay where Tom Selleck's inmate friend told him during mealtime that you don't have to speak up in here, but you have to stand up!  Gave me a personal motto that stayed with me.I liked the story.  It kept me watching; and I appreciated that Tom's wife stayed with him and believed in him and that the detective who helped him pursue the bad guys believed in him.   "}{"Title":"I found it...! Finally!","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really can't comment on this movie, because I've never seen it all the way through, here is why Many years ago, when I was a little girl (maybe 10 or 12 years old), they showed this movie on television, and I guess I thought it sounded like a good movie, because I taped it. The next day I watched it (or so I thought) and thought it was really good. So good in fact that I wanted to share it with the rest of my family! So I gave the tape to my parents and big brother and said Watch this! (well I can't remember exactly what I said, but I can imagine it was something like that). I sat down and watched it again with them. But when the movie ended (or should I say; when the tape ended) I didn't get the praise I expected to get for showing them this great movie, you see, the movie didn't quite end where I thought it did, the last scene on MY tape was when the leading character gets out of prison, and I thought that was how the movie ended but in fact I had just run out of tape...! So... I wasn't too popular in my family that day... I had shown them half of a movie...! Ever since that day the movie has haunted my mind... I never saw it again, they never showed it on TV, as far as I noticed ( but then again, as you can tell I wasn't the most observant kid...) I've always wanted to find it and see how it ends and show the end to the rest of my family. I feel like I owe them that. I didn't know the name of the movie, but I remembered that the corrupt police officers mistook a blow dryer for a gun (I believe...) and I remembered that his prison mate was bald (I think...) and the leading character had a mustache (now this I knew for sure!) And since I only know 2 major actors with mustaches (and apparently it wasn't Burt Reynolds, I checked) it had to be Tom Selleck, and it was!!! I've never been more happy...! (that's sad...) and now I'm going to get hold of An Innocent Man and show it to my family, I can finally get closure, thank you IMDb!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent revenge flick","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie would seriously put me in a dark mood, but I found that I liked it -- a lot. I was surprised by how much I liked this film. This is a very good B movie, and I enjoyed just about all of it -- the affectionate scenes between Jimmie Rainwood (Tom Selleck) and his wife, the scenes with the two corrupt cops, the scenes with Detective Fitzgerald (Badja Djola), the scene at the beginning with Rainwood assuring his boss that the jet airliner his people are working on will be fixed on time, and even the scenes in prison, especially those with Virgil Cane (F. Murray Abraham), but I even enjoyed the black-gang scenes (because I was rooting for Jimmie to get mad and take his tormentors down). Can you tell that I was entertained? -)This is the kind of movie to rent if you're in the mood to watch a good and truly innocent man get knocked around by nasty people you'll seriously love to hate (crooked cops AND prison gang members), watch the guy suffer a bit, and then watch him get back on his feet and get his revenge on his tormentors (without losing his humanity). The characters and situations may be a bit cliché, but I don't care. The movie reminds you, as one prisoner tells Jimmie Rain after he gets to prison, that there are times when you don't have to stand tall, but you do have to stand up. Rent this and watch Rainwood learn, under Virgil's guidance, how to stand up. "},{"Title":"Great Tom Selleck Movie","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good movie with Tom Selleck as the lead. Strong supporting role by F. Murray Abraham as his prison mate. David Rasche is always good as a bad guy. This is one of the movies I watch whenever I catch it on tv. Give it a view if you get the chance. It will keep your attention. "},{"Title":"One of the best TV movie comebacks ever filmed.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all the TV movies that BBC and ITV provide in England late at night usually after you've had a few beers this film is clearly one of the better ones. Especially after Selleck's release from prison, the film fills the eleven o'clock back from the pub slot with ease. It deserves such praise due to Sellecks phenominal comeback when it seems like he has been beaten by the bad guys, down and out he leaps from nowhere to save the day. "},{"Title":"Full of howlers, inane manipulation, and justice gone wrong...","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ordinary Joe Tom Selleck is in the right house at the wrong time when two scummy cops invade his home to arrest him for drugs; Selleck is clean, the cops made a mistake, so they rectify their gaffe by planting the goods on him. Next stop the courtroom (where an ages-old marijuana infraction rears its ugly head), and eventually the Big House. Once Selleck is behind bars, plotting to clear his good name, the picture falls into that timeworn, melodramatic vat of jailhouse clichés. It's a trap for the character as well as the audience. Peter Yates directed, hoping to spare us none of the horrors and humiliations of life in the jug. It's played for the sensational...and yet some viewers actually get caught up in it. Perhaps they're too young to know it has all been done before. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Tom Selleck Is An Innocent Man- Mainly because it's not his fault this movie is terrible.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Selleck Is An Innocent Man- Mainly because it's not all his fault this movie is terrible. Suffering from some of the most prime examples of poor directing, music, and sound, Selleck's 89 film was a plan to grow upon a career established by Magnum, PI. Due to these drawbacks, the film plays like a typical episode of Magnum, the only theatrical aesthetic being its bizarrely overusage of profanity. It's as if a cast of TV actors are given free range of vulgar words and can't hide a devious giggle everytime they find themselves mouthing contrived dialog that includes  f-this you punk! or ain't life a m--f--er?. The TV directing style and MIAMI VICE style music makes the sudden violence and profanity seem jarringly out of place. One strength the movie has is its writing, which, despite poor dialog, makes even Selleck's slightly wooden performance seem tight and focused. If it weren't for the incredibly poor directing, set design, costuming, lighting, sound and music, F. Murray Abraham may not have been to embarassed to put this on his resume. Maybe. "},{"Title":"Over the top garbage","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was unlucky enough to catch this on late night cable. This is a terrible movie. It surely was made for TV and intended to capture the Magnum PI crowd for a cheap thrill and ratings boost.Do not waste your time, it is completely unrealistic and not even well done, the Chuck Morris Texas Ranger episodes are more believable.It plays out like a really bad 70's TV drama, PURE GARBAGE!!!And I need 10 lines of text, why don't the other reviewers need to have 10 lines of text. I can't think of anything else to say about this film and it doesn't deserve 10 lines of text.SKIP THIS FILM, NUF SAID. "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a movie where you cannot help feeling sorry that despite the fact that it has a good cast and plot and all it takes to be thought as one of the great movies it appears somebody in the business was looking for a cheap solution, and that element of cheap follows the movie from start to finish.Despite this, it is a good movie, interesting to watch and it keeps you interested throughout.But that's it.4/10 "},{"Title":"God this is bad...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Basically the storyline of this is Tom Selleck plays Jimmie Rainwood, an individual who is framed by two corrupt police officers and is then sentenced to prison. During his time there he becomes transformed into a badass as he kills a man, and when he is released he goes after the cops who framed him. Let me say this, this film is bad. The fact that they want us to buy Selleck as a badass just says it all really. While Arnie had the historic line I'll be back Selleck has I wouldn't bet on that, which just makes you want to burst out laughing. Take it from me, give this one a miss. Unless you want to give it to someone as a form of punishment. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Selleck unwisely tries his hand at the action genre in this perfectly awful tale about a man named Jimmie Rainwood (Tom Selleck) who is sent to the slammer on a phony rap of drug dealing, in jail he meets a man named Vrigil Cane (F.Murray Abraham in the film's one and only bright spot.) who shows him the ropes and helps him avenge the bad deed that landed him to jail. You've seen this all before with more style and charisma then this tripe. An Innocent Man is nothing more then a glorified soap opera with violence, the movie is too tame for the action crowd and the drama doesn't work. So who was this made for? "}{"Title":"Incredibly Racist Trash. KKK-Approved? possible spoiler","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember this being one of the most racist films I had ever seen, at the time it was released. And to this day, it still holds its own in what should be the KKK hall of fame.I was a mid-level fan of Magnum P.I. in the 80's. It wasn't until this film that I became aware of Selleck's arch-conservative, right-wing politics, and how his politics seem to influence some of his motion-picture roles.Here' Selleck plays an innocent white man Jimmie Rainwood being thrown into a prison with, and antagonized by guilty black men. Yet another account of how unfair the world is for the oppressed white male. The savage prison rape scene took racist film imagery to a level of which D.W. Griffith could have only dreamed. I'm sure he would have applauded this garbage, considering he was a champion of the KKK and the held-down white male.Badja Djola's character Detective John Fitzgerald also turned my stomach. Essentially he was nothing more than a negative authority figure, eventually manipulated into doing his job, by Rainwood's apparently intellectually superior wife.This film was a piece of trash from start to finish.  "}]