[{"Title":"Great sci-fi!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"54 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The ratings on this movie are very poor, but don't be fooled this is a great movie. As I was watching this movie, I actually expected most people wouldn't get it because time-travel pictures are usually too confusing for people with linear minds. If a movie doesn't travel in a straight line from beginning to end, then linear people start hyperventilating. Time travel concepts require a slightly more abstract mind to follow properly, and more than a 2-second attention span. There was some good comedy in the movie. For example the android Sherman, who looked like he came right out of a 1950's B-movie. Then there was the joke about how the people from the future had to smoke in order to stay healthy, otherwise the air in the past was too clean and pure for them. You disposed of the cigarettes by just tossing them over your shoulders and a point laser would shoot at it and disintegrate it instantly. Also this was definitely a 1980's movie, you could tell just by the hairstyles, which were good for a few laughs. And for a movie made on the cheap, the special effects weren't half-bad. They certainly weren't comparable to today's CGI effects, but they were of a generation of special effects that made Star Wars so successful.Their interpretation of time travel concepts was also very interesting. For example, they chose to represent time paradoxes as temporal quakes. I suppose this was done as a dramatisation technique to show the audience how serious a temporal paradox was in terms they could commonly understand (i.e. like an earthquake). Don't be fooled by the linear minds giving this movie a bad review, if you have an abstract mind, then you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Good B Film","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is not as bad as the comments here indicate. Good premise and a few comedic touches enhance this time travel tale starring Cheryl Ladd (who, in my opinion is an very underrated actress) and Kris Kristofferson. I have to admit that although the (not so) special effects could have been better and the last line at the end should have been left out, it's still a memorable film that will entertain most time travel fans. Exterior scenes were filmed in Toronto although the setting is supposed to be Minneapolis.I wasn't expecting much so maybe that's why I enjoyed it.Take a chance, Louise7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the few real B-movies of the '80s--and a good one.","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"35 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There seems to be some dispute here as to whether this is a good movie or not, and it all depends on what you expect going into it.  If you go see (or rent) a sci-fi movie based on an obscure short story directed by the man who had Bo Derek battling a whale in Orca twelve years earlier, you have to expect some campiness.  Just sit back and enjoy it.  The premise of the story is actually quite good, with a little environmental message slipped in.  In execution, the people behind this movie must have known that they did not have the budget for a special effects-laden thrill ride, so they decided to take the stylistic approach of making it with one eyebrow raised, a bittersweet melodrama that happens to have a few plane crashes and laser beams.  It's The Goodbye Girl with time travel.  How else do you explain the smarmy robot's flat line delivery, Cheryl Ladd's hairdo, the flight attendants' costumes?  Camp, camp, camp.  But at the same time, the paradox concept gives the mind something to chew.  I think director Michael Anderson knew exactly what he was doing.  Had this film been marketed differently, it would have easily recouped its budget.  I think it's right up there with 1982's Q! "},{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Millennium is mixed bag. The script is reasonably good - not too exciting, but thoughtful and well constructed. But there are some problems that drag the movie down.The romance/relationship at the heart of the story is not bad, and has been unfairly panned. It's actually one of the strengths of the story. Kristofferson does a good job of playing a rather dull character without a lot going for him... a working stiff without much of a life, who wakes up a bit when he meets Cheryl Ladd's character. Ladd underplays her part nicely, with a nice understanding of the nuances and double meanings of some of her dialogue. The directing is fine, low key, and the editing is good (apart from the ending, which I doubt was the editor's choice). The script sparkles most when it deals with Ladd's character, her difficulties in communicating across a profound cultural barrier, her inadvertently humorous faux pas when interacting with a world very different from her own. The cigarette scene in the restaurant is a classic.There are some problems, mainly around the ending, some of the acting on the part of the minor characters, and the character of Sherman. I won't reveal the ending, but I will say it was disappointing, and probably responsible for the cool reception the film received. The robot Sherman is poorly designed and conceptualized, and drags down the rest of the story. It's not a question of budget, in Sherman's case, but of someone without a good intuitive feeling for science fiction concepts, making decisions about that character. He's not campy, to my mind, he's an embarrassment.Some people posting here have complained about the dialogue. I think they may be missing the profound reason for Ladd's character's odd choices of words, and what the words reveal about her. Others have complained about the scenes that are shown twice, telling the same story from different points of view. I can understand that people looking for a more action packed movie could have been bored by these scenes, but they do reveal key information; they're not just reruns of the first, they're revelations. They're an effective device for showing the parallel but very different points of view of the key characters.In sum, Millennium is a reasonably good but not great movie. It's frustrating because a genuinely good movie could be made from the existing footage if the robot was redone (redesigned digitally after the fact and given a better voice and better dialogue), and if the final voice-over was omitted. But I still like watching it and appreciate the elements that are successful in the movie. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction for Science Fiction Fans","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Millennium is one the few movies about time travel that stays true to the original source material. This far-out John Varley narrative is brought to the screen as faithfully as can be imagined. If you've ever wondered what really happens during so-called natural disasters, this is the script for you. The film is pure science fiction -- fun to watch, but impossible to understand unless close attention is paid. Stay awake and you'll be astonished by this story. Kristofferson and Ladd are surprisingly well paired, and the time-traveling Ladd is 100% believable in this mind-bending scenario. The sole jarring note is the voice-over coda at the end of the film -- an un-credited Churchill quote that sounds comical and out-of-place. This is one of the most under-appreciated movies of the '80s. "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm a nut...but I liked this film.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is campy, no doubt, and there are a couple of scenes that try to take themselves seriously and fall flat, but overall I thought it was a clever, original film with lots of sci-fi fan humor and a bunch of unexpected but meaningful plot twists.If you like campy, idealistic sci-fi you might want to give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Mind Blowing Movie!","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you like sci-fi because it gives writers the chance to provide plots that make one think outside the square and provide concepts that make you stop and ponder even weeks or years later, then this movie is definitely for you! Indeed, I guarantee you will enjoy it and perhaps even come to love it as I have despite its obvious shortcomings.If you like nice tidy productions with crisp acting and wonderful cinematography and wish to see something not very taxing on the mind, stay away from this movie! It is not a beautiful production, the acting does leave something to be desired and the production leaves much to the imagination. But then that can sometimes be a good thing as I personally think not enough is left to the imagination in the motion pictures of today. After all my imagination, and I'm sure yours also, is a far more interesting place than 99.9% of what the film industry thinks is inspirational! But more importantly, it's the beautifully conceptual plot... the wonderful wonderful plot that really makes this movie many times over.By my rating of this film you can clearly see which camp I sit in. I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I did. If you are a fan of sci-fi, then this film is a mind blowing MUST SEE! If you are not a fan of this genre then sadly I am afraid there is not much for you here. Otherwise ENJOY. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best science fiction movies of recent history. Although it has its share of flaws (special effects are weak and the acting is mixed), but the plot is excellent and the concepts and implications introduced regarding time travel creative and thought provoking. The movie starts out with a plane that is in the process of falling out of the sky due to a midair collision. The copilot exits the cabin to find all of the passengers are already dead. The question is why, and neither we nor the main character, know the answer until later on in the story. But from this point on (and this is no spoiler as it happens in the first three minutes) all those who love stories about time travel, and the paradoxes and potentials therein are in for a great ride. The short story that this movie is based on (Air Raid) is also a classic and worth reading, but hard to find. "},{"Title":"If you like stories about time travel, you'll love this","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a neat what's going on here mystery with plenty of clues, if you watch closely.  The time travel premise is great and the story is told from the perspective of present day.  That is, until the secret is revealed. Then the mysterious parts are retold, in flashback, from the perspective of the future.  Kris is OK, Cheryl is wonderful (as usual), and Travanti almost steals the show.  "},{"Title":"Interesting sci-fi","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Millennium is a movie that does not fully convince as a sci-fi probably because of the rather tired romance plot added to the script. It does however have a rather intriguing storyline; two passenger planes collide in mid air, and ominous effects start to abound upon the investigating officer. His enquiries are further enhanced by premonitions of an attractive young woman who may hold the key to why the crash happened...Kris Kristofferson and Cheryl Ladd prove themselves as credible film stars, but their talents are hampered by the poor overall impression given out by Millennium. The script is not the last word in brilliance, and that simple romance plot we witness leaves a lot to be desired. Add to that rather tame special effects and a sudden uninspiring ending, Millennium is certainly no masterpiece and will be easily forgotten.An interesting premise proves a let down for an avid film fan like myself but is lifted up by Ladd, who proves she can portray a character far beyond Angel Kris Munroe. 5/10. "}{"Title":"Amazing.   If you can't think in 4 D. stick to easier movies.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A guy who smart in real life (Kris Kristofferson) plays a very smart guy in this movie, The very open-minded and observant Bill Smith, is an investigator who is finding a few little impossibilities as he investigates a plane crash.Meanwhile Daniel J. Travanti, of Hill Street Blues fame as Captain Frank Furillo, plays a physicist, Dr. Arnold Mayer, who lectures about time travel, and people from the future. Do these theories (conjectures), explain some of those little impossibilities. (Sure they do!) But does Bill care? He has fallen in love with a girl... then loses her ... then he finds her again, when the two have never met (from her point of view.) Got that? If you are sure that you could never get that, don't watch this movie... and tear up your Mensa application. This movie is too smart for you.If you can follow the 4D logic, an impossible mystery is solved, the universe is saved, kind'a saved. And Bill gets the beautiful girl(who smokes three packs of cigarettes an HOUR.) This unusual time traveler is played by Cheryl Ladd (who was the last of the original Charlie's Angels) There are a few clever sub-plots.This is a GREAT movie "},{"Title":"An Underrated Sci-Fi Movie","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I ran into this movie called Millennium. I read the synopsis. It mentioned time travel and people being abducted. That sounds like an interesting movie. You have Kristofferson who plays Bill Smith an investigator. He investigating a jetliner that crashed and trying to figure out what happened. At first you may be a little confused. You wonder what exactly happened to the people on that plane. Eventually you find out these people have been abducted by this woman Louise whose is played by Cheryl Ladd. It turns out there is a problem in the future where they need to people to repopulate earth. Just the whole idea of time travel and people being abducted it sucks you into this movie. There are some strange things in this movie. For some reason in this movie a lot of people smoke. There is this premise where all the people from the future must smoke. Like smoking is considered healthy to people. If this movie were made today would it still be rated PG-13? There ends up being this love story between Bill and Louise. I don't know why they choose to have a love story in this movie. I don't think the love story really detracted from the movie. There are some things in this movie that makes it really good. You have an android named Sherman which adds some comedy to this movie. He provides a lot of good one liners in this movie. He reminds of 3-CPO from the Star Wars Movies. There is some things that make me want to watch this movie over and over again. I could care less if some of this movie looks cheesy or doesn't exactly make sense. I would watch this again. "},{"Title":"Romance, Time-Travel, Mystery, Sci-Fi at its Best!","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This 20 year old is one of my all time Sci-Fi faves. First it has Cheryl Ladd at her most beautiful. Kris Kristofferson as a love interest. Time-Travel laid out in a fascinating manner. An adorable robot person. Daniel Travanti as a foil. Incredible transport of about to crash airliners to the future in order to save the folks and repopulate the Earth at an earlier time. Am amazed that this movie is classified by many as a B movie. The plot involves the entire lifetime of Kris's character and it is just wonderful how it pans out. Unfortunately its name will stand out less because of so many titles using the same. This one is VERY COOL! "},{"Title":"Cheryl Ladd shines","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Millennium is an 80s sci fi masterpiece that examines time travel with such uniqueness that any and all cheese connected to the era becomes a worthwhile embrace. I don't think the concept of using airplane victims to preserve our future has ever been put on film, but it gets delivered pointedly in this back shelf treasure.The film really works and with Cheryl Ladd giving the performance of her career, you get time travel with sex appeal and sincerity. Ms. Ladd had the potential to be a Holllywood film star, but either by choice, talent or fate, she ended up in Hallmark movies and sub par TV shows. This movie proves however that my prior sentence has no place in this universe. She sells the character of Louise Baltimore from the future in the most convincingly appealing of ways.Kris Kristofferson is also on his game while Daniel J Travanti has some powerful sci fi grounding scenes. An offbeat future world containing a weird array of thought provoking characters including a believably fake robot named Sherman (that is the epitome of 80s cool to look at) should satiate your distant future doldrums.The story flows logically with limitations while the wonderfully natural aura of the film dumps paradoxes, time travel gates, duplicate persons, swirling colors and retro future technology into the thought pleasing synapses of your brain. 1989 was a good year because of this flick. Creative brilliance all around from directing to acting. Engrossing and ahead of its time. Lets get some behind the scenes snippets and directors commentary with Cheryl Ladd chiming in before the world ends. Ah, Millennium! "},{"Title":"Where have I seen that girl before?","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somewhere in the distant future where if we think we're breathing polluted air you should see what Earth is dealing with in 3089. Some fairly healthy specimens relatively like Cheryl Ladd are treated like pampered pets because they have to do some time traveling.This trip takes her to 1989 when Millennium came to the theaters. To keep the species going these travelers are taking trips to reported plane crashes where they remove the passengers before the crash and replace them with already dead ones from their future. When the dead ones were around they were sterile anyway, Cheryl happens to be sterile also.There carefully prepared project goes totally awry with a trip back to a 1963 crash that is impacting on the future. A trip to 1989 where Kris Kristofferson is the National Transportation Safety Board investigator screws things up even further as Kristofferson is certain he's seen Ladd before.The third principal player in the cast is Daniel J. Travanti a famous physicist who has an interest in time travel and has got the scent of something not right with these crashes. What Travanti does is totally mess with the future of planet Earth as Ladd knows it.Although some have trashed Millennium I've found it to be a thought provoking movie about time traveling and about our lax attitude toward the environment which gives Ladd the future she lives in. There's also a nice performance by Robert Joy as Ladd's android in the future who's more human than Commander Data of Star Trek The Next Generation. He's got quite the wit. But in the end he's a disposable machine.Check this one out. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Original Sci-Fis of the Cinema History","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the crash of an airplane with a great number of casualties, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) investigator Bill Smith (Kris Kristofferson) is in charge of the investigation. He meets the gorgeous and singular Louise Baltimore (Cheryl Ladd), who is a time traveler, in the hangar where he is examining the debris of the airplane and is immediately educed by her. They have one night stand and on the next morning, Louise tries to convince him to stay with her, but the reluctant Bill goes to the hangar. While snooping around in the debris, Bill is attacked by Louise, who does not seem to recognize him, and her friends. Soon Bill learns that Louise is a time traveler from one thousand year from the future, when the population is sterile, and replaces the passengers from airplanes that will crash by corpses with the same characteristics. However they have to be careful to avoid paradoxes in time that may destroy their world. Millennium is one of the most original sci-fis of the cinema history, with a story that is unique. The plot is very well-constructed with humor, and Cheryl Ladd is extremely beautiful. There are flaws that are not relevant, maybe due to budget restraint, but the story is excellent and unforgettable. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Millennium - Guardiões do Futuro (Millennium &#x96; Guardians of the Future) "},{"Title":"How Sad&#133;","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No not how sad this movie is but how sad it is to see that the average viewer of this movie has neither the intelligence nor attention span to see this movie for what it is. A great sci-fi B-movie that remains VERY true to the original story with above B-movie acting and production quality. I read this story over 20 years ago in middle school and was fascinated. When I finally was able to see it as a movie I was pleased with the faithfulness to the short story. Kris Krisstoferson and Cheryl Ladd (I always had a crush on Ladd,) are perfect as Smith and Baltimore, and the time travel aspect was interwoven throughout the story, jumping from present to future to past and much more.  I guess this was just too much for some people to follow. (Humm, Just a thought out loud, these same people seem to have no problem with movies like Pulp Fiction doing this.) My only complaints are with the duplicate scenes, while they are necessary to the story line they are too long, they should have been kept much shorter lasting just long enough to fill in the blanks from the first time around. Instead they are actually longer the second time around. And the Strange voice-over at the end of the movie should have been left out, it cheapens what could have been a very powerful ending. Over all I would give this movie a 7.5 if they had left out the voice over at the end it would have gotten a 8.5, but since they don't allow tenths on the rating vote, I gave it a 8.   "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie About Time Traveling Airplanes - EVER","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has to be absolutely the best movie ever made about disappearing airplanes, AND starring both Kris Kristofferson and Cheryl Ladd. I cannot think of another movie brandishing such a spot-tinkling plot AND flaunting the same grandest-of-grand cast &#x96; talk about stellar quality. I laughed, I cried, I snored, I coughed a smoker's cough &#x96; this movie was created for those who absorb brainless fun. This flick is such a joy to watch. Of course, I see that there is a book floating around out there - and I am so &#x96; so &#x96; so sorry, I did not read the stupid thing. For crying out loud - I totally enjoyed this cinematic extravaganza, so why would I read a book (like every other stinking book converted to celluloid) sooooo much better? Pfffft! Sorry, but I am not some silly little glutton for disappointment or a pretentious twit surviving on self-aggrandizement. Hurray for those who read the book, now get over yourselves. I watch movies to watch movies &#x96; not to see what was omitted from a book&#x85;.sheeesh. "},{"Title":"Dated but still a great time travel flick","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Millennium had production problems but stands up surprisingly well even after all this time. Additionally, the DVD version has the improved end-graphics that were originally intended for the theatrical release.This is a very ambitious script. Probably the best screen telling of a twisted-world-line story I have ever seen. Unfortunately it failed the rule of 3, a well known film adage Say anything important 3 times. The first time subtly. That's foreshadowing and maybe 5% of your audience will even notice. Next say it directly. That will cover the next 10% of the audience. For the last 85% of the bell curve, hit them over the head with it.Millennium explains the divergent world lines of its two main characters through the comments of Sherman the personal robot but fails to beat morons over the head with it.The paradox that causes the disaster at the movie's end is really only stated subtly and once, and left for the audience to reason out. No one ever says the professor would have invented time travel if the actions of the time travelers hadn't prevented it but all the clues are there for anyone paying attention.I agree with others that the timequake mechanism is a little hokey but it provided a good way to demonstrate the impending disaster in a way the audience can relate to. After all, spaceships in space make no noise, except in the movies, where they have to to get people to understand that they are moving fast. You seldom here people complain about that license and I see this, while a bit more heavy handed, as fundamentally no different.All in all an excellent script done quite well considering the sfx of the day and the limits on budget "},{"Title":"B-grade science-fiction, but highly enjoyable and well cast...","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's a guilty pleasure for sci-fi buffs Kris Kristofferson plays a plane-crash investigator who becomes involved with a mysterious woman (the smoldering Cheryl Ladd, looking quite the fox); it turns out she's a time-traveling visitor from the future who rescues doomed souls aboard crippled airliners. Intriguing premise gets decent treatment on a medium-budget. The plot threads are tightly wound and the story plays out satisfyingly. Supporting players Daniel J. Travanti and Lloyd Bochner are predictably uptight, but Kristofferson is quite commendable, and Ladd looks amazing. A real sleeper, and quite a charming slice of '80s cinema. *** from **** "}{"Title":"Your Mother Was A Cash Register.","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Millennium' still stands out after all these years as a phenomenal premise for a science fiction film. Perhaps that's why fans like me keep watching it over and over again hoping maybe this time the film makers will get it right! But of course it never changes.Given this film's IMDb ratings, others seem to agree, this film has a phenomenal premise.The plot Kris Kristofferson stars as an investigator of a mysterious mid air collision with many paranormal aspects. The oddest of which is why a bombshell like Cheryl Ladd would buy him dinner and take him to bed the same night.A Nobel Laureate is also investigating this and other mysterious plane crashes.The explanation is simple, time travelers from 1,000 years in the future are abducting healthy people from the past fated to die in plane crashes. The plane and replacement dead bodies are then sent back into the past without causing any harmful changes to the space time continuum. Hence Cheryl Ladd is merely a femme fetal from the future attempting to clear up any inconsistencies, but inevitably causes even more time paradoxes.You might remember how a similar premise was used in 'The Time Shifters.' This is a great story! Too bad it's executed so poorly. Aside from the lack luster production quality, FX, and acting, the devil is in the details of the story.First off, if time traveling is causing so many time paradoxes, why are they sending back agents whom will cause even more troubles? Sure it moves the story along but it seems silly to do it? Second, many of these errors seem just plain silly. For example, a futuristic stun gun is left in the wreckage and found by Kristopherson. In order to correct this Ladd goes back in time to get the stunner but actually leaves half of it with Kristopherson and speaks to him. Hence making his more convinced of paranormal activities! Third, it's later revealed that at age 7 Kristopherson was aboard one of the hijacked flights and survived the crash. And he's just remembering this NOW? This just seems tacked on. Sure he was a kids but surely a 7 year old would remember encountering time travelers on an airplane and being the sole survivor of the crash! This is also sill as I was expecting the Nobel Laureate to be the boy from the 1960s. It would better explain why he was so obsessed with the paranormal plain crashes.Fourth, the film does explain that they cannot visit the same time twice. Yet after realizing Kristopherson will bring his evidence to the Nobel Laureate, Ladd attempt to stop this by confronting the two of them at his house. Couldn't she just travel to before the two even met and steal the evidence? Why confront them at all? This idiots could really use a time machine.It's also unrealistic how the passengers being taken off these planes just calmly go along with everything. In real life they'd be freaking out. Oh my God! What this fxxx is happening? I'm not doing anything you robots tell me to! And let's NOT forget about the shoddy sci-fi production quality. These future leaders live in a mat painting of a giant metal pyramid. And the leaders look like the Cenobites from the 'Hellraiser' series. No kidding. That's exactly what they look like.The future robot workers look like 1950's silver faced humans playing robots. Either that or villains from 'Power Rangers.' My friends laughed these characters off the screen when they saw this.As for the dialogue? That's truly historically memorable. Ladd insults a robot with, Your mother was a cash register. It's comeback? And she turned a tidy profit. This is the type of dialogue your in for throughout the 90 minutes! So many of the scenes come across as just plain awkward. Especially the lack of chemistry between lovers Cheryl Ladd and Kris Kristopherson. We almost feel as embarrassed watching this as these actors musts have felt doing this.Another historic scene is how in the future wall mounted lasers conveniently zap away discarded cigarette butts. (much more practical than switching to the patch) However Ladd forgets this in the past and just casually throws away her butt onto her fellow dinners at a restaurant. Maybe that's why everyone's dying in the future? They're all still addicted to tobacco! Installing lasers on your walls just to get rid of your cigarette butts isn't the first sign of addiction. It's the LAST sign of addiction! It's still unclear if the wall laser aspect was intentionally funny.The paranormal aspects of the crash are lack luster as a build up. Recall the great build up for sci-fi films like 'Flight of the Navigator' and 'Deja Vu.' Here, it's just not the intriguing.In conclusion, 'Millennium' IS worth your time just for the phenomenal premise alone! However you'll probably come away frustrated like I was with how poorly it was executed. "},{"Title":"Varley had a good script","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a much better movie than I expected. What I thought was obvious before I saw the movie is that this was going to be low budget, the actors were going to be from TV series, and that it didn't stay in the theaters too long. I was very pleasantly surprised by this film. In fact I liked it better than Star Wars episodes 1-3. I found the romance more believable between Ladd and Kristopherson than between Christensen and Portman. I know that this isn't heavy praise for the acting in Millennium but its just a bit of perspective. I actually read the novelization of the screenplay by Varley and it explains more of the motivations for the characters. This may not be an easy book to find. The short story it was based on is much easier to find.This film used the film noir aspect of everyone lighting up but managed to explain the smoking for health reasons. If you have a chance to see this movie you should. Just ignore the old tech special effects. "},{"Title":"A fun and thought-provoking very B movie","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie should be a total piece of ****, but what comes through all the bad acting, cheesy effects, bizarre plot turns, and embarrassing characters, is a lot of heart and an actual dark and dank apocalyptic film which is just as optimistic, NAY MORE OPTIMISTIC, than anything the STAR TREK universe has presented to us viewers to date. Yes, you can have it both in this movie...the end of the world AND the rescue of humankind. It's all in this little grade B movie which is filled with so many idiosyncrasies that it's a hoot to watch more than once.  "},{"Title":"Come On, HIGHER than this 5 pts.  IT WAS GREAT","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"    Come On, THIS SHOULD GET A HIGHER Avg. than a 5.    IT WAS GREAT !!!   CHERYL LADD, CLASSEY AS EVER is a Wonder in this.  SHe's the one who makes it Slightly Believable and her dedication to Helping is Noteworthy of Respect.    AND IT  ENDS  happily.  COME ON, we don't get Enough of Those !!!     CHERYL LADD, I just saw her IN PERSON, December 2000, in NY Broadways Annie Get Your Gun it was A THRILL of a Lifetime and I've even seen Barbra Striesand on Broadway in 1964. BUT I WENT TO NEW YORK THIS TIME, FOR THE MAIN REASON OF SEEING CHERYL ON STAGE. It was worth every penny and dealing with the NY Dec. cold. THANKS CHERYL FOR GIVING SUCH QUALITY PERFORMANCES, I have a Business and I took a poll of Who was my Clients Favorite ANGEL of Charlie's. CHERYL LADD WON, 2 to 1 ... over Jacquline's 2nd place ... 3rd place Kate J. .... and 4th place Shelly Hack ol farrah came in 5th placeI MUST FIND CROSSINGS('86) & ONE WEST WAIKIKI ('94), & the Story of GRACE KELLY ('83) & MILLENNIUM ('89) with Cheryl in it for my Cheryl Collection.IF ANYONE KNOWS WHERE I CAN OBTAIN THESE ON TAPE, PLEASE E-MAIL ME. THANKS "},{"Title":"Cheryl Ladd ***** (5 Stars)","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really like Cheryl Ladd in Vegas, and in just about everything she does.She is great in Millennium!! But this movie is tough to follow.But if you can watch it with a SciFi fan or someone who is really smart its really interesting.(After the movie talk the conversation continued.) Compared to the explanation of why the Red Shift, and the Theory of Relativity, and the expanding 3 dimension surface of a 4 dimension universe shows that our Universe is only 14.5 billion years old.AND that there are an infinite AND growing number of universes.All of a sudden my really smart person's explanation of the movie seemed simple.(There really are people like those on TV's Big Bang Theory.) Pegge "},{"Title":"Sufficiently different and thought provoking","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As below - yes its cheesy, yes the main characters could have done better to stick with their type cast roles (none appear to have suffered as a result though ) , yes its got Tron type effects, and yes its really not to be compared to the blockbusters of the day , BUTFor a decent script movie thats been dispatched to the small screen, it really does have a lot of redeeming features. Cheryl and Kris put in fine performances to keep the story bubbling along. Nice paradoxes keep the intelligent amused, but will fly over the head of those wanting Independence Day shoot ups.The love of the robot for Ladd points strongly to where Lexx got the side story lines.If its on TV make an excuse to see/record it.  "},{"Title":"Cool movie!","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most sci-fi fans should enjoy this one.I just saw Millennium (1989) on the free preview of Encore channel on DishTV. A nice little surprise. Kris Kristofferson is investigating a plane crash and discovers some very strange things. One thing he discovers is a very nice looking Cheryl Ladd, who isn't who she appears to be. Both actors do a fine job and make the movie very enjoyable.There are some unique ideas in this movie. Little by little we learn what the heck is going on. The movie held my interest with the mystery until all was revealed by the end of the movie.I do not enjoy the Flash Gordon type of sci-fi movies that are just over the line fantastical. I enjoy more believable scenarios. This movie did not cross the line and maintained believability. I guess my imagination has its limits.Not a big money production but there are sufficient special effects. 80's glam rockers seem to have inspired the costumes, in a way that reminded me of The Fifth Element, with the crazy outfits.I give it a 6/10 but feel it might be worth a 7. "},{"Title":"Interesting Sci-Fi premise but poor script","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a classic example of how an interesting science fiction idea can be ruined by adding a lame romance subplot into the mix.   This movie had a very interesting premise Two planes collide in mid air and crash. The chief investigator (Kris Krisstoferson) of the accident discovers some very strange elements to the crash. His inquiries attract his attention (and affections) to a mysterious girl, who eventually reveals the truth that people from the future are traveling back in time to steal passengers that are about to die on airplane crashes. They do this to help save the dying human race in a dank apocalyptic future. While this is a very interesting premise, all the interesting science fiction and mystery elements are unfortunately made nearly worthless by the horrible pacing, extremely poor dialogue, annoying redundancy (we see many of the more boring scenes twice from different perspectives!), and worst of all, the silly romance plot. I liked the look of the future world in this movie. The production designers did a good job, especially on Sherman the personal servant and on the future elders, who were held together loosely with spare parts in their tubes. However, the dialogue was so cheesy I could only enjoy the excellent scenery when the actors didn't open their mouths to ruin it. The ending of this movie was so horribly cheesy I wanted to vomit.  When will Hollywood learn that never every movie needs a romantic subplot and a unrealistic happy ending...FINAL RATING 5/10 - The only reason I even give it a 5 is because of the interesting premise and nice production design. Its sad that these excellent elements were ruined by such a poor script.Noob Aalox   "},{"Title":"Some novel time travel ideas, pleasant movie...","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Interesting, enjoyable movie! There are some intriguing time travel ideas and decent characters. Very creative, richly imagined film. Obviously not a large budget but efficiently used--all of the effects make sense rather than being simply loud & overwhelming without any real reason like in many modern movies and some toward the end are truly outstanding. I recently tried to watch Star Trek First Contact, supposedly the best Star Trek movie, and found it completely dull compared to this film, despite this one being filmed seven years earlier--people who like it are obviously biased due to their enjoyment of the show. If you are intelligent and able to relax as opposed to trying to assert your ego onto how a film should be made (it's not your creation, it is someone else's!), then you will enjoy this movie, despite it's 1989 feel--which I prefer to look at as a time-travelling view in itself. =) Other movies I like Primer, 12 Monkeys, Wargames... "},{"Title":"interesting sci-fi idea executed poorly","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1989, a passenger plane crashes and NTSB investigator Bill Smith (Kris Kristofferson) gets the case. Theoretical physicist professor Dr. Arnold Mayer shows unusual interest in the crash. The cockpit tape has a mysterious declaration They're dead! All of them! They're burned up! There are watches going backwards. Bill is approached by mysterious Louise Baltimore (Cheryl Ladd). They spend the night together but she disappears. He finds a mysterious device that stuns him. Then Louise and two women in strange outfits grab the device, jump through a portal and disappears.The sci-fi concept and the story is actually quite interesting. The execution leaves a lot to be desired but the movie is still extremely memorable. The acting is below average. Kristofferson is stiff at the best of times and Cheryl Ladd is no award winner. The pacing is slow. This feels like a 70s movie despite being made in 89. The future design has some funky campy elements. The time travel idea is still interesting which makes the movie watchable. "}{"Title":"I was hoping for something better...","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Millennium' is quite ambitious movie, a little too ambitious for my taste. Very slow paced, quite naive and not written very well. There is an obvious amount of cheese in here(including 'future' human with a rubber head) but for the most of time It's damn serious movie. Kris Krisstoferson gives a really good performance and Cheryl Ladd is OK for the most of her screen time and that's it. Lawrence Dane and Gary Reineke of 'Rituals' both appear here in a small parts as well. Special effects are usually decent but sometimes they make this cheesy impression while movie tries to be dead serious. 'Millennium' suppose to be a thriller but there are no thrills here, really. It's rather slow paced SF drama. If you like movies like that, you won't be disappointed but if you expect something to keep you tense and entertained for a whole time, It's not your cup of tea. "},{"Title":"The movie and the story.","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Millennium is in fact a nice movie, just immerse yourself in the plot and you will find there is a lot to be liked about it. By all means give it a try, it's very 80s and certainly reflects fashions and ideas of those times. Having said that, any who wish to see this movie as a result of reading the short story might be very disappointed. A few reviewers make passing mention of how faithful the film is to the original story, and here I suspect that their memory is letting them down quite, quite badly, refer to your nearest library. In order to avoid spoilers I won't go into details, but the two have very little in common except the most basic of premises (what is happening and part of the why) and that's where the two part company. Notice that the movie plot has been created around what in the short story is a *passing comment* about one agent leaving an item behind (go check it out). The consequences of this act and the various paradoxes arising from it and/or attempts to correct this incident form the basis of the movie. Unfortunately all such things are dismissed out of hand and quite clearly by the author, as he spells out exactly what would happen under those conditions (none of that!). He also explains quite clearly that they cannot undo things/retry and why. So, while the short story is certainly recognizable in the outline of the movie, that's where it ends. Also the movie has nothing of the doom-laden atmosphere conveyed by the story, the horrific beginning, the grim determination, motives and personal conditions of the main characters or the tragic, suspenseful end, and is indeed quite sunny by comparison, with a hopeful, feel-good ending.I would advise anyone to read the story (Air Raid by John Varley) because even as short as it is, it's one of my favorites on the subject. I would also advise sci-fi fans to rent the movie, but for completely different reasons it's sunny, occasionally funny, camp and the subject of time travel as always is fascinating. It is also always interesting to see how the people of the past used to view the future.See the film, then read the story (not the other way round) and you will probably enjoy both. "},{"Title":"Funny use of the time lapses","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not as bad as the average score suggests. Especially the use of 2 different point-of-views for the 2 main characters with different temporal order in which they experience their encounters, is very interesting and gives food for thought for time traveling. "},{"Title":"I believe all science fiction fans will enjoy this one!!!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was not widely seen but it's pretty good.  The premise is unique and the acting was good.  Some hard core critics might not acknowledge it. With movies as they are today...you might as well check this one out too!!! "},{"Title":"An underrated movie.","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is about an FAA plane crash investigator who finds discrepancies in a plane crash leading him a mysterious woman from the future who is rescuing people from airplanes that are about to crash. I hope I haven't given away too much but since so few people have seen this movie - maybe this will help. The interesting aspect of time travel paradoxes and an apocalyptic future in the movie is worth wading through the boring love scenes between the main characters. If you're a die-hard sci-fi fan then you'll enjoy this movie. Otherwise, don't bother. I personally enjoyed the movie quite a bit and it's at least as good as many movies that are much more widely accepted. "},{"Title":"Poorly written","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It starts well a plane crashes under mysterious circumstances. We learn that time travel or aliens might be involved. A professor who seems to have access to secret information or has a wild theory appears. The protagonist meets with a mysterious woman who suddenly disappears. Great setup! And then it goes downhill. The mystery is gone, we stop caring for the protagonists, the professor is left out of the plot and turns out not to play a meaningful role at all, and the romance doesn't go anywhere.This film would have been much better off if it had left out all the scenes that take place in the future, focused on one plane crash only, made the professor a vital part of the plot, and made the audience care about the entire thing. The audience has to like the characters and care about their fate. But the film completely undermines the consequences of their actions by introducing the ridiculous plot line taking place in the future. The film would have been able to convey a sense of urgency had the female protagonist remained the only source of exposition.Finally, the plot is unnecessarily convoluted and unpersuasive. This is really bad screen writing.I give this film two stars one for the idea, and one for the first fifteen minutes of the film that work. "},{"Title":"Funny black comedy disguised as science fiction","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I see by other comments that some people actually mistook this for serious science fiction. You missed the point of this one.  This B movie is loaded with wry witticisms, take-offs, and inside jokes. Many are too clever to catch in the first watching. My favorite bit is Lloyd Bochner's marvelous take-off on his Twilight Zone character.  Another terrific bit concerns the fact that Cheryl Ladd's character has to continually smoke to maintain her health because the air in 1980's Earth is too pure for her.  Too funny. "},{"Title":"Directed by Michael Anderson Better than his Logan's Run","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I only give it a 7 because the premise is so great Air crash victims are replaced by exact replica dummies seconds before horrific airplane disasters. Why? By whom? For what reason? This makes a compelling 1/2 a movie as Kris Kristofferson struggles to make sense of it all. Cheryl Ladd plays a mystery woman, who smokes incessantly, that shadows him. It turns out that she is from the future and the still alive victims are snatched microseconds before the actual crash to repopulate a barren Earth where humans can't procreate. In the 2nd half of the movie, it falls apart, somewhat. The future has cheap-looking sets, and some unintentionally humorous dialog. Why did this happen? I suspect that they ran out of money and had to finish the film quickly and cheaply. Main plot faults 1. Why encourage smoking (to kill people) when they are trying to repopulate Earth? 2. How could a simple paradox destroy thetimeline? 3. Several minutes in the 2nd half are tediously repetitious as the precious timeline must be changed. 4. There is limited nudity, in the Adam & Eve scene at the film's end (this was replaced with a sunrise for broadcast TV distribution.)A B-grade Canadian production; but better science fiction. Since nobody saw this movie, it is a prime-candidate for a Hollywood or cable remake. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Effort For Its Time","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The standard by which to judge any time travel movie is THE TIME MACHINE (1960) based on H.G. Well's classic novel. However, MILLENNIUM (1989) needs to be credited with attempting an even more ambitious storyline that incorporates the time paradox (what happens when someone goes into the past and attempts or accidentally changes it) which also evolved from a short story into a screenplay and novel by John Varley, a reputable science fiction writer in his own right and who has won the both the Hugo and Nebula Awards for science fiction. THE TIME MACHINE only briefly includes the time paradox and that is only hinted at and included just at the end of the movie for climatic effect. A better comparative movie might be BACK TO THE FUTURE, PART 2 (1989) that was released the same year as MILLENNIUM that is a family, comedy time travel movie that also contains the time paradox element that itself was consistent in its use of the paradox and incorporated some appealing visions of the future and its relative fluidity based on an intentional efforts to change the past. In some ways, BACK TO THE FUTURE and even FREQUENCY (2000) or KATE & LEOPOLD (2001) have retained their cinematic charm and integrity more so than MILLENNIUM. MILLENNIUM echoes back to the lingering 70s and 80s television genre with its stylish prime time soap operatic nature like Dynasty that seems to date MILLENNIUM and ironically freezes the movie in a period of cinematic history as does in some ways THE TIME MACHINE.Nevertheless as a serious science fiction movie, it successfully focuses on the time paradox and plays with its convoluted nature to relatively good effect, much superior to infantile nature of the much more dated and cheesy JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF TIME (1967) or THE DAY TIME ENDED (1980), though unlike BACK TO THE FUTURE and more like THE TIME MACHINE, it ultimately ends up with the haunting suggestive climatic scene which in some ways however is much more unfocused yet supposedly uplifting by the musical score, suggestive of how, one of the classics of science fiction genre, THX-1138 (1979) ended a decade earlier.More successful time travel movies that avoided the frozen cinematic period of its production than MILLENNIUM include the romantic comedy science fiction movie (that only indirectly suggests the time paradox in its storyline &#x96; the use of H.G. Well's original glasses that were broken and replaced) entitled TIME AFTER TIME (1979), PLANET OF THE APES (1968) that wows the audience by its climax involving its movie reveal that doesn't so much result in a paradox however, BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES (1970) (which also avoided a time paradox and laid out a suggested time travel option only at the end of the movie for a sequel to come), LOST IN SPACE (1998) that uses the time paradox for its big impact at the end of the movie, and even one of the best contemporary time travel movies 12 MONKEYS (1995) that did incorporate the time paradox but only briefly as LOST IN SPACE but to great effect for its climatic scene in much the same way that A BEAUTIFUL MIND (2001) or even A SIXTH SENSE (1999) accomplishes its revealed movie twist both considered classics in their own right.There are also the more fanciful explorations of time fluidity consequences such as the romantic fantasy GROUNDHOG DAY (1993) and even the most current science fiction, action thriller time looping effort of SOURCE CODE (2011) which is an emotionally tinged and appealing movie that perhaps rivals or finally excels MILLENNIUM in its cinematic impact. Other time travel movie have not been as successful as either MILLENNIUM or entertaining as SOURCE CODE such as TIMELINE (2003), THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT (2004), A SOUND OF THUNDER (2005), and TIMECRIME (2007).MILLENNIUM perhaps paved the way for subsequent enhancements to future time travel movies in the action genre, including THE FINAL COUNTDOWN (1980), THE TERMINATOR (1984), THE PHILADELPHIA EXPERIMENT (1984), and TIMECOP (1994) and one of the best contemporary uses of time travel as found in DEJA VU (2006). In some ways, MILLENNIUM for its relational and ambient impact, is comparative to THE TIME TRAVELER'S WIFE (2009) and the more occult-tinged PASSENGERS (2008) starring Anne Hathaway who also is involved in exploring the occurrence of a major airplane crash. MILLENNIUM, while its place in film history is frozen by its production values set in the 80s, has retained its place in time travel movies as a credit to its genre (but ironically itself stuck in time). "},{"Title":"Good, entertaining film, Worth watching.","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I usually only rate films when they disappoint but this one was pretty good and only got a 5 rating which was undeserved. It's not a '10' film but you could do much worse than spend a bit of time watching this. It makes no pretence to be a great film and is all the better for it. The premise is interesting, the acting is good, and the whole film has a light comedic touch which lets you know it's not taking itself too seriously. Cheryl Ladd is marvellous and delicious! I don't like 'romantic' scenes in films. I find them embarrassing and I close my eyes or go to the bathroom or make a cup of tea in those parts. Here though the dynamic between Kristofferson and Ladd on their date is really good, original and funny. This is a scifi film with lots of character and beats the hell out of contemporary 'serious' politically correct sci fi like Avatar for example. "}{"Title":"Somewhat entertaining... But only if you're into that whole genre","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater when it first came out. In those days, I was a young lad, I thought there was nothing better than a good time travel movie. I was hooked on Back to the Future, and I thought the Sci Fi movies were only going to improve from there. Even though I thought that time travel movies were very interesting at the time, I watched this movies, and after sitting through two hours of this, I thought this was a tedious movie. The plot is a bit convoluted, but not too interesting. It is rather predictable, and you will see several scenes repeat themselves. If you are really into strange convoluted plots, then by all means rent this movies, but if you are not, let it rest in peace! "},{"Title":"Strange but likeable","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not quite what I expected but not bad either.Packaging on the DVD is misleading, 'edge of your seat thriller', I don't think so.The movie is watchable but you begin to think that so much more could be made of it.Cheryl Ladd is definitely a redeeming feature but it's a watch once then forget about it movie. Shame really. "},{"Title":"flawed but occasionally successful adaption","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone not familiar with the book by John Varley will be quite lost watching this adaption. Anyone who has read it will think it will a bit of a clunker really. Truth is, a film adaption could never do justice to the book's complexity.To draw any kind of an audience you need a big name in the cast and luckily (publicity-wise) Kris Kristofferson decided the money was good enough. However , there is a pretty literal description of the main character from the book itself I'm no Robert Redford, but my face doesn't scare little girls either. So, a Joe Average from the book is replaced by he-man Kristofferson? Out of place as such and Kris goes through the numbers in his role. Cherryl Ladd can't act her way out of a shoebox, but at least she fits into the role as chain-smoking gang- leader. Well, sort of..There is almost nothing wrong with the first 40 minutes or so, where the book is painstakingly followed. The pacing is slow, but it feels like it's gearing up for a big finale. It's when we see the first glimpses of the future when the whole contraption is starting to fall apart. Cheap production values and CGI take it's tole and there is this persistent feeling that the film ran out of budget. 6 out of 10 stars for getting some parts of the story properly done; the nerve for even giving it a try , but coming up short for the 2nd part "},{"Title":"John Varley fans will be pleased","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you've read the book, the film will please you.If you haven't, then like so many others, the film will confuse you.The screenplay is fairly accurate and follows the book quite closely.The acting is average for KC but does not distract from the overall feeling of a story (which you should already know) being told quite well.Fans of Cheryl will appreciate the opportunity to see her in a more dynamic role than the usual Charlies Angles style pap that you may be used to.Overall, a pleasing adaptation of JV's story.--greg "},{"Title":"Not Quite Plan 9 ... Lousy, But","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" While Millennium is not quite as lousy as Plan 9 From Outer Space, it's botch, underdeveloped and unfocused script is. A fascinating concept is jettisoned for a hackneyed, illogical, inconsistent love story. Perhaps the major mistake was to have so much of it take place in the future (though, I would genuinely miss the sensitive, ironic and witty performance of Robert Joy as Cheryl Ladd's personal robot), if it weren't. The handling of the contemporary story is much better, and I did appreciate the subtle humor in both settings.SPOILER Just explaining the story is in itself a spoiler. Ladd's the head a crack team of female time travelers who pose as flight attendants on doomed flights in the past in order to abduct the passengers before the crashes. The future is a bleak, dying place. The human race is sterile and disintegrating from a harsh, polluted environment. Time travel is a dangerous business, and not just for the travelers. Any unguarded act can result in time paradoxes, which are felt as severe tremors in the future. Too large a paradox, and the entire human race of the future will be destroyed. Naturally, potential disaster occurs, when a device used to stun passengers before their abduction is accidentally left on two separate flights, one in 1963, the other in 1989. What is mind numbingly illogical is why the travelers did not return BEFORE the devices fell into the wrong hands and retrieve them? Instead, Ladd returns to the past in a failed attempt to seduce FAA investigator Kris Kristofferson and prevent him from discovering the device. The final stupidity occurs when Robert Joy tells Ladd she will have Kristofferson's child, after she has made it clear she is sterile. What follows is a pompous Criswell-like voice over that this is not the end...this is the end of the beginning. Ed Wood couldn't have expressed it better.Too bad, because there are several fine performances in Millenium, including Joy, Kristofferson and several of the supporting players. Ladd does her best (which is pretty good), but is ultimately defeated by an underwritten, paradoxical characterization.Production values are alternately handsome and cheesy. I'm not sure anything would have saved the script, but four or five more rewrites certainly would have helped.I give Millennium a 4. "},{"Title":"Not The TV series!","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not to be confused with the later classic series with Lance Henriksen, this science fiction story has a NTSB investigator(played by Kris Kristofferson) looking into a seemingly routine crash, but discovers certain anomalies, and then encounters a mysterious and beautiful woman,(Cheryl Ladd) who takes something from the wreckage. He tracks her down, then discovers(with the help of a lecturer/professor, played by Daniel J. Travanti) that time travelers from the future are involved, though their intentions are not sinister, but a matter of survival...Intriguing film at first, with many good ideas that play nicely around with the intricacies of time-travel theory, but sadly goes wrong when they get into the future, which is pure cliché, and unconvincing; a real shame to see this promising story go down the drain. Based on John Varley's novel. "},{"Title":"Dumb, romanticized time story...","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1st watched 1/24/2011 -- 3 out of 10 (Dir- Michael Anderson) Dumb, romanticized time story about a group of dying future people who interrupt plane crashes to do some people switching to keep their race going. The problem is they screw up and leave a weapon behind that is discovered and could change the future(which wouldn't be too bad for them, i guess). The movie stars the ever-expressive Kris Kristofferson, who is a crash inspector and the former Charlie's Angel -- Cheryl Ladd, as the time traveler who's trying to fix things. The main problem with the movie, which is the case in many sub-par films, is that you don't care about the characters. Yes, it's an un-realistic premise that's hard to follow -- but this is not unlike most time travel movies. If the characters could have been developed and made relateable, then it would have been easier to care about the movie and it would have been more entertaining. Instead, it's not entertaining, and is a so-so movie experience. This movie is pretty much a waste of one hour and one half unless you have a thing for Ladd and want to get a peek at her slightly exposed breast in a scene where she wears Kristofferson's shirt in bed(this minor tease though--even for a former Charlie's Angels male teen being teased-- wasn't enough for me to like the movie, and it won't be for you either, unfortunately). "},{"Title":"How to screw up a fine novel without really trying","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have lost count of the number of people to whom I have recommended the 1983 S.F.novel Millenium,written by John Varley.Nineteen of the twenty chapters are named after classic time travel stories and the name of each is relevant to the context,which,on the face of it might seem like a contrivance,but if it is a contrivance it's one that works very well.It's not a quick read,neither is it a book to be taken on a plane as the plot revolves around air disasters in which there are no survivors(a surprising amount - worryingly). It's structure is quite complex and several of the scenes are recounted from two different viewpoints(a recurring complaint from reviewers). There are two prologues,the second one placed after the epilogue,so if you want a book to read on the beach keep on with Dan Brown. A favourite hobby -horse of mine is that comparisons between novels and filmed novels are pointless because the two media are completely antithetical.A novelist makes certain assumptions about the reader's intelligence and imagination,the filmmaker makes no such assumptions and lays everything out in front of the viewer whose only contribution to the cinema-going experience is to stay awake for the length of the picture.The movie Millennium makes even this small effort a chore. I wanted it to be good,I didn't want them to have screwed it up;sadly I was disappointed on both counts.It's a Bb run - of - the - mill hack job.I doubt if either of the leads gave much thought to their roles,about the best you could say was that they avoided bumping into the scenery.Mr Daniel J.Travanti never repeated his success as Lt Frank Furillo in Hill St Blues and is woefully miscast here.He should have sued his agent.There are extraneous scenes that do nothing to help the story(one involving the Air Crash Investigator hero Bill Smith as a child involved in a plane crash makes nonsense of the whole story) and all the subtlety of the novel is replaced by noise and flashy lighting. It's not even camp - well not intentionally.I fear it's makers took Millennium entirely seriously and snafu-ed it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining in spite of itself","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" An interesting premise (time travelers go back in time to abduct passengers before they die in plane crashes and use them to populate the polluted future) is almost negated by cheesy performances from a C-list cast (Krist Kristofferson, Cheryl Ladd, Robert Joy, Daniel J. Travanti). Once you start taking it as camp, however, this is quite entertaining, from Travanti's inquisitive Dr. Mayer to Joy's cheesily retro futuristic robot. The special effects have their share of cheese as well, but overall this is pretty decent. One sour note on the DVD, one bug draw is the alternate ending. But the scene is exactly like the current ending but with a longer musical montage. Talk about anti-climatic! "},{"Title":"Starts good but falters in the end","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie starts very well. It is interesting and involving. But for some reason after about 20 minutes it begins to falter. The plot becomes sterile and the whole thing is give away to the viewer. The entire second half is pretty much a rehash of the first half but from the woman's point of view. I don't care about effects if the acting can carry the movie but this one falls there too. Overall a pretty bland movie with a pretty bland ending. Their vision of the future was somewhat interesting. The robot did give some relief but overall the whole thing was just meh. It builds you up then lets you down pretty badly in the end. "}{"Title":"A Little History of a Great Writer and a Bad Movie","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Disclaimer-any memory holes I might be harboring). I was a huge sci-fi buff in the 70's and 80's. Varley hit the scene in the 70's as a stupendous short story writer. IMO, he changed sci-fi writing forever. Somehow I missed Air Raid, but I did read the prescient *envinronmental* novel Millennium (1984), the novel he must have fleshed out from Air Raid? Millennium, the novel, is very detailed, very original and sophisticated, and not much like the movie. I was very disappointed with the movie when I first saw it (but not as much as now) as there are few movies that come from true sci-fi writers (Hugo winners and the like) and I was really looking forward to it. This is not Star Wars territory.Kristofferson was OK for Kristofferson back then, Cheryl Ladd lost her acting chops for 108 minutes and she was much older looking than recently (Permanent Midnight). I didn't say face-lift, did I? Daniel J. Travanti was good, of course, but barely in the movie. The Robot was tongue in cheek and probably the only redeeming quality. Basically, there is nothing in this movie but mistakes. The movie captured me when it started but when the first plane crashed, the movie crashed.While I love Varley, his forte is short stories, some novels are moderate to great, but definitely not screenplays (although we don't know how tied his hands were and he only wrote one other screenplay - Overdrawn at the Memory Bank, which I have not seen, but have read, yet another fantastic short story).I try to find redeeming qualities even in bad movies, or try to see the B-movie-ness of them, but this one is just bad. Ed Wood bad. So I guess it is campy, but not even camp I enjoy. Go *read* some Varley. The short stories first, you will be blown away. So, Blade Runner and Minority Report are still the gold standard. Both were written by the late, venerable Philip K. Dick, a predecessor and probably influencer of Varley - but he did not try to write the screenplays and had the great good fortune that Ridley Scott and Steven Spielberg directed. It is a tragedy that a talent like Varley was so short changed on celluloid. "},{"Title":"Poor acting, great story","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is definitely worth more than a 4.7.  Although Cheryl Ladd and Kris Kristofferson's performances are way over the top and cheesy, there are some interesting elements, such as the post-apocalyptic vision of the future and the characters we meet there.The only part I found unbelievable is the part where Kris walks out on Cheryl when she begs him to stay (in the hotel room).  Any heterosexual man would have called in sick that day. "},{"Title":"Not only can you see through the plot, you get to see it twice...","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie on opening day -- I was convinced by a fellow Science Fiction fanatic to see it. I still believe that it is the worst movie that I have seen (with an actual budget).Every aspect of the movie was bad the acting, the dialogue, the plot, the pacing, the special effects (don't blame the year...there were plenty of movies that came out in the same year that had decent effects), ...the list goes on. The theater I was in started full, but did not stay that way. I was actually stunned into staying - I couldn't believe it was so bad. When the movie started showing events from another character's point of view, I lost it. I thought, Not only can you see through the plot, you get to see it twice! I started laughing uncontrollably, eventually slipping out of my seat onto the floor. I didn't understand how the movie could have gotten any worse, but it had. There are some who would say that you have to go into viewing this movie with an eye for camp. I would agree, except that this movie was marketed as, and had the tone of, a serious Sci-Fi flick. Also, if it wanted to be seen as camp, there should have been something that seemed intentionally humorous or at least intentionally awful (like a good 'B' movie). Barring that, if the movie had been unintentionally funny (like Battlefield Earth), I might have appreciated it a bit. As it was, it was dull, dry and painful to watch. The only entertainment I derived was from thinking about how bad it was.I'm fine with time travel paradoxes, and can even overlook continuity issues; I was not confused at all by the plot. I just believe that this movie was uninspiringly bad. "},{"Title":"Almost Better Than It  Is","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" After reading several pages of reviews of this movie I'm having one of those Did I watch the same film as everyone else? moments.The story here is not at all complicated. Anyone with half a brain who has read any Science Fiction will be able follow it with ease. It's pretty standard cause, effect and unconsidered consequences stuff. What someone with half a brain who has read any SF will be asking themselves for most of the running time is, since these time travellers from the future have nifty stun guns able to gently render anyone unconscious at a touch of a button why, when presented with a situation where they have to prevent someone from being in a particular place at a particular time, don't they just stun the poor sod till it's safe for them for him to wake up?Because, to misquote Alfred Hitchcock, We wouldn't have a f***ing movie if we did. That's why. The future scenes are hysterically bad. The robot (more Tin Man than C3PO) has to be one of the all time dreadful movie robots.Apart from the basic premise of why the time travellers were coming back in the first place - which is pretty good SF notion. The only thing that did work for me were the repeated scenes where we saw the developing affair from different viewpoints. Things which seemed odd the first time round becoming obvious the second. I could have done with more of that and less of the Omigod! Everything is exploding! Let's reverse the polarity on the time vortex thingie and send everyone off into the future. You go! We Stay! We belong dead! Oh I'm having your baby! Hang on... I'm coming after all... How do we end this sodding movie? I dunno... Wait! I think I've got it... It's an SF movie with an under-resolved ending leading to a possible new hope for mankind... Of course! The sunrise cliché shot! (Hereinafter known as the 'THX1138 Moneyshot'). And just to add cream to the syrupy concoction, a voice-over promising us this was not the end, or the beginning of the end, or indeed the end of the beginning, but the end of the beginning of the middle of something - or other... I was too busy laughing to catch it exactly.A pity. Buried under all the wrongness here is a pretty good movie screaming to get out. Why does Hollywood insist on buggering up well made classics like The Day The world Stood Still and Barberella? when there are dozens of films like this crying out to be remade - and, with just a bit of care, got right. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is no secret that I like time-travel movies. However this one did not meet my liking, which is seeing people cope in a time not their ow. This was sci-fi, and I guess those who like that sort of thing might find it interesting. To me it was a major snooze fest and I keep looking for something else while I watched it. Too bad there was nothing else on.Kris Kristofferson has never impressed me with his acting abilities. He always looks as if he is sleepwalking through a movie. He just doesn't show any real emotion. Cheryle Ladd was a major disappointment also. She just didn't do a thing for me.Read a book instead. "},{"Title":"one of the worst ever","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie had potential. I love time travel. And the idea of a paradox has infinite possibilities for a script. I actually enjoyed the way the Back to the Future movies dealt with the concept. However, from almost the first few minutes this movie is a bomb! The writing is terrible and the acting is bad. I can't believe the actors actually could keep a straight face while quoting their lines. And the make-up for the robot looked like something from 1969, not 1989. The best part of the movie happens in the first 5 minutes. The plane crash must have used up most of their budget. The only good thing I found was looking at Cheryl Ladd !! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the dumbest movie I have ever seen","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I caught this film on HBO the other day, and I want those 90 minutes of my life back. The acting was painful to watch, and the plot was ridiculous. Humans from a thousand years in the future go back in time and kidnap those about to die in plane crashes in order to repopulate the planet. And they're not very good at it because they keep leaving things like stunners behind which makes them have to go back again to fix paradoxes. Way too convoluted, even for a sci-fi picture.The only thing that kept me from rating this a 1 is my respect for Kris Kristofferson. I guess he just had some bills to pay so he took the first script someone showed him. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Walked out and never looked back...","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If someone offers you the choice between seeing this movie and chewing your own foot off, do yourself a favor...ask for ketchup. The acting is atrocious and the special effects rank right up there with the old Buck Rogers TV show, especially the 'stunt man in a tin can' robots. It's a shame...the plot could've been intriguing. Unfortunately, the film's budget of approximately $2.98 killed a good idea. "},{"Title":"One of the WORST sci-fi films EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I paid good money to see this back in 1989 at a first-run theatre!  A friend talked me into it.  I did NOT want to go shell out 5.00 for this.  He said he'd pay me back if the movie sucked...so I (stupidly) agreed.  Halfway through the film he handed me the 5.00 without saying a word.  But there's two hours of my life gone for good!  This film SUCKED!!!!  Badly acted, written, directed, sub-par special effects...there's not one good thing to say about this.  And seeing a large portion of the movie again through a different camera angle is inexcusable--I wanted to walk out at that point, but he wouldn't.  He said We've come this far...  Also he was driving me home so I had no choice.  I have nothing against Cheryl or Kris but, really, didn't they read the script before they did the movie?  Were they that hard up for money?   AVOID AT ALL COSTS!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Its been 20yrs and I'm still laughing","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was literally rolling in the aisles laughing ...and then crying... and then laughing again. It's so bad that it's good ...and then bad again and then finally...after a long, long time (a millennium at least)... maybe good...? It was the two worst movies I've ever seen. Whatever doesn't kill you will only make you stronger. Have no fear - it's horrible - but it wont kill you. It has left me asking several questions - 1)who put money into making this? (it didn't require much) 2)Do they still have a job? 3)If so...why? 4)What bank would lend them the money to finance it? 5) Why besmirch the King of Kensington...Why? Alright this was a total mess on every level - still, it was very, very funny and for that reason I think I could recommend it, caution in the end you might feel a bit ashamed for laughing so hard at something that wasn't meant to be laughed at. I'm so ashamed of myself! "}{"Title":"friends don't let friends watch films like this","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Out of all the awful movies I've seen in my life, this is the one I came closest to demanding my money back for. The time-travel sequence was excruciating enough the *first* time... "},{"Title":"I saw this in the Theater! The DOLLAR theater...","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had the dubious fortune of seeing this roll of celluloid toilet paper during its VERY short theatrical release. It debuted at a $1.00 movie house in the suburbs and then disappeared until its resurfacing on video years later.The fact that I only paid $1.00 to see it is the only redeeming factor of this experience. The pairing of Kristofferson / Ladd SCREAMED low budget has-been casting!The plot was so predictable, my friend and I had practically written it out by the end of the flick.The setting of the film was supposed to be in Minneapolis, but they didn't even bother filming on location for that. I'm sure they picked some airport in Canada and figured nobody would know the difference.The time travel / body snatchers element of story was mildly interesting, and would have made a good 1 hour New Twilight Zone episode.Michael Anderson did a much better job of directing Logan's Run, which appears to be his only commercial success in the last quarter of the 20th century.In short, if you are looking for something to show your movie-geek friends on BAD-MOVIE night, this one will make you the winner for the month (unless somebody else has an out of print copy of KISS Meets The Phantom Of The Park).This is one of the few flicks I actually recommend for its overwhelming horribleness! "},{"Title":"bleech","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  whenever anyone asks me what was the worst movie i've ever seen, millennium always comes to mind. did we really need to see the whole movie twice, just from slightly different camera angles? ugh! and i saw this thing in the theater back in '89. how stupid could i have been?  "},{"Title":"One corny flick!","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only good thing about this corny flick is the fact that Kris' character got some space-pussy! Other than that...forget about it! Diane Ladd is cute and sexy but her character is....stupid. She keeps forgetting the Stunner, first in 1989 and then again in 1963. Then she has to go back (1,000 years back) and retrieve that weapon. There's a law of her civilization that demands that they never leave anything behind and they don't alter history in any way (other than saving people who would otherwise die violently).She's supposed to be one of her kind's best,too!What's wrong with this space-head space-cadet?If she comes from an advanced race far in the future why does she and her fellow space-beings talk like rad, semi-hippies of the 1960's?If you like Saturday morning kiddie flicks then this is one for you.I think a lot of talent was wasted on this one.But that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Truly Bad Film","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Starts out poorly, sort of like a below average TV movie about a plane crash. Drags on for about twenty minutes, and then the most incredible crew of drag queens, led by a terrible looking, punky Cheryl Ladd, invade the film with a coterie of the worst (somewhat) live actors, mechanical men and make up jobs the world has ever seen. Dialog is so horrible, that you literally cringe waiting for the next line. I literally became sick and had to turn it off because of the bad acting. Now I realize, none of us is getting younger, but what's the thing with Kristofferson's eyebrows? His acting is particularly wooden in this role, but Cheryl Ladd - good god, her performance (a la Pussy Galore in the film Goldfinger) would have stopped any other career cold. Strangely, the sets held up fairly well; the steaming turbines; the weirdly flat body bags, and so forth. But the cheap looking device that Cheryl and her tough pals are looking for - a device that supposed to turn this time travel joke of a story around - looks like a reject from a grade Z movie.It's really like two movies in one, or one inside the other. Whatever. Watch for both of these film and avoid it. "},{"Title":"Desperately disappointing delivery of scintillating scientific scenario","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The concept Explore what possibilities of paradox exist if time travel to the past (or future) becomes reality. This is an exercise that has challenged the most respected minds humanity has produced from Einstein to Hawking - a concept captivating and eloquently delved by authors from Heinlein to C. S. Lewis - a vision brought to the silver screen in an accessible and engaging way by such movies as Back to the Future and Terminator.The result What should probably have been a complete Alan Smithee production.There are a couple positive items of note - if you enjoy tongue-in-cheek, campy films that don't take themselves seriously, and give a passing glance at the hypothesis that gave it birth, you MIGHT try it. If you're sorry afterward, pick up a book that does the subject justice - some Heinlein (_Number of the Beast_ or _Time Enough for Love_) or the recent Crichton or Baxter releases (_Timeline_ and _Manifold Time_ respectively). Another plus the end of the movie, and of the pain.There's just too many cons to cover fully - poor acting, vague direction, TOO low of a budget and special effects, terrible writing, unsatisfactory plot resolution, horrible redundancy... I saw the original release and was young enough to be embarrassed for the actors. When I caught a replay recently on TV, I struggled through it to make sure I was truly rating my worst ever fairly.I was. 1/10.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie of all time","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Millennium is beyond a doubt the worst feature film ever made;it is so mind-numbingly horrible it makes Heaven's Gate look like Citizen Kane. What makes me it hate it so much?Let me count the ways 1)A plot so incredibly convoluted even the CIA couldn't decode it; 2)John Varley's script and direction--or should I say lack thereof; 3)A soundtrack guaranteed to make the strongest of men wince in agony; 4)definitely-not-special effects; 5)a supporting cast that either by sheer ineptitude or deliberate malice undermined the leads; 6)a final scene that no one could possibly understand or bear to watch while sober. Michael Anderson should be put against a wall and shot for inflicting this piece of crap on our movie screens. "}]