[{"Title":"Beautifully done!","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"44 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Right, so judging by the 5.7 score this film has, I realise I'm in a minority here... Well I'm sorry, but this is such a wonderful film! The story is great, the cast is fantastic, effects are good, soundtrack is lovely, and excluding the first fifteen minutes, which are crucial for the storyline, it is hilarious throughout! Unlike other Python films, this one is real, with no silly cartoon bits in the middle and a much more intelligent humour. Much better than The Holy Grail, that had a rubbish end to it.Well done Terry, it's a great shame that not more viewers have come across Eric The Viking, or didn't like it as much (I have a feeling that many of them were expecting a typical Python film). "},{"Title":"A brilliant comedy!","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" British comedian Terry Jones found fame and fortune as a member of the legendary comedy troupe known as Monty Python, where along his teammates revolutionized comedy with their sketch show Flying Circus during the 70s. While this is probably his most well-known activity, Jones is also a popular historian, specialized on the European Medieval period, who has published several books on this and other subjects of ancient history. In 1983, after the dissolution of Monthy Python, Jones published a children's book named The Saga of Erik the Viking, where he explored this interest of him in the story of a young Viking. Years later, he wrote the screenplay for a movie version inspired in the children's book, although dealing more mature themes. Erik the Viking was the name of the movie and it is possibly the movie that best describes Jones' persona, as it mixes the style of Monthy Python comedy (although it is not a sketch-based movie) with Jones' special taste for ancient history.The film is the story of Erik (Tim Robbins), a viking who after the murder of an innocent woman during one of his tribe's expedition, discovers that he is not really happy with the whole raping and pillaging customs of his people. Looking for advice, Erik asks the wise old woman Freya (Eartha Kitt) for a solution, and she tells him that since Fenris the Wolf has swallowed the sun, the age of violence, Ragnarok, has begun. Worried by this revelation, Erik decides to travel to the legendary land of Hy-Brasil, in order to find the Horn Resounding, the magic artifact that will take him to Asgard and awake the Gods. With this in mind, Erik prepares an expedition and sails to adventure; but Halfdan the Black (John Cleese) and Keitel Blacksmith (Gary Cady) are not so happy about finishing the lucrative business of war, so both decide to follow Erik in order to make him fail.While the movie is not exactly an adaptation of Jones' children's book, his love for history is still all over the movie, as it's filled with countless references to Norse myths and Viking culture. Python's style of comedy is present in a subtler (although no less hilarious) way, and like in his previous work, Jones uses Erik to make fun of concepts as the social establishment, war, and religion. This last theme is represented in a very interesting way, with the concept of faith and beliefs playing a very important (and amusing) part of Erik's quest to awake the Gods. However, despite Jones' love for history, people expecting a true and realistic representation of a Norse Edda will be sorely disappointed, as Jones takes many liberties for the sake of comedy (and probably to make his movie easier to understand for people not familiar with Norse mythology).In this his third solo effort as director (two of the Python films were co-directed with Terry Gilliam), Terry Jones shows the evolution of what was started in Life of Brian, as while his movie is a story of epic proportions, he keeps the film focused on his characters and their many funny traits. This really works for the movie, as while Erik's crew is numerous, each one is highly detailed and Jones dedicates enough time to get to know everyone of them, developing them as characters and as a team, and making the audience care for them. This take is also beneficial as lessens the damage done by the poor special effects (due to low-budget) of some scenes, although to Jones' credit, the way he fuses realism with magic surrealism is also a brilliant move. The somewhat restrained way that Jones uses to approach to comedy this time (keeping it focused to the plot instead of using sketches) is also more in tone with Life of Brian than with the other Monty Python films.Tim Robbins is perfectly cast as Erik, as his really becomes this good hearted, yet extremely naive adventurer, decided to stop the wars of the world. Robbins' career was at an early stage when he did this film, but already shows his talent and is very good with Jones' style of comedy. Monthy Python's John Cleese is fabulous as Halfdan the Black, and steals most of the scenes he is in. Overall the actors playing Erik's crew are really excellent and truly are a key factor in this success of the movie. Imogen Stubbs plays Aud, the princess of Hy-Brasil who tries to help Erik in this quest. Stubbs is effective for the role, although sadly the rest of the cast overshadows her without problem. Mickey Rooney and Terry Jones himself have small yet very funny roles too, and both make the most of their small scenes.Personally, I think that the movie's biggest problem is actually Terry Jones' background with the Pythons, as this may make fans to expect something keeping the style of the troupe's previous films. While Erik the Viking does have it's fair share of Python's humor, it would be wrong to call it a Python movie. Other than the probably too high expectations it probably won't meet, the movie really doesn't have many flaws and it's an excellent satire that delivers the goods without false pretensions. True, it has some serious problems with special effects that could had been better with a bigger budget, but Jones makes the movie work with his mix of wit and charm, as well as his knowledge of medieval cultures.Erik the Viking is definitely an unfairly underrated comedy that while never on the level of classic Monty Python's Flying Circus, it provides some fun intelligent comedy paired with an interesting story of action and adventure. It's flawed, but has a special charm that just makes the whole movie work without problem. As a satire it's really good, and despite its few historical inaccuracies, it's a nice piece of Viking action. Truly a movie that really deserves a viewing. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Norse Star ...","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Seen as a poor relation to true-Python movies (even forgotten), it tells the tale of a young adventurous Viking, Erik, who sets out on a quest to find Asgard. Along with a selection of other Norsk villagers, they sail into the unknown, encounter a sea monster and stumble across the idyllic 'Hy-Brazil', a land ruled by King Arnulf (Director, Terry Jones) who keeps insisting that in the face of adversity It's alright. It's not happening.The badness in this piece is care of Halfdan the Black (John Cleese) and delivered in typical Cleese fashion. Loki ((now) Sir Anthony Sher) plays to Halfdan as a crooked little stoolpigeon, only looking to improve his standing and possible gains.Sadly, no other members of the original Python team played a part in this film as, rumour has it, after the death of Graham Chapman (in October of 1989), the remaining Pythons. Gilliam, Palin and Idle, decided not to appear.Erik The Viking is a light comedy with occasional droplets of Python rain, gently falling about the story. Director, Terry Jones, relies on a pair of old-school character actors who number his and many Python films John Scott Martin (Ingemund the Old) and Charles McKeown (Sven's Dad).Jones allowed his cast to keep their mother-tongues Tim Robbins (Erik) and Mickey Rooney (Erik's Grandfather) keep their American drawls and John Gordon Sinclair (Ivar), his broad Scottish accent. One of the best interactions is between Ivar and Thorofinn, discussing seasickness aboard their boat and a welcome diversion comes in the shape of 28yr old Imogen Stubbs (Princess Aud).In the end, it's just a bit of fun and serves as a good 'hors d'oeuvre' to anyone who needs a gentle initiation into the world of Python. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun and a little bit of hidden depth","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In true Python alum fashion, this movie is rewatchable (despite what Maltin says) and a lot of fun each time you watch it.  Tim Robbins does his usual good job in a light-hearted but sensitive role; and possibly the best line of the movie is John Cleese's reaction to Robbins when Robbins *believes* himself to be invisible, declaring Now you see me, now you don't! Cleese's reaction has me laughing out loud every time.Behind all the fun and games, though, Terry Jones has done some pretty darn clever commentary on belief systems and epistemology; the fact that you can only be affected by that particular brand of magic in which you believe is a strong idea which rings nicely throughout the movie.  (The addition of the priest character drives the point home nicely.)  Interesting ideas, which I'd bet are ignored by most people just out for a good time (which is okay too, since it's a funny movie).  "},{"Title":"Time to re-evaluate Terry Jones","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Jones is probably the least appreciated member of Monty Python, but viewing `Erik the Viking' should change your opinion on that.  The movie's world is bleak and bitter (reading about Norse religion will show you that the Vikings lived in a bleak and bitter world), but Tim Robbins' idealistic and earnest Erik is just sweet and hopeful enough to keep things interesting, rather than completely depressing.  The casting is excellent. Particularly noteworthy are Jones himself as a king who quite literally only sees what he wants to see; Eartha Kitt as a very effective and chilling Norse goddess (yeah, it sounds weird, but it's perfectly done); and Antony Sher, whose Loki is equal parts weasel and villain.  You'll be disappointed if you come in expecting over-the-top Pythonesque zany-ness, but to me, this movie felt like a maturation of that style.  The satire is still there but it's more sober than frenetic.  I only rated this movie an 8 because I don't watch it very often, but it's probably my favorite of all the Pythons' solo projects. "},{"Title":"Funny, more elaborate Monty Python film.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have a hard time figuring out why Leonard Maltin qualified this movie as an unwatchable satire.  I've watched it about 3 or 4 times, so obviously it is watchable.  Not only that, it is quite funny, with Terry Jones hilarious as King Arnulf of Hy-Brazil.  I also thought Tim Robbins was quite good as the outcast Erik.  The story, on the other hand, was pedestrian and not very engrossing, but I was laughing pretty hard most of the time so the story became just a background aspect of this very funny film anyways. John Cleese has a hilarious cameo as Halfdan the Black who runs a torture chamber in his spare time. Also, the Japanese slave driver is one of the highlights. Good entertainment.  8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Classic moments","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  'Erik' was quite cute and had some absolutely brilliant moments but overall wasn't as tight and consistently funny as I was hoping. There were quite a few sections that seemed to wander along pointlessly; what a pity!Tim Robbins was fine in a cutesy, little boy way which is, I guess, what he was supposed to be. I couldn't help wishing he had a tad more substance. Cleese's role seemed generally uninspired with only brief moments of genius. It was fun, however, seeing Tim McInnerny pre-Blackadder-Captain Darling days and Antony Sher made an excellent trickster Loki.It's possible that the print I rented from my local video shop was a bit more dingy than the original, but the stunning scenery (filmed in Norway, Malta and England) lost its effect.Despite these negatives, it's certainly worth watching at least once, if only for those inspired moments of comedy it contains. "},{"Title":"Scholarly comedy.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Erik The Viking seems like a rather scholarly comedy. Terry Jones, of Monty Python fame, seems to have done a lot of work on the history of the vikings. Jones then injects his sense of humor, which is over the top, and you have an educated comedy that only somebody familiar with Python could love.  "},{"Title":"A Nice Sense of Period and One or Two Moments of Interesting Logic","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Jones wonderful examination of the mess of Viking life and legend is a funny film - almost as good as MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL. His intelligence is at work here. Jones wrote a book version of the story first, and in it examined some of the odd concepts of that remarkable period of rapine and violence. Jones is an expert on the Middle Ages (he did a very amusing and informative multi-episode series on the people of the Middle Ages for the history channel). So his grasp on detail is marvelous.To date, this is the only film to look at the Vikings and their religious/spiritual beliefs. What was their idea of heaven and hell. Well, we finally see Valhalla for what it was supposed to be. And the fallacy of it is brought home in the conclusion when Erik and his crew realize what garbage their culture embraces.This is the only movie I know that also deals with the lost island of Hy-Brazil. Not to be confused with the huge country in South America, Hy-Brazil was one of many fictitious islands that were believed to be in the Atlantic Ocean in the Middle Ages - in some cases to the 19th Century. Hy-Brazil was supposed to sink every now and then, as it does in this film. But it sinks due to a violation of the moral purity of the island, for an act of violence occurs there that is against the state of the island. And the King of Hy-Brazil (Jones) is so self-centered that he can imagine that everything is fine, that he refuses to accept that the island is sinking and his subjects are drowning.The King is also one of the examples of the marvelous twisted logic of the film - he has gotten a piece of cloth that he is told makes the wearer invisible. Nobody else but the king believes this. Erik, caught in the rooms of the King's daughter, puts the cloth on him. The King comes in to see who is there, and can't see him, although everyone else can see him.There is a similar piece of logic at the end of the film, when the crew has reached Valhalla, and found it not as they wanted to find it. They are trapped there because their belief and religion makes them seek Valhalla. Only the one Christian among them (Freddie Jones, in a nice performance) can't see what they see - he is a Christian, not a Viking Pagan. So he is able to return to their boat and free the others because he is not trapped by their mindset.The performances are good, especially John Cleese as an expert in extortion and torture, who is treated like the benevolent laird of the manor (he willingly changes the dates of torments and tortures he schedules). Eartha Kitt as a priestess, and Mickey Rooney as a feisty grandfather of Erik, give good performances too. It is an interesting, odd, but successful period comedy. "},{"Title":"Twisted comedy with social commentary and a great anti-hero","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, Erik essentially IS an anti-hero - all his filmed adventures start when he sets out to right that unfortunate mishap during the looting and raping raid. Great comedic performance from Tim Robbins, very believable Industrious Torturer Cleese, unforgettable Jones as the King of high Brazil and the lovely Imogen Stubbs - what else can you ask for?! What about a magic dish cloth, you say - well, we've got that too! "}{"Title":"Fun comedy and very interesting mythical adventure","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I expected this movie to be a typical Python-esquire comedy, with silly jokes constantly popping up. I don't really like such comedies (I prefer more intelligent humor), but I saw a scene from the movie and thought it was really funny so I watched the movie. What I found out surprised me. The jokes are really funny, but they make up only a small part of the movie (perhapse a quarter of the time). The rest is not that funny (if you're expecting to laugh all the time), but is a relatively decent mythological adventure movie, which strongly reminded me of the movies about the adventures of Odysseus and Jason. You have sea voyages to unknown places, mythical beasts, gods, heroes, magical artifacts... I really like that kind of stuff and I have seen quite a few movies based on Greek and Celtic myths but few based on Nordic (Germanic) myths until now. I don't know if it's really based on an existing myth but it's still in the setting of Nordic mythology. And while it's not really high quality, it's still relatively convincing. "},{"Title":"Nice little humorous fantasy comedy","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I guess I was expecting more of a pure comedy than a more of a serious note fantasy comedy when I first heard of 'Eric The Viking'. It certainly isn't a dead laughter, thought it has some bits that just make you to chuckle out loud.The style of the film resembles a bit of Terry Gilliams Jabberwocky, even the style of humour is a quite same, but this shouldn't be any surprise considering the power behind the film, which of course is Terry Jones of 'Monty Python' fame. Out of other Pythonites John Cleese pops in to do a small role as a baddie of the film.Eric (soft spoken Tim Robbins) is a viking, who questions his way of living the pillaging, raping and killing. So he is set on a quest to enter Valhalla to wake the gods and end the age of Ragnarok, so that the sun might finally shine upon the frozen north and the people would stop killing each other. And of course on the way they stumble upon troubles and comedic situations.All things considering the film has some pretty good puns and even some of the scenery and special effects managed to impress me quite a bit. The biggest problem of the film would be the script, as it did cut corners out of the story quite a bit. But at least all the main things get out explained pretty well, so the film doesn't leave any questions hanging too loose in the air. "},{"Title":"Don't Sit Sven next to Sven's Dad - they will argue","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The time is Ragnarok. Clouds block out the sun and the world has been plunged into an eternal winter. People fight, kill, and rape, simply because it is a jolly good thing to do. Then comes Eric, who accidentally kills the woman that he has fallen in love with and comes to realise that there must be more than this, so he takes the men of his village on a trek to find the gods and ask them to end Ragnarok.This is a cool little comedy movie done in the Monty Python style, though not exclusively Python, since only Terry Jones and John Cleese are in it. Even though, the bizarre comedy of Monty Python comes out of it, along with its mockery of the human attitude.I guess one thing is the antagonist, Hadron the Black, who wants to stop Eric simply because to him Ragnarok is pretty good for business. There is also Loki, who is the tempter trying to get the Blacksmith and Hadron to stop Eric's expedition because if he succeeds, it will be the end of the blacksmithing business. But it is not the Blacksmith that wants it, but rather the evil and nasty Loki.The nation of High Brazillia is quite interesting, especially when it is being destroyed. The story about this place is that it has been blessed by the gods, but if any blood is to be spilt on the ground then the land will sink beneath the waves. Such a thing happens (due to Loki's interference) and the island starts to sink, but in the face of disaster, the citizens of High Brazillia remain ignorant to it, and sink beneath the waves. It is the attitude of if we ignore it then it will go away. It is hilarious in this film, but in a way we are laughing at ourselves, because in essence we solve our problems by trying to ignore it, as that is the easy way to deal with it. Ignore it and it might go away, but unfortunately that never happens.The other interesting thing is that the gods of Midgard are portrayed at children. In essence that is what they really are for anybody reading classical Greek literature will understand that the god's really do behave like this. I guess it is simply saying that all that we worship in the end is simply childish (though the Christian missionary is paid out quite a bit as well).In the end this is a jolly funny movie and most enjoyable to watch. Personally I would say that it is one of the classics from the eighties. And remember, you can't sit Sven next to Sven's dad they'll argue all the time. "},{"Title":"Vikings have never been so much fun!","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I learnt about the viking a long time ago, when i was much younger, with an incredible teacher i'll never forget. Now, she made this topic interesting, with movies and comic strips and silly songs (she was brilliant as a teacher, if a bit of a nutter) and so, one day, when i found an old viking film in the attic, i thought i'd give it a go. I wasn't expecting what i got. Vikings, setting out to find Valhalla, with some very funny moments and a longing for the sun. Of course, this film would be nothing with out the comedic factors and 5 star performances by some terrific actors and actresses, but the story line is one not easily forgotten and always loved. This is great for all genders and ages; a beautiful mix of humour, violence, history and love, with a touch of the paranormal just to mix it up a bit. What really sets this film apart is the hilarity of the mission the vikings go on and, of course, the sinking island affair. Never thought islands could sink away? Think again. This is a perfect film for everyone to enjoy. "},{"Title":"So great in so many ways","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's good but it's not perfect. I love watching this and I can re-watch it, always the sign of a good film.Tim Robbins is bearable as the annoyingly innocent and world weary Eric. I always feel Mickey Rooney wasn't 1st choice as Eric's Grandfather/father.The largely British cast are excellent and everyone plays their roles well. Tim Mckinnery who would go onto be Captain Darling in Blackadder Goes Forth, Freddie Jones who couldn't have long left the set of Krull so must have felt very typecast to be in this but is really funny not seeing the gods or Valhalla and seeing Eric vanish using The Cloak Invisible.There are so many faces to recognise and everyone does a very good job, John Cleese as Halfdan The Black (I really don't think Jack Lemmon would have done the role justice) as a favour to Terry Jones (who wrote, directed and played The King Of Hybrasil).This was never really going to be a Monty Python Film but it works very well. Not many of the cast were huge stars at the time (apart from Mickey Rooney & Eartha Kitt, most likely the two biggest names attached to the movie) so I think that brought the budget down.It's well shot and all the location stuff looks stunning.For those who like Python or Terry Gilliam style films this is well worth a look and I highly recommend it.It's as funny today as it was when it was made. "},{"Title":"Good on its own...","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Like others have said, many people compare this movie to Monty python- which it is not. Others are disappointed for other reasons. I guess this is the result of expectations. Myself, I really appreciate all the interesting visuals- the mood is very well established. The casting is excellent! (gotta love Imogen!) My question would be, what's not to like about this movie? I mean, if you 'get' python-like humor, enjoy a fantasy adventure and so forth, then you've already seen countless worse movies. This movie is better than almost all others of either genre. It's an all time favorite of MINE. But, if watching goofy guys battle staged sea monsters and hunt for Valhalla isn't your thing, don't watch this! It's like nothing you've ever seen. It's special, and funny, and endearing in it's own weird way.Jacob "},{"Title":"Remember now Erik, it's pillage and rape first, THEN burn.","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a well researched comedy history of Viking Mythology. Throw in Terry Jones' humor and opinions & some well known cast members, and you get an intellectual comedy, very much in the vein of Monty Python. I really loved this movie. I admit it; I'm a geek. I love Life of Bryan (Monty Python), I love T.S. Elliot's Screwtape Letters; therefore, I love this film. You'll need caffeine to watch it. I need 10 lines, eh? OK, more detail without spoiling it. Follow clumsy Erik and his companions on a journey from pillaged villages to Valhalla itself. Learn about Viking lore; meet the gods themselves, and guffaw at their antics. Explore the quest as it is seen from differing points of view from the Vikings and their Christian companion. "},{"Title":"Not Python","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie but I feel I have to address the confusion some reviewers seem to have. I am noticing there is a lot of reviews calling this and comparing this to Monty Python. True there are members of Python in this film but that does not qualify Erik the Viking as a Monty Python movie. If appearance was all that was needed to be a Python film, then Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, 12 Monkeys, A Fish Called Wanda, Fierce Creatures, Brazil, Fawlty Towers, Harry Potter, even Mary Shelley's Frakenstein (John Cleese was the weirdo professor) would all be Monty Python films. After the breakup of Monty Python, the six members went their separate ways but often included each other in their endeavors. Monty Python movies and shows only include the six members together working collaboratively. (Unless they get together without Graham Chapman for another movie) Now that I'm off my soapbox regarding Monty Python, Erik the Viking is a great movie. The comedy is classic oddball stuff that Terry Jones usually comes up with. I love Jones visual style where he uses materials that appear surreal in his films. Like The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, Jones and Gilliam both use this surreal style that makes locations look like sets but also real in a strange way. If I were a film student, I would be able to describe it better. I've seen Erik the Viking three times now and I'm about to watch it again since its on Encore in ten minutes. Truly a great and fun film you should see. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film, German dubbing questionable though","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I like this movie a lot. Visually, it is not quite stunning, but the few special effects are done well in a style that alternates between something you could almost call realism (the Viking costumes and their ship) and cartoonish fantasy - surprisingly, the blend works, I feel no incoherence. This may have to do with the cartoonish part being reserved to the viking's adventures outside the known world.The story is straightforward and maybe a bit thin, though not overstretched. The 89 minutes of the German version I saw seem to be just right... however, it seems that the original version lasts 104 minutes. There are, anyway, enough funny ideas and witty lines to keep watching, although I cringed at some stale, bland jokes as well. Some of the latter are definitely the German dubbing's fault (e.g. a pun with the name of a politician well-known only in Germany, Björn Engholm); sadly, I haven't seen the English original yet, but I have skimmed over the script it doesn't seem to contain such bad jokes that get incomprehensible with time. (This Engholm is already almost forgotten, certainly in Switzerland where I live). So, shame on the dubbing! I like Neil Innes' music as well, it fits the atmosphere nicely. "},{"Title":"Erik the Wonderful Viking","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Erik The Viking is one of my favorites. Terry Jones takes us back to old Norse mythology, where the apocalyptic Fimbul Winter has made the World an icebox, and nobody has seen the Sun for ages. But Erik wants change, only he doesn't know how. Then the goddess Freya (played by Eartha Kitt!) shows herself to Erik, and tells him that he must seek Gjallarhorn - The Resounding Horn - and waken the Gods so that the Fimbul Winter might end...What I like about this film, is that this old mythological 'tale' is told without scorn. Instead the thing is used by Terry Jones (who obviously knows much about history and mythology) to make a somewhat 'serious' adventure movie, where the characters are both fascinating and funny in the context of the story itself.So this is not just another Monty Python-movie; and if you're only looking for the next laugh all the time, the magic of this film will evade you. But if you want a wonderful AND hilarious story of human beings in an epic and symbolic world - with pythonesque humour and a manuscript/dialog both well and philosophically written - then this the one for you.Tim Robbins (Erik) is as excellent as I've ever seen him. He embodies the dreamy un-vikingish Viking perfectly. Erik's farewell speech to the left-behind women is priceless. So is Terry Jones himself as King Arnulf of the absurdly pacific kingdom of Hy-Brasil, and so is John Cleese as the cruel/bored Halfdan the Black, and so is... But see for yourself, and be enchanted. "}{"Title":"Good Monty Python-type stuff.","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Great stuff and worthy addition to the Monty Python canon, where I guess it belongs. Takes the jokes to where you want them to go, but aren't sure if they really have the nerve, but of course they do. I especially loved the part where Erik and crew met their gods--it's a darkly comic and disturbing possibility I've run through my own mind before. I feel like I should knock this film down some for its very cheesy special effects, but this kind of movie never gets a big budget, so I'm going to allow substance to overrule style. If you like Monty Python, I can't imagine that you won't like this; however, if you don't like Monty Python, you should invert the rating scale to arrive a proper assessment. "},{"Title":"The Lost Monty Python Film(Sort Of)","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I forgot how entertaining this was. Not as skillfully directed as Gilliam's fantasy films, but Terry Jones, manages to make a dark, silly, comedy about Vikings trying to reach the afterlife and save the world. The age of Ragorok means constant war and pillaging, which is a fine life for a Viking, until Tim Robbins, instead of raping a young village girl, begins to talk with her, but still accidentally kills her. We later learn Erik is also a virgin, this kill weighs heavily on his mind, and he begins to question why there must be constant violence and chaos, why the sun is always obscured by clouds. He is told by a sorceress played by Ertha Kitt, that the only way to end the dark age is to wake the sleeping Gods in Vallhalla. So Erik (played by Tim Robbins) sets off with a group of fellow Vikings, to find the horn resounding, and save the world (though they are more interested in the chance for more battle than Erik's idealism). Amongst them are a berserker who always goes berserk too early egged on by his demonstrative father who insists on coming along the voyage so there's at least one Real berserk. To the towns lone Christian missionary who has lived in the village for 16 years and never made a single convert, except for one woman who converted to Buddhism, which to the Vikings is the same thing. Some of the most clever bits of this movie come from the subtle jokes between cultures, such as the arrival at the actual literal Vallhalla, which the missionary can neither see, nor touch, as one character points out It doesn't exist for him. So if you like Vikings with British accents, this is for you. It's much more plot driven than a usual Python project, all of whom rightly have small roles, John Cleese, is the warlord profiting off of Ragnorok, while Terry Jones is the oblivious tone deaf king of Hybrazil (aka Atlantis). It's nothing great, but enjoyable and clever. The giant Angler fish, and the sequence when the crew cross over the edge of the flat earth are both impressive. I watched this with someone who never cared for Monty Python, and they liked it. You may too. "},{"Title":"Definitely well worth a watch... or several!!!!","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie contains every ounce of Terry Jones' wonderful, even if slightly warped sense of humour! I have to admit that that the first time I watched it, I spent most of the time wondering what on earth was going on, but after brushing up on my Norse mythology, it was a lot more clear the second time around. As with Jonesy's Python stuff, I found that every time I watch this movie, I notice something different, which just keeps adding to the enjoyment!The DVD extras are also very good The interviews with the actual stars, I thought was a bit brief; however, the interviews with Jonesy himself were very interesting and insightful; as are the 'making of' clips.This film is definitely well worth a watch... or several!!! "},{"Title":"An enjoyable tour of the viking legends","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a brainchild of the venerable Pythons (Monty python's flying circus, Yellowbeard, Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Life of Brian) and while only a couple of them are in it, it has their usual stamp of silliness and political incorrectness.  The python troup has several history professors among it and thus their historical flicks, while silly, also usually manage to work some real history into the mix.  Anyone familiar with the viking belief system and legends will really enjoy this movie for its correctness and attention to detail in that regard.  While there are many amusing parts of the movie, I found the Christian priest that accompanyied them and couldn't see any of the viking gods (because that was not his belief system), perhaps the most amusing part of the whole movie.  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not a great movie but very good & very watchable. I've seen it 3 times now over the last twelve years. Several very funny laughs and amusing throughout. I would recommend it to anyone who likes Tim Robbins or the Pythoner's  "},{"Title":"A good film if yo don't need Jerry Lewis Humor","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A funny movie well cast and well acted. My favorite parts are the Gods portrayed as children and the fact that the Christian priest can't see anything mythological. Definately worth seeing and I can't wait til the DVD comes out. "},{"Title":"Liked it.  A lot!!","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The best Viking-Age humor in the world!  Great scenery; excellent costuming; great 'viking-specific' jokes  (The shipboarding scene alone makes for a good time); and some thoughtful philosophy too.  Great cast. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Comedy by Terry Jones!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Jones uses his love of history in this hilarious comedy about Erik (a Viking, in case you didn't know).Anyway, there is rather a lot you can learn from this colony.  I can't think of any Viking movies off the top of my head that really mention Ragnorok or any other Viking terms.Besides the educational stuff, this movie is funny (sorry for being redundant).  King Arnulf had me rolling on the floor laughing.  Tim Robbins was a viking without a clue, and did it marvelously!I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Hysterical and Educational","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When this movie came out I was working at the local multiplex and saw it on a whim because I had seen everything else.  This is one of the BEST movies I have seen.  You get the Monty Python-esque humor mixed with an amusing poke at Norse mythology.  My teacher had even used the film for our Norse mythology unit in Myths and Legends class.  The now you see me, now you dont scene is one of the funniest.   "},{"Title":"Python-flavored Paste","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has one third of the Monty Python troupe and about only a micron of the laughs.Eric the Viking after killing a woman in a raid, decides he's going to go to Valhala and awaken the gods to end the age of Ragnorak. Accompanying him is a group of misfits including a wanna-be berserker, a Christian Missionary who is incapable of converting anyone and a blacksmith who wants to keep Ragnorak going because it's good for the blacksmith trade.John Cleese plays a bad guy who is pretty much just playing JOhn Cleese.The thing is, unlike Monty Python, these guys just can't make it funny.The movie had okay special effects for a 1980's film, but special effects and comedy really don't mix. "}{"Title":"Wish it was funny","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Poor comedy from Monty Python's Terry Jones. The plot's about a disillusioned Viking named Erik (Tim Robbins) who goes on a quest to the Land of Hy-Brasil to end Ragnarok. Starts off giving you a few chuckles here and there. Within half an hour the laughs are gone. Robbins is OK and actually does better than most of his British costars, who ham it up with a smug satisfaction that they are in a surefire comedy classic. The sets and effects are a mixed bag. Sometimes I was impressed, sometimes not. The story is loosely based on a children's book Jones wrote called The Saga of Erik the Viking. If you get the chance you should read the book as it's much better than this film. "},{"Title":"This is not a Python movie","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" For people thinking, Oh John Cleese and Terry Gilliam, it must be a Python movie then make it a point to slam the film. I've always thought this film was under-appreciated and over-hated. Gilliam does his normally brilliant job of examining belief systems and skewering them. The other 1/2 of people that hate this film have never seen Norse mythology or Viking history so don't appreciate how much work Gilliam put into having a historically accurate portrayal of Vikings in terms of the dress, the actions of the whole (not the primary characters).If you are looking for a gentle start into the world of Monty Python, this is a good start before diving headlong into Holy Grail or Life of Brian. "},{"Title":"Monty Python meets Ragnarok","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, so it's not the entire Python crew, but the movie has Python prints all over it. It's a very funny movie, especially with the lone Christian along on the longship among the pagans and berserks. If you don't laugh out loud somewhere in this movie, you must be sleeping. "},{"Title":"Don't watch expecting to See Monty Python","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Eric the Viking is an awful mess of a film. It is a not very funny, loud, disjointed and style starved film that has nothing going for it.It in no way resembles a Monty Python film or sketch. Most of the actors (including Tim Robbins and Mickey Rooney)act as if they thought they had been cast in another ...Holy Grail. Needless to say, the acting is awful.I came away from this movie learning one thing. Terry Jones was far less talented a director than Terry Gilliam. Gilliam's films have a style and quality to them that is both interesting and unique. Eric the Viking is flat, dull and you won't want to stick around to watch the whole thing. I didn't.2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Erik the Viking","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Now this is a film long since lost in the annals of time. Much like the excellent 'Jabberwocky' movie by Terry Gilliam this movie has also been somewhat herded into the Monty Python film collection as a kind of extension to the Python universe. The same could also be said for the movies 'Yellowbeard' and 'Timebandits', unfortunately neither 'Erik' or 'Yellowbeard' are any good really and both fall flat, although this is better than the Chapman vehicle.Inspired by Jones's own children's story book but strangely enough not following his own creation, the film revolves around Norse mythology although I'm unsure how closely, I doubt its that close. We follow Erik and his viking crew as they travel to Asgard so they may ask the Gods to end the age of Ragnarök. They all believe the sun has been swallowed by Fenrir the mighty wolf which has plunged their world into darkness. So its a travelling into the unknown type adventure which was very popular in the 80's.I guess the main issue I had with this film (first time seeing it!) was the fact it felt like it was trying to copy various other movies in terms of visuals at least. The whole mystery voyage into the unknown and looking for mystical fabled items angle is cool but so very dated and to be really truly honest this film just felt like a combination of all of the films I mentioned above. The visuals aren't even that exciting really, most of the start is set within a drab dreary Viking village, then we move onto a drab and dreary sea sequence, then we get some exotic visuals but eventually its back to drab and dreary as they find Asgard. Most of the movie looks very cheap and cheerful too, the sea monster is quite nice and typically Python-esque but all sets and costumes (especially wigs) just look very tacky.I realise Jones has gone for that simple dirty cheap look (classic Python look) but it comes across as a tired attempt. 'Time bandits' had the same kind of visual approach but it also had some good location sequences and an exciting story, this story of Erik didn't really grab me at all. I didn't feel anything for any of the characters, their journey seems too easy, they find their goal quite quickly without doing much, the Gods are just kids which was anti-climatic, nothing really happens during the adventure that is of any real consequence...no urges of pending failure and the finale is really very weak.I can't even say any of the characters were good fun...the same old routines which have been seen before in better films. There is a strong element of forced comedy throughout the film which is never really that amusing. The silly goofy characters are just trying way too hard, a good example would be the entire sequence set on Hy-Brasil with Jones in a familiar high pitched speaking role. As for Robbins as Erik...he is miscast in my view, far too meek, not really good looking enough for the hero and with an American accent!...sheesh! what on earth was Jones thinking?! Not even the powerhouse that is John Cleese can help this dull tale, his portrayal of the evil 'Halfdan the Black' as a soft spoken good mannered pleasant seeming chap (basically Cleese playing Cleese or his Robin Hood character from 'Timebandits'), again just felt rehashed and out of place. There are one or two nice visual moments like the Viking ship going over the edge of the flat Earth and as I said the sea monster (what you see of it), but that's about it. I found the whole thing rather underwhelming frankly despite the solid UK cast and alluringly cool little movie poster. Its pretty unexciting with little to care about and a terrible finale, there are better Python-esque fantasies out there.3.5/10 "},{"Title":"This film may have extra renaissance for Python fans, but casual viewers will most likely feel bemused by this endeavour at satire.","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" American actor Tim Robbins plays young Erik, who comes about the shocking realisation of the few laudable aspects of the Viking lifestyle, and wants to change the image of the Vikings for the better, and sets off on a capricious journey conflated of erratically hit & miss satire, and overblown special effects.There are constant bursts of rapid fire dialogue to be found here, but honestly, lacks any real inspiration or inventiveness to be genuinely humorous, even if there may be the odd chuckle, you just sort of take it in the films loose strides. The production is admittedly quite smart, and the impressive set designs give you something interesting to absorb while one scene unravels itself after the other.Apart from this, only the cast inclusion of veteran Cleese manages to liven up the proceedings somewhat for his, albeit brief, appearance as an evil tyrant, but it's just not enough in order to give the buoyancy to float this leaky ship. "},{"Title":"Mighty slow","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A rather silly attempt at being extremely silly.Not even as fast paced as some of the old gang's other efforts, nor as risible, sorry to say. Even Gilliam's half-baked attempts at directing are more coherent than this one from Terry Jones. However, except for having been made when it was, this film might be a comment on any one of several current governments and world situations. ConsiderCleese as Halfdan the Black is brilliant, as usual, doing the formal, polite, civil, and completely evil official character of which he is the acknowledged master. Just not screamingly funny, I'm afraid. And visualize Terry Jones himself sinking slowly under the water with all his subjects around him, smiling and shouting This isn't happening! Put you in mind of anyone or anything in the news? "},{"Title":"One can definitely see this as a Monty Python movie.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In a movie that could have only come from Monty Python, Erik (Tim Robbins) and his crew set out on a voyage to find Valhalla, encountering many zany situations along the way. Erik the Viking not only makes fun of Viking life, but also of Christianity (well duh; Monty Python did that in The Holy Grail). And they gave the characters some hilarious names! I never would have imagined Mickey Rooney in a movie like this, but he's here as Erik's grandfather. In a way, the whole movie is an excuse for craziness in the same way that Monty Python and the Holy Grail was, but it never gets stale. On the contrary, they keep surprising you with one thing after another. Also starring Eartha Kitt and John Cleese. "},{"Title":"Like an Oreo","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is really a tale of two movies -- the film suffers from a groaningly bad opening half hour which had me tempted to simply turn it off, but having nothing better to do, I stuck with it, and my perseverence was rewarded. The 45 minutes at the heart of the film is often hilarious, and reminiscent of Python at its best. "},{"Title":"100% boring and unfunny","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's amazing to see several ex-Monty Pythoners, a big budget, Vikings and Tim Robbins all conspire to made a long, ponderous and dreadfully dull film. I wanted to like this movie so much but ended up hating it! This is really amazing that the results came off so badly. I mean, how can you make a comedic Viking epic dull and unfunny??!! There is so much possibility for fun and excitement but it all comes to nothing.So what have you got in the movie? Amazing sets that must have cost a fortune, occasionally interesting moments (brief as they were), sterile and uninteresting characters and no sense that any editing or re-writing was done at any point. maybe it was funny to those involved with making it, but audiences were stupefied by it.By the way, one review says this is definitely a Python movie. Don't believe it. Despite the work of SOME ex-Python members, this film seems to have nothing to do with the brilliant show or their films. Don't make the mistake of thinking this film in any way is reminiscent of their work. "}{"Title":"really really bad","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the most annoying film and it's arrival on DVD is a disappointment. A bunch of wanna be Monty Python actors attempt to do Python just doesn't work. The jokes fall flat, the script is clever clever to the point of embarrassing, the effects look cheap but not funny cheap, the plot is bland. It's like everyone tried to make a Python film thinking this is the formula. Neither Cleese nor Jones appearances saves it. Jabberwocky and Time Bandits and Baron von Munchaussen had a lot more going for them. Give this one a big miss-- even if it is now only a couple of dollars to buy---that should be the warning to you. God, I wish I'd heeded that warning. Why didn't I smell a rat when I saw it was only couple of dollars. I need therapy now. "},{"Title":"Poor, poor, poor","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What on earth happened to the rest of the Monty Python's? This is not funny, this is not entertaining, this is not even a B-movie. If you liked the classic Monty Python movies (Life of Brian, Holy Grail), you will hate this one. If you still liked the later, a bit more bizarre ones (Jabberwocky), you will hate this one. And if you like a movie just because it features Terry Jones and John Cleese, well, then you will have the biggest disappointment you can imagine. They do appear, though. But what's missing is a proper plot, a decent soundtrack and production, and any kind of humour that could make you at least smile for one second. This could be a children's story if it wasn't so boring, dull and poor. The pathetic love-story elements are beyond being ridiculous. This is a new dimension of trash, but not an enjoyable one. If you liked anything of what Jones and companions were doing before, do yourself a favour and DON'T watch this movie. Don't say I didn't warn you. "}]