[{"Title":"Mastepiece","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"54 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is a chef d'oeuvre, masterpiece, magnum opus, perfection. The battle scenes are exquisite, the soundtrack is spectacular. Mud & blood, sweat & tears, man & horse, all become one powerful force on the field of Agincourt. Branagh, and the people he surrounds himself with, breathe life into Shakespeare's words. When you watch Branagh, as Henry, deliver the Feast Of St. Crispian's Day speech to his weary band of brothers, you will be swept up in his passion, and find yourself cheering let us fight at your TV screen. Branagh speaks the language of Shakespeare fluidly, naturally. It is the greatest language he knows, and upon entering his world, you too will know the glory of Shakespeare. Non nobis domine, domine Non nobis domine Sed nomini, sed nomini Tu lauda gloriam O for a Muse of fire, that would ascend The brightest heaven of invention! A kingdom for a stage, princes to act, And monarchs to behold the swelling scene! And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by, From this day to the ending of the world, But we in it shall be remember'd; We few, we happy few, we band of brothers; For he to-day that sheds his blood with me Shall be my brotherI love Branagh's Henry V because he incorporated all of Henry V's traits - the roguishly witty Prince Hal, the warmonger, the imperialist, the opportunist, the master rhetorician, the man with a miraculous ability to reason in divinity and to debate in commonwealth affairs and to exhibit military prowess, his piety, his administrative sagacity, political cunning, arrogance, his cruelty, his affability, all in all Branagh masterfully wears all the masks of Prince Hal/Henry V that Shakespeare created.I love Branagh's version because he recreated as much as he could of the play and transformed it into an artistic cinematic presentation (the set designs and that battle sequence at Agincourt and the rich deep hues of burgundy and brown and sumptuous plums) instead of a staged presentation, because he remained true to Shakespeare's ambivalence towards Henry by allowing viewers to be critical of Henry's choices, he preserved most of the dialogue and presented the scenes in order, because of Branagh's unparalleled recitation of Shakespearean dialogue, and because of Patrick Doyle's rapturous, Proustian music which transports listeners to a paradoxical state of paradisial elysium and infernal, torturous pain, evoking times and places and battles and lives long forgotten, a remembrance of things past, a memories forever faded into royal genealogical charts and myths and legends.The play is theatrically limited because the events in the play cannot be adequately represented on stage, which is one reason why Henry V is ironically one of the most theatrically expressive plays to perform - the production crew is forced to transcend theatrical convention in order to faithfully represent the play.Theatre depends on synecdoche, meaning that what is presented on stage only represents part of the whole, and this is because of theatrical restrictions. What we watch is a shadow or illusion of the whole. In Henry V, Shakespeare expected the audience to actively participate in the re-enactment of the events being staged.Shakespeare addresses this throughout the Prologue and Chorus of the play, by constantly apologizing about the inadequate, confining medium being used to portray the spectacle before us.Henry V is the crowning achievement of his Henriad (which spans from Richard II to Richard III) and of the English history play in general, and it is grandiosely resplendent with thousands of men and horses, full-rigged ships, the English fleet leaving Southampton and traversing the English Channel, and the brutal sacking of an entire town whose sacking is explicitly described in the dialogue - the firing of cannons, scaling ladders, town walls that must be physically breached on stage, characters that appear on the walls looking down at the siege, the town reduced to rubble, and the King boaring through the town with a massive army to make an extravagantly celebratory and unchallenged exit through the gates (is there any room on state for a set of gates?) of Harfleur.Thank you Branagh for enriching our imaginations. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Successor After 5 Decades","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"54 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Let's get one thing straight It was Olivier who finally cracked the concrete heads of film producers open and proved that it was possible to put the bard of bards on screen without even an American audience falling asleep after 10 minutes. Sure, after all this time his Henry looks ancient, pretentious and artificial, but so will Blade Runner after 50 years, and still both mark a watershed after which none could be done like anything before. Odd comparisons? Maybe. But fitting.Branagh's Henry finally set a tone worth to succeed the initial awesome blast unleashed by the most powerful actor for generations, and I'm sure Branagh would be the last to deny Olivier's version the place it deserves in British movie history. Times were ripe for another tone - but times before had needed Olivier as much as the following ages will need Branagh.I'm an obsessive fan of both versions - both for entirely different reasons - and both merging perfectly what I love most about Shakespeare's eternal works.Branagh's film is timeless - of this time - without ever being trendy. Olivier's is timeless - as well as of its time - as long as we keep an understanding of its time.Olivier praised the eternal flame, the eternal smell, of Shakesperean theater, as always reaching far beyond the confinds of its subject - beyond the confinds of the wooden circle of 'The Globe'.Branagh went right for the jugular, without ever loosing grip on what makes this play a play beyond its subject, and THE play about that subject.Has anyone considered the vital difference between Branagh's and Olivier's versions? I doubt it. Where Olivier conjured up the intoxicating smell of fresh 15th century glue from the sets rising into the audience's noses, come here straight from the bear fights, whore houses, sermons of zealots and whatever had to flee London's stern moral walls of those times, Branagh cut right to the bone of any hardened 'modern' movie goer.Behold Derek Jacoby's prologue is a piece of speech which will forever haunt, enchant and cover me in goosebumps - firing me up to see what comes as well as see what Olivier as well as Branagh had done with the only play ever to merge humanity's lust as well as dread for the subject of war.Of course, Olivier's version couldn't even dream of matching the intimate intensity of Branagh's. But how could it?Ok, I won't further dwell on it, but for the last time, consider the father to fully understand the son.Now, having shed the overpowering shadows of the past, Derek Jacoby steps into the dark of the expecting stage - striking a match...,Oh, for the muse of fire... ... and off we are, lured into the torrent of the bard's unique and eternal magic.I consider Henry V the best of Branagh's Shakespeare adaptations, even though I wouldn't want to be with any of the others on pain of death. This one's flawless, perfectly cast, perfectly executed and perfectly acted by Branagh himself.From Burbage to Garrick to Keane to Inving to Olivier to Branagh... it is a glorious lineage to follow in love and admiration for the bard of Bard's ambassadors.Schogger13 "},{"Title":"A Kingly Feast for the Eyes and Ears","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Henry V marks Kenneth Branagh's greatest achievement to date. Branagh not only directs this rich and visually stunning film, he stars as the title character. The movie opens with Derek Jacobi (Branagh's Shakespearean mentor) in modern garb passionately delivering the prologue. Then we are taken into the dark, dank rooms of Henry's castle. The king makes his dramatic entrance, complete with a Darth Vader style cape. The entire film is filled with grandeur and pomp, with any faults in the story line being attributable more to Shakespeare himself than Branagh. Henry V as I remember it from my college English class is a decidingly pro-British play (and film). There is little question that France should be conquered, and Henry speaks of his war against France as if it were France that attacked England. Indeed, Henry's famous St. Chrispin's day speech is so rousing, that it has been quoted often and inspired the name of the Band of Brothers miniseries about World War II. This is no surprise, since Shakespeare's prose is famously beautiful.There is definitely a difference in the way that both sides of the conflict are presented. The French, at least in Branagh's movie are presented as arrogant (and somewhat effeminate), while on the side of the English, even children are filled with manly courage. Henry is presented as noble, fair, and merciful. True he threatens the mayor of one French town, telling him that if he does not surrender the town, the English will do terrible things to its residents, but does not carry out his threat. He also hangs the one English soldier who steals from a French church, refusing to show favoritism for him just because he was his friend. Apparently mercy towards your own countrymen was not a virtue that Henry saw particularly important.The films greatest attribute is its soundtrack, particularly the use of music in the scene following the battle of Agincourt in which the warring parties collect their dead for burial.All in all, a fascinating look inside the mind of a king. "},{"Title":"Once seen never forgotten","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film surely must be in the frame for a number of best ever categories - best Shakespeare film adaptation, one of the best ever war films AND one of the best ever performances by a male actor.  It's truly stunning to see how Shakespeare's words, which seemed dull and difficult to understand at school, can be spoken as passages of such depth, beauty and power.  Not one in a thousand actors could do this convincingly - but Kenneth Branagh can. I think this far outshines the Olivier version from 1944 (very good though that was).  Branagh convinces (where Olivier does not always) as he gives a wider range of emotional responses to Henry - self questioning, compassionate, sad at the harsh realities of life.  You can really believe that here is a young man who used to be a playboy now faced with having to grow up and behave as a king of England.  As others have said, he gives such fire and charisma to the battle speeches that you want to march straight into battle yourself!  And importantly, Branagh also convinces utterly in the romantic wooing of the French princess.Naturally enough, the film focuses on the main actor playing Henry, but the supporting actors are also excellent.  Derek Jacobi, particularly, does wonderfully in a difficult role.  If I had to give one very slight caveat however, it would be that Emma Thompson (who I love as an actress), does not quite convince as a native French speaker, though she makes a good try at speaking the language rapidly.  Perhaps Juliette Binoche would have been better here?  But overall the obvious rapport between Branagh and Thompson (who were married at the time) is more important than any slight problems with the accent.The only Shakespeare performance that tops this movie is seeing Branagh give a live performance on stage - I was privileged to see him (with Emma Thompson) perform Much Ado About Nothing in the late 1980s, and that's still the best I've ever seen.  Don't just see this - buy or record a copy.  If you see it once, you will most likely want to see it over and over! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Henry V","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Excellent return to Shakespeare's young King Henry with 28 year old Branagh perfectly filling the shoes Olivier tried so hard to fill 40 plus years before. Branagh, who also directed, brings the film to life with exciting battle scenes, a first rate supporting cast that features the fine Shakespearean veteran Jacobi as the Chorus. Also with Holm, Bannen, the always reliable Brian Blessed and Emma Thompson. The story is better told and moves about at a much better pace than previous Shakespeare films. Branagh started an incredible trend with this film. (Much Ado About Nothing, Hamlet, Othello) He was Oscar nominated as Actor and Director for his work here. The film won for Costuming.  "},{"Title":"ONCE SEEN, NEVER FORGOTTEN","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Branagh's masterpiece is not only the best rendition of Shakespeare ever put on the screen but also a contender as one of the best movies ever made.It is so far superior to Olivier's camp pantomime as to make even the suggestion of comparison laughable.The large section of film from Henry's stirring pre-battle speech at Agincourt followed by the battle itself culminating in his walk across the carnage of the site after his famous victory is film-making of rare quality indeed and the music that accompanies all of this is moving and memorable.Branagh himself makes Henry a likeable,amiable but ultimately brave and determined king and his seduction of the French princess in the closing minutes bring this wonderful work to a satisfying conclusion.This gifted actor/director of the old school has made further Shakespeare movies since this and will undoubtedly make more but HENRY V will most likely be his crowning achievement. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I admit that bringing Shakespeare to the big screen is tough. There are subtleties and nuances - and limitations - about stage productions that cinema simply can't capture. That being said, this is by far the best adaptation of Shakespeare to the big screen of the past fifteen years. The director does an admirable job of making every scene seem plausible - with slight suspension of disbelief - on stage.Kenneth Branagh, while he strikes me as a bit full of himself, is fantastic as the young, vain, ambitious title character, while Paul Scofield, Henry's French counterpart, delivers an equally impressive performance as the king who understands the gravity of Henry's invasion of France.Aside from Shakespeare's obvious bias toward British interests - which have little to do with the big-screen production - this is an amazing film.  "},{"Title":"Tour de Force portrayal of English King's Tour de France","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  As famous as Olivier's Henry V was, it was sorely outdated and as part of a war effort, it was predictably one-dimensional. Branagh's Henry V does more justice to the many facets of Shakespeare's words and reminds us of how good the Bard was at spinning a good yarn.Some of the best English actors take their turn here. Scofield is in his element, playing a distracted French monarch. Ian Holm is an irascible (isn't he always?) Fluellen. Derek Jacobi is a master chorus (you can listen to that voice ALL day). Judi Dench is a soft hearted Nell who's seen better days. Branagh himself puts forward energetic vitality to the lead role. However, it IS rather difficult to look past the very English look Emma Thompson has in her portrayal of a French princess - but that's no fault of hers.8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"The summit (so far) of the art of filming Shakespeare, but...","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" A creatively minded film student once checked out the videos for the Branagh and Olivier versions of this film, arranged a free public showing of the two in sequence, and billed the event as A Comparison of Styles. Great fun. Twenty or so of us spent a whole Sunday afternoon-to-late-evening discussing and arguing the merits and demerits of both versions. I recommend the exercise for other Shakespeare fans and film fans. (Holms vs. Scofield as Lear, Zefferelli's Romeo & Juliet vs. the one with Caprio, etc. Try it; you'll like it). Henry V has been read as English triumphalism so often that this bad-war era version was probably NECESSARY in order to show folks how subtle Shakespeare can be even when he seems to be tooting a patriotic horn! We are shown a very complicated (and very disturbed) king in three fine scenes in particular (1) Henry slouching on his throne as he hears his ecclesiastical minions telling him what he wants to hear and feeding him the long-shot arguments that speciously justify his claim to the throne of France; (2) the subtle demonstration that his French obsession is partly a way of displacing his guilt about abandoning Falstaff; and (3) his maniacal behavior at Harfleur as he rides around waving his sword and making himself a perfect target with his surcoat decorated with the royal arms! Shakespeare makes it impossible to doubt Henry's courage and military genius, but he also appalls us My God, we think, it's nuts like this who still rule the world and cause most of the problems thereof!I have a few bones to pick. Branagh is trying to keep the film from getting too long, and he is sometimes sloppy about what he cuts. Here are a pair of examples (1) The film movingly depicts a French atrocity, namely the killing the youngsters who guarded the English luggage (Directly against the laws of war as the lovable fussy legalist Fluellen puts it). But Shakespeare puts this in perspective by highlighting Henry's equally atrocious violation, when he orders the mass killing of French prisoners. BRANAGH IGNORES THAT, AND LEAVES OUT THE British ATROCITY WHILE INCLUDING THE FRENCH ONE! In the play as Shakespeare wrote it, Fluellen (displaying his unconquerable admiration for the king) has to force himself, in his Alexander the Pig scene, to rationalize Henry's atrocity as a response to the French atrocity which hadn't happened yet. The stickler Fluellen, in other words, is disingenuous with himself as the price of keeping Henry in the right. Ouch! But the ouch would actually have strengthened Branagh's interpretation.(2) Branagh is gorgeous in his handling of the scene where Henry disguises himself as a common soldier in order to hobnob with his men, and loses his cool--throws a tantrum, in fact--while listening to soldier Williams' good and honest anti-war talk. But another sequence, without which the foregoing scene can really not be understood properly, is cut!!!! The scene in question, which isn't in the film, shows Henry revealing himself to the honest (or lippy?) Williams and demanding satisfaction for the latter's supposedly insubordinate and disloyal talk. Williams stands his ground like a man, and tells Henry respectfully but firmly that if he wants to be treated like a king he shouldn't disguise himself as a buck private. The King, thus put in the wrong in front of his officers (and shown the flip side of the thoughts he himself expressed in his Upon the King! soliloquy a few scenes earlier), cuts his losses, tells Fluellen to make up for the deception by giving Williams his (Henry's) glove filled with money, and hurriedly exits. Williams refuses the money along with Fluellen's patronizing b.s., and we are left to contemplate the fact that we have just seen an unpleasantly catty side of Henry. As in the other case, Branagh's cutting of one scene rather makes hash out of the other.There is one scene where Branagh unnecessarily remains in Olivier's shadow. Branagh was quite aware that he couldn't speechify like Olivier (nor could anyone else, actually), and that he would therefore inevitably suffer if he tried to declaim the Once more to the breach Harfleur set piece, he somehow couldn't resist trying, which resulted in the only lame acting in the film. Branagh would have made more sense if he had just allowed the mounted, renzied Henry to shout himself hoarse, almost unheard over the noise of battle, while urging his men to this crazy suicide attack, and to eschew such stagey hamming as we end up seeing here (and nowhere else in the film). Finally, a bow should be made toward the supporting cast (especially Holms, Blessed and Scofield), who are splendid. About Scofield the history books say that Charles VI was subject to migraine headaches and fits of depression, and that due to the absolutist nature of the French state, the whole mechanism of government ground to a halt when the King was suffering in this way. Scofield's brilliant performance shows that there is no such thing as a minor role.I don't know what one of the IMDb reviewers means by the complaint that Emma Thompson as Princess Katherine looks too English. She's great in her Le foutre et le con scene. "},{"Title":"They're wearing the right clothes!","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When this film came to my town, I had never heard of Kenneth Branagh (or indeed several others in the cast whom I have now come to respect immensely); however, I went with high hopes. From the first scenes on, I found my optimism rewarded. I was impressed with the acting, the staging, and everything else. But something kept nagging at me. It wasn't until Mountjoy (the French herald) entered Henry's throne room that I realized what was impressing me so much. THEY WERE WEARING THE RIGHT CLOTHES FOR 1415! That kind of attention to detail shows throughout, and makes what would otherwise be an exceptional effort even more superlative. Also, while I am a great fan of Laurence Olivier, I still feel that in this performance Branagh IS Henry. A truly masterful effort!  "}{"Title":"Tis a triumph at evr'y turn Shakespeare and Branagh Move Thy Heart and Makest Ye Wishth that One Had English Blood Pure of Nobilitie","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" According to William Shakespeare, on the morn of the Battle of Agincourt (1415), one of the final military confrontations during the 100-Years War between France and England, the English troops exhibit hesitancy and consternation toward this monumental of tasks at hand. They have been engaged in a long campaign on French soil having just trekked several hundred miles toward Calais to return to England. Kenneth Branagh as King Henry V suddenly appears among his soldiers and speaks the words that inspire his noble brethren. Here is but an excerptThis day is called the Feast of Crispian He that outlives this day, and comes safe home, Will stand a tip-toe when the day is named, And rouse him at the name of Crispian. He that shall live this day, and see old age, Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours, And say 'To-morrow is Saint Crispian' Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars. And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.' Old men forget yet all shall be forgot, But he'll remember with advantages What feats he did that day then shall our names. These are words that would make any man fight for his brethren. (Act IV, Scene 3)No one knows exactly when William Shakespeare wrote Henry V (aka The Cronicle History of Henry fift, The Life of Henry Fift) except that it was probably penned sometime between the late 1580's and 1590's. Aside from the historical liberties that permeate much of the drama, such as the king's executing anyone who would steal from local French communities (in reality Henry V's troops plundered much of the French countryside during their campaign), Henry V stands as one of Shakespeare's most moving and inspirational achievements. Certainly, the play is very much biased toward the English. While the English are colorful, emotional, and determined, the French are portrayed as conniving and dispassionate, except for the princess Kate. Shakespeare was not intending to teach a lesson in medieval history but rather arouse patriotism among his fellow countrymen. (Is it possible Henry V was written during the time of England's battle against the Spanish Armada in 1588?) Kenneth Branagh has taken Shakespeare's overly patriotic play and forged a piece that combines the stunning visuals of Hollywood film-making with the high-culture of William Shakespeare into a movie of stunning magnitude that seems nearly incomparable, with the possible exception of Zeffirlli's Romeo and Juliet. Hollywood films of this type have often been lopsided with great visuals but mediocre scripts. However, in this case, there is no better screenwriter than William Shakespeare. Added to the mix is an outstanding cast of Shakespearian actors who navigate through Shakespeare's blank verse as easily as if they were speaking modern dialogue instead of late 16th-century English. They speak the lines as if they are spontaneously being uttered rather than being remembered from a 400-year-old play. And to give a little bit of spice to the experience, Branagh incorporates a few flashback scenes from Shakespeare's Henry IV in which Prince Hal (not yet Henry V) commiserates with a band of drunkard cronies lead by none-other than one of Shakespeare's most popular characters, Sir John Falstaff.This play, this noble play, which hast action, adventure and high arte, would be a fine and noble way to show those of young years the arte of Shakespeare. Seest thou this filme, this fine filme. And if thou seest not this filme, I will sadly be forced to come into thy companie and take ye to the theatre, tie ye up to a chair, and make ye watch these actors fine. Aye, ye willst later thank me, for never was there a moment dull. "},{"Title":"Branagh's reworking of the RSC production","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh played Henry V at the RSC in 1984, with Adrian Noble directing. Clearly this was a watershed in his life as some of the ideas from that production transferred into his own film, five years later.Branagh is a mud-spattered, ordinary Joe, a king who like nothing more than the blood and sweat of battle. No heroic 'St Crispian's Day' a la Olivier here. Taking Henry out of the confines of the play within a play (which tended to stagnate the 1944 film) was a good move.This is definitely the best Shakespeare film to involve Branagh, standing head and shoulders above this bloated Hamlet, the crass Love's Labour's Lost, the trite Much Ado. In his cast are Derek Jacobi (a memorable Chorus), Emma Thompson (disappointing as the future Queen), Richard Briers (excellent as Bardolph), Ian Holm (reliable as Fluellen), and (inspired casting) Michael Williams as Williams.A clever Henry V, then, with costumes for the period, but a relevance to the times. We might not engage in close combat any more, but this Henry gives a sense of the futility of war, not just its glories. "},{"Title":"Powerful ode to St. Crispian's Day 'We few, we happy few'...","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" While not much of an historical expert on Henry V and not having even personally read Shakespeare's play, I presume this film, from its appearance, to be quite a stellar adaptation. Battle movies, whether Shakespearean based or not, are not normally my favorite genre though this tale seems very well executed. I found the actual battle scenes quite long and graphic with plenty of mud, sweat, blood, and tears, even though it was doubtless exactly thus at Agincourt in 1415. The scene where the surviving soldiers from each side collect their dead from the battlefield for burial is a vivid depiction of the tragedy of war.This Shakespearean play made for all time, whether accurately or not, a noble and just hero out of the historical figure Henry V (just as Shakespeare firmly established Richard III as a villain). From my amateur perspective, Kenneth Branagh gives a brilliant performance in all facets of the king's action, whether back in England dealing with political / military issues following an insult by the King of France, eventually at the end wooing the French princess (daughter of said French king), and most especially rallying his weary, demoralized troops at Agincourt.Of course the English victory at the bloody Battle of Agincourt, despite superior numbers of French forces, is legendary. Henry's rallying St. Crispian's Day speech prior to the battle is, from my standpoint, a fitting example of Shakespeare's genius. I can still picture 'We few, we happy few, we band of brothers...', delivered by Branagh with such eloquence and intensity. The scene in which Henry refuses to spare his friend, who has been caught stealing from the French church, is also dramatic and shows the king's efforts, undoubtedly painful to him, to remain impartial when disciplining his troops. This soldier was in fact Falstaff, whom I recall vividly as 'Prince Hal's' (later Henry V's) friend from the earlier play, Henry IV, Part I, which I DID read in school, so found the incident particularly touching.However, for me the scenes of Henry hobnobbing incognito with his troops before the battle, his own conflicted emotions about his military decisions, and the subsequent rousing St. Crispian's speech are indeed the definite highlights in this memorable adaptation. "},{"Title":"Great performances by all the actors","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The unique think about this film is that there aren't any weak performance amongst any of the actors, however small their role.One actor I feels merits a mention is Christopher Ravenscroft for his portrayal of the French Herald, Mountjoy.  He plays a key part in this ply as the only character who meets both English and French leaders until after the battle.His shock and awe in the tennis balls scene when her realises that Henry isn't a silly young man is terrific.Great film. I've got on video and watch two or three times a year. My teenage sons were gripped by it. This is the way to introduce teenagers to Shakespeare.Catherine "},{"Title":"Great for those that like or don't like Shakespeare! Great Supporting Cast As Well!","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Great for someone that does or doesn't like the Bard. As it is a film with drama, angst, action, a little romance, a little humor. All in between. Kenneth Branagh was nearly 27 or 28-years old when this came out. As he was not known as he is now. Playing the lead role and directing, writing the film as well.Henry V is about never giving up, and to fight together as a band of brothers, as it is mentioned in the movie/novel.With a huge task of the small English Army, fighting against a huge and gigantic French one. But Henry is not afraid to take on a huge task and will not suffer defeat. As he rallies his men to do the same. Despite the odds are against them. Branagh is great in the lead role. But has help from an elite cast of classical British actors and actresses. That back him up. As also future stars and Oscar winners, along the way.Brian Blessed as Exeter, the strong man and faithful sidekick to Henry; Ian Holm as the Welsh Captain Fuellen, loyal and adds a bit of humor; Dame Judi Dench as the Mistress Quickly, whom shines in the few minutes she has in the movie. And who would go onto playing M as well as having an Oscar. But makes them worthwhile. A young teenage, Christian Bale, as Falstaff's boy and who's death strikes a nerve with Henry. You never knew, you would looking at the future American Psycho and Batman star. Paul Scofield as a weary French king. Geraldine McEwen, an aide who helps out the French princess with her English among, other things. A then unknown Emma Thompson, who plays the French princess who would be an Oscar winner and outshone her then husband Branagh's career.But it is Derek Jacobi, a mentor of Branagh's as well as the I Claudius star. As the Chorus who is in a black trenchcoat, with modern clothes and boots. And shows up like, nobody recognizes him. But his presence sets the tone. As well as a voice you can hear all the time, every time it seems.Even if you may not understand the language of thee, thous, etc. Still, this is one movie you can't miss. It is about standing up for what you believe in. Best Shakespeare film of all time IMHO! Nothing even comes so close to it. "},{"Title":"Fierce and watchable interpretation of the historical drama","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Of all Shakespeare's famous history plays about the intrigues, scheming and war-mongering that infest the ruling classes of his native land, only two are continuously revived on stage or screen as stand-alone productions. One of these is Richard III, and the other is Henry V. The latter gets a superlative treatment here from Shakespeare maestro Kenneth Branagh, in his first treatment of the Bard for the silver screen.Henry V (Branagh) must consolidate his claim to the throne against those who do not see him fully fit to be a monarch and may plan his downfall. To this end, he invades France but is faced with with heavy opposition and betrayal in his quest...Even in 1989 Branagh was already established as a major talent capable of drawing a lot of big names to work with him on his projects. This is very much the case with this production, with Derek Jacobi making a delightful, really involved Chorus plus Judi Dench as Mistress Quickly and Philip Schofield as the King of France.He makes interesting use of flashbacks to illuminate Henry's character, notably in his friendship with and eventual rejection of Falstaff (played here by Robbie Coltrane). That said, he doesn't go far enough with it. He could have used this technique in Act IV, when Henry meditates on the responsibilities of kingship and the guilt inherited by his father on usurping Richard II. Some flashbacks about the latter event would have helped enormously here. As Henry, Branagh plays him as a considerate monarch only fully roused in the heat of battle and delivers all his speeches with ferocity and gusto. As Katherine, Henry's trophy on defeating the French forces, Emma Thompson is pretty but sadly, vapid and there is no real chemistry in the concluding courtship scene.The location shooting is highly effective and although the battle scenes are not gory or too violent, you do get a realistic sense of the muddy, rain-drenched atmosphere of it all.Definitely worth looking at, especially as Branagh seems to have abandoned his Shakespeare screen adaptations for now. "},{"Title":"Near perfect interpretation, performance and staging","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" There is barely a weak link anywhere in this Shakespearean masterpiece. Branagh is stunning as the English king who fights the Battle of Agincourt against the French. The scene where Henry walks among his men the night before battle to gage their mood is Branagh at his finest.The St. Crispin's Day speech to rally those same troops the next morning is delivered with the correct pace and vigor. Many interpretations of this pivotal character-revealing speech take a poignant, We who are about to die gallantly approach. But Branagh rightly takes a rousing stance, dealing with massive obstacles offhandedly. The most remembered lines in the play are spoken as an aside. That the king stayed up all night speaking to his troops incognito and pondering their fears, then casually dismisses them with a wave of his hand allows the army to share his disdain. It's a ruggedly masculine act of bravado that seems immediate, yet is highly structured, showing the steady prepared courage of a king who doesn't lightly risk his men and takes the political aspect of his role as seriously as the military.The battle scene is wonderful, just the right blend of chaos, mud, blood and agonized cries of the wounded. There are subtle gestures typical of Branagh - watch for the French liaison's tip of the hat to Henry during their final encounter. Much better than the flawed Hamlet Branagh produced later, this epic piece is just right - good Shakespeare faithful to the book, good cinematography, good acting, and a great lead performance.Roman Polanski is said to have told Jack Nicholson on the set of Chinatown that in order to execute the shooting script in a reasonable running time, he had to talk faster. I wonder if Roman was on the set of Henry V, or every filming of Shakespreare for that matter. Why is it that directors almost always confuse high emotion with rapid speech? In real life it leads to confusion, inability to rapidly choose what to say, slowing of intensely charged vocalization. Perhaps Branagh needed to bring Henry in under a time constraint, but the rapid speech and repartee makes one wonder if the characters think about what they're saying. But they don't need to, do they? The words have been on paper for hundreds of years, and we've all learned them in school. "},{"Title":"If Ever There Was a Compelling Script to Wage a 'Just' War...","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Branagh's screen adaptation of the Bard's play, 'Henry V' is it. Well, almost given that the those ne're-do-wellers, the French geniuses behind crafting the Salic Laws, really handed the English Normans a royal gift as a precursor for war with the continent.And like the good the lad that he was, neither Branagh nor King Harry, just like his progenitor, Edward the Black Prince of Wales could pass the golden opportunity. Now, we're off to see the continent and France following the hell-bent King as he literally blazes a trail across the genteel landscape of his lesser cousins- the Franks.Without question, Branagh as director follows the Bard's script and lead, word by word. The speech of the entire cast sounded just like those same characters when I first encountered and read the play. The dialog is nothing short of magnificent, even edifying.However, in the lead role, Branagh leaves, well, something to be desired- namely his appearance. At times he looks his (real) age but acts as if he were a commoner, even a juvenile one at that. For certain even his kingly garb, replete with the royal coat of arms cannot conceal the impression that Branagh as Henry is merely a shadow of the real historical figure. In my opinion, Sean Bean or Liam Neeson are better 'suited' and would have filled out Harry's broad shoulders, and supposed granite chin, with ease.The entire cast members are all excellent, especially Brian Blessed in his portrayal of the Duke of Exeter, Christopher Ravenscroft as Mountjoy, who as the voice of the Frank cause, gives the besieged smug Aquitaines some element of respectability. And of course there's further cause to celebrate once you've heard the stately voice and viewed the kingly presence of Paul Scofield as King Charles VI of France.Now, I will expound the best parts and portrayals.Beginning behind the scenes and amidst the sets and props, the actual film with Derek Jacobi to lead the way, is nothing short of electrifying. As narrator, his refined voice and equally finely sculpted demeanor, provide the viewer with just the right exhortation, which by mine own account would have also compelled me to thrust open those dark, heavy oak laden doors to hear and witness first hand, the forlorn King and his squires make their case for war (though, dubious)with their tennis ball laden, first cousins!The best scene, is enacted at the staging ground for the hastily contrived and planned invasion- Southampton. It is here, surrounded by the sparkling white cliffs of Dover, that we/I catch a glimpse of the cold-hearted, evil treachery brought on by the open fisted French nobles, much laden with cold coins as fitting recompense for the willing collaborators though they still feigned, quite convincingly their loyalty to the English crown. Once unmasked by Henry by way of a drunkard's loose mouthed still carousing but damning speech, the three noble traitors, do not by their actions (swords drawn) invoke my sympathy for mercy. Neither do their looks of shock and disgust assuage Henry's ire nor stay his hand from execution.Then it's off to the windy gallows, for the would be usurpers and over the channel waters for the rag-tag expeditionary force of this would be 'band of brothers',though the commoner brigades led by Pistol, do not quite share the same enthusiasm and blood thirst, that their inglorious leader shows evidenced by his many facial grimaces, as he sets sail for Calais, and his soul already set on razing Harfleur to ground ashes. The King's sole regretWas his Frank adventure sufficient catharsis to ban from memory forever, the fact that he threw his pub buddy, portly but ever so affable Jack Falstaff (while he was still Prince Hal) under the proverbial English bus for no stately, even kingly ransom?I thought it was. As did Harry, given his many speeches especially before the battle at Agincourt, and the one on the Feast of St. Krispin.Doggone it... I'm, er, Harry the King was glad that he could at last escape for just little while, even if it was in France with or without the claret of renown.By the way, I viewed this fine film, for the 20th occasion. Still, I discover even more reason to laud it, though over an occasional fault line, or fawlty siege tower.If, the movie site allowed such generosity, I easily would have voted 20 stars- one for each of the featured, main characters. Even those liberties would still leave it well short of its darn near cinematic perfection. And that's over and above the Bard's actual play. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Olivier's","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I prefer Olivier's interpretation of the role.  Branagh is very showy actor but his primary method of registering emotional variation is via the volume of his voice.  There is a key point in the play when Henry's troops appear vulnerable and his allies begin to desert him that Henry expresses self-doubt.  Branagh simply gets louder.While Olivier's interpretation is bit romantic and his clipped English Boarding School accent has nothing to do with Shakespeare he at least possesses the technical facility to explore the subtleties of important scenes. "},{"Title":"The best of The Bard","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" 'Henry V' is not my favorite of Shakespeare's plays, but it is my favorite film adaptation of a Shakespeare play. Henry's may not have been the noblest of causes, but you'd be hard pressed to feel it anything but righteous thanks to his stirring battlefield speeches and the clear-eyed moral certitude of Branagh's tour de force performance. The supporting cast is first rate, led by an Oscar-worth performance by Ian Holm, and Patrick Doyle delivers the first of his many wonderful scores.If you have a teen who you'd like to introduce to The Bard, this is a perfect gateway. "}{"Title":"Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh and Laurence Olivier are two men that have often been compared to one another. Both are Shakespearian actors with a love for The Bard and both made their directional debut with an adaptation of Henry V.In 1413 Henry V (Branagh) has ascended to the English throne. Worried that the King may take property from the Church The Bishop of Ely (Alec McCowen) and The Archbishop of Canterbury (Charles Kay) convince Henry V to claim the throne of France and go to war with their rival. The English storm through France, but with disease, fatigue and horrible weather Henry attempts to bring the army back to England, leading to the Battle of Agincourt.Branagh's version of Henry V has often been compared to Olivier version, for good reason. Olivier takes a more stylised approach, his art direction was routed in Medieval Art and his film started as a play and slowly become more realistic. Branagh takes a more realistic approach, setting his film in castles, halls and muddy fields and he uses darker, more natural lighting as places are lit by candles. The 1944 film was made as to be a pro-war film to help morale the British public, whilst Branagh takes a much more anti-war view, showing the horrors and hardships of Medieval war.Branagh gave a terrific performance as Henry V, someone with intensity behind him and quiet determination whilst still being able to deliver a speech. There is pain and doubt on his face as he sees the war at first hand, the death and destruction and even doubts about his mission. This is particularly the case during his monologue of self-doubt. Branagh is surrounded by talented actors, all giving excellent performances; the most surprising being Brian Blessed who is much calmer to his usual larger-than-life persona.Branagh's direction has a Kubrickian edge to it, sharing camera angles and movements and a visual look, having similar lighting and sets. There are many moments where Branagh he allows a long take when more are debating or monologuing and zones in very slowly. There is a gorgeous four minute tracking shot showing the aftermath of the battle whilst a Latin song is playing in the background.It was clear that the production was limited on the scope of the numbers of people it could, shooting very closely to mask this. But an advantage was that it show that the Battle of Agincourt was a very close, tough battle it really was as it was fought on a muddy, wet, narrow field. The 1989 version got the tactics right but the costumes wrong and the 1944 got the costumes right but the battle wrong.The 1989 Henry V is a great adaptation of one of Shakespeare's most quotable plays. It is a great realisation of the play and one of Branagh's best films. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh's Henry V","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Henry V (1989) was adapted for the screen and directed by Kenneth Branagh. And, naturally enough, Branagh stars as Henry V.This is an excellent version of Shakespeare's most famous history play. Branagh is an extremely talented Shakespearean actor, and, as a director, he was given the financing he needed to make a film with superb production values. (The film won an Oscar for best costume design.)Branagh's Henry V--unlike Sir Laurence Olivier's--is less about patriotism and more about leadership. Every monarchy fares better with a capable king, and Shakespeare wanted us to know that Henry V, after a misspent youth, had become a capable king. Henry's leadership is demonstrated by his prowess in the war against France. The play is about the great English victory at Agincourt. However, unlike Olivier's Agincourt, this battle is portrayed as a bloody, muddy mess. Surely, this is the more historically accurate version. The charming scene when Henry woos Princess Katherine de Valois (his wife Emma Thompson) comes off pretty well. Thompson was 30 at the time, so she didn't try to play the role as a blushing ingenue. She's a real princess, who realizes that she will have to marry Henry in any event, but who maintains her dignity by making him work for her consent.Olivier dropped any scenes in which Henry might appear cruel, but Branagh keeps them in. Naturally, the hanging of Bardolph isn't shown onstage in a theater. But Branagh the movie director shows it to us in graphic detail. Henry agonizes as he watches the execution, but he lets it go forward.Branagh is astute enough to know that audiences love to see stars in cameo roles. We get Derek Jacobi as Chorus, Ian Holm as Captain Fluellen, Christian Bale as Robin, Judi Dench as Mistress Quickly, and Paul Scofield as King Charles VI of France. Obviously, they can all master these roles without even trying, and they do.We saw this movie on a classroom-sized large screen. It would work better in a theater. Something will be lost if you see it on DVD. However, if you love a great story, great acting, and great directing, you owe it to yourself to see this film. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Gritty, interesting, not the same old stuffy Shakespeare","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a gritty film adaption of Shakespeare play of the English King Henry V (Kenneth Branagh) and his battles in France. Director Kenneth Branagh has in one film re-energized Shakespeare as more than stuffy old plays.I'm not a Shakespearian scholar. So this is just a review from a lay person. Most of it is understandable which is quite important. More importantly, almost all of it is quite passionate and compelling. The most rip roaring is the iconic St. Crispin's Day speech. The other interesting thing is the introduction of Kenneth Branagh as a great British director. In many ways, this signals something new. "},{"Title":"A kingdom for a stage...","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kenneth Bragnagh's Henry V is Shakespeare done right. It is both highly original and yet very faithful to the spirit of the original text. It has a grand appreciation for the language and is acted beautifully. Bragnagh's film is beautiful and gritty. A highly original look at Shakespeare's history.Henry is a unique play. I for one love the character. In many senses he is the main character of Shakespeare's history. Bragnagh gives in many ways the best performance in a Shakespeare film. The characters are dynamic and open to interpretation and Bragnagh's interpretation is by far the most intriguing I've seen on film. Bragnagh realizes Henry is young, naive, and doesn't have a taste of the world. He takes this youthful rashness and shows it for all the faults that it plagues Henry with. Henry V is about the making of a king and a man. Henry spent his life in youthful bliss and his involvement in the Hundred Years War is his test into manhood. Bragnagh's character is fully fleshed out and goes through a satisfying change over the course of the play. A change unconventional to the traditional performances of Henry V and yet faithful to Shakespeare's text.Henry V has been used for war propaganda and yet Bragnagh's Henry is so blatantly anti-war. It's brilliant in this scope and strengthens Henry as a character and the story as a whole. The battlefields of Henry are filthy. drenched in mud besides for the red of blood. The end of the battle of Agincourt is so satisfying that I don't think I've seen a finer Shakespeare scene brought to film. Henry bloodied, bruised, and beaten is in tears realizing his own power and how his ambition his killed his fellow countrymen. Bragnagh is broken and in tears and I was captivated. In truth what has Henry gained? Nothing but destruction. The realization here makes the idea of a truce all the more powerful. Henry finally becomes a man worthy to lead. These changes to Henry as he matures are brilliantly portrayed by Bragnagh. I love when Bragnagh marches through the camp disguised as a solider. The text is of course beautiful but the non verbal acting is even stronger there.What really interests me about Henry is what Bragnagh doesn't show (I.E the events of Henry IV Part 2) The flashback to Falstaff is so brilliant that I craved to see the entire thing fleshed out. It makes the events of this film all the more poignant even though the scene is short. Henry came a long way from there and in Bragnagh's brilliant realization he finally becomes a man. "},{"Title":"Incredible Cinema...","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Wonderful achievement in cinema is Henry V.Just imagine the play of Shakespeare comes to life in front of our eyes with the same dialogs used in the play itself.This is truly a great achievement.The might of the theater comes to us,presented to us in no other better way.Kenneth Branagh,wow what a vision he has.I can't even believe he himself directed this & acted as Henry V himself.His greatest role of his career.Such is his presence that in every scene he adds something new.The motivational speeches that he gives are truly motivating & could encourage anyone to go for battle with fierce force.His speech before the end fight is just so good that it surpasses even Braveheart motivational speech.Henry's fear comes alive as his bloody conquest just destroys many.He cries in few scenes & that brings cinema alive.I still can't get forget his last speech.The way he says We few,we happy few.Truly emotionally moving.Henry V,most people wont understand due to the use of Shakesperean language & too fast vocabulary usage.But try to feel the movie with a vision of a king.Kenneth Branagh brings to us an incredible cinema. "},{"Title":"not just a great Shakespeare adaptation, a great war movie too","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is such a rousing and dramatically charged picture for any director, but for a first-timer it's something else. Henry V announces its director's passion and masterful ability with his cast and in creating a style that is brutal and poetic like only a handful of others from the past 20 years. Tarantino might be one of them, or Aronofsky, but with Branaugh his appeal is that of using the language and music to be found in film language in order to keep Shakespeare strong. There may be one or two scenes to have to focus on if you're not prepared for the Bard's rapid-fire turns of phrases or delicate touches within a single sentence (or, for that matter, if you haven't simply read the play or even seen Olivier's version as I hadn't), but in general this *is* Shakespeare for an audience that would normally not go much near it.It isn't entirely as mainstream as say Lurhmann's Romeo + Juliet, but maybe it doesn't need to be all the way. Branaugh already has enough scenes here that make it as a true-blue war picture, complete with a sensational battle sequence, that all he needs is his who's who of British stage actors it aims at its particular audience- those who can't get enough of wonderful actors expounding and emoting full throttle or in thought provoking contemplation- like a shotgun at the moon. Paul Scoffield, Judi Dench, Ian Holm, Emma Thompson, Christian Bale, they all make up great big chunks of the production as their own, even, as with Dench, for only so few minutes. They're also shot by Branaugh as director and his crew in a totally unglamorous manner; this is to Shakespeare what Braveheart is to kilts, it's gritty and full of pain and a drive for glory just in technical tone alone.Granted, the picture may be most recommendable to those who are Shakespeare lovers and want to see something brought to the screen with faithfulness and a sense of interesting direction. Fair enough, since it's probably true. But for anyone just looking for a piece of historical dramatization it works some minor wonders not every scene stands out as a masterpiece, but many do, and it's one of the best of 1989. "},{"Title":"Proud Dream of Magnificence and Greatness on Screen","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Since viewers' expectations usually raise earlier, various adaptations face a specific challenge whether acceptance will be gained widespread. That situation takes place universally when the source is by such great playwrights as William Shakespeare. Since it appears to be truly hard to combine distant history and specifically dated script with the requirements of modern entertainment, lots of filmmakers tend to ignore the one or to distort the other. As a result, such opinions on various Shakepeare productions may arise as too sophisticated, too long or too freely adapted. Yet, fortunately, there are exceptions, pearls in the sea of commonness. This rarity appears to be HENRY V by Kenneth Branagh where Shakespeare's genius still moves, captivates and overwhelms us to the very core of humble but powerful admiration. Let me first consider the content and the way it is executed.The events that took place on the memorable St Crispin's Day in 1415 are portrayed with a skillful flair for clarity, accurateness and necessary respect. Exquisite sets and costumes as well as a very realistic though not outrageously violent depiction of the battle lead the viewer into the world of yore. The Chorus/Narrator (Derek Jacobi) highlights the events providing a powerful harmony of logical storyline. At the same time, being pursuant to what Shakespeare aimed at, the director gives us a profound insight into the characters. That development appears to reach its climax in a memorable scene of the night before the Battle of Agincourt. Soldiers' fears, king's reflections on greatness and royalty in decisions as well as the terrific atmosphere and unforgettable musical score leave a lasting effect on the viewer. The English are put in contrast with the French who get impatient for the dawn and desirous victory over the enemy. The content, therefore, including the key scenes of St Crispin's miraculous events, is executed in a powerful and convincing manner.Another aspect of the movie that needs to be considered in more details are the performances from all of the cast. In the very spirit of the captivating question what Shakespeare adaptation would the movie be without flawless acting? all of the cast do splendid jobs. Kenneth Branagh portrays Henry's kingly power with the contradiction of human weaknesses. He is clearly a sort of king who perfectly knows his subjects. Ian Holm is a very accurate Fluellen, a noble man whose significant point of trust in king is his virtue. Brian Blessed is excellent as Exeter, an indefatigable warrior, a faithful servant of the king and an amazed winner. The French side including unforgettable Paul Scofield as the French king, Michael Maloney as proud Dauphin, Emma Thompson as subtle Kate with Geraldine McEwan as Alice, her amusing handmaiden and teacher of English, are all worth highest attention. These truly magnificent performances make HENRY V deserve the name Shakespeare on screen. Finally, what makes the movie a must see is the exceptional respect for the viewers. It is noticeable that great pains were taken to make this movie the best possible. That effort to make the film positively entertaining for movie buffs (not only Shakespeare buffs), including cinematography, flawless shots, memorable musical score, clear content and, foremost, excellent wit impresses even the heaviest critics. Therefore, while I personally was watching the movie, I had an undeniable awareness that I was seeing something of an extraordinary work. As far as humor is concerned, who can possibly skip the hilarious scene near the end when Henry flirts with Kate? He is not to be an uplifting poet or an idealizing flatterer but the noble king and the brave but not very gentle soldier...Summing it up, I dare say that HENRY V is thoroughly a proud dream of magnificence and greatness on screen, a dream that is fulfilled. Perhaps, it is not immediately noticeable at the beginning, but you realize that as you go on watching the movie. Just like the chorus song that begins with one voice of gratitude and ends with a majestic hymn of many voices, this film begins with a single feeling of curiosity, perhaps, and ends with impressive bunch of upright emotions. In my fair mind, I honestly give this production a name of Masterwork! 10/10 "},{"Title":"...for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom, the gentler gamester is the soonest winner.","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I went to see this back in 1989 based on the rave reviews it received. I must admit when I first saw Derek Jacobi in modern dress during the opening scene, I wasn't quite sure what to expect. But the film soon took off and it was absolutely outstanding film-making. I later saw parts of Olivier's version, but I much preferred Brannagh's version.Brannagh's performance as the boy-King is outstanding. The cast is first-rate as well the unparalleled Paul Scofield, Ian Holm, Brian Blessed, Derek Jacobi, Judy Dench and Robby Coltraine as the ill-fated Falstaff. Brannagh's St. Crispian Day speech is extremely motivating--I would have fought that day too!! Although this is Brannagh's film, you can see the homage to Orson Welles Welles' Chimes at Midnight also had a mud-covered battlefield. Speaking of Welles' film, the most striking scene is King Henry's rejection of Falstaff during the coronation (I know thee not old man). The hurt on Welles' face, without a word spoken, was truly great acting.It's interesting how rattled the French are when this play is resurrected, and I can see why! The French outnumbered the Brits by 51, and got slaughtered! This is a great film and Brannagh should have stopped there (Welles was told by another director to stop after Citizen Kane). His performances since Henry V have been too over-the-top. "},{"Title":"A tale of two generations","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The high degree of artistry displayed in the acting, direction and mounting of Branagh's film have been well covered. What strikes me most, as one who saw the Olivier film at the time of its premiere and who has viewed it several times since, is the contrast between the two depictions of the Battle of Agincourt. Olivier produced Henry V with the full cooperation of the British government, receiving permission to film in Technicolor, (which during he 1940s was used mostly for musicals), and, even in wartime, use of British soldiers for the battle scenes. The rationale was, that the film would serve to boost morale, as the victory of the British over the dubious territorial claim of the French substituted for the war against Germany. One of my most vivid memories from that era is the shot of the long bows, the British secret weapon and the earliest long-range weaponry, arching into the air, causing death and confusion in the French ranks. The long bows are there in the Branagh film, but they are much less sophisticated in appearance, and are not presented as being decisive. In this film there is much more emphasis upon the man-to-man combat, even by the king himself, who ends up covered with blood, which I don't recall having seen on Olivier. This makes the battle seem much more desperate, and less noble than in the earlier film. If I were to compare the two, I would say that the war in the latter had a stronger resemblance to the John Wayne war dramas in which the Americans win a clear and decisive victory. Here we have a picture of war closer to that in Private Ryan. The message Over the years war has lost much of the glamor associated with many (not all) Hollywood productions, for those who have seen newsreels from Vietnam and Iraq. "},{"Title":"O, what a fiery muse....","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I rented (and loved) Branagh's Hamlet, so I placed an order for his Henry V on DVD from Futureshop.ca (only $C 15 and free shipping!). I decided that I would read the whole Richard II-Henry IV, I & II-Henry V quartet before watching the film, but it was shipped so fast that I only had time to read Richard II before it arrived. So I put off reading the middle two, and read the final play, then watched the film today.In a word magnificent. Perhaps even better than his Hamlet, if only for its relative brevity. The two films share much of the same cast (Branagh himself, Michael Maloney, Brian Blessed, Derek Jacobi, Judi Dench, Richard Briers, etc.) Also present is Branagh's (now ex-) wife Emma Thompson, as the French princess (the theatrical trailer on the DVD really plays up her part in the film).It's too bad that Branagh didn't win the Best Actor Oscar for this production, because his delivery of the St. Crispin's Day speech alone is worth it.If I have one complaint, it's that the Battle of Agincourt itself shows clear signs of the film's budgetary restraints, although it's still quite good, especially considering the budget. With a bit more money, it could have been Braveheart-scale. It contains a number of very powerful images, though, such as the death of the Duke of York at the hands of about six French soldiers.I give this masterpiece a 10/10. "}{"Title":"One of the very best films of a Shakespearean play","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films.  After the St. Crispian's Day speech, I would have followed Kenneth Branagh anywhere.  His charisma and charm are palpable.  The Battle of Agincourt relays the filth, struggle, and lack of glory of war.  Branagh, as director, understands Shakespeare's use of contrasting scenes to comment on characters and their motivations, especially Henry's; as a result, he too uses editing to relate similar ideas.  Although many film experts prefer the 1945 Olivier version of the play (released in the US in 1946), I find it too much a piece of propaganda, too pretty, and a bit dated in its acting.  Certainly, Branagh's version has an innate visceral effect missing from Olivier's. "},{"Title":"An incredibly fantastic film","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Brannagh's adaption of Shakespeare's Henry V is wonderful.  Having seen Laurence Olivier's version many times before, I was ill prepared for an equally great movie that differed from his adaption to the play.  A great film and an even greater battle sequence. "},{"Title":"The best film Kenneth Branagh ever did.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  He succeeded in bringing Shakespeare back to life. A wonderful movie. Kenneth Branagh is acting as if someone just pulled him out of the Globe. The best Shakespeare movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Wonderful adaptation of Shakespeare's play","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Henry V is based on the Shakespeare play of the same name. It is about Henry's battle in Harfleur and Agincourt as well as the immediate aftermath, namely Henry marrying Katherine of France. Shakespeare took some creative licensee when writing his play, and Kenneth Branagh stuck to Shakespeare's original work the best he could, and didn't leave anything out of the original script.The characters in Kenneth Branagh's version of Henry V are very believable, especially Kenneth Branagh's portrayal as King Henry V. The performances of the actors as the big name English characters were so good they made me feel something for them. When Henry found the boy dead, I felt sorry for him and his loss. When Henry rejects Falstaff, I felt something for Falstaff because of how well the actor portrayed him.The list goes on and on in terms of what emotions were going on when different things happened to different characters. I also didn't feel sorry for any of the French people for getting killed because they odds were stacked heavily in their favour and they weren't shown in much of a positive light.The actors fit their roles very well. The best actor of the bunch is Kenneth Branagh, and there is a slew of other good actors to go along with him. Kenneth Branagh made the character of Henry V come to life and be more than just words on pages. His supporting cast helps bring the play to life even more so because of how well the actors portrayed their characters. The character of Pistol was done to near perfection and the actors playing the Frenchmen brought life to their characters.The film isn't just a tour de force but a solid film about a historical event. It does have a sense of art about it, but that's because all films are art. It expresses a vision about a historic battle, albeit from only the English side, and stayed true to the source.Kenneth Branagh brought some of his directorial flavour to the film. He orchestrated an engaging battle scene about the Battle of Agincourt, and he used the film medium well. The best scene of the film is when Henry V (Kenneth Branagh) is carrying Boy (Christian Bale) through the battle field after the fighting stopped. The music accompanying the scene and the long take make it wonderful to behold.The themes of the film are both obvious and subtle. Without prior knowledge, someone watching might not realize why the church people are encouraging Henry V to go to war, but with prior knowledge that they wanted to keep their lands safe, it makes sense. After it's been established that Henry V wants to invade France, it's easy to follow and know what's going on. The Chorus helps the audience understand the plot by explaining what is going on with the characters.The setting is both England and France and both are depicted rather well. The cinematography for both locals is great and adds to the flavour of the film. The way each country is shown is amazing and really well done. The wonderful cinematography adds to the realism and makes me want to visit the locales depicted in the film.Kenneth Branagh's filming style was to use still cameras for most shots and occasional panning shots. This is very effective because it lets the viewer know what's going on and the action is depicted very well. The angles used to show different soldiers being killed was masterfully done and deserves an amount of praise. We never actually see anyone get impaled with an arrow, but Branagh effectively showed us people impaled by such in such a way that it didn't matter we didn't see the arrow actually find its place in someone's flesh.The soundtrack for this film fits it very well, especially the song sung over Henry V walking across the battlefield at Agincourt carrying the boy. The rest of the soundtrack fits the mood of the scenes they accompany very well. It's not light music, which is a good thing because of the style of writing it follows, and it's not too depressing, either.The camera angles are good, but nothing too special. Kenneth Branagh made sure to show what he needed to in each scene, but the camera angles were mostly flat. The focus of the shots was good, though, and he used close ups extremely well. I'm a bit of a sucker for close ups, especially the really close ones, so that plays into it somewhat, but they have to be good close ups for me to love them.There isn't really gratuitous violence and there's no sexual content. The battle scene could have been bloodier, but the way it was shot is still sublime. The violence and gore wasn't over the top and extreme but fit the story very well because there was an important battle fought between the English and French, and it was the focal point of the play and film.All in all, this film is very well crafted from pretty much every stand point. The ending is a bit long, but that's my only gripe towards it. It's a very good film with superb acting and direction by Kenneth Branagh. I would like to see more of his Shakespeare films because of how well he handled this one. "},{"Title":"Delivered with class, passion and meaning that makes up for the limits of budget and a bit of a tv feel","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" With tensions between England and the arrogant French pushed to breaking point, King Henry the Fifth sets out with his armies to conquer and quell the French in their native land. The film builds up to the historic battle of Agincourt with the troops and the king camping together and making progress across the land, with the French armies preparing for battle as King Henry and his men go from battle to camp to battle on the way to right the wrong of offence caused to England by France.When I saw the slightly more famous version of this story from Lawrence Olivier I must admit that I liked it but struggled with simply it was delivered and how the focus was flag-waving. With Branagh's version I was amused by the fact that I got a lot more from it even though it was clearly made with a lot fewer resources to hand. The downside of this is that the film does not have the majesty and the sweep of the dialogue and scenes tend to be smaller and reliant on darkness. At times the cinematography looks drab and does seem like it belongs on the television rather than the cinema but, credit where it is due, the Agincourt battle is impressive regardless of the restrains on it.Where the film is better than Olivier's is in the delivery of the language and the direction of the material. Branagh brings out so much more of interest in the material than just national pride. He brings more of the story with the sense of pride countered with the horror of war, the reality of the lower classes and such. The only things I thought he should have dropped were both scenes that involved Katherine, the first was a bit out of step with his vision of the rest of the story, while the final scene makes for a weaker ending than should have been.The cast aids him greatly in bringing this approach out to its potential. Branagh himself leads the cast well and gets better as the film goes on and putting as much effort into the smaller moments as he does into the famous scenes. I thought Jacobi was excellent and really sold his narration and made the device of a modern chorus work well. The cast is deep in talent in every area, from characters with big parts to those with only a few moments on screen. Holm, Sessions, Blessed, Coltrane, Scofield, McEwan, Briers, Dench and others are all excellent and a young Christian Bale is good in a minor role.Overall then, this may not be considered to be better than Olivier's version but to me it is, thanks to the greater interest it shows in the material. The cast respond well to this and the delivery is with a passion and meaning that makes up for the limits of budget and a bit of a tv feel. "},{"Title":"Goosebumps = St Crispen's Day (Crispian's to some of you)","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Good quality simple story telling Easy to watch, easy to understand, (just what the original playwright intended...) And by far the best St Crispen's day speech I have ever had the fortune to see/hear (its worth renting the DVD just to hear this speech - the 'Once more into the breech' speech didn't do anything for me) Proof that Shakespeare can be just as an enthralling blockbuster today as it was when it was first performed Also Proof that you don't need a mega-budget to make a fantastic film (including the fantastic battle scene that was apparently filmed on a playing field) (The endings a bit naff, but who cares!) Many thanks to the (well-known) airline that provide a huge archive of old films for in-flight entertainment By far the best film I have ever see Kenneth Branagh in Go see it and ENJOY!!! "},{"Title":"A great movie and great Shakespeare","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" First an interesting re-interp of the Battle of Agincourt--it appears fairly certain that the fabled Welsh longbowmen may not have been the decisive factor in this French massacre that Shakes and historians have thought--at least, not their archery. Tests have shown that their clouds of arrows very likely wouldn't have penetrated the steel armor of the French nobility. BUT. The arrows would have brought down their chargers, already slowed by the spongy ground of Agincourt (lots of rain, poor drainage) and the archers themselves, lighter and more agile than the fallen encumbered knights, could then have dispatched the helpless chivalry of France fairly easily. Anyway, the picture is a miracle of compression, with a few exceptions I had to go back and re-read the play to discover what Branagh left out. It's also interesting to compare with the Olivier original in terms of what was left in specifically the traitors, the scene where Henry begs God not to hold his father's usurpation of the throne and the murder of Richard II against him not tonight of all nights! and the epilogue recounting the eventual futility of all this valor and death. No patriotic paean here, but a tough and even cynical version. I also appreciated the interpolations from Henry IV since the likelihood of a modern audience having read the prequel (let alone the play itself) is not great, and it's important to get at least a glimpse of Hal's wilder days. Branagh's Henry looks so much like James Cagney it's eerie--a tough little guy in a tough big world (note how small he looks framed in the great doorway at the beginning). And I can readily believe this Henry when he begs Katherine not to hold his looks against him because his father was thinking of wars and revolts when he begat him. Hearing these lines from handsome Larry Olivier sounded like very false modesty. The supporting cast is stellar. Robert Stephens' Pistol is possibly the finest Shakespearian performance ever on the screen. The rest of the commoners are up to him, especially (Dame) Judy Dench, who wrung my heart with her description of Falstaff's death. Robbie Coltrane's Falstaff too is magnificent in his horrified But my lord, we have heard the chimes at midnight when Henry rejects him. The line is far more effective here than in Henry IV part 2 where it's delivered casually to Robert Shallow, a minor character. Full props to Branagh for going the Bard one better! And notice Chris Bales as the Boy--anyone see Batman in his future? (Sir) Ian Holm's Fluellen is perfect, especially in light of his murderous android from Alien and Bilbo Baggins. And I particularly like Micheal Williams as his namesake--the moment after the battle where Henry gives him back his gauge is priceless. The movie was criticized on release as being pro-war. Given its blood, toil, tears, and sweat and unending mud and rain, I don't see how anyone could come to that conclusion. I'faith, 'tis not Shakes for the faint-hearted. "},{"Title":"The day is yours","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh made his trio of Shakespearian masterpieces with three films- Hamlet, Much Ado about Nothing and this- his first film, Henry V. For a first time directer, and this being his third film that he ever performed, Branagh certainly did a brilliant job. With a cast which would leave the jaw of any theatre buff laying on the ground- Derek Jacobi, Judi Dench, Ian Holm, Paul Schofield, Emma Thompson, and of course Branagh himself. This is not to be missed. Shakespeare was of course intended for the stage, but film allows his plays to be taken to a completely new level. Unlike Olivier's film, Branagh was not asked by Churchill to make a pro-War film to conjure up patriotism.Branagh's Henry V is full of condradictions- a most complicated character which was really the beginning of MacBeth and the aftermath of Richard 3rd. Many of the soliliquies and speeches removed from Olivier's version have been put back in to make a more complete film. This includes the famous St Crispin's Day speech, which established rousing speeches before battles. For those who thought Braveheart was the beginning of it all. It also includes Henry's soliliquy the night before the St Crispin's battle. The films soundtrack by Patrick Doyle, also making his first attempt at film, elevates the action to a new level. And of course one should not forget that the film contains as Branagh called it 'the worlds longest tracking shot'. An almost 5 minute tracking shot which slowly reveals the aftermath of a battle, aided by the lone Patrick Doyle singing Nos Nobis Domine. There is no question of the comment Branagh was making on War.The moment of the film which makes it truly brilliant is Branagh's reaction when the French messenger tells him. The day is yours. "},{"Title":"We now have two superb films essentially made from the same script","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I cannot review either this version of Shakespeare's play, or the earlier version by Olivier, without cross referencing the other. We have two alternative versions filmed from the same script (a play written by William Shakespeare) and both are superb.  Movie enthusiasts are very fortunate to have two such outstanding films of this play available for home viewing. They are of such a high standard, but so different, that there is little point in claiming one or the other is the better work - this must be regarded as a matter of individual taste, even though the magnificent score William Walton wrote for the earlier version, is far superior. I recently submitted user comments for Olivier's version indicating why I feel it was a more significant film, and I am now doing the same for this version, however in this case my comments will relate more to historical accuracy, an area where each film is superior in certain respects.First let us recognise that most people's knowledge of history used to be based on factually accurate books, often supplemented by historical novels which gave a better sense of the atmosphere and flavour of the period concerned but pay much less attention to historical accuracy. Today however such books are much less widely read, and for many people movies have tended to replace books of both types. This makes it extremely important that the movies concerned indicate clearly when they are based strictly on facts as currently known, and when they are primarily works of fiction based on some historical character. A Shakespearean play comes into the latter category - I suspect that Shakespeare always felt free to take some licence with historical facts in the interests of dramatic impact, but in addition to this it was necessary for him to retain the goodwill of the establishment if he was to be left to continue his writing and acting career unimpeded. Christopher Marlow's story makes the need for this very clear. We can probably assume that most of his plays based on then recent English history had to be submitted for approval before they were performed; and in the case of Richard III, the very harsh characterisation of the hunchback king is generally recognised to have been ordered by the establishment for the purpose of strengthening the Tudor monarchy - many historians today believe that Richard had an altogether different character to that portrayed in the play, and that for example the princes in the tower were actually murdered by the order of Henry VII after Richard's death. In the play Henry V Shakespeare creates an idealised hero king whose story was designed to stir feelings of national unity at a time of bitter religious divisions, and when the threat from Spain made such unity very important. A film of this play has to accept that this was one of its objectives which will need to be featured in the production, in other respects it should be as historically accurate as possible.	In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries the strength of an army was often judged by its heavy cavalry. A charge by a large formation of Knights in armour mounted on heavy destrier horses, also fitted with heavy armour, represented a lot of momentum which took a great deal of stopping in the field. Most infantry were impressed feudal subjects, with little training or field experience, easily swept away in such a charge. But under experienced leaders, well disciplined infantry closely massed and armed with long pikes proved in both Flanders (Courtrai 1302) and Scotland (Falkirk, Bannockburn) that they could bring repeated charges by armoured knights to a standstill. The pikes killed the horses and led to the riders being thrown to the ground where they could be killed. Eventually after many such charges, dead horses and riders built up a barrier that protected the infantry formation from further attacks. This never happened when, as was so often the case, all the experienced leaders fought as cavalry. Instead such infantry quickly panic once their mounted cavalry have been  brought to a halt in battle. At Agincourt the real battle winning combatants were the English long bowmen who were vastly more effective that the crossbowmen used by most other armies. For example a century earlier in the battle of Falkland the Scottish schilltrons of pikemen brought the English armour to a standstill but were later scattered by the English archers, whereas at Bannockburn the Scottish cavalry was able to scatter the English bowmen and Scotland won the victory against very great odds. At Agincourt these bowmen, aided by an extremely muddy battlefield that bogged the French horses down, were primarily responsible for the English victory. Each archer carried two sheaves of arrows (48), capable of wounding the best armed knights or killing their mounts, and could discharge ten of them every minute. Several hundred thousand arrows were fired in battles such as Agincourt and a significant proportion probably found their target.Branagh's film features very extended battle scenes largely comprising hand to hand combat. It's objective is to display the horror and degradation associated with such combat. However in extended close combat the casualties among the two armies would have been much more comparable. The very low English casualties indicate clearly that the longbowmen, together with the muddy battlefield, halted not only the French cavalry but also the subsequent attack by heavily armed infantrymen before most of the latter were able to engage their opponents at close quarters; and that once this had been done the battle was virtually over. Whilst Branagh's recreation of the hand to hand fighting was vastly more realistic, Olivier's film give a much clearer impression of the vital role played by Henry's archers and is primarily why, from a historical point of view, I prefer his version (even though it shows the English army after the battle looking little more dishevelled than they would be after a parade.)  "},{"Title":"Better than Braveheart","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"       A truly unique adaption, Branagh excellently edits the dull elements from the play and leaves us with a truly astounding version of Shakespeare's most Nationalistic play.     Ironically, not a great deal happens in the film Henry invades France, Henry conquers Harfleur, Henry wins a glorious victory at Agincourt. There is a good deal of background to the story, as it is a direct sequel to Henry IV ii, and Branagh tackles this problem by including scenes from Henry IV with Falstaff and others.       One has to commend Branagh's own performance as Henry, who as a character is just so much more interesting than Mel Gibson's one dimensional William Wallace in Braveheart. The speeches at Harfleur and Agincourt are more rousing than in any other film I have ever seen, and to compare George W. Bush to Henry V is just an insult to the English nation, as there is nothing at all heroic about draft-dodging George. Overall, the best adaption of Shakespeare's histories. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Where's a muse of fire when you need one?","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Derek Jacobi's wonderfully proud, winking Chorus and Patrick Doyle's interesting (but barely) score are the sole redeeming features of this early Kenneth Branagh misfire. A gritty (in a BBC sense of the word) take on Shakespeare's mostly tedious historical play, Henry V gives far too much power to one man in the worst way that Branagh repeated so often to such bewildering acclaim. He not only directs and, rather pretentiously, adapts for the screen the words of the Bard, but also plays the title character. And sadly, he is by far no Olivier. The man has talent, to be sure, but it either wasn't here yet or it had fled temporarily when he took up this triple task. The only flat, unraised spirit here is Branagh himself, who essays a monotonous monarch with all the emotional depth of Keanu Reeves after an all-nighter. He even fumbles his one good instinct as a filmmaker flashing back to Henry IV is an excellent way to provide backstory for people who aren't too familiar with the soap opera nature of some of Shakespeare's histories (which is primarily important here for the character of Falstaff), but the technique doesn't mesh with the rest of the picture. And why keep the Chorus? He's a purely theatrical device. He's there to tell us we have to imagine that we're in France or Southampton-- a necessity of the theater, in which all you can see is a stage and what's on it, but somewhat disconcerting in a film because the entire point of a film is to show us someplace we normally wouldn't see. Did he keep the Chorus to make his job, as a director, of sustaining our illusion that much easier? Whatever the motives (and no disrespect to the vibrant Jacobi), it was not the right decision. It's a boring, slow-to-evolve adaptation of a terrible, impossible-to-read play. (I am a fan of ol' Will, but his history plays are some of the most tedious dramas ever to plague the page.) If you're a fan of the kind of epic battle scenes of films as diverse as Platoon and Gladiator, you'll definitely enjoy that aspect of the movie. Action-wise, it has its moments. But after a while, you just want Branagh to stick to doing one thing. Unfortunately, he's too self-indulgent to get that idea into his head. "},{"Title":"Very good, but not the best","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branaugh is truly in his element in this film.  He does a great job of being brash with a Devil May Care attitude  throughout the film.  His delivery of the Angicourt speech is probably the best battle speech I have seen in any movie, it just makes you want to run out and kill french.  The battle itself is a letdown I think, its too chaotic with random slow motion silence that takes away from it.  Also, you can tell that there aren't that many people involved.  In comparision, the Lawrence Olivier version has a much more grand and lively battle, and surpasses this film in most aspects except for the big speech.  Watch the Olivier version, but see this one soon after. "},{"Title":"No Sparkle","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Henry V announces that the Shakespeare play cannot be done justice in the restrictive space of theatre. Yet, for all Shakespeare's literary brilliance and the fine acting, Henry V feels like a nomadic and underwhelming experience.The story is linear and this is in stark contrast to the complex but deeply meaningful language of the play. Although the acting is of the highest quality the straightforwardness is rather cumbersome. The introduction of Chorus played by Derek Jacobi certainly serves a necessary purpose of providing immediacy to proceedings. The introduction of the four characters Bardolph, Nym, Pistol and Flagstaff just didn't fit at all in the scheme of the film it felt rather strangely and obtrusive. I understood they knew Henry V but couldn't understand their relationship, it was vastly under-explored. Most of the characters are tipped very lightly in characterisation and their deaths do not nurture a single regret.The cinematography is the films greatest strength providing the necessary atmosphere but I felt the direction, suffered a lack of emotional structure and set bearings. This is where Henry V suffered as a film, the battles are staged in rather closely shot environs, not wishing to expand the destruction and death of warfare. The fine speeches and acting is severely hampered by not providing the audience with sufficient stimuli that a film can only provide. Henry V goes on his journey to Agincourt, and indeed to his famous victory with a tiny consortium of people that is not grand or epic but rather non-sensical, how did they win the battle of Agincourt? Henry V provides the necessary thespian talent but it is ravaged by its lack of coherency and piece-meal offerings of epicness. The film is too straightforward and suffers greatly from its almost nomadic sense of pushing to the end, leaving the cinematography to make up for the lack of extras, landscapes and grandeur. Henry V although admirable in some ways does not enrich the vistas of our imagination as it had so offered to do so at its beginnings. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I like Kenneth Branagh, and I love Shakespeare, but it hurt me to watch this movie. And I'm not even sure if I can pin down why. Oh wait, yes... yes I can. Part of it was the acting, almost no one putting in a worthy performance (Branagh himself much too flat for me to think he was once a misguided prince and is now a noble king) -- though I have to admit I loved the actor who played the chorus. He was really good. I disliked too how Branagh turned all the scenes which were intended to be funny into serious ones notably those involving the scoundrels and especially those with Falstaff. The flashback scenes were a too-blatant attempt for our pity. Subtlety might have helped.But my favourite part -- and by favourite I mean the part I hated most -- was the laughable battle scenes between French and English. The neverending volleys of English arrows that sounded like jet planes passing overhead and due to remarkable marksmanship always singled out French soldiers, despite their proximity to Henry's troops.And the final act was a love scene?Okay. I'm done.  "},{"Title":"The Master","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The gritty adaption of William Shakespeare's play about the English King's bloody conquest of France.Why is Kenneth Branagh so amazing? He has single-handedly brought classic literature to the screen in its best form. He does Shakespeare (again and again) flawlessly, and even offered a strong interpretation of Frankenstein. For those in the United Kingdom, he should be seen as a national treasure.Henry V is probably not among Shakespeare's best known works. Yes, it has been put on screen a few times and has been performed on stage countless times more. But how many know the basic plot as well as we know Hamlet or MacBeth? Branagh gives us a reason to care about this historic figure that seems all-but-forgotten. That, and he cast a young Christian Bale, so that is pretty cool. "},{"Title":"Powerful and Gritty Adaptation...","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm one of those illiterate hacks who hasn't read a single Shakespeare play till the end. It's because in my country we have our own bard and Shakespeare's plays were glanced at best. The film itself was brilliant at times and dull at others. It works as individuals scenes perfectly but fails at being compelling narrative due many scenes that felt pointless to me.The reason why enjoyed the most of Henry V was Kenneth Branagh. His brilliant performance carried the film for me and any scene with him was a joy to watch. It's really hard to comment on the acting. The cast is brilliant from top to bottom, my favorite being Brian Gordon's Alive! Blessed and Ian Holm.The direction by Kenneth Branagh is worth mentioning. He clearly made Henry V as an anti-war film and it works perfectly. The aftermath of the battle is very powerful, thanks to the direction and magnificent score. But sadly, it's not without problems.The most glaring problem to me, was the pacing. Nearly every single flashback scene stopped the film to a screeching halt. And then there is the silly ending. While I did enjoy the chemistry between Emma Thompson and Kenneth Branagh, it slightly ruined the dark tone the aftermath of the battle had set. In other words, they should have cut some of the scenes out for a better flow of the narrative.Henry V is a good Shakespeare adaptation. I loved the performances by the cast and some of the brilliant set pieces of the film. But as a whole it's just watchable. If you like Shakespeare's plays this is a must see but for anyone else it's hard to recommend. Especially if your English isn't very good. "},{"Title":"Henry V","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The greatest adaptation of a Shakespearean play to the screen, Henry V, adapted by, directed by, and starring Kenneth Branagh, bridges the gap between faithful reproduction and innovative representation in an extremely exciting, most cinematic way. Branagh has certainly done his homework, and we are the benefactors of his erudition. For the most part, he has reduced Shakespeare's text to those elements which are not only screen-worthy, but the meanings of which ride easily on tone, gesture, and action, so that Shakespeare's poetic, though metaphorically dense language presents little obstacle to the understanding of the modern ear. Remaining&#x97;and out of place for such a successful transition between mediums&#x97;are unnecessary lines delivered by the Chorus (played by a fiery Derek Jacobi), which beg us to pardon the meagerness of the presentation and beseech us to use our imaginations to fill in the resulting holes. Famous lines to those familiar with the stage, but strangely redundant from within the context of a film of such high production value, grandness, and beauty&#x97;with a visual and aural realization that rises to match the quality of the bard's text. On the side of embellishment, Branagh interweaves lines, characters, and scenes from parts of Henry IV, through clever flashbacks. The purpose of this device is to summon Hal's past relationships with old friends who are now his subjects, and to elucidate the duality of Hal/Henry; for Hal was not always king, and in his younger days, he caroused with commoners, drunkards, liars, and even thieves. The effectiveness of this device varies the hanging of Bardolph draws additional emotional impact from it, but, in spite of it and several fine, heartfelt performances, the reminiscing after Falstaff's death falls flat, since we, unlike the audience of Shakespeare's time, have not come to know and love this Sir John Falstaff through Parts 1 and 2 of Henry IV and other works. Now the betrayal of Falstaff by Hal, though moderately effective in the use of this same device, is one of the most interesting scenes in the film, as it employs a flash forward within a flashback, in which we hear Hal think what he will eventually say to Falstaff, and Falstaff responds to his disavowal. Hal's transformation into Henry V is really the heart of Shakespeare's story, as it requires him to sever connections to his wilder days in order to lead his countrymen in worldly pursuits. Branagh's handling of it is quite remarkable. Branagh's own acting performance as the title character is smart and passionate, commanding and stirring. It does suffer slightly from that same ailment that afflicts other zealous students of Shakespeare he knows his lines so well that they, at times, lose their spontaneity and/or authenticity. That penetrating knowledge, which detracts slightly from his performance, overcompensates as an asset to his bold, definitive adaptation and assured direction. Additional assets are an unforgettably powerful score by Patrick Doyle and a solid surrounding cast, which includes Paul Scofield (as King Charles VI of France), Brian Blessed, Ian Holm, Judi Dench, Emma Thompson, and a young Christian Bale. Most notable among the supporting players are Robert Stephens as Auncient Pistol and Christopher Ravenscroft, who, as Montjoy, turns a messenger part into a key role through his earnest, telling reactions to both Henry and the French Dauphin. "},{"Title":"A Little Touch Of Kenny In The Bard","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kenneth Brannagh directs and stars in this, my favourite of Shakespeare's plays.Despite the usual British hobbling of an evidently limited budget, Brannagh accomplishes the cinematic equivalent of the miracle of 5 loaves. He makes an excellent Royal presence and delivers most of his lines with great conviction. Just occasionally does he seem to lose his persona in the complexity of Shakespearian dialogue, and then his speech becomes a little indistinct.A wealth of other British stalwarts help him carry the play forward with panache. The bursting-with-zeal Brian Blessed is just made for any extrovert role with a medieval take, and my personal favourite, Paul Schofield, gives a steadfast and thoughtful presentation for the French.Apart from the occasional slurring of lines, the play is impoverished by a lack of good location work. It might be corny but I would have liked to see genuine medieval fortification, shot at some distance to give a greater sense of depth to the drama. I found the constant intimacy of the camera-work rather claustrophobic, and longed for some perspective to offer relief. At times it seemed like little more than an extravagant stage-play.Others have already mentioned the cock-up in the archery department, when the British don't discharge their arrows until both sides have engaged. Obviously; they'd be shooting their comrades in the back.However, there are nice, sensitive interludes, too, and incidental music that very well suites the mood. The calm before the storm and the warring speech are very well realised.For fans of British acting, high drama, and, of course, Shakespeare; it's a very worthy piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Henry V","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Apparently many compared this directorial debut film to the debut of Lord Sir Laurence Olivier's version, 45 years earlier, but it is a good William Shakespeare adaption. BAFTA winning (and nominated), and twice Oscar nominated actor-director Kenneth Branagh (also made screenplay) as Henry V is insulted by the King of France, and he decides to lead an army into Battle with France. Along the way he has to deal with sinking morale with all the troops, and his own inner doubt. The war climaxes at the great bloody Battle of Agincourt. With a great British cast, Sir Derek Jacobi as Chorus, Brian Blessed as Exeter, Sir Ian Holm as Captain Fluellen, Paul Scofield as French King Charles VI, Emma Thompson as French Katherine (I think her scenes were necessary), Marple's Geraldine McEwan as Alice, young Christian Bale as Falstaff's Boy, Richard Briers as Bardolph, Robbie Coltrane as Sir John Falstaff and Dame Judi Dench as Mistress Quickly. I admit I did trail off with some of the dialogue before the battle, but you have to remember it is Shakespeare, the battle however is the crucial part. It won the Oscar for Best Costume Design, and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Production Design and Best Sound. Very good! "},{"Title":"History repeats itself...","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" A former partying, priveliged, carousing, jobless, irresponsible, ex-alcoholic son of a former ruler comes into his own and leads his nation to war over a tough, determined enemy and onto victory.... BUT ENOUGH ABOUT GEORGE W. BUSH!!!! This picture tells a great story, and brings the Bard's tale to life in a fantastic way... Kenny Branagh's best work to-date. The battle scenes and ambitious dialogue are the real power behind this carefully woven and crafted tale. It is always extremely difficult to both act and direct. But Branagh pulls it off magnificently here. Shakespeare on the big screen can get a little messy, although some scholars admit this is the medium Shakespeare would've wanted, i beg to differ. However, this film goes a loooong way in proving me wrong. "}{"Title":"great adaptation of a problematic play","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Henry V is the sort of Shakespeare play that makes modern scholars cringe; it's so obviously a flag-waving, pro-war, stick-it-to-the-French story of motiveless conquest, right?  Or is it?  Shakespeare takes pains to bring out the flaws in Henry's character, and the early scenes make it pretty clear that his claim to France is a stretch.  Still, Henry V is often interpreted as a piece of propaganda, and if you stick to that reading you'll probably be annoyed by this very faithful film.  The St. Crispin's day speech is still supposed to rally the audience, even if we're not entirely on board with what Henry is doing.  Will cynical, post-Vietnam audiences cheer along with the troops or shake their heads in dismay?    Putting these Really Big Issues aside, there's no denying that this is a masterful film.  Great acting from all concerned, especially Jacobi (very cool as a chorus in modern dress) and Scofeld (always a top actor).  The battle scene is quite exciting, with copious quantities of flying mud and arrows thudding into the earth.  Branaugh's major embellishment to the original play - a long tracking shot of the battlefield, accompanied by Patrick Doyle's lovely music - really hammers home the horrors of battle, and takes the edge off the film's otherwise gung-ho attitude to war.This is about the best that you can do with Henry V these days; a problematic play has somehow been transformed into a movie that everyone likes, despite iffy politics.  An impressive achievement.  "},{"Title":"George Dubya?","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I hadn't heard that Dubya's being compared with Henry.  Odd, but that's what you expect from Americans...For the Brits out there, consider that this was the last Prince Harry to hang around in pubs getting drunk in public.  Didn't turn out so badly...As to the film, it's a superb film adaptation, picking the best bits to cut out and with one of the best battle scenes ever made.  Watch the film.  And read the play as well, but if possible do it in that order. "},{"Title":"Emotional, brilliant, talented actors","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had to see this just last year when I was 14 for English class...and I thought it was brilliant. Despite how old it was, it still stirred up emotions and there were particular pieces where I wanted to cry, scream or yell.It was terrifically produced and everybody filled their roles very nicely. Kenneth Branagh has a particular talent for Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"Timely even now.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  First had to read this play for a class I was taking in college then read the movie. Branagh did things with the story I had not even imagined. While some have questioned some of his other films, he does a very good job with this one. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Then again, he had some very good material to work with.Funny how many have been using the character of Prince Hal/King Henry as a way of describing GW Bush. As I say in my title, the story is as timely as it ever was.Great quote to go along with the timeliness We would not seek a battle as we are, yet, as we are, we say we would not shun it. "},{"Title":"quatrology","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What a great quatrology Richard II Henry IV pts I, II Henry VNow about the movie.  Not that bad.  Branaugh is not a great Shakespearean actor, imo, sadly.  He's ok in this role though, and he excels in Much Ado too.  The seams have come undone for him more recently, such as on Hamlet.His Henry V is suitably dry.  The early parts of the drama are my favorite. You get a clear sense of the internal politics which preceed his invasion of France.  You also get a clear sense of the turmoil brought to the land.Some of the fine English (Shakespeare's language) gets lost.  The most notable speech in it, the one about the tennis balls being knocked back about the Dauphin's ears, wasn't as scintillating as I would have hoped. It came and went without much fanfare.I think this film would have done well to borrow a little bit from the visual treatment given to Elizabeth, particuarly the radiance of the crown when it's on Henry V's head.  He is splenderous and a redemption to himself and to England.  If it were me, I'd have this movie shine more.  But, the choice to go with a plain approach has its merits too. "},{"Title":"Branagh's finest.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'll start by saying I'm a fan of Branagh and probably a bit biased, but I think without a doubt that Henry V is a masterpiece as well as his best work.  This was Branagh before Hollywood casting and CGI screens and big budgets--and it was perfect.  The flawless casting is without a single weak performance, and has special standouts in Derek Jacobi, Paul Scofield, Brian Blessed, and even Christopher Ravenscroft in a small part as the French herald.  Branagh moves a sometimes tedious text along at an impressive pace, never becoming boring, and the evocation of medieval warfare is beautiful and realistic.  And Branagh's own performance as the king is beyond compare. At times sad, tired, angry, inspired, fierce, and charming, the role of Henry shows Branagh's astounding range and skill in naturalistically delivering Shakespeare's lines.  I never get tired of watching this film, and it has become one of my favorites of all time.  "},{"Title":"Once more into the breach dear friends, once more","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This rendition of Henry V is quite probably the most complete war movie, which should be labelled as a health risk to viewers!  I've never felt my heart swell with emotion to the extent it does here then after watching any other film.  Branagh is Henry, and I think moviegoers who miss this one should definitely hold their manhoods cheap.  Keep swords and horses away - suppressing the urge to leap off into battle may be hard for some.  In spite of this, Henry V really doesn't glorify war at all.  The impact of this film is the underlying humanity of all the characters - in victory, defeat, love and honour.  This one will never slip from my personal top 10. "},{"Title":"Changed the way I looked at Shakespeare","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When this movie was first released, I was living in Memphis, Tennessee, not exactly the most cine-literate city in the world, and it was only showing at one theatre in town- luckily, it was right next door to where I worked. I decided to see the late show one night after work, and was so totally blown away that I saw it every night for the next four days, in one case even getting off work early to catch it. As the first directorial outing for Kenneth Branagh, it must surely rank among the most impressive directorial debuts in history. I don't feel that I'd be overstating my point to say that not since Orson Welles' Citizen Kane was a directorial debut so impressive. From Derek Jacobi's brilliant opening soliloquy as The Chorus to the climactic battle sequence and the following sequence of King Henry's surveying of the carnage on the battlefield, this is a film that never lags, owing to Branagh's willingness to excise certain sequences that don't translate well to film- a move that Olivier was unwilling to make for his production of Henry V back in the 40's. This film totally altered the way I thought of Shakespeare- I went from looking at a Shakespearean work as being full of literary merit, but of dubious entertainment value. However, after this film, and followed soon after by Hamlet with Mel Gibson and Prospero's Books with Sir John Gielgud, I came to realize the full entertainment value of Shakespearean story, long before the recent Shakespeare explosion brought on by the Romeo and Juliet music video with Leonardo DeCaprio.  "},{"Title":"Its impact on the viewer is one that defines cinema","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The climactic pre-battle speech Kenneth Branagh gives in the movie made my blood boil as my arm instinctively reached for a sword (which fortunately wasn't there). The way Branagh delivers his lines (amongst his troops - his band of brothers) reveals the genius that he pours into the movie. Branagh's Shakespeare makes any other war speech (such as Mel Gibson's Braveheart) bland and entirely uninspiring. The film makes the historic battle's outcome entirely believable.The other moving speech King Henry gives is to the French princess, and his future queen, Katherine (played by Emma Thompson). It's a breathtaking scene in which the King somehow overcomes the language barrier and woos the lady with his humility. (The king's eloquence and charm, in spite of his admitted limitations, made me fiercely jealous.)Another noteworthy aspect is the choice Branagh makes as director to use Derek Jakobi as the Chorus that introduces the viewer to the story, walks them through it, and at the end closes the door on the story.The film (though not aided by computer generated images or extended, gory battle sequences) is simply a work of art. The film actually takes the modern-day audience where they are and immerses them in the world of Shakespeare. It is a union of stage and screen. It is the archetype of a quality adaptation.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The best screen adaption of this play. Branagh is the true warrior king. Everything from Jacoby's chorus to Blessed's knight is great. A fantastic cast. "}{"Title":"A perfectly put together film","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is so perfectly put together that I regret that I did not win the Oscar for Best Picture in 1989.  This is one of the most celebrated plays of William Shakespeare put on the silver screen by Kenneth Branagh.  From its screen play to acting, music to custom, everything is so perfect.  I personally feel that if you put one more thing in the film, it would be superfluous; and if you take one thing away from the film, it would be incomplete.  I personally have watch this film over 20 times and every time I see it, the film just comes out and grab me.  This is certainly my favorite movie of all times.  Go see it.  -) "},{"Title":"Shakespeare Balanced. Beautiful. Brilliant.","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Branagh made a perfect movie here he achieved the balance of a rich movie environment without losing the vitality of the play, a true characterization of both the individuals but, more important, the situations the characters find themselves in, and the glory of the subtext present in all Shakespeare.His Hamlet is good, very good. But this little movie is his Shakespeare at its peak. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the greater adaptations off of a Shakespearean play","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kenneth Brannagh's 1989 release of Henry V is definitely one of the greater adaptations off of a Shakespearean play. What really makes this film such a success is the big production that Brannagh had when he filmed this picture. Even though the Chorus reminds the viewer that the movie is just a mere imitation, I felt like I was looking at what it was like during the early 1400s. The costumes look very real, in fact, at the 1990 Academy Awards, the film won an Oscar for Best Costume Design. The production design and sets also add a sense of authenticity to the time period. The lighting in this film is unique, for it is generally low-key, giving both a literal and a figurative sense of darkness. This no doubt helped make the movie feel all the more dramatic and intense. The actors are perfect in their roles, whether it be the insignificant or the larger-than-life characters. One actor worth noting is Brian Blessed as Exeter. His encounter with the French king and the Dauphin is thoroughly amusing to watch. He not only carries the brutish demeanor of man ready to take on the whole French army, but he speaks coolly, delivering his lines carefully and fluently, all the while staring at the French king with terrifying eyes that makes him recoil. Simply brilliant! The real master of this film though is the main star and director Kenneth Brannagh. He does not merely act as King Henry V; he becomes the man. There are many great scenes where he displays his fierceness and determination as King Henry. One that comes to mind is when Henry is given the gift of tennis balls from France&#x97;an insult of calling him immature. As he speaks, threatening invasion of France to the Dauphin, there is an enraged confidence, yet restraint in his voice. It is obvious that he is dead serious about his threat, particularly when he refers to the French prince, his balls have turned to gun-stones. Brannagh did not shout during this scene to strike fear in the Dauphin, for he did not have to. All it takes for Brannagh is one glance to scare a ferocious bear. Brannagh also reveals sheds of brutality and violence within Henry. When he finds out that three of his close associates had betrayed him, in a fit of rage, he grabs one of them and throws him on table. Henry then grabs the man's face, as he demands why he turned traitor. Once again, this explicitly shows that Henry is not a person to be feared or to be messed with. In short, Brannagh does not merely act as King Henry V; he becomes the man. As director, he proves in knowing how to suck a viewer into a film. The choice of shots throughout the film are excellent, whether it be the close ups during the heated debates or the three-minute long tracking shot that follows Brannagh as he carries a dead boy through the aftermath of Agincourt. I consider this shot to be one of the best scenes I have ever seen in cinema. Though Brannagh's film is a Shakespearean adaptation, it stands up as its own. It is perfectly acted and directed. If Shakespeare were alive to see this, he would be thoroughly impressed. "},{"Title":"Very well crafted","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I like Kenneth Branagh's Shakespeare films, and Henry V is one of his better ones. The play is a very good one, and this film does it justice.Visually, it is very beautiful to look at, with interesting camera angles and great scenery and costumes. The music fits each scene very well and doesn't fall into the trap of being too melodramatic.The film like the play has a fine, compelling story that makes you feel all sorts of emotions, and the dialogue is wonderful. Branagh's directorial flair has a lot of vigour to it, and the Battle of Agincourt especially is very evocatively staged.The performances are uniformly good, Branagh is particularly impressive in the title role and the supporting cast are all fine Derek Jacobi coming off best in yet another one of his great performances. Overall, very well crafted. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Best Shakespeare film ever","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is the best on-screen rendition of a Shakespeare play that I'm aware of. The acting talent that Branagh brought to bear here is stupendous, with Derek Jacobi doing the best job ever as Chorus, Ian Holm representing the men in the trenches with wicked wit, and Branagh himself delivering a St. Crispin's Day speech for the ages. But... the most innovative aspect of this film is the cinematography used at the Battle of Agincourt, with most of the actual battle shot in close-up rather than the sweeping vistas we've come to expect from such films. We never see the ranks of the two sides drawn up for battle, nor do we see massed troop movements. All we see is the unforgettable looks on the Englismen's faces as they stand waiting to receive the initial French cavalry charge, followed by utter mayhem as the individual characters fight it out in the rain. This is a perfect device, since at the end of the battle Henry screams at the French herald that he knows not whether the day is his. At that point, neither do we, meaning Branagh has hit the nail on the head.The only reason I'm not giving this film ten stars is because the play itself is flawed. The scene in the middle with the French princess is a non sequitur, as she serves no function in the film but to be married off to Harry at the end. That ending could have been eliminated and would have made the play (and thus the film ) much better, because with it the last fifteen minutes feel anticlimactic. Had we simply ended it with the end of the battle, leaving the stage littered with bodies as in so many other Shakespeare plays, it would have been far better. Still, the rest of the film is so brilliant that the movie as a whole rates nine stars. "},{"Title":"Gloom in a tale of two Henrys","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I spotted that this was on the BBC having seen the recent re-release of the Laurence Olivier version; wisely, Branagh doesn't go for any kind of direct competition, as the two films are totally different.My abiding impression gloom. Even the titles are low-contrast red on black; most of the film is either orange-tinged, or bluish-dim from dark or from rain. It's a play of candles and whispers, where people spend much of their time in hoarse undertones speaking very rapidly (was Branagh as director trying to cut down the running time?) The only sunny, light-filled room was Princess Katherine's bedchamber, and likewise this was more or less the only scene played for laughs Olivier's film retains the comic relief of the stage version, but Branagh's is dark in more senses than one.While I found Olivier's production oddly uneven (some scenes work brilliantly, others remain earthbound), this film worked, but at a consistently low-key level. In places its remorseless 'gritty' approach works against the text the King announces that only a handful of English soldiers died, but the film depicts a slaughter ground. (I couldn't help wondering why Harry is carrying a random corpse -- apparently one of the dead 'boys' -- since if the intent is to suggest that we are equally to mourn the dead French, having him slog across a wasteland of corpses with one of his own men on his back rather nullifies the implication.) I was also confused when the archers are shown firing INTO the mle, where they cannot possibly discriminate between friend and foe; either the arrows are going to a completely different destination from the combat between which these scenes are cut, or the director just thought it would look good without realising the lethal effect of such volleys. The scene with Branagh prancing about at Harfleur on a white horse (and posing conveniently in an archway against the flames) suggests that he didn't have much respect for medieval arrows' effectiveness.As for the big scenes, Harfleur didn't work for me in either version Olivier's is too obviously pasteboard (no danger from archers there, as they never get off the beaches!) while Branagh's is too theatrical for its would-be realistic setting. Branagh wins on St Crispin's day, which is more integrated into the surrounding scene (Olivier gives a beautiful recitation, but I don't feel that it blends in). Olivier definitely wins on the night before the battle, both French and English he has both the humour and the pathos of it, and his personal performance is by far more sensitive. Branagh's version feels abrasive and rushed the section he really lays stress on is Harry's remorse for his father's usurpation, which Olivier cuts altogether, shaping the scene instead towards the weight of soldiers' deaths on the warmaker's conscience.Neither is really successful on the battle, although Branagh clearly has more money to throw at it; Brian Blessed in full armour is an awesomely massive sight! The use of slow-motion feels rather self-important, although in all fairness it may not have been such a clich in 1989 as it has become in action scenes since. I like the scene in which the French charge is shown only as an approaching thunder of hoofs and the widening eyes of the men facing it; but then Olivier's squadron of Irish farm-boys on horses are also pretty impressive. (Perhaps horses and extras who can ride were harder to obtain by Branagh's day!) The scene where the King tells the French herald that he really has no idea which side is winning rings true, as it is not particularly clear what is going on... the preceding sequence where he violates the herald's traditional immunity from attack (I am a herald and ambassador, and may not be assailed as Tolkien, who knew his mediaeval literature, phrased it) does not.Branagh falls pretty flat on the wooing scene, mainly because again he plays it basically straight rather than with humour. He has the looks for a plain soldier king, but little trace of the charm needed to pull the wooing off, and it is unsurprisingly that Emma Thompson's Katherine appears entirely unconvinced save on dynastic grounds until he kisses her. In the context of his film as a whole, this final scene appears as a distinctly disjointed coda to an otherwise downbeat production Branagh's Henry V is all about the run-up to the big battle sequences, and there's an almost palpable feeling of Now, here we are as the fight is about to begin. Olivier's production, pulling out from the real landscapes of the battle to the semi-staged court, then back to the Elizabethan theatre and finally out to a model altogether, winds down much more gracefully.I'm not sure how much of the difference between the two versions is the difference between the cinema and the television (humour, in particular, goes down much more effectively with a full audience), but I think the grimy tone of Branagh's is undoubtedly intentional, and with hindsight I think it does the production no favours. The changes in tone between the realistic and the theatrical, the play for laughs and play of conscience, the heroic and the rascal, serve Olivier well the constant unrelieved intensity of Branagh's production is a strain, and the play as written doesn't always sit comfortably with all the comedy removed. Some release of tension is, I think, necessary.The film's level of success is consistent, but I found I didn't actually enjoy it that much. The wartime version works better... when it does work. "},{"Title":"Tremendous achievement","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" It achieves so much on so many levels. It's a great interpretation of Henry V (regardless of medium) and it is a great film adaptation of a Shakespeare play. It's an interesting take on this patriotic play in our time, the way Olivier's was in his. The actors do a great job, the cinematography is gorgeous, and the soundtrack glorious. I never get tired of it. In fact, there are certain scenes that can always be counted on to make me tear up -- no matter how many times I've scene them. And although the play contains several of Shakespeare's most famous soliloquies, they don't sound stilted when they come around, as often-quoted lines usually do, even though Branagh pretty much plays them straight. What surprises me is that Henry V stands head and shoulders above Branagh's Hamlet and Much Ado, both of which I thought were just OK. Henry V, however, will stand the test of time -- until, that is, some other upstart puts his stamp on it! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's directorial debut in this film, which he also wrote the screenplay for and played the title role, is nothing short of amazing. From Branagh's performance as Henry to the rest of the cast, to the music, cinematography, sets and battle sequence, Henry V has it all. It's a masterpiece in very sense of the word.Kenneth Branagh plays Henry V, a young king thrown onto the throne. In many respects Branagh is much like his character as he, at the age of 28, led up the monumental effort to make this film. Branagh is nothing short of amazing to watch as henry. He plays menace when needed, emotional when needed, an action hero at times, and the rallying point of his army. His speeches are done so well that you might cheer with his men at times.The rest of the cast is just as good as Branagh. Derek Jacobi's Chorus serves as the films narrator and his opening monologue in the film studio is nothing short of amazing. Judi Dench, Robbie Coltrane, Robert Stephens, and a young Christian Bale all do very well as commoners who knew the king in his youth. Emma Thompson does well in the role Kathrine and while her and Branagh do lack chemistry, their scenes together is still fun to watch.The rest of the films elements are just as amazing. Patrick Doyle's score is an amazing piece of work, film score or not. His music at the end of the is incredible to listen to and fits the scene perfectly. The cinematography by Kenneth MacMillan is incredible throughout the film from the opening monologue to the end of the battle and the films final scene are all visually stunning. The films sets all bring to life the era of the film convincingly as do the Academy Award winning costumes. The highpoint of the film is the climax the battle of Agincourt. This sequence remains one of the most brilliantly executed and visually stunning film sequences ever created. The acting during the battle, the mud on the actors, the horses, the music, the editing, and everything come together perfectly. This sequence alone makes this movie an instant classic.Henry V is, for lack of a better description, flawless. The acting is perfect from everyone, especially from Kenneth Branagh. The music, cinematography, sets, costumes, editing and the like are all incredibly well done. This film qualifies as a classic with the battle sequence alone, but with all of these elements together you can not call this film anything other then a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Do not miss","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Absolutely magnificent movie - for me it was the starting point in my own passion for Kenneth Branagh's work. Most daring directing, no chance to be mistaken with someone else, almost signature directing and passionate acting as well. A Shakespeare's play is always a trial for director and actors, Branagh's always succeeds in both features. Sometimes I think it is almost impossible to contain in one's soul so much talent, so much understanding and love for the things you do. And I always quite disappointed when international awards go by Branagh's films. He is well recognized and frequently nominated, but so seldom a winner... So it seems to me that the support of his true audience is very important, because a real masterpiece is a rarity, and Henry V is simply a treasure among rarities. "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I found this movie to be beyond amazing. Starting out the movie, with the Chorus lighting the match, was so captivating; I was immediately excited and drawn into the movie! As the Chorus walks through the movie set, I admit to not being sure as to whether this will be a cinematic version of Henry V or more of a shooting of a play on a stage. As the door opens, however, I knew that this would be amazing. Contrasting the actual Shakespeare script to Branagh's movie, I notice that Branagh leaves certain aspects out, to make Henry look better, and more of a hero. Although some I have talked to disagree with me, I found this to be good. In a movie, no one wants the noble king to be considered a villain as well. The way these actors speak the language is astounding. I have never before heard people speak it so fluently, and with such grace. My favorite moment in the film is the beginning of the Battle of Agincourt. The sound of the hoofs getting louder, and the look of terror on the British men's face is just so moving. In the beginning of the battle, there is no music. I think that makes it even better. I found the whole war scene to be magnificent and moving, unlike most of the battle scenes I have seen. Overall I would say this is a must see movie; it is now my favorite! "}{"Title":"this is truly what Shakespeare ought to be","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a genuinely inspiring movie, what Shakespeare should be. I dare say that if the Bard was alive today, this is how he would produce his plays. The St. Crispin's Day speech is wonderful, almost the best part. And the end scene with Henry V and his bride-to-be is extremely well played. Kind of cute even, which is unusual for this genre. Emma Thompson's French is surprisingly good. Even my eight year-old brother loves this movie, which is saying a great deal. The battle scene is great,a mite graphic for my taste, but not so bad as many other movies. And the actors manage to pull off the difficulties of Shakespearian English without sounding pompous, or as from another planet. The music is beautiful. Especially the song after the battle. Really lovely. All of the acting was excellent, one is able to relate to the characters on a very human level, just as one should with Shakespeare, if it is done right. It seems a shame that Romeo and Juliet is better known, since Henry V is an oceans better story. Who ever said Shakepeare is dull? "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  In reply to the previous comment, you have to realize that this is a huge play, by necessity squeezed into film format for which it was never imagined by the author. This is excellent. If the FACT that as small, diseased and tired group of non professional British soldiers defeated a huge number of French on their own territory seems tub thumping to you, then thats a shame as it is established historical fact. The reasons for their doing so were quite probably immoral by our standards today, but if you come away from that film unimpressed then thats sad for you. the ham is how Shakespeare wrote it for audiences at the time - so in that respect it is a faithful though necessarily truncated rendition. This is one of the few videos I've bought and watched more than once.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful adaptation","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Branagh's Henry is for our times darker and more openly violent, less nationalistic than Olivier's version.  Along the way, he makes some interesting and rewarding choices; starting with the Heretic Derek Jacobi's Chorus striking a match before begining, O for a muse of fire.... which sets the tone for the igniting of war in the first two scenes.  (I did feel a wisp of a reminder of the blinz vendor from Woody Allen's Love and Death in one of the later scenes, but that's probably just my own twisted viviosn.)  The scenes from the Henry IV plays also help tell the whole story of the King. "},{"Title":"My favorite Shakespeare on film","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Just a spectacular film.  Henry V is most certainly not my favorite play, in fact, it is not  even close to my favorite history.  But Branagh most certainly does it credit.  After all  these years, I still get goosebumps when Henry crosses that field with the boy slumped  over his shoulders.  Jacobi, Blessed, Holm, Scofield, Coltrane, Thompson,  Dench - could  you HOPE for a better cast of Shakespearean actors?  The Henry IV text is also carefully  interwoven, heightening the Falstaff story, so as not to neglect the darker aspects of  king who was actually a fairly awful individual at times.  Branagh creates the tortured  soul of an inheritor of a usurped crown, trying desperately to justify his divine right both  in France and in his own mind.  His carefully deliberated decision to pursue the crown,  his destruction of the assassins, the rejection of Falstaff, the public hanging, screaming  at Hafleur that he'll ravage their women and put their babies on pikes - this is a man  who does what he has to when he has to, certainly not perfect, and certainly not at  peace with the decisions he has to make.  It is easy to sink into either a hefty  jingoism or a sarcastic, self-mocking tone in bringing this to film, but Branagh carefully  treads the line and creates something wonderful. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh SHINES","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ken Branagh was only 28 when he did this.  He looks incredibly young (looking all of twelve in the title role as Ken himself says in his autobiography), but it works here as Ken's focus was Henry V's transition from a man to a King.  Henry needs to understand WHAT it means to be King. Ken's first entrance as Henry V where he's looming as a dark shadow blocking the light from the doorway is absolutely fantastic.  We never see his face until we see him sitting relaxedly on his throne, like a scrubbed little boy.  Branagh has interpreted Shakespeare's work VERY VERY well; he understands Henry's spiral into isolation and what it means to be King.  Contrast this opening scene with the ending scene and boom!  We see how Henry V has grown to become a great warrior king.  See this movie for the acting.  Everyone is wonderfully, ESPECIALLY Ken Branagh.  He is on target throughout and an absolute delight to watch onscreen.  I felt his rage in the traitors scene with Lord Scroop and everyone else; felt his relief in his Once more upon the breach speech; felt his sadness and understanding in his on the King rumination.  He's WONDERFUL!!!!  (an added bonus Ken is very, very cute in this movie; after I had watched about half of the movie, I realized I was totally in love with him.  He's so lovely!  And a great actor!  And director!) "},{"Title":"Great Shakespeare AND a great film!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Simply the best film adaptation of one of the greatest of historical dramas, this film is as true to the plot and characterization as possible.  With the young Henry played straight-up by Branagh and the court of mostly youthful advisors (remembering that only a few leader/warriors would reach even middle age in the early fifteenth century), the audience is treated to a realistic rendition of life and court intrigue by a cast of fine actors; this film is possibly the best of Branagh and the Bard, though the later Hamlet is a fine film as well!10/10 "},{"Title":"Among the greatest films ever made","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  From The thrilling prologue and challenge to the audiences' imagination delivered by Derek Jacoby to the final epilogue, this flawless and timeless presentation makes one remember why one loves the cinema. The fierce exhortations at Harfleur and Agincourt made chills go up my spine to the top of my skull in a riot of electricity. Brannagh,Dench and Holm, indeed all the cast are superb. This even surpassed for me the great Olivier's version of this play. A war film as fine as any ever made, it looks deep into the human soul with a masterful touch. 'Henry V' belongs near the top of any list of great movies, 10/10. "},{"Title":"once more into the breach","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh's film of Henry V is yet another testament to the timelessness of Shakespeare's verse. While Lawrence Olivier's version--stagebound for the most part and pageantly colorful--serves a jingoistic purpose during WWII, a morale booster for the Normandy invasion, Branagh is more concerned in displaying the brutality of war and the ruthlessness of monarchies in the light of post-Vietnam and post-Falkland Islands times. Personally, I can relate more to Branagh's earthy production than to Olivier's, though I think at this date Olivier has proven to be more of the Bard's actor. Yet both films are fine renditions of the play in my opinion. They inform and complement each other. "},{"Title":"A sumptious delight to the English language.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A truely fantastic experience.This adaption to one of Shakespeare's greatest histories (and a fairly accurate one for the time) is fantastique. All the performances are top notch, featuring all the great olde(ish) school British actors(resses). Ian Holm, Brain Blessed, Judy Dench.... oh my stars!Young Kenneth delivers a solid performance (that can be a little over the top, but I'd have to ask Shakespeare if that was true). The St Crispins day speach, delivered before the battle of Agincourt, is so stirring that I shed a tear. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is, in my humble opinion, the best Shakespeare movie ever.  Shakespeare's history plays have always been easier to follow than his tragedies or comedies, so it's a good introduction to Shakespeare.  Happily, Branaugh doesn't include much of the comic relief characters and plays Henry more as a brash young man, but formidable leader than Olivier did in his version of Henry V (who played Henry just a little too snooty for me).  The lighter scenes including Emma Thompson as the princess of France were great when juxtaposed with the darker battle scenes.  And that battle scene . . . Thankfully we don't have to fight war like that.  The battle scene is realistic, but not over the top like Braveheart, and when the British are collecting their dead . . . I cry every time.   Lovely, lovely, movie. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie in one word masterpiece.  The words and plot are taken straight from Shakespeare's Henry V.  Sometimes confused by the words, I never lost sight of what was occurring in this film.  With only one battle scene at the end this was much more entertaining than year 2000's Gladiator.  This film is rich in storytelling from beginning to end.  Branagh's portrayal of the Henry is soft, but powerful.  Henry V was much more than a King to his people, he was a hero.  If your a fan of middle age era movies, this will no doubt be one of your favorites.  perfection 10/10 "},{"Title":"The best Shakespeare screen adaptation, bar none","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This, Branagh's first work, stands as his best. Though many compare it to Olivier's version, either favorably or no, this stands on it's own as a uniquely different presentation. While the rousing calls to arms, such as in the Crispin's Day speech, make you want to join the battle yourself, Henry's survey of the bloodied battlefield serves as a strong counterpoint in depicting the horrors of war.Some mention has been made of Derek Jacobi as a contemporary narrator, although this is no different than would have been the case in Shakespeare's time. Branagh maintains the King and his subjects in their own time, but his use of a modern chorus is no more anachronistic than one would have been in the Globe, as Shakespeare and Hal were themselves separated by over 100 years.The film makes the opening chorus monologue a miracle of understatement, as we no longer must heed the narrator's plea to piece out imperfections with (our) thoughts, as the full splendor of the screen takes up where a stage rendition must into a thousand parts divide one man. Nevertheless, Derek Jacobi stirs our emotions before we even enter Hal's time.The cast Branagh picked is a who's who of modern Shakespeareans, and all round out their roles in fullness and emotion. This movie is Branagh's best, the greatest delivery of Shakespeare to the screen, and my all time favorite movie. Once more into the breach, my friends. "},{"Title":"Branagh's Masterpiece","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Warning possible spoilers ahead! I said in a review of Kenneth Branagh's adaptation of Hamlet that this earlier film was his masterpiece, so now I must defend my judgement. This film does more to clearly illustrate the horrors of medieval war than a hundred assorted sword-and-sorcery epics. By truncating Shakespeare's text and presenting realistic scenes of horror (although rated PG-13, this is not one for the kiddies), Branagh manages to put his own subtext into the film and yet still remain faithful to the original play. His use of theatrical devices in no way detracts from the cinematic experience, and the casting of Derek Jacobi as the chorus is nothing short of brilliant. We are not jarred by his presence in somewhat modern garb in scenes of the play; rather, this serves as a reminder that we are spectators and allows us to pull back from the action, which gets very intense at times. Branagh's performance is excellent, as always, and I have yet to find an actress who can pull off a French accent as good as Emma Thompson's. Robbie Coltrane and Judi Dench are barely recognisable in their brief roles, and the always excellent Ian Holm and Brian Blessed provide fantastic support. **SPOILER ALERT**  I also enjoyed the fact that Branagh didn't play to Hollywood sensibilities here; in the climactic battle scene, he doesn't finish off the Dauphin in a bloody display, since to do so would glamourise the violent aspects of the film; instead, the violence becomes stomach-churning, and we feel no desire to cheer for either side in the battle. We are glad when it is over, and we feel Henry's remorse for those who have fallen in battle. All in all, a stunning cinematic achievement, and a welcome addition to my DVD library.   "},{"Title":"bold, beautiful, brilliant Branagh","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie that reminded me of the beauty of Shakespeare.   Branagh brought the amazing language of this play to life from the very first spark, the muse of fire.  The cast is impeccable and the passion and fire and beauty of the play come blazing through in every scene.  I've seen several versions of Henry V, but Branagh's version still gives me chills.  I'm a huge fan of movies, and this became my favorite as soon as I saw it.  And ten years later, it still is... "},{"Title":"Henry is my hero.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After the famous speeches Once more into the breach and St. Crispin's Day I would have followed Henry into ANY battle.  Kenneth Branagh gives a very powerful performance as Henry V and made me understand the power of a charismatic and self possessed leader.  "},{"Title":"Stunning.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Branagh is at the top of his game here, his performance easily nudges out Olivier's (1944 version). In taking one of Shakepeare's least interesting plays, mainly due to its over performance, and turning it and it's accompanying cliches, into something to marvel at, Branagh creates a masterpiece. The St. Crispin's Day speech alone is worth what ever the sticker says. Branagh's Henry is complex and passionate, the sets are wonderfully minimal, Brian Blessed's Exeter seems unfazingly authentic, and the soliloquies can make your hair stand on end, what more do you want? "},{"Title":"Henry V is a testament to the immortality of the Bard's play","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I never tire of watching this film. The play translates to the screen so well. Kenneth Branagh does an excellent job in all areas of this film. The casting is superb. Having seen the play after seeing the movie. I still enjoyed the play but missed the musical score from the film. The Battle of Agincourt was a great tactical battle and worthy of this immortalization. "},{"Title":"A superb film that builds to the most dramatic climax in the history of stage or screen, Branagh's delivery of the St. Crispin's Day speech to his men at Agincourt.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie should be required viewing for anyone who has to lead and motivate people, from athletic coaches, to business managers, to Presidents. The care King Henry takes to lay a moral framework for England's claim against France in the opening scene stands in sharp contrast with the moral relativism that guides the consideration of war in modern times.Henry V is a study in charisma.  Shakespeare's Henry has unmatched oratorical skills and Branagh's portrayal of Henry is one of the greatest acting performances of all time.  The St. Crispin's day speech is unquestionably the most moving, dramatic oration ever delivered.  It would seem that Shakespeare had Branagh in mind when he penned this speech.  It could not have been better written nor better performed.  "},{"Title":"Mr. Shakespeare would be satisfied","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  With the wonderful performances of Branagh, Thompson, Jacobi, Scofield, Holm, et.al., could anyone dispute my intuition that William would be delighted to sit in a theater and watch his play as rendered by Branagh?Along with Olivier's Hamlet (I believe that was in 1950), this is one of the finest adaptations I have yet seen.   "},{"Title":"Henry V","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Superb film version of the classic Shakespeare play that stars 28 year old Branaugh as the youthful king. Unlike Oliver's 1944 version, this version has an amazing array of battle sequences that recently have only been topped by Mel Gibson in Braveheart. Branaugh's Henry is more vibrant and demanding than Olivier's. He also doesn't toy with the language. He lets it flow and it does beautifully. The invicible Derek Jacobi appears as does Emma Thompson. Branaugh received Oscar nominations for Best Actor and Director.   "}{"Title":"English history must be rewritten....","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" ...and all tales of the Hundred Years' War must be retold in the light of new evidence, because it is now abundantly clear that the true reason that the battle of Agincourt was fought was to allow Kenneth Branagh to play and direct Shakespeare's Henry V.  I struggle to find any word to describe this movie other than perfect, and that doesn't do it the justice it truly deserves.  "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE YOU WILL EVER SEE!","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Henry V is an awesome movie! Branagh does a great job with  Shakespeare's greatest play. He adapts the play to fit the modern movie audience. The movie has taste, excitement, Romance, and action. Others have attempted to make this movie but no one has pulled it of as well as Kenneth Branagh. It's one of those movies that leaves you with a good feeling after, and I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Plays well on a TV screen","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh's Henry V is widely acclaimed as a masterpiece.  I will admit that the acting and casting is brilliant, the modern chorus is a good idea and well executed, and the battle scenes are fantastic.  When this is all a movie has to offer, though, it is hard to justify it as a masterpiece.While watching the film, I was eager to do some research on it, because I would have bet it was a TV movie; perhaps it was released in a similar fashion to Duel, I thought.  The cinematography is poor and generally framed as many TV movies are, and the score and editing are consistent with TV movie standards (read bland).  I think the way these were completed, a viewing on video is preferred; it more than likely hides these poorly done elements better.  Aside from Henry's entrance, nothing else would benefit from a theatrical screening.The story, however, is the main problem of the film.  It seems like not much thought went into story flow.  Scenes are flimsily connected, and besides the first thirty minutes and the battle sequences, do little to advance the story but are routinely overlong.  Most scenes end up merely being opportunities for various actors to have good monologues.  Poor Emma Thompson, the main victim, does a good job in her small role but seems ultimately wasted here.  Her English lesson scene is superfluous, and it is extremely hard to buy the romance scene, which ironically is too compacted yet stops the movie cold at the end of the film, dragging it out for nearly ten long minutes.  The story also makes it hard to care about these characters; there are too many characters crammed into too small of scenes. In the end, we really know nothing of any of them, nor can we remember many of their names by the time their scenes are finished.With all these glaring negative aspects to the film, it is impossible for me to see it as a masterpiece.  It would have taken a lot more work to get Henry V to that level.  "},{"Title":"Just a typical Branaugh flick","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Henry V is typical Kenneth Branaugh- which can be both good and bad. His occasional masterful expression of Shakespeare's words is existent here, but so is the whispering, annoying voice he uses often during dramatic, poignant scenes. The first you hear from him, he speaks for 8-10 minutes without his voice rising above that whisper and without moving at all. However, you turn around and start liking him again when he speaks to the troops with that go-get-em attitude, and convinces you that, well, you should be fighting for England. Branaugh does that in the majorities of movies he does (ex Hamlet), which is why this doesn't rise above his typical productions. But if you're like me, stuck reading Henry V in English class and you want to see it on film, take a look at this. There is no better video version out there. Rating 6/10   "},{"Title":"Here is all the glory, power, drama, suspense, and intrigue the Bard intended in this rousing play.","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" There may be one hundred or so men who are capable of bringing Shakespeare to the screen, but none so talented and capable as Kenneth Branaugh. Here is all the glory, power, drama, suspense, and intrigue the Bard intended in this rousing play. Jacobi is incredible as the Chorus, a device we would call narrator, and builds his role with eloquence and tempered techniques of voice seldom seen in film. Branaugh displays a rare and insightful look at the character of the now wizened king who was so foolish as a boy. The cast, in all, is superb in their understanding of their roles and carry them off with a passion that perhaps only an Englishman can understand. I have seen this film several times, having a copy along with other versions of Shakespearean plays, and by far this is the most exciting, the most accurate, and the most palatable film of its genre. Combine a timeless tale of war and conquest with a cast already world renown and you have this film, a modern testament to the power of Shakespeare. Rated PG-13 for a violent and bloody battle, this film is fit for the high school crowd and, in my humble opinion, should be shown to every English student about to study Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"Touch Of The Tyrant","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Some years ago I read a history of the 100 Years War and it was by a British author named Desmond Siward who advanced the notion that Henry V was one of the great tyrants in making of English history. Had it not been for his early death that's how he would have gone down in history. Thinking on it, imagine if you will how history might have regarded him had he lived another decade and had been in power for the British occupation of over half of France and had been the man in charge when Joan Of Arc was burned at the stake?When Winston Churchill gave all aid and assistance he could to Laurence Olivier;s Henry V during World War II it was to show the glory of English arms at a high point in their history. Even if it was at the expense of France whom the British were now allies with. Olivier played Henry V in true heroic mold, but in this production of Henry V, Kenneth Branagh gives Henry V a touch of the tyrant as in current historiography.This Henry V was not guided by wartime necessity, but could be closer to the truth. I did like the inclusions of those flashback scenes from Henry IV where we see merry Prince Hal cavorting with his low companions like Sir John Falstaff. Those might have been some invention of Shakespeare, but certainly the man who was Henry V was all business when he was on the throne.This newer Henry V received several Oscar nominations including one for Kenneth Branagh to match the one that Laurence Olivier got over 40 years earlier for Best Actor. It's certainly a different Henry that Branagh gives us. You can hardly see a Prince Hal in this king. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Adaptation Of Shakespeare's Play","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Henry V is a film based on William Shakespeare's play The Life of Henry the Fifth about the famous English king.Kenneth Branagh stars in the title role,wrote the screenplay and directed the movie.It also features Paul Scofield,Ian Holm,Emma Thompson,Alec McCowen,Judi Dench and Christian Bale. It is frequently compared with the 1944 film of the play directed by and starring Laurence Olivier. The visual style of former is grittier and more realistic than that of the latter.The movie has a narrator with the name Chrous.After the he introduces the play, young king of England Henry V begins an angry dialogue with King Charles of France. The king's son, Dauphin,insults Henry and the argument escalates into war. In flashback, Henry is seen as a young man drinking in a tavern with Falstaff, Bardolph,Nym,Pistol, and Mistress Quickly. Meanwhile, Henry and his captain, Fluellen, assemble an army and invade France. The French greatly outnumber the British troops, yet Henry leads them to victory in the Battle of Agincourt after delivering his famous St. Crispin's Day Speech. Throughout this struggle, Henry also courts Katherine and eventually wins her over.Henry V is definitely an absorbing and entertaining film for it was updated for modern viewers.It was also an energetic,passionate,and wonderfully acted as well.Apart from that,it was a triumphant adaptation of Shakespeare's play and it brought about the playwright's timeless talent and appeal.Overall,it is a wonderful film not only for the fans of Shakespeare but anyone who loves great film. "},{"Title":"Henry, a young CEO","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found this epic film very interesting and modern,because Branagh portrays Henry V like a young executive officer of a company today.Henry took to his job(being a king),decided on an action plan(a war with france),succeeded in carrying it out(won at Agincourt) and finally got a deal done(married with a french princess).One might be able to write a business how-to book out of this.This modernit&#130;&#153; make it easy for me to emphasize to him. Shakepear's dialogs ring strong and moving even in poorly and partially translated Japanese version and the visuals are convincing.Acting is superb.Derek Jacobi's presentation is a very unique adaptation, too. I say this film is perfect, if any flaws I cannot find.    "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Henry's stirring speech at dawn before the Battle of Agincourt is the best three minutes in film history. A great story, superb cast and flawless direction makes Henry V a film Shakespeare would love. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare and cinema DO NOT mix","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie with a great deal of anticipation.  After all, I loved the play and enjoyed Lawrence Olivier's rendition, but, after two viewings, I can easily say that Henry V is another overrated film.  What Shakespeare wrote in his scripts does NOT help when making a movie.  Next time, the producers should hire someone with a little more creative insight as Kenneth Branagh has none.  Watching Mary Shelley's Frankenstein secured my stance on that.The cast, given the Shakespearean nature of the play, is superb.  That's about the only compliment I can give.  Kudos to the casting director!  Every other aspect from the editing to the cinematography and use of color is underdone.  How dissappointing.  Even Alexander Nevsky is better than this.Overall, not the best film from the Bard.  For those wanting a hip retelling, stick with Romeo + Juliet.  I'll stick with reading the plays.  2 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Henry V turned Hollywood blockbuster","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I like this play very much after having read it and watch another version of it. But Branagh's work? I didn't like it. It was too Hollywood-like It could be said, for lack of a better word, that Branagh overacted; but I will just say that his performance wasn't exceptional. He was very intense and histrionic, yes, but intensity alone doesn't make a good film (especially when you're not starring in 'Hard To Kill') Shakespeare's character's are very complex, and complexity I didn't find. On the other hand, it was dynamic and entertaining. Branagh seems to feel that the more action he brings, the better. Branagh wanted to capture the attention of the masses, and he did it. He made a Hollywood-eske blockbuster.But if you want quality and superior acting, please get the BBC version of it with David Gwillim (1979) "},{"Title":"Coach Henry","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Henry V, according to Shakesspeare's version of History, is well directed.And well acted. Well done all around.And since Shakespeare is best read instead of seen, it works very well in closed captioning. A liar is a person who says he/she understands the words as they are quickly sent out in these plays. In truth, they cannot be deciphered by the brain at such a pace, unless they are read.Personally, I didn't care for all the dim lighting, but it made for realistic dreary castle settings, if not for distinguishing what is going on. And it works for effect, because like black and white, dim lighting helps to focus on the story and not on all the distractions.What sets this Shakespeare play apart from nearly all other dramas and films is that most films show the warrior soldier as a father figure already, finished with his battle days.Here, we have the soldier hero as a young man, before he becomes the old hero. And it is very engaging.This Henry is a very likable character, and very three dimensional. It's refreshing to see a director treat a heroine as a trophy, the beauty to be won, and of course it was written that way.Henry becomes like the coach giving the famous gung ho half time speech. However, there is more to him than just talk. We wonder what his battle strategy will be, and we're sure he has one. Indeed, though vastly outnumbered against the French, he does use his archers in a cunning way, with a troops of swords dashing out to the foray to hold the enemy at bay and in artillery range. With their swords at about 100 yards, the archers send their artillery barrage over their heads at about 150 yards, making the French between a rock and a hard place in three ways 1. The French in front have no healthy reinforcements 2. The French in back must work their way over bodies, or be forced back 3. The French in front get into the artillery barrage if they retreat, so they have only one direction This is the play in which the king goes out among his men incognito, by the way.We really only get a good look at Henry and a couple of others. Many of the characters are well drawn, but fleeting in their appearance. "},{"Title":"A fine Shakespeare film!","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I have to give this film a 9 because watching Emma Thompson and Dame Geraldine McEwan O.B.E.(She declined both Damehood in 2002 and an O.B.E. in 1986) speaking French was laughable. It was uncomfortable seeing such British actresses speaking French. I know Emma was married to Kenneth BRanagh C.B.E.(Who turned down that honor down in 1996) at the time of this film but still I wished he picked somebody French. There are plenty of qualified French actresses. Other than that, I liked Sir Derek Jacobi C.B.E. as the chorus which gave the film a narrator. Paul Scofield C.B.E., C.H.(he turned down knighthood 3 times because he didn't want to be called Sir Paul) played a small role as the King of France and Emma's father in the film. Dame Judi Dench O.B.E., C.H. had a small but acted divine in this film even with such a minor part. Her husband Michael Williams was also in there. Richard Briers O.B.E., C.B.E., has a great role and is one of Branagh's favorite actors. Branagh's role as Henry V and as director is commendable which earned his nominations for the Oscars as both actor and director. He looked so young and gorgeous in this film. You can't help but fall in love with him. In the same year, that Lord Laurence Olivier died, Kenneth BRanagh proved to be an exceptional successor to Shakespearan roles. I wish Branagh stretched his acting and directing talents to other roles. But still this film is worthy of watching. THe Oscar winning costumes by Phyllis Dalton M.B.E. is also worth mentioning. It was their only Oscar that night. Christian Bale has a small role in the film as well and so does Brian Blessed, another of Kenneth's favorites. "},{"Title":"Very Good lesson in history","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"    This movie was about the life of king Henry V.  It talked about his battles as well as his marriage with the French queen Katherine in order to keep peace between England and France.  I loved the acting as well as the costumes.  You could tell that most of the movie except for maybe the battles fought were all taken on a stage and this is good sence this is a movie taken from Shakespear.  The only part that I did find annoying was the modern day narrator that kept popping up every now and then just to show us his presance and I found that there was no use in him popping up in this movie sence this is an early 1400's movie.  Other than that...... this movie is well worth watching as well as learning a lesson is history. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare goes 'Hollywood'","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" It takes a little arrogance and a lot of nerve to challenge Lord Olivier for the crown of King Henry V. Fortunately for Kenneth Branagh that's exactly what the role itself calls for, and in his debut as a director the 29-year old actor attempts, like Henry himself, to impress his friends and overwhelm his foes by the sheer regal impact of his personality. Branagh does what he can to make the material more accessible with dramatic photography and a stirring music score, but the Bard of Avon isn't easily adapted to the big screen under the best of circumstances, and his beautiful Olde English prose can sound too remote when taken outside the theater. Anglophiles and Shakespeare buffs will no doubt embrace it, but don't be surprised to find that the strongest and most cinematic moments occur during the Agincourt battle scene, which of course could never be recreated on stage. The rest of the film is anticlimax an almost comic relief romancing by the king of his French cousin Catherine. "},{"Title":"In the script it is written, and on the screen it's pictures - F. Lang","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" A Good Televised Play (i.e. a British film) For a master class on adapting Shakespeare to cinema you need to watch Akira Kurosawa's seminal Throne of blood.This film is entertaining, but it's not cinema it's a very long TV drama (if you liked the BBC's Robin Hood series you'll love this).For anyone who's coming to Shakespeare for the first time I'd recommend Olivier's version. It's not a 'complete' version of the play, but it has the wit, subtlety and invention missing in Branagh. Olivier is much truer to the spirit of Shakespeare - it's playful and funny in parts (for example the lovely scene where Catherine is learning English). Most importantly Olivier brings out the beauty of Shakespears words (the spine tingling soliloquy in Henry's nighttime tour of the camp?).Branagh's version is neither a film or a play. It unfortunately the throttling of language for dramatic effect. Drowned in muzak and delivered with holly-pine-wood whispers or You slag! shouting. And kicks the crap out of the language with odd action film stresses and punctuations. Making the whole play difficult to listen to and understand.There's nothing playful or subtle about it - it's wall to wall drama - which inevitably gets a bit tedious after a while. The lines seem to be there more for pulling faces than for pleasure. A bit like being server a steak you really wanted to tuck into, but cant as someone's covered it in tomato sauce and half a pound of salt.Although there are some funny bits e.g.Derek Jacobi doing Marty DiBergi introduction to Spinal Tap at the start.It's also very 80's (e.g. Branagh's hair cut) - When he's asked if he's Cornishman I half expected him to answer, No I am from HampsteadDerek Jacobi (with thespian scarf) on the White Cliff of Dover doing Michael Palin's Ripping Yarns You know, I think it was G.K. Chesterton, who once said... (Tomkinson's schooldays)Required watching I imagine for all those poor high school students who are forced to learn Shakespeare...(I award it 1 only to try and introduce some sanity to the overall rating. As an adaptation of Shakespeare - 6.5/10. As a general film - 6/10. as a serious cinematic film - 1/10) "},{"Title":"Methinks I detect the fragrance of ham","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I know little of Shakespeare, other than to expect masterful use of the English language. Unfortunately, the actors in this movie either whisper their beautiful lines so one cannot hear them, or rattle them off in snarling unintelligible shouts. I found Branagh's rally speeches to have the opposite of their intended effect; they made me wonder why anyone would follow this spoiled swaggering slip of a royal to their death. Jacobi is wasted as the Chorus, and seems in a hurry to get it over with. And the homely French women (supposed to be pretty?) learning English from her idiot maid made me want to just slap her!One can excuse the incessant waiving of the English flag, and even the derogatory depiction of everyone French (except the herald). That, apparently, is the play. One can also excuse the Hollywoodization of the battle scene (apparently French horses can not walk without falling over) in which everything English is effective and everything French is wicked and moronic. But one cannot forgive the unmistakable aroma of ham that pervades this entire enterprise.Shut it off about a half hour before the end; couldn't take any more!  "}]