[{"Title":"Not exactly good, but not nearly as bad as it COULD have been... (minor spoilers here)","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This does not touch the Cronenberg movie (or the Vincent Price movies, from what I've seen of those), but is definitely worth the watch for fans of gross-out monster flicks. The plot? The son of Seth Brundle (Harley Cross) is born in a corporate laboratory. He grows up at a very fast rate (now played by Eric Stoltz) and falls in love while discovering the evil secrets of the bigwig and his scientists, who have raised him. Nothing helps him on his quest to destroy them more than when the metamorphosis that took place in Dad begins to take place even faster in Son. It has its funny moments (the under-used John Getz from the original gets some big, cynical laughs), as well as very emotionally moving moments (especially when Stoltz puts the mutant dog to sleep, which is very sad and touching). There is a hackneyed element, to be sure (the romantic part with the awful country song is something that would be perfectly acceptable to fast-forward through), but, overall, it's still a kinda fun movie that's more effective than many people might tell you. As far as the gore quotient goes, this one I would consider more of a splatter movie than Cronenberg's (which had its gross-out moments throughout, but wasn't as bloody as this one was). Still, if you like gore, I would suggest it especially. I myself have no problems with gore as long as I like the movie around it, and I liked The Fly 2 enough to actually watch it more than once without that choice being under the influence of substances! Also, one way it was better than the first film was how it ended. While the ending to the first was somewhat abrupt (even if it was a great movie and didn't really need anything extra), this one features a happy ending that is not sappy (always commendable), as well as one of the greatest acts of vengeance ever agonizingly drawn out on film. All in all, I agree that The Fly 2 doesn't really touch David Cronenberg's The Fly in overall quality, but it doesn't deserve the terrible reputation that's been heaped on it over the years, even if there's nothing to disguise the fact that is inferior. "},{"Title":"Fly II Cruise Control","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I caught this movie on cable last night; this is one of those films where the memory of having seen it years ago is better than the actual film.The production design is actually quite good, surprising when, upon closer inspection, they apparently only built one set (the lab), and the rest of the scenes-- all brief ones-- were shot at cheap locations, such as Beth's houseboat, Martin's condo, and such.  The acting is decent, considering the lack of any character at all (especially braindead Beth).  Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga actually put some effort forth here, which is nice, considering this was probably little more than a paycheck for both.The problem is the script.  First-time director Chris Walas does well with what he was handed-- probably in pieces, from four different screenwriters-- but I got the feeling that a coherent, dramatic story arc was chopped down to a lightning-paced 111 minutes.  It seems like entire scenes are missing-- or else they were never written.  The bare bones I watched were perhaps merely excuses to link together special effects and make-up from Walas's FX company.In that sense, it's kinda like a porno film.  No one cares about the plot, the just wanna see the money shot.  And this one has a few-- they spent all their money on a) mutant dog ($100), b) Unlucky Security Guard #2 ($1000), c) fly cocoon ($50), and d) Alterna-Stoltz (priceless).  This explains why, with the exception of Unlucky Security Guard #2, the deaths are not nearly graphic enough, and thus unsatisfying... considering how great a length the story-tellers go to make us hate everyone in the film who ISN'T Martin or Beth (or Borans).The film is shot well, considering how few locations are used, though several directing mistakes jumped out, not necessarily worthy of the goofs section.  For example, note how when Beth enters the lab, never having been there before.... at the end of scene, she somehow knows the exact command to type into the computer to open the doors on the OTHER SIDE of the room.  How does she expect to find her way back to her desk?  (which is apparently down the hall, less than 100 feet away... just like everything else in this building, which, by the way, we never see from the outside)More proof there's another hour of this movie that's either on a cutting room floor somewhere, or just never got filmed.  Pity the entire movie couldn't fulfill the promise of the single, memorable final shot, as the credits appear.5/10, cuz it's half a film. "},{"Title":"I Enjoyed it - a Good B Horror Movie Reminiscent of Those From the Fifties...Perfect for a Friday Night!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Fly IIAs I write this review, I have never seen the remake of The Fly with Ian Malcolm - err, Jeff Goldblum - and Geena Davis. So I really have no basis to compare this sequel to. Therefore, I will continue with this review in light that I have not seen the original remake...The film opens with a Geena Davis Lookalike giving birth to a son; she dies, the baby lives. Baby grows older, and because he is 1/4 fly, he grows at a rapid rate, for some reason. I'm not sure why this would make him bigger instead of smaller, but oh well. His name is Martin, and he turns into Eric Stoltz when he is five. Yes, you read that right. Five. Martin is looked over by the head of a company, where he is kept and given medication to keep him from turning into a fly...But soon young Martin finds out that not everything is what it seems, and he begins to mutate into...THE LIZARD. Well, that's what he looks like, anyway.As I watched this, I kept a careful eye on Eric Stoltz. Why? Well, as I'm sure everyone knows by now, he was originally cast for Marty McFly for Back to the Future, and they filmed much of the movie with him before Bob Zemeckis dropped him for Fox. In fact, there is still a scene where he is diving into the Delorean that is intact. Freeze frame the film and you can see it's not Fox. I always thought that footage looked odd - like it wasn't Fox doing the stunt...Anyway, I watched Stoltz and realized how bad he would have been as Marty McFly. He just isn't hyper enough - Michael J. Fox was perfect for Marty, Stoltz would have ruined it. He's not a bad actor, mind you. He's perfect for this role (well at least good for this role), but for Marty? Nah... On a side note, I'm not sure if this is a coincidence or bizarre in-joke, but Stoltz's character plays a kid named Martin...similar to Fox's character Marty McFly...Martin...Marty.... And, I thought of something else that I haven't seen someone point out before. Marty's last name in BttF is McFly. What does Martin turn into in this film? A FLY! Martin the Fly, Marty McFly...taking a quote from Uncle Buck Is there a little similarity here? Ooh, I think there is!The film was directed by the creature effects artist of the original - and sequel Chris Walas. You might recognize his name, because he wrote Gremlins 2 and did the creature effects for Gremlins, as well. Anyway, he directs the film pretty good for a creature effects artist...I guess...What I like so much about this movie is its high campy quality. It is a hybrid of B horror movies from the fifties and sixties and the new breed of horror films in the eighties, that were like B horror movies with gore. Lots of gore. I guess it doesn't qualify as strictly campy, because the old horror movies were not so disgusting...so I just call these films the eighties B horror movies. Simple enough, eh?I have always been a sucker for the campy horrors from the eighties, especially when they are sequels that tread into old territory. For example, in one scene we see footage of Jeff Goldblum being interviewed. Martin watches this with interest. And what I think is so interesting is that we can look back and say, Oh, yes, that was before Goldblum knew he was turning into a fly. It's just interesting to do that. It seems like many films from the eighties would have archive footage from the original film. Anyway, The Fly II is a lot like these films. It gives us a glance back at the original. I'm not sure if I can explain in words what this does. It just provides a feeling for me - kind of like campy horrors make some people feel good. I like when horror movies--or any movies, for that matter--travel into the film before...we can look at the old characters and say, Oh, yes, that was before this was going to happen... It's just fun to do. I can't describe it in words.This movie, like many horror sequels from the eighties, is just enjoyable. Odd, but enjoyable. It's hard not to have fun watching it. If you take it seriously you're going to have a pretty hard time watching, but if you turn off the brain for two hours you'll have some fun.My only two complaints is that this movie is about a half hour too long, and the creature looks like a lizard and not a fly. Other than that, it is a fun ride. Not great, but a good, well done horror movie that never takes itself too seriously. Perfect for a Friday night.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Who Said History Never Repeats?","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yep, the same studio that made the original classic The Fly from the late Fifties decided that it was time to revisit the franchise a few decades later. But this sequel to the far superior David Cronenberg re-visitation is not so much a vehicle for its grade-B cast, as it is a showcase for its new director, special effects wiz Chris Walas. To his credit, he knew that this was his opportunity to go bananas, and that's exactly what he did.Eric Stoltz is given the unenviable task of picking up where Jeff Goldblum left off, as the equally hapless son of the Seth Brundle character. Geena Davis wisely took a time-out, so a lookalike actress takes her place as Veronica Ronnie Quaife, who conveniently gets to die in the first few minutes, in a childbirth sequence that may make anything in the Alien series pale by comparison.As ooky and icky as Cronenberg's bodily mutation-horror point of view was in the previous outing, Walas takes those cues to the 'nth' degree here, so those who are animal lovers or possessing delicate stomachs are hereby given fair warning this is NOT a pretty picture.Cinephiles who have wasted oceans of print criticizing THE FLY II should take note the notices were equally severe all those years ago for RETURN OF THE FLY, when Fox tried to cash in then on the predecessor that had such a great pedigree. That cast included Vincent Price, Herbert Marshall, Patricia Medina and Al (David) Hedison. With the new-fangled model starring Jeff Goldblum and Geena Davis, didn't anyone get even a hint of deja vu all over again? C'est la vie. The only person sticking around (pun intended) from the new original is John Getz as the unfortunate bastard Stathis Borans, and to his credit, he played it with deadpan perfection, not to mention that his character is given the sequel's best dialogue. In other words, it's pretty obvious from the way he played things that Getz gets it.Even if Stoltz and the non-descript Daphne Zuniga had been up to the task of overcoming the FX bombast on display (which they obviously weren't), the producers, writers and director weren't out to surpass the last episode in quality, as much as in the queaze quotient. Only Lee Richardson as Anton Bartok, the wicked, narrow-minded industrialist bent on exploiting the late Dr. Brundle's experiments to the max, does his job admirably well. You love to hate him on first sight, and the fact that he delivers the goods makes the gruesome fate his character suffers that much more satisfying.So, in closing, let's sum up the main points here for classic terror and the not-so classic follow up, go back to the Fifties original and its progeny. For modern-day mayhem and mounds of moldering makeup effects, go to the creepy Cronenberg version, then do not pass go, skip lunch and try this ordeal of offal on for size. You will be grossed-out, guaranteed, and popcorn is definitely optional, skipping the extra butter, of course. "},{"Title":"The Fly 2 buzzes!","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On second viewing - all these years later - my first impressions regarding my feelings on The Fly 2 have been altered; like the DNA of our central character.Though you wanted the quirkiness and tour de force performance that Jeff Goldblum gave in the first The Fly or the gravitas and grit that David Cronenberg is so adept at, this sequel actually has a sensible storyline, vivid and shocking special effects and an ending that ultimately makes you care how the characters find their way out of their pus-filled cocooned predicament.Chris Walas's direction induced a strong pacing and tension throughout the journey, whilst the screenwriters provided a thought provoking social commentary on the nefarious activities of profit over human concerns in the corporate world.Eric Stoltz, in dark hair and a high pitched voice, as the mutating offspring of Seth Brundle (Goldblum's character from the first film), inhabited the child-like qualities of his role with the sensitivity he displayed in Mask, adding an appropriate amount of dark dimension when the situation or two called for it. Daphne Zuniga, in the follow up female role from Geena Davis, is empathetic as the caring and defiant Beth Logan. And Lee Richardson, does a masterful job of a torn, yet despotic CEO of Bartok industries, becoming the surrogate father figure that Stoltz's rapidly aging Brundle so requires.Whether you watch this sequel immediately after the first film or years later, you'll soon realize that The Fly 2 stands on its own merits as a crisp horror tale, as well as continuing a legacy with intellect and thrills. Maybe having Frank Darabont (The Mist, The Shawshank Redemption) work on the script helped bring the depth and arc this follow up required. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Son of Brundlefly.","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It kinda goes without saying that with FX man Chris Walas taking the directorial reins from Cronenberg, the sequel to the 1986 horror hit The Fly ain't going to be on a par with its predecessor. But even though The Fly 2 doesn't quite pack the emotional wallop or sophistication of part one, it's still an enjoyable slice of hokey B-movie monster madness that should particularly appeal to those who love a bit of splatter with their big-bug action.Part Two begins as Veronica, the pregnant girlfriend of tragic deceased scientific genius Seth Brundle, dies whilst giving birth to son Martin under the watchful eye of Bartok Industries, the organisation that funded Seth's telepod experiments (baboons don't grow on trees, y'know). Thanks to the unique human/fly genetic make-up he has inherited from his father, Martin experiences accelerated growth, and by the age of five, is a fully grown scientific whizz-kid (played by Eric Stoltz) working for his benefactor Anton Bartok (on the same telepod project that claimed his father's life) and romancing pretty computer operator Beth Logan (Daphne Zuniga).Bartok (Lee Richardson), however, is not as benevolent as he seems with his own wicked agenda in mind, he has led Martin to believe that his rapid growth is the result of a very rare growth disorder, and has kept the lad under continuous observation, waiting for the day that his dormant insect genes fully awaken to transform him into a multi-limbed monster.Despite being a newbie in the director's chair, Chris Walas proves to be no slouch when calling the shots working from a script by frequent Stephen King collaborators Frank Darabont and Mick Garris, he delivers a surprisingly polished product that offers spirited performances from B-list stars Stoltz and Zuniga, a touch of pathos with a memorable key scene involving a mutated dog, and a whole slew of top-notch special effects, the most stomach churning of which see one poor guy having his head crushed by an elevator! Yowch!I do struggle a little with the notion that entering a telepod with another human being (especially a full clothed one) would revert a Brundlefly to perfect human form, but since this was something alluded to in the original, and there's a fitting payoff for the bad guy as a result, I'll cut the film some slack. Besides, I had lots of fun with The Fly 2, and that's what really matters. "},{"Title":"It's not Cronenberg, but it's not total trash either","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seth Brundle's offspring, Martin, is born and begins his life in a controlled lab environment at Bartok Industries. He grows at an accelerated rate both physically and intellectually. After seeing some of the ruthless ethic that the company has towards its experiments and the length they go for results Martin goes on a rampage and escapes. Also, his mysterious and idling chromosomes start to become active and he begins to mutate. First he has better strength and speed and soon he turns into a monster.Much of the visceral symbols and themes from David Cronenberg's film are lost at the expense of gore and special effects, but parts of this obviously inferior film are nonetheless engaging. The character's motivation is clear, the atmosphere is pretty defined, and the film's last act is pretty exciting. Featuring some good gore effects and a ruthless act of revenge against an evil character ultimately make this film more satisfying than its reputation would suggest. 5/10Rated R for violence, gore/gruesome images, and a sex scene "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sequel picks up a few months after the original. Jeff Goldblum's baby is born and he is anything but normal. Growing up at an incredible pace, only at 5 years old he looks like an adult. But his father's fly genes have not escaped him and he awaits his terrible fate.This sequel is nowhere near the class of the original but I didn't find it that bad either. Here the characters aren't as interesting, the pacing is uneven and in the end the film succumbs wholly to an FX showcase with little to no suspense.But there are bright spots here I thought. The acting is generally very good, particularly Stoltz as the unfortunate offspring. He should be used to acting under heavy makeup and he fares well in building sympathy for his character. Richardson, as Stoltz father figure, is also good and on the whole their father-son-mentor-student relationship is well played out.Spoiler alert.I liked the ending quite a bit. When Stoltz finally turns into this bizarre fly the story takes a turn into revenge territory. Stoltz starts killing off his tormentors in a very grisly fashion and I thought that capped the film off well. Plus, the happy ending is welcomed, there was no need to let it end on a downbeat note.End of spoiler.All in all I found The Fly II to be a satisfactory viewing experience on a slow night. You could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"But the first one was so good!","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"22 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Fly II picks up where the first Fly left off. Seth Brundle is dead, and Veronica Quaife is giving birth to their child. We learn that the child has rapid growth disorder, and we skip ahead to when he's 5 years old and a grown man. He is continuing his father's work under the watchful eye of Amos Bartok, a shrewd business man. Unknown to Martin Brundle, he carries his father's genes, and he begins to rapidly transform into a monstrous human/fly abhorration. Everything that made the first Fly so good is suddenly gone in this sequel. Just to name a few things David Cronenberg, a good plot, good dialogue, good acting. They all decided to leave this project.The Fly had everything. Tense, suspenseful horror, sci fi, drama, and even a sort of love story. The Fly II has got disgusting gory horror, little to no sci fi, no drama, and the love story is so underdeveloped that you might as well call it friendship with sex. The acting in this movie is so dull and unbelievable that it's pretty bad to watch. The only thing remotely okay in this movie is the FX, even though it's all used to show disgusting gore that the viewing audience doesn't really want to see.The Fly II should only be watched if you're curious about the continuing storyline, but be warned that it is nowhere close to on par with the original.2/10 "},{"Title":"Good Story/Horror mix","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is overall one of my favorite horror movies. Good, creepy monster, scenes of anticipation, and some characters you care about or despise. The first Fly remake (with Jeff G.), is also a great movie; but I see it as a drama with horror elements that escalates the level a couple can take commitment to horrific heights. It uses horror to punctuate the OMG! of the drama. It was an excellent movie.Fly 2 reverses the priority of drama vs horror. It adds the popcorn munching fearsome good time of the old horror movies, updated to todays standards. The old Boris Karloff movies can be shown to a 5 year old today and he'd see it as anything but scary. If you scoff, then you need to watch this at home, with surround or the stereo, lights off. IF you're not scared, you'll at least be captivated. Fly 2 gives you enough character development to care, but not enough for serious drama. That's fine. The story however, has more twists than the original, and rather than exposing the bug and killing him immediately at the end like the first fly, this one gets to buzz around and do some damage. If it didn't, it would be virtually the same formula as the original; and the detractors would have even more a field day trashing this movie; as would I.If you liked the original, and also like movies like the remakes of The Blob and The Thing from the 80's you won't be sorry seeing this one. The creature effects are much better than those two movies as well. However, if you thought those movies were trash, then skip this one. You are just too um... deep for this movie. "}{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Sequel, But It Can't Match The Original","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very enjoyable sequel, but it can't match the original. The effects for the most part are top notch, and the story is engaging, however it does get a little silly near the end, and the fly effects were pretty bad, overall, though, this is a really fun sequel with 2 great leads.It was rather intense at times, and often quite creepy, but some of the stalking scenes, were too long,and i wish John Getz, had more screen time, overall though, this was a very enjoyable sequel. The Direction is pretty good. Chris Walas, does a pretty good job here, with cool camera angles, some cool tricks, however he is no David Cronenberg, and it did get a bit long in tooth near the end, but the pace was excellent for the most part, and he did a solid job overall. There is TONS of gore just like the 1st. We get some very gory surgery scenes, nasty child birth, bitten off fingers, lots of acid spray, TONS AND TONS of slime, TONS and TONS of weird gore that's hard to explain, bloody corpse, big puddle of blood, ripped off face, acid spray to the hand, a head gets crushed (very gory)and more!. The Acting is very good. Eric Stoltz, does an excellent job here, he is very likable, had good chemistry with Daphne Zuniga, and was perfect for the lead. Daphne Zuniga, is very pretty, and does very well here,and had good chemistry with Eric Stoltz!. Lee Richardson,is excellent here, he was mysterious, and his character was unpredictable i liked him. John Getz is excellent reprises his small role here, and i wish he had more screen time. Overall i highly recommend this sequel!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"BZZZZZZZZZZ...! Cert 18","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first watched the fly when it first came out on VIDEO in 1987. The movie was so boring right up to the last half hour when it became a blood bath of special effects and goo!After my experience with the fly, I didn't hold out much hope to the follow up The Fly II, I was so wrong! What a brilliant movie, I found the new characters easy to keep up with, The movie moved at a quicker pace to the first and The Fly II has a lot more emotional grip on the viewer.I am not going to give too much away, The use of a cute dog being forced through the pod and the feelings of a youthful blundell for his four legged friend all made uneasy viewing, But this was a clever way of forcing the viewer to feel for young blundell towards the end of the movie when he goes nuts!I found The Fly II very easy to watch and i am now the proud owner of the original big box copy that has been deleted for some time.The fly II is a lot better than the first and the monster at the end deserves a mention too. It has to be one of the meanest monsters horror has come across, Yet The blundell fly never seems to get any recognition which is a shame as anyone who has watched the movie i am sure will agree, Blundell fly produced some of the sickest deaths and destruction known to the silver screen.You cannot judge The Fly II with out watching it at least a couple of times. Anyone lucky enough to have a copy should dust it down and have another look and then come back and review it. I'm sure you will have a new outlook on this great horror if you do! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Why, WHY was this movie made?","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Did David Cronenberg's The Fly, a very excellent film, really need a sequel? I hardly think so. And even if it did, I think they could have done a lot better than this garbage. It's nowhere near as good as the first, and even worse, it somehow ruins a lot of things about the original. At the end of The Fly, you could draw your own conclusion on what Veronica would do next but literally within the first few minutes of part II she is killed off.The plot is terrible. They go with the old evil company wants the telepods and fly creature gimmick. None of the characters are likable and the relationship between Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga is just tacked on to the horror unlike in first Fly, which does the exact opposite. Once it gets to the climax where it might actually redeem itself with some good horror, it instead just goes with old routine horror crap. There are at least two parts where an anonymous guard slowly and quietly looks around for the creature, finds nothing, says well, there's nothing here and gets killed by the creature that is conveniently hiding in an area where he couldn't see it.I deeply hated this movie. The only thing it had going for it were its grossouts, and I admit they are gross, but they're pointless without a story to back them up. It's one of those sequels that you like to pretend never ever happened, but it's pretty hard to do when every DVD of the first Fly film is a double feature along with this second part.My rating 1/10 "},{"Title":"I wish I had a really big fly swatter for this one.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is bad. Instead of a tragic, scary film like the first we have a gross, stupid film with an unclear and stupid ending. I wish I'd been afraid to see it. Instead I wasted 90 minutes of my life that I could have spent curing cancer. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but average Horror Sequel","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Son of Seth Brundle (Eric Stoltz) is raised in a laboratory by the company that funded Brundle's ground breaking research. He grows much faster than a normal man and is intellectually superior even at the age of 5, he is asked to continue his fathers work and begins to mix with other people, finally developing his young emotions; that is until the part of him that is Fly begins to take control.The movie does start really well and has an interesting plot, but the acting is not sufficient enough to capture the complexities of the character and sell them to the audience.The horror is really just a gore-fest that fails to be scary despite the desperate efforts of the sound engineers and the music score.It's not awful, but it is inferior to the original 5/10 "},{"Title":"Be afraid, be very afraid, again.","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Picking up where The Fly left off, this sequel offers a fresh, different story about the son of Seth Brundle, Martin (Eric Stoltz). His corrupt employer, Bartok (Lee Richardson) adopts Martin only only to use him as a guinea pig to resolve the issues the TelePods present. The fly's genes make five year-old Martin grow extremely faster than normal and, onto the company's scheme, he attempts to find a cure for his condition before he becomes a fly permanently and before the corrupted company succeeds in their evil deeds. This movie highlights, just like the first movie, brilliant make-up and special effects (no CGI stuff) that brings the Fly to life, looking creepy enough to make the hair stand on the back of your neck and make you cover your eyes at times. The plot is fast-paced that cleverly details the scheme of the corporation to Martin attempting to save himself and those he loves, all the while in a thrilling race against time to stop his genes from mutating himself into a full-blown fly. There is the usual graphic scenes like the first one, which one comes to expect from a sci-fi horror, but with added gore. There is also a nice balance of drama, such as the emotional scene involving Martin's dog. And, one thing I would give this film a notch up from the first film is that it had ***spoiler ahead*** a more positive ending (I am a sucker for happy endings) ***end of spoiler***Overall, it's a very good sci-film that relied on its drama, brilliant make-up, and a right amount of horror and action elements in its entertainment value, as opposed to the overly excessive CGI effects, overkill action fight scenes and campy acting that render some of the more recent sci-fi/action films unbelievable and cheesy. Grade B "},{"Title":"Is this a joke?","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie recently because I liked the first one. I don't know why I watched the whole thing. This movie is horrible. It wasn't remotely scary. I ended up laughing more in this film but not at the little comedy bits but at the movie itself. It was just so bad. How could someone like this film even if your a fan of this first Fly. It's so fake too. Remember that scene when the lady was working in the lab with the fly by herself? Come on!! Or the part when the panicking scientist is walking down the hall with the flashlight the size of a laser pointer? What is this a joke? Don't waste your time with this film even if your a big fan of this first one. This movie gets a 1/10 "},{"Title":"Great sequel! Another underrated 80's horror film.","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of horror sequels from the 1980's seem to get an unfair criticism. What happens is the first film becomes a classic. A staple of the decade. And the fans/viewers expect a sequel to be of equal caliber and are disappointed/angered when a sequel shifts direction, style, story, or setting. For example, Return of the Living Dead part II, Halloween III Season of the Witch, Friday the 13th Part 5, Bride of Re-animator. The Fly II falls in with the other mentioned horror sequels as underrated, classic 80's horror flicks that should be enjoyed on their own merit.The Fly II features a decent enough plot about Seth Brundle's son Martin (Eric Stoltz) and the evil corporation that is trying to control him. There's some nice character interaction between Stoltz and Zuniga (even though their chemistry is a bit off) and a touching scene between Stoltz and a mutant dog. But the real reason to watch The Fly II (besides Stoltz outstanding performance) is to see the gore and carnage that ensues once Martin becomes the fly. It's some of the best gore I've seen and instantly launches the film into 80's classic territory! Heads get crushed, people melt, body parts gets ripped off. It's an awesome sight and worth sitting through the dull parts for (like the chase/on the run scenes in the middle).The Fly II is not on the same level as Cronenberg's classic but that doesn't mean it's not a great film. The Fly II delivers the goods and that damn scene with the dog makes me tear up every time! Only bad part...no nudity. "},{"Title":"'Vengeance is mine,' saith the Lord (SPOILER)","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ugh... Was anyone as disgusted as me when that security guard's face melted off? I mean... to think we're supposed to be rooting for our protagonist when he revenges himself (on everyone really) in the most gruesome way imaginable is to me... just vomit inducing...Perhaps it's JUST ME but I never once felt sympathy for Martin and was disappointed he wasn't cancelled in the end. In the end, what (this movie) is, is a sad commentary on the state of the modern sense of the word morality. This movie is akin to the likes of Gangs of New York in that it ennobles the worst of human traits in acting out our most heinous passions, without any balancing force. In the end Bartok receives his due, but the being that deserves cancellation is left to live another day.The original FLY made sense and moreover was a better movie because it had the right state of mind to acknowledge that such a creature, however withdrawn from the human condition, could not in the fullest sense of the word LIVE. Such a creature could only demand cancellation... "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok it was rather drab but what did everyone expect?  It wasn't as awful as the other comments seem to be making it.  I was entertained at least.  We got a chance to see the full grown fly mutant this time, and the gory moments were quite camp and fun, and the ending is a crowd pleaser if nothing else.  As for the dog scene, it is rather moving - though pets are the easiest route to someone's emotions and this idea was clearly exploited. It doesn't take genius filmmaking to get someone to cry over a dog that is suffering.  This sequel provided the story that I expected from it.  "}{"Title":"Sequel To Remake.","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Chris Walas took over directing duties from David Cronenberg in this sequel, which begins with the birth of Martin Brundle, the offspring of his late parents after his father Seth had been genetically altered by the telepods. He grows at a rapid rate, and five years later is fully grown(and played by Eric Stoltz). He has been adopted by Bartok(played by Lee Richardson), millionaire industrialist who had funded Seth's experiments, and owns the technology, and has tried in vain to perfect it, though hopes that Martin can make it work, since he has inherited his father's intellect. Unfortunately, Martin starts to change much like his father, and goes on the run from the corrupt Bartok, with his girlfriend Beth(played by Daphne Zuniga) with him, desperately trying to reverse the process, and avoid the tragic fates of his parents...Frustrating sequel is scrupulously faithful to the first, with solid continuity and performances, but somebody let it slip away into gory melodramatic foolishness. A real shame, and the fate of Martin's poor dog is heartbreaking, and by far the most disturbing thing about this film, though it is resolved satisfactorily, with the evil Bartok reaping what he sewed... "},{"Title":"Well that was a waste of time","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I am not what you would consider a fan of the original movie. To me that one is decent at best. It was far from perfect. This one however is the classic example of a bad horror sequel.The movie's plot is that Seth's son Martin has accelerated growth (what a way to speed up the plot!) and is trying to work on his fathers project. He meet a girl and they become friends (or love interests but in this movie it seems like they were just friends with sex). He finds out that the company that raised him want him to transform. Then (magically I might add) he starts to transform by running from the company to his love interest/friend's houseboat that seems to be on land. After that they run to a hotel, then back to the company. He ends up having his transformation into a Kaiju monster complete (I say Kaiju monster because he looks nothing like a Fly) then rampages to fuse his DNA with the DNA of his adopted father.The acting is awful, the only exception is John Getz (who reprises his role from the first movie). The only other person you might know is Daphne Zuniga who's most known role is Princess Vespa in Spaceballs. Anything that tried to come off as suspenseful was instead boring. Some of the script is laughable, especially when the control room guy said that they wouldn't know what Martin Brundle would look like (Hmmm, have you thought he looked like a giant fly?). Not enjoyable except for completionists. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable B Movie Sci-Fi/Horror/Thriller.","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Months after Seth Brundle (Jeff Goldblum) has died after accidental fusion himself with a housefly in the teleportation. When he was infected, he had sex with his girlfriend Veronica (Now played by Saffon Henderson) before he went he was contagious. Months has passed... Veronica has died being scared to death giving birth to her son in a high tech placed, where secret experiments are done in Brundle's former employees at the Bartok Industries. Which it's controlled by Anton Bartok (Lee Richardson), Anton and the other scientists discovers Brundle's son named Martin. He grows quickly at a young age because of the mutation genes in him and he's quite intelligent as well. At the age of two in the body of a 10 year old boy Martin (Harley Cross) has witness Bartok's dangerous experiments with the golden retriever he grows quite found of. From using the dog by telepods by creating successful teleportation but it has failed since the dog has come out horribly deformed.Three years has passed...Martin (Eric Stoltz) now the body of a young adult. Which Martin has grow found of Anton, which he sees him as a father. Anton thinks it is think to show his father work after seeing the horrible experience with the dog. Anton thinks that Martin could unlock the secrets of his late father experiments to be successful. At the same time, Martin has fallen in love with a Bartok employee Beth (Daphne Zuinga). Who she doesn't know nothing about Bartok's secret experiments. But Martin slowly find himself changing terribly to the late father, he never knew and he was double crossed by Anton and the employees he knew for years. Which they been waiting for Martin to transform into a human-fly. Now Martin tries to find a way to turn himself human before it is too late.Directed by Oscar-Winner Chris Walas, who best known for creating Creature f/x work like Enemy Mine, The Fly and Gremlins. Walas was wise enough to not to do the same film-making style of the first Fly back in 1986. Which it was directed by Canadian filmmaker David Cronenberg. Because no one makes movies like Cronenberg. Walas was making more gory monster movie of the 1950's with 1980's special effects. Walas has good actors here at work, Sloltz has an good performance here. John Getz from the original has a cameo here and including Goldblum from a deleted scene that wasn't used on the first one.The Collector's DVD Edition from Fox is great, Disc 1 has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an sharp digitally remastered DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1). Disc 1 includes an running commentary track by the director and film historianBob Burns, alternate ending and a deleted scene. Disc 2 including an documentary (Which it is more of long but interesting interviews with the director, producerSteven-Charles Jaffe and a brief one with music composer Christopher Young-A Nightmare on Elm Street 2Freddy's Revenge-The Grudge-Hellraiser), another documentary about the history of the Fly movies with narration from Leonard Nimoy, featurettes and more.For those, who doesn't have much high expectations from the original will certainly enjoy the sequel. Despite some unbelievable silly stuff by the screenplay written by Mick Garris (Critters 2The Main Course, The Shining 1997, Sleepwalkers), BrothersJim & Ken Wheat (Pitch Black) and Frank Darabont (The Green Mile, The Mist, The Shawshank Redemption). From a story by Garris, which the story has some truly odd behavior at times. The Fly 2 went on to have an loyal cult following. Since there's no CGI effects work in this, the special effects still holds up quite well for being nearly 20 years old. If you still haven't seen this, you might find some enjoyment in this feature. Don't miss it. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"An Excellent Sequel","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was just a kid the first time I saw The Fly, and not much older when I saw The Fly 2. While neither of them really lived up to the special effects of the day, they were both excellent films. I was especially intrigued by the perfection of the actual fly-form of Martin Brundle as opposed to his father, Seth. As a child, I actually thought the fly-form of Martin would have made a great comic book hero.I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a good science fiction film, and I'd love to see modern remakes of both the original film and this one. Wtih modern special effects and computer animation at its best, they would make excellent films for a new generation to experience. "},{"Title":"Be even more afraid","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror movies about insects are the greatest to my mind.And flies are fascinating insects anyway. The fly actually vomits over food so it can digest it and here we get the vomit being spewed out and having the power to burn. Having seen the original film I thought the remake was,in some ways,not as good but the idea of the sequel where the story is extended to allow another generation was quite ingenious but never explained how the fly with the human head trapped in a spiders web ever got out.It was after all the woman's lover and whether she was expecting another child or whether visited in the night...this is the sort of wacky stuff writers think up to make something happen!. Somehow the ending of a gene swap has made it possible for another sequel as Martin must still have some fly DNA. I wasn't sure what a hideous looking dog was doing there-but whatever its an entertaining movie with no end of gore "},{"Title":"Still feeling sorry for the dog...","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I remember why I subconsciously held a grudge against this sequel! I vaguely recall seeing it at rather young age and it contains a sequence in which an adorable dog (Golden Retriever) is horribly abused during a scientific experiment! I can stand seeing people butchered easily&#133; but not animals, so I automatically hated this movie until I re-watched it the other day. The Fly 2 is a logical, but very nasty and unappealing sequel to David Cronenberg's 1986 cult classic. Not that it's a totally bad movie, but it's redundant and there's practically no relation to the events or characters of the original. The movie opens with a pathetic Geena Davis look-alike giving birth to some little hideous monster, shaped like a cocoon. She dies and the offspring (a boy named Martin) becomes property of Bartok Industries. The kid grows ridiculously fast and he inherited his father's brilliance to finish the work in the teleportation field. Apparently, it was destined that Martin slowly turns into a fly-creature and, when he discovers that the company didn't do anything to prevent this, he snaps and does a little bit of killing. Compared to Cronenberg's original, this sequel lacks the ability to raise compassion and sympathy for the protagonists and therefore the dramatic sequences are a real bore. Eric Stolz really tries to follow into Jeff Goldblum's footsteps but his persona is too weak and his lines are all but convincing. Since it was special-effects guy Chris Walas who directed this film, the stress obviously lies on the gore and monstrous make-up effects. The result is an exaggeratedly gross movie with few interest in plot or logic we witness (in close-up) how a person's head is crushed by an elevator and how another man's face eerily melts after vomited upon. The Brundlefly itself look extremely grotesque and the forced happy-ending irritated me immensely. Due to the extremely gore content, I certainly wouldn't advise people with a weak stomach to watch it. Heck, even trained horror fans better make sure they don't watch it right after finishing lunch. "},{"Title":"A compelling sequel","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before I saw this film I expected it to be bad, because sequels are usually not as good as originals, so I thought this one was going to be lousy. I still thought it was bad and cheesy after the first fifteen minutes. But then, I was amazed by this movie again and again and again. It has an unpredictable plot, a neat ending, fairly good acting and satisfactory debut direction by effects man-turned-director Chris Walas.I was totally innocent when I watched the film and I was shocked to realize that Martin Brundle (Eric Stoltz) had been used, deceived and exploited by Bartok (Lee Richardson) and his staff all the time. I never doubted that Bartok was so loving and fatherly to Martin. People at Bartok Industries have no conscience and no sympathy for him. In the end they will have to pay for the evil things they've done to him. The ending is really smart, not necessarily too heartbreaking, but  horrifying, disturbing and is a fascinating surprise.I like The Fly II even better than the original, because it has a more complex plot and more central characters. Eric Stoltz beautifully portrayed Martin Brundle as a sensitive and fragile young science genius (well, since he is a genius, how come he never found out that the whole Bartok crew had been lying to him?). Anyway, this is an intriguing work.     "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" IMDb user ratings, sometimes, tend to baffle me. On one hand, you have a totally overrated, over-hyped, mediocre gangster film starring Al Pacino (SCARFACE, people! Not THE GODFATHER, please!!!)in the IMDb top 250 films of all time and really memorable stuff like E.T. (yeah it's corny, but it was a GOOD film anyway!)not on that list. For my money, I think Chris Walas' THE FLY II is one of the most entertaining sequels ever. Trying to top Cronenberg's version was asking too much, but I honestly think Walas' did a very good job in carrying off the story of Seth Brundle's son into an entertaining movie. Martin Brundle's mother dies at birth and is raised by the people who financed his dad's experiments (the Bartok corporation). Martin (Eric Stoltz) grows very fast, due to the mutant genes he's carrying. By the time he's 5 years old, Martin has all the looks of a twenty something boy. Martin is also extremely intelligent and is put to work for Mr. Bartok himself. The boy has rarely seen the outside world, due to he's supposed illness. Withing the confines of the Bartok plant he meets a lovely young girl (Daphne Zuñiga) who befriends him, before becoming lovers. Just as Martin was finally feeling accepted by others, his inevitable transformation begins to take place, something that Mr.Bartok was anxiously awaiting. Martin tries to get away from the Bartok compound when he finds Mr. Bartok has been spying on his private life (when he was told by Mr.Bartok himself that he would be free) and after knowing his awful truth that he's becoming a monster in much the same way his dad before him did. THE FLY II moves at a very nice pace, without ever looking bored. There are plenty of shock moments and gore to please the die hard fans of the original. In fact, I'm inclined to say that this sequel is gorier that the first one. The acting is passable but Eric Stoltz performance is the movie's golden asset. He is believable as Martin Brundle and you feel his frustrations and (eventually) his anger. I've seen so many sequels that are trash that I have to wonder why on earth did THE FLY II get such a low IMDb rating. THE FLY II may not be Oscar material (unless you count the make up effects, which are top notch!) but it sure makes for a very entertaining sequel! "},{"Title":"Decent enough sequel, but not as good as Cronenberg's original.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film begins as Veronica Quaife (Saffron Henderson) is giving birth to her and Dr. Seth Brundle's (Jeff Goldblum) offspring. She gives birth to a slimy cocoon , from inside which their son Martin Brundle emerges. Veronica dies during labour. Martin becomes the property of Bartok Industries run by Anton Bartok (Lee Richardson) because his company supplied the equipment and funding for Seth Brundle's original experiments. Martin becomes very close to Bartok and considers him his father. Martin grows at an astounding rate, he is told by his Doctors that he has a genetic disorder called 'Brundle's accelerated growth syndrome'. For every one human year he ages at the rate of five. He never sleeps, has a photographic memory and consumes information at a huge rate. He is constantly monitored by cameras and studied by Dr. Shepard (Frank C. Turner) and Dr. Jainway (Ann Marie lee). Eventually as an adult Martin (Eric Stoltz) start to develop emotions and falls in love with night shift worker Beth Logan (Daphne Zuniga), Bartok also uses Martins brilliance to carry on his fathers work, and perfect the teleportation devices. Beth is transfered to another lab across town and Martin begins to realize that he has been lied to and considered nothing more than a experiment since birth. Soon Martin starts to change, his skin starts to ooze slime and goo and his whole body is gradually metamorphasised into a grotesque mutant, and Martin is determined to gain revenge against all those who lied to him. Directed by Chris Walas whose company provided the special effects for this and the original. I quite liked it overall. The fist half of the script by Mick Garris, Jim & Kim Wheat and Frank Darabont concentrates on building the relationships between the characters, and the second half basically consists of a giant slimy genetic mutant monster on the loose running around killing everyone in sight. Acting is solid throughout, and Zuniga makes for an attractive leading lady. The special effects are impressive, Martin as the fly looks good even if the puppetry is a little stiff in certain scenes, we get some decent gore effects too, like a melting face after Martin sprays a security guard with digestive acid and a gorily squashed head. There is also a scene of a mutant dog which some people might find a little distasteful. The film has good production values and has a certain polish about it. Good enough in all departments, but not outstanding in any. It ain't too bad, and probably at least worth a watch for horror film fans. "},{"Title":"A MAGGOT OF A MOVIE","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just like KING KONG LIVES, FLY II is a pointless, stupid, and asinine sequel to a substandard remake of a classic original (even though Cronenberg's version had it's moments). Not so here. Eric Stoltz carries on the experiment which turned his father (Jeff Goldblum) into the title fiend. Of course, we wouldn't have much of a movie if he didn't.Come to think of it, it's still not much of a movie to begin with.Rating 1/4 * out of *****If not for the make-up job, I would have given this one a 0. "}{"Title":"Be afraid&#133; of money-hungry moviemakers !","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first The Fly was a novel about the disintegration of ahuman being, this one is about the disintegration of  film-maker's integrity. Compared to this script, Species isIngmar Bergman  there are bad scientists, bad scientists die,the son goes back to normal and goes into Blue Lagoonterritory. Of course, the Bad guys are there to be bad so theycan be exterminated, in the good ol' American tradition. Thoughthere was no normality back for Seth Brundle once he wasdoomed by fate - and no bad  science, which would beanti-Cronenberg - his son still can get a car, a mortgage anbdbuild a family. I thing the good dog sequence is one of themost disgusting, blatant use of audience manipulation in knownhistory - especially because it somehow manages to move you. Allin all, this movie is utter trash that takes itself seriously,with well-hidden nazistic overtones. (If it's unconscious, it'seven worse). To be avoide "},{"Title":"A sequel that slips more than the original.","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie continues after the first one where the heroine from the first one gives birth to the son of the Fly Scientist.She gives birth to the inhuman new born. Looks like a regular human boy but it isn't. His IQ is higher than an average human and he ages faster than a regular human too. The company the boy's father worked at is holding him as a test subject, because he won't fit perfectly in the human world.At age 5, he resembles a full grown teen. They offer him a place at the company to continue his father's research and a place of his own.All seem great to the kid, but he doesn't know that he'll soon become a new Fly creature.This sequel is alright, follows a similar idea like before, only it doesn't have the ingredients for a well done sequel. Those who liked the first one might either hate it or like it. Either way there's really nothing too special about it. Again rent it first for your own opinion on it. But warn it has plenty of gross out parts. "},{"Title":"Really Bad Copy of the Original","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Fly II (1989) * 1/2 (out of 4) Silly and rather stupid sequel has Martin (Eric Stoltz), the son of the original film's fly, growing up in a laboratory where he thinks they are keeping him healthy. He strikes up a relationship with Beth (Daphne Zuniga) and soon they realize that he too is turning into a fly.THE FLY II was a film that I'm sure the writers hoped would be much more serious but instead of doing anything fresh or original we're left with one of those sequels that simply copied the original film. The film was pretty much bashed to pieces on its original release because it was no ways near the quality of the original but I personally think it's hard for any sequel to live up to the original. With this film you'd hope for at least something entertainment but sadly that doesn't happen.There are all sorts of problems with this movie but the biggest is the fact that it's really just a copy of the first movie. Heck, even Zuniga looks like the Geena Davis character and the women basically have the same relationship with the man. The problem here is that the love story here is just rather lame and this sequel never captures the spirit, the energy or the emotion of the original. Whereas the 1986 film had you care for the characters, that's simply not the case here.I thought the performances were good for the most part with Stoltz and Zuniga doing a nice job as does Lee Richardson and John Getz. The real star of the picture are the special effects, which the MPAA let get away with quite a bit of gore. The man-to-fly creation was quite good, although I will admit that the actual fly looked too good for its own good. There are some memorable gore sequences towards the end of the film that gives us a bit of energy but it comes way too late.THE FLY II is a really bad sequel that just doesn't have enough going for it to make it work. "},{"Title":"major step down from Cronenberg's The Fly","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Veronica Quaife pregnant with Seth Brundle's baby delivers a mutant. Seth's employer Anton Bartok keeps the baby which grows rapidly. Five years later, Martin Brundle (Eric Stoltz) is a young man continuing his father's work. One night, he meets overnight-shift worker Beth Logan (Daphne Zuniga). Martin conceives a way to cure his mutation but it needs to transfer the mutant genes to another donor.Special effects head Chris Walas of the first movie takes over the directing role. It doesn't have the same body fears of the Cronenberg horror. The story is a simple plain sequel. Stoltz is fine and I like Zuniga. Bartok is not impressive enough. There are lots of gore. The fly monster isn't filmed that well but it's lots of goo and blood. I think simply turning off the lights would elevate the scares. It's a weak horror. The story is functional. The young couple is nice. Overall, this is a major step down from Cronenberg. "},{"Title":"good sequel","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a highly underrated movie, people should realize that it is a good sequel. it has a continuing storyline. It is like a part 2 of the original movie. This is a true horror movie with awesome gory scenes and gripping tale of how the son had the genetic disease passed on to him by his dad.the effects are great and background score is adding fun to the drama. Acting is OK not exceptional but average. But this is definitely not a mediocre movie. The dog scene was really gross. The first part gave us how the creature is born but in this part it actually grows. The director has done a great job with this flick and I loved it best to watch it late night with some munchies on to get a good scare. "},{"Title":"Bring your swatter","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where David Cronenberg's original 'The Fly' rose above its B-movie premise and roots to become an operatic tragedy, the sequel never even aspires, much less reaches, those lofty heights. Instead it mucks about in the genre gutter, happy to be nothing more than a B-grade monster movie.The first two acts move at a snail's pace, with nothing compelling happening and no clear sense of urgency. Things come alive a bit in the final half hour, but it's all just standard monster/horror genre stuff.The make-up F/X are pretty good, and Lee Richardson eschews hamming it up as the would be villain, but 'The Fly II' is otherwise a very big step back from the original. "},{"Title":"Many a few, a good sequel BUZZZZZ!","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This time around, it's through the son of Seth Brundle, where the story continues. Used as a guinea pig, he's grown up inside Bartok industries, controlled by a corrupt organization, you're so glad to see em' get their just desserts, near the end. Martin Brundle, has led a contained life within their interiors, for many reasons. He's genetic disease, of course, that of a fly, sees him aging rapidly as if in dog years. And too if you're a dog lover like me, one scene will be upsetting here. On the whole, this affair is a good strong sequel, with an over supply of goo and slime, much more than it's predecessor, while also surprisingly long. Martin (Eric Stoltz, miscast,) now in his teens is giving his own apartment, within Brundle Industries, where spying eyes are watching, of course. His falls in love with one of the staff (Daphne Zuniga) where soon it's hell all over again, where he adopts his father's disintegration pattern, slowly embodying the characteristics of a human fly. John Getz returns in a small part, looking worse for wear, providing a relief of humor, as may'be the other guy who can heal Martin. Although it is a bit long in the tooth or ploddingly long, which way you cut it, this not a badly made sequel, and does have an interesting direction and structure of story. We do spend a bit of time with Martin as a kid, which I liked, but of course, the original would be favored more, divided by opinion. Too, it has a happy romantic ending, I wasn't really aware of, until a few re watches. "},{"Title":"Yucky, Occasionally Effective Sequel to The Cronenberg Horror Classic","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The son of Veronica Quaife and Seth Brundle is born with genetic mutations. The owner of Bartok Industries keeps Martin Brundle hidden away in the research labs for study while hoping to unlock the secrets of the teleportation pods Seth Brundle was working on at the time of his death. Martin is a genius aging at an accelerated rate towards an even more terrifying mutation; he's about to morph into an insectoid, acid spewing beast unless his girlfriend can find a solution. The Fly II was directed by Chris Walas who was responsible for the unforgettable, gruesome transformation of Jeff Goldblum into the Fly-creature in the hugely popular Cronenberg film. Walas knows his gore and the effects in The Fly II are quite stomach churning. In the end, it's the characters played by Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga that let the production down. They simply can't carry the same dramatic weight as Goldblum and co-star Geena Davis from the original. Especially under pounds and pounds of make up and prosthetics. Very scary at times and quite unsettling. Worth a look especially for fans of the franchise. "},{"Title":"While not a total loss, The Fly II disappoints, trading in the expert direction and craftsmanship of the original for non-stop special effects and buckets of blood...","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Cronenberg's The Fly was an incredible re-imagination of the old Vincent Price-starring B-horror flick of the 50's. Utilizing deep exploration of character and wonderful, provocative uses of body horror, Cronenberg's film still holds up as not only one of the finest examples of a remake-done-right, but also arguably one of the best horror films to ever grace the screen.It was only a matter of time before studios demanded a sequel to the surprisingly touching hit. And that sequel was released in 1989- The Fly II, from director Chris Walas, a special effects wizard who had worked on the previous film. And while I would be lying if I said this haphazard sequel was a total loss, I have to be honest in admitting it's a bizarre, mish-mash effort that never begins to reach the perfection of the original. Eschewing Cronenberg's provocative storytelling and metaphorical imagery, this sequel instead focuses on zany, schlock-y gore effects, in a clear attempt to cash in on gore-hounds who were eating up the slasher-films of the era.We follow Martin (Eric Stoltz), son of Seth Brundle from the original film. Suffering a unique genetic structure thanks to his father's modified DNA, Martin ages quicker than usual, has an increased mental development and also has the potential to turn into a vicious fly- human hybrid in the future. Being taken care of by the cruel Bartok industry (lead by Lee Richardson in an adequately villainous role), Martin attempts to solve the mystery of what is happening to him, while also seeking to take down Bartok with the help of love interest Beth. (Daphne Zuniga of Spaceballs fame.)The performances, while decent, are of little note thanks to an iffy script. While inherently likable, Stoltz and Zuniga just aren't fleshed out enough beyond archetypal good guy with a problem and love interest characterizations. Richardson is fairly menacing as our villain, however, and a surprise guest-role from John Getz (reprising his role from the first film) is a joy to watch, giving the film its only real connection to the original and sense of urgency.The script (co-written by future cinematic mastermind Frank Darabont) is the biggest issue here. It's very wonky, and for every step it takes forward, it takes another step back. There are a lot of great ideas and wonderful moments here. An early sub-plot involving Martin's connection with a canine test subject is heartbreaking, in particular. And the film does have a good narrative flow. But many scenes feel contrived and meandering, and things just don't work within the context of the story or series. I wouldn't be surprised if the elements that work came from a Darabont draft of the script, because you can feel his influence at times. But not in a way that works as well as his other films generally do.Walas's direction is concise, sometimes stylish, and fundamentally solid, though I cannot help but feel he doesn't quite have a grasp of the material or what made the original film work. He relishes in showing us the ooey-gooey details of Martin's transformation, and the plethora of gore effects, but feels almost too restrained and nonchalant about character development and plotting. You can tell Walas wants to deliver buckets of slime and blood, and that's where he excels with the film. It's just a shame that the plot and characters suffer for it.However, I will concede that the plethora of transformation and creature effects are quite innovative, and I do find myself bordering on recommending the film. Specifically for gore-hounds or people who are interested in prosthetics/animatronics. Because these effects are well worth seeing to those who can stomach them. The creature (I'm not spoiling anything, as the film is clearly leading up to a big creature reveal) is well-implemented and realized. (Save for some goofy eyeballs that don't look quite as real as the rest of the body.) Transformation effects are somewhat unsettling and eerie. And the kill-sequences are brutal and hard-hitting. I'd even go so far as to say this film might have the single best melting man scene I've ever seen put to film, courtesy the fly's acidic vomit and an unfortunate henchman being in the wrong place at the wrong time.I'm somewhat torn in regards to what to rate this film. The writing is messy and characters are never fully developed, so in that regard, it never begins to even touch the quality of the first film. But fun, innovative effects and likable enough leads do salvage the material in a way that makes the film watchable at very least. It's not necessarily a good watch. But it's an interesting watch.I'm giving The Fly II a slightly under-average 4 out of 10. Not the classic that Cronenberg's film was, but worth checking out once or twice for fans, or for those interested in seeing the zany effects. "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Sequel!","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eric Stoltz, Daphne Zuniga, Lee Richardson and John Getz star in this 1989 sci-fi/horror sequel. This begins with woman, Veronica (Originally played by Geena Davis) dying after giving birth to a baby. Soon, we meet the child, Martin Brundle (Stoltz) who is not only very intelligent, but ages rapidly because of his late, father, Seth (Jeff Goldblum). Richardson plays businessman, Anton Bartok who adopts Martin and his head of company, Bartok Industries. Martin tries to learn about his father and his research. Soon, Martin discovers he's inherited his insect genes and tries to find a cure. He also discovers that Bartok is corrupt and using him to continue his father's experiment. Zuniga (Spaceballs) plays Martin's love-interest, Beth Logan and Getz returns briefly as Stathis Borans who is now crippled. This isn't a bad sequel that's underrated, Stoltz is great in it, Chris Walas' make-up effects are grotesquely good and Christopher Young's score is great as usual. I recommend this. "}{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as its reputation","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This derivative schlock delivers the gooey goods. Characters range from being one dimensional to about an 1/8 of a dimension, which is about most of the cast of characters who all work for the evil Bartok. Eric Stoltz does as much as he can as the brilliant boy raised in a lab and will turn into a horrible, mutated fly. The shaky narrative is built around make- up effects and they are more than adequate here. The last act of the film is the usual stalk and kill as many underdeveloped, evil characters as the make-up effects department can handle. It's a fun little creature feature with a toxic reputation that really isn't that bad. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie gets a bad rap that I feel is undeserved. Sure, it's nowhere near as great as the 1958 or 1986 Fly films, but it's still pretty good.After the events of The Fly (1986), Veronica dies during childbirth, producing a larval sac containing the infant son of Veronica and Seth. The baby is named Martin, and is taken into the custody of Bartok, the owner of the company who funded Seth's experiments. Due to his fly genes, Martin grows at an accelerated rate, having the emotional and physical maturity of a man in his mid-twenties by age 5. Martin's fly genes then start to surface, and he escapes Bartok Industries with employee Beth Logan, who he is romantically involved with. Martin's mutations continue to progress until he is recaptured by Bartok, and he then fully mutates into a large monster that rampages through Bartok's building.The special effects in this are top-notch, which isn't surprising considering this film is directed by Chris Walas, who handled the special effects for The Fly and Gremlins. The Martinfly creature in particular is awesome, and the mutated dog creature's looks make it both ugly and sympathetic. The Martinfly creature begins killing people almost immediately after its (re)birth, and the kills it racks up are great, in particular when it vomits acid on a guard's face.Eric Stoltz does a good job as Martin, and like Jeff Goldblum, he has to act through pounds of makeup much of the time. Bartok is an OK villain, he's a bit of a stereotypical emotionless businessman, but his fate as a deformed lab experiment is a welcome and unconventional end for a villain. The third act is the highlight, but the first two acts of the film are still quite good. It's a more conventional monster movie than the 1986 film which is far superior, but it's well done for what it is. "},{"Title":"The Fly II Electric Bug-aloo","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Fly II (1989), directed by Chris Walas. 105 minutes.PlotIn the wake of Seth Brundle's (Jeff Goldblum) ill-fated science project in David Cronenberg's The Fly, his lover, Veronica (played by Not-Geena Davis), gives birth to their offspring. While the child appears normal at first, he proves to be anything but. By age five, Martin (Eric Stolz) resembles a young 20-something and carries an intellect rivaled only by his father. The good folks at Bartok industries are studying him closely, and when it's revealed that they've been watching him and his girlfriend (Daphne Zuniga) a little too closely, Martin gets a little bugged and starts buzzing about. While causing general mayhem and chaos, he begins to come of age, morphing into a hideous human-fly with a face only a mother (or at least a sympathetic co-worker) could love. Whether we like it or not, we truly do grow up to be our parents, huh?Writing and DirectingDirector Chris Walas, who worked on the creature effects for Cronenberg's landmark original, turns in his first directorial effort. The film focuses unsurprisingly on its special effects (which are great, mind you) and Walas puts on an appropriately entertaining enough creature feature that unfortunately lacks focus. While the director can't help but care more for his creatures than his characters, the film's true fault lies with its script. Though the legendary Frank Darabont and even the solid Mick Garris had a hand in its creation, the film lacks a single character that breaks out of stereotype. Though there's a significant tragic element involving Martin's pet dog, there is little at stake in the film beyond the archetypal villain attempting to keep Martin under his thumb so that he can continue to exploit him. It's no surprise then that the film's most interesting moments are also its most grisly. There are some interesting ideas at play, but unfortunately the film never knows when to capitalize on them. This is a key example of why studios should try to get the script right before rushing into production.Cast Stolz makes do with what little he's given. Granted, he's no Jeff Goldblum but he handles himself well enough, evoking enough sympathy and innocence to keep the film above water. Sadly, his co-star Daphne Zuniga doesn't have much screen presence and there is zero chemistry between the two. John Getz -- the only recurring cast member from the original -- shows up for a few scenes and while he hams it up with some choice lines (That guy really bugged me in reference to Brundle Sr.) he is ultimately inconsequential to the story.MusicChristopher Young's score is effective, even if it feels mostly recycled from the original.The Bottom Line(s) The Fly II isn't the worst sequel ever and in all fairness, its predecessor is a tough act to follow. While admittedly a step down in quality, it at least tells a different story than the first and even if it doesn't succeed in all it sets out to do, it's heart is in the right place. If nothing else, the creature effects go a long way in redeeming an otherwise middling film.Lessons Learned - Be nice to dogs and they will be nice to you.- When you re-build two telepods that have had disastrous and deadly effects in the past, it's probably best you put a window in the second one. After all, you wouldn't want some unfortunate creature lashing out at you by surprise when you open the door. "},{"Title":"Fly II review","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A few years after David Cronenberg's remake of The Fly, this sequel came along to pick up where the first film left off. Following in Cronenberg's footsteps, The Fly II continues to shock and horrify, with a fresh new wave of grotesque mutations, gnarly blood and gore, and even more inhuman experiments in teleportation.Unfortunately, the film doesn't quite move along as smoothly or quickly as its predecessor; this sequel is laden with quite a bit of dragging at certain spots. When the film isn't dragging, it does maintain decent interest with some explosive drama, and explosive bloodshed. A lot of it is more of the same (guy continues to morph into a fly-human hybrid, animals continue to get mangled by the teleporters, more digestive goo is sprayed liberally), but there are a few surprising twists to the thing as well (there's a certain scene involving an elevator that I found quite gnarly, and the ending is wickedly ironic).I never saw that much wrong with the story either. As a continuation that follows a new generation of characters, the story keeps a decent focus on the characters. It is pretty easy to relate to them, as they are effectively treated like lab specimens. That is also the source of the movie's drama and horror. Beyond that, however, the film isn't quite as fresh or deep as the predecessor.The film looks decent, with quality photography and editing. The actors do the best they can, but they don't really stand out enough to surpass the cast of the first film. Writing is okay, but nothing to scream about. The production has okay-looking sets, props, costumes, and SFX. Make-up work and gore is pretty well-done. Music is not bad either.I felt this was a decent follow-up to Cronenberg's The Fly, for it has its moments. If you liked that first film, then this one should be worth a rent.3.5/5 (Entertainment Pretty Good | Story Pretty Good | Film Pretty Good) "},{"Title":"Son of a Fly","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was growing up, and let's just focus on the late 1980s and early 1990s, I scrambled and got thoroughly addicted to&#x85;the movies. I'd see anything, everything, on video or at the (because I poor) dollar theatre. The Fly II was one of those movies I experienced in 1989.Hell, because of my age, I hadn't seen the original just yet. I did know that I loved movies, specifically horror, and Eric Stoltz from one of my all-time favorite movies my sister introduced me to Some Kind of Wonderful. So, as a kid, and with Eric and horror, naturally, I LOVED this movie.Well, it's been years, um, decades since I've seen this last. Like the Fly's Son, I've grown a bit. It's not the FANTASTIC movie I remembered, but still pretty damn good. Heck, it even has a great, though somewhat improbably and total 80/90s premise&#x85;The (even though they changed the actress) mother Veronica Quaife from 1986's The Fly, gives birth while inadvertently dying herself, to a pod who becomes a fast-growing and hyper-intelligent child. Let's just say, by age five, the boy/child looks like Eric Stoltz. He grows up in a lab, but eventually works for the obviously evil corporation to complete his late dad's teleportation experiment.Well, like I said, he's super-smart, and he pieces together, by either brain or sight, what's going on around him, and&#x85;it ain't pretty. Sooner, than much later, he's rapidly becoming the hybrid he originally was intended to become since his father was BrundleFly, a combination of the average and annoying house fly and, the sometimes as equally average and annoying house, human.The original movie proposed a solution and this movie explores that.While technically a low-brow, somewhat slowly paced and clichéd horror movie sequel of the late 80s and early-to-mid 90s, the idea of it, the acting by Stoltz, the exciting and thrilling climax and series-signature gruesome, albeit effective special effects, it's worth a watch. Of course, it's nowhere near the magnitude of the original, but as a decent companion piece, it's recommended.* * * Final (3) thoughts While the original had the line Be afraid. Be very afraid, I absolutely loved the line I'm&#x85;getting&#x85;better, by Stoltz. To me, that was powerful. Oh, and it was also nice to see my favorite soap, Melrose Place's Daphne Zuniga again, even though this predated the nighttime show. And finally, John Getz, the only original cast member from the original, i.e. not stock/deleted-resurrected footage, was absolutely hilarious in his role. I didn't really care for him in the 1986 film, but here he brought a lot to his role and the plot. "},{"Title":"Its heart is in the right place","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This half-decent sequel scores points for trying, but it's more like 'Flyday the 13th' than a companion piece to Cronenberg's masterpiece. It's a solid film with a sympathetic tone, the script's not bad, and there's a memorably touching scene involving a pet doggy that's been telepodded into a shapeless freak; the goopy effects are, as before, excellent.The problem is that the emotional core of the film is underdeveloped, and without the tragedy of the original it's difficult to care when Brundlefly II goes on the rampage, jumping on various employees of the Sinister Corporation that raised him and violently squishing them. It's not good enough, really, but it doesn't disgrace itself either. "},{"Title":"A new generation of terror! Well, sort of...","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this 1989 sequel to David Cronenberg's popular grotesque remake of the 1958 classic, the problems wrought by Seth Brundle's telepods are far from over. Veronica Quaife (now played by Saffron Henderson) dies giving birth to Seth's son, Martin. As it turns out, Martin was conceived by Veronica and Seth after Seth's accident with the telepod, so Martin has fly genes just like his dad.Bartok Science Industries, who funded Seth's work and were mentioned in the previous film, take custody of baby Martin after Veronica's death. They also acquire the two surviving telepods. Martin is raised by uncaring and callous Bartok employees, completely isolated from the rest of the world, as Bartok CEO Anton Bartok takes a wait and see stance on whether Martin will turn into a mutant fly creature like his father. In the meantime, they experiment with the telepods using a dog, with predictable results.Once he's a grown man, Martin is allowed more freedom around the facility so he can fix the malfunctioning telepods. His willingness to cooperate wanes after he finds out about the dog, though. He meets staffer Beth Logan and falls in love with her but a meddling Bartok puts the kibosh on their budding romance, though, by reassigning her to another building. At around this time Martin discovers he is indeed beginning to metamorphose into a fly monster like Seth, and his already thin patience with his hosts finally snaps after he learns Bartok wanted him to transform all along, so that they could experiment on him.Soon, Martin will complete his transformation, and when he does, nobody at Bartok Industries will be safe! Let the acid-spitting, blood-n-guts mutant fly rampage begin! "},{"Title":"A damn sight better than most sequels","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a follow-up to one of the greatest horrors of all time, The Fly II is dreadful. Yet, in its own right, it is actually better than you might have thought.The film concerns the offspring of Seth Brundle, birthed by his lover who dies in the process. At the age of 5, Martin Brundle is already a fully matured adult, having accelerated growth genes. However, he is unaware of the dangerous legacy of his father, and the mutant that is about to erupt from within him.In the original film, Cronenberg ingeniously fused his horror setting with a tragic Shakespeare-esque love story, resulting in a truly amazing film. However, Chris Walas' sequel concerns itself merely with gore and a desire, it seems, to appeal to a younger audience. The characters are wafer thin, and the plot really doesn't hold water.Nonetheless, the gory sequences are gleefully grizzly and, like the original, Walas must once again be commended for his creature effects that made the first film so spectacular. All in all, the film is a damn sight better than it really has any right to be. Especially when you compare it to some piddling sequels you get. "},{"Title":"From beluga caviar to lumpfish roe the fate of the sequel.","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You can like both Picasso and the X-Men-comics, but trying to compare them would either show a lack of good taste or a lack of reason. The original The Fly was a piece of art, despite being a rather gory horror-flick with an air of independence film about it. Like most David Cronenberg films; this is one of the factors that make them brilliant. The problem with doing a sequel to a David Cronenberg film very few directors can match (or even mimic) the artistic brilliance of David Cronenberg.Director Chris Walas did the sensible thing; he's not even trying to copy Cronenbergs style and goes for a more commercial approach he gives the viewer the special-effects and gore (although more moderate than in The Fly) that they came to expect, amps up the science-fiction- and action-elements while concluding the story of Seth Brundell's son, Martin (played by Eric Stoltz).Both Stoltz and Daphne Zuninga do a good job as leading actors and Lee Richardson gives a convincingly slimy villain. It's good to see John Getz recur his role as Stathis but what's sadly missing is the talent and fervour of Jeff Goldblum and Geena Davis, which screen-presence and chemistry paid half the rent for The Fly. Stoltz' transformation into a fly-creature is fascinating, well executed but captivates us much less than Godblums' original transformation, since we already knows what to expect here.Enjoyable for fans of special effects and, as mentioned, mild gore and yet one is grateful that The Fly wouldn't go through the endless, worst-than-the-last sequel-hell and producers decided to call it quits after The Fly II.I'd give it 5 points out of 10 and call it fair.Oh, and another word of warning if you're an animal lover, particularly the dog owners among the viewers might want to skip the part with the teleporting dog. "},{"Title":"This movie bugged me, and not in a good way...","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Fly (1986) was Canadian-born director David Cronenberg's unquestionable masterpiece of sci-fi terror. It's my personal favorite film of his, and is also notable for being his only film to win an Oscar (for its grotesque make-up effects). The movie was such a big success for Cronenberg that a sequel just *had* to be made. While The Fly was a brilliant remake of the 1958 original (based on George Langelaan's story), the 1989 sequel The Fly II flies in the face of everything that was so great about Cronenberg's original masterpiece.To be totally fair, I actually quite enjoyed this film's first half before everything goes downhill in the second. It has a nice build-up, some sweet moments between the two young lead characters, and it does actually seem like it's trying to continue the story instead of repeating the first film (like so many unsuccessful sequels tend to do).It should have been good, since make-up artist Chris Walas (who won the Oscar for Jeff Goldblum's transformation in Cronenberg's first film) is making his directorial debut here with this film. The problem is the script, which seemed to want to be two different movies at once and is credited to no less than five authors (including future directors Frank Darabont and Mick Garris) and each of whom was often tasked with re-writing his predecessor's material. For the first half of The Fly II things seem to be going okay, not super-good by any standard (at least for a sequel) but okay nonetheless.It's in the second half when the special effects and gore sequences kick in that it all falls apart rather quickly. Until then it's a nice ride (at least in my honest opinion). Martin Brundle is the half-man/half-insect hybrid son of The Fly's late hero/villain Seth Brundle (played in the earlier film by a superb Jeff Goldblum). In the opening sequence, his mother dies giving birth to him, leaving the insect-boy an orphan to Bartok Industries, the corporation that financed Seth Brundle's work, with much of his early life spent in isolation in a clinical environment and completely unaware of his imminent transformation.His insect genes allow him to age much faster than humans so that by the time he's only five human years old, Martin looks like an adult in his mid-20s (where he is now played by Eric Stoltz). He's a genius just like his father and because he doesn't sleep, he spends much of his free time trying to continue his late father's work on matter teleportation. That's when he meets Beth (Daphne Zuniga), a friendly co-worker in one of the labs who does the graveyard shift. The two become fast friends and she even helps him on his research work, and it isn't long before the two become lovers (though it may seem a bit disturbing to some tastes that Beth has no idea she's in love with a five-year-old boy).And that's when the special effects begin! As Martin's insect genes start to take over his human ones, he goes through the same gradual transmogrification process that his father suffered through that ultimately turned him into a monstrous man/fly hybrid. This was something that his benefactor the Bartok Industries CEO (Lee Richardson) wanted all along he wanted to use Martin's diseased insect genes to help create an army of insect super-soldiers, and all it took was time for his vision to come to fruition. By the time Martin's a six-foot-tall insect-monster, he's on the loose in the Bartok facility and the movie quickly becomes an Alien/haunted house clone.And that's pretty much why this sequel blows the big one.It's unfortunate how quickly things go downhill in The Fly II because of what it could have been. Instead, it just becomes a gross-out horror flick that's a showcase for gross-out gore and special effects. We're used to seeing grotesque gore and special effects in Cronenberg's films, but he uses these to enhance his vision of the film and continue his fascination with the so-called beauty of bodily destruction. Here in The Fly II, it's barf-bag special effects for the sake of having barf-bag special effects (the most notorious of which is seeing a guy's face melted off by Brundlefly's patented vomit drop).More than likely, the decision to not follow in Cronenberg's footsteps to allow us to meditate and sympathize with our leading hero was done away with in favor of retreading late-'80s trends in slasher flicks. The Fly was not a slasher flick and was far from ever being one; it was a thoughtful, grotesquely beautiful sci-fi/horror flick with a hint of tragic romance. The Fly II is just a gross-out horror movie with a good-but-not-great beginning, semi-decent lead performances by Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga, and a few isolated moments of brilliance.Too bad it let itself go just when things seemed to be getting interesting.5/10 "}{"Title":"Poor compared to Cronenberg's masterful original remake, but not bad.","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Really, more than anything, this movie was just unnecessary. It wasn't a bad picture, and it was kind of entertaining, but the first Fly was just so good, it puts this one to shame. The design and feel of the first movie seemed not to have been taken into consideration here, and instead of a small movie with a small cast of characters, we have a special effects guy (Chris Walas) directing a movie, and everything is about special effects. Though the characters are developed somewhat here, they play backseat to the plot and special effects, which was not true of the first film.Seth Brundle from the first Fly laid his seed prior to his demise, and the carrier of his baby, Ronnie, dies in childbirth. The result of this half fly, half human baby is Martin Brundle (Eric Stoltz), a child who doesn't sleep, has a photographic memory and grows much faster than the normal human being. He is kept isolated from the outside world by Bartok industries, run by the seemingly nice Mr. Bartok (Lee Richardson). When Martin hits five years old, he is actually about twenty and he gets his own place, and falls in love with Beth (Daphne Zuniga), an employee of Bartok, his fly genes begin to kick in.The special effects and gruesome scenes are much more frequent here than in the first film. In the first film, it was shocking to see Seth Brundle looking diseased as the fly. Here, right off the bat we start with all kinds of gruesome make-up effects and special effects and they play as the main focus of the movie. But, even with the more frequented use of makeup effects, they aren't as effective, and they don't look as good. Martin Brundle's fly looks more like the creature from the black lagoon than a fly. It's funnier than it is scary or disturbing. And because of all these gruesome sights, this is an action film more than anything else, where the first was an effective drama. This one is more disgusting than anything else.The characters here are well developed, though they are limited to lots of poor dialogue. Lee Richardson is a menacing villain, and is good at being both evil and nice. Eric Stoltz plays a man-child, and gives a weird performance, but it must have been what he was going for. The romance between Beth and Martin is really corny and forced, and is progressed in the worst way, through montage. The plot of this film is fairly predictable, and this serves as nothing more than a poor continuation of a family that should have ended with Seth.Overall, this wasn't a bad movie. It's entertaining as a B-movie picture, and as a stand alone film, but in comparison to the first, this is quite poor.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 100 mins. R for language, violence and sexuality. "},{"Title":"Nazi scientists torture dog = 80s fun","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For some reason, the 1980's saw an influx of horror movies in which scientists are portrayed as the most evil people on earth. CONSPIRACY THEORY Was this a far-right plot to make us distrustful of scientists and their so-called theory of evolution from the same people who brought us stuff like Red Dawn? Or was it, conversely, paranoid Hollywood liberals trying to portray science and technology as the tools of evil corporations? The latter seems to be the case here, because this movie is like a PETA member's worst nightmare. We follow the life of Seth Brundle's son Martin as he grows up in Bartok Industries, where every single employee is a total ass. The scientists spend their days doing things like putting a dog through a teleporter even though they can't teleport an apple yet, while the security guards/mercenaries wander through the halls sexually harassing people. Although this is presumably a medical company (?), we eventually learn that its purpose is to (direct quote) control the form and function of all life on the planet!!! Fortunately, Martin Brundle is there to provide some humanity to the proceedings and fix the telepods by seeing the beauty of the process while the scientists are too focused on the methodology. That is, until he mutates into a fly monster and goes on a killing rampage, even though he refused to kill anyone about eight minutes earlier in the movie. The revenge of the final scene is shockingly, unbelievably sadistic--it scares me to know there are people who consider this a happy ending. Still, it's a reasonably fun movie if you are are in the mood for it (i.e., drunk). Frank C. Turner gives the best performance as a bitchy doctor. "},{"Title":"not bad, but barely","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As an all-out revenge fantasy type of film, Fly 2 satisfies. The bad guys get their comeuppance and the good guys get turned back into humans. But as a sequel to the far superior original starring Jeff Goldblum, it leaves a whole lot more to be desired. Yes, the ending, creepy as it is, does give the main villain his justly deserved punishment, in appropriate fashion, punishing him for all the grief he caused to Brundle and his various specimens. It would have been a very satisfying ending to a Tales from the Crypt episode, or any other kind of similar genre. What bothered me, though, is that this was an entirely different genre altogether, and for most of the movie I felt it was continuing the spirit of the first movie. But by the time the completely metamorphosed fly-man starts to pet the police dog, I knew this movie had nowhere to go but down.The idea of a man turning into a fly was brilliantly explored in the first movie. There are no winners. There is nothing but deterioration, dissolution. There are no fly politicians, as the Daddy Brundlefly said in the original. Insects do not have compassion, they are brutal. A full sized insect-monster shouldn't distinguish between the good guy humans (his pretty girlfriend) and the bad guy humans (the caricature of a security guard, for instance). The worst part of all was the ending, or just before the ending, when the cure is enacted and Martin comes out in one clean piece. One reviewer here mentioned that the happy ending was not sappy but I think that it was certainly contrived. If maybe he came back but in some deformed way, I could accept it but not the fact that, just because he pulled another human in there with him, one shot deal, he was reverted to his own human self (which he never was completely in the first place, since he always had dormant fly DNA in there waiting to sprout). "},{"Title":"Well... it could have been worse","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay so we're not talking about a work of art here people. Even worse this is a sequel to one very good movie that didn't require continuation of any form. But still, I have to admit it turned out to be much more enjoyable than I thought it would be. Granted, yes the focus was more on sheer effects rather than story, but it still proved coherent and entertaining.As you have probably found out by now, The Fly II is a direct sequel to David Cronenberg's complex and rather though invoking film of the same name. Which in turns was a remake of 1950s movie but well, that's another story. What I meant by direct sequel is that instead of leaving the viewer to make his own decision about what happens after the original's end, The Fly II creates a direct continuation of that story. Here the main character is the son of Seth Brundle protagonist/antagonist of the first part. Five years after being born he has fully grown up into an adult but is also constantly monitored by an evil (he of course does not know that) corporation that hopes to exploit his and his father's rather unique genes. Of course as every good sequel goes, it tries to emulate the originals success and that is probably the reason why Mick Garris felt the need to add a love interest for the main character. Nevermind if that wasn't the reason why Cronenberg was able to create a very very good movie. But oh well, if he did it by adding a female lead that falls in love with the protagonist why can't we? Needless to say as most sequels go, the resulting effect is that of a shallow imitation that totally misses the point of the original.The characters themselves weren't much good either. Well you should have guessed that by now, with this being a sequel and all. The two main leads aren't really all that interesting, their dialogue is a total lackluster and their relationship lacked the chemistry of Goldblum and Davis in the original. The villains are ... well... villains thus they're evil, thus it's going to be good watching them die, thus there isn't any strong characterization to them. We wan't them to die, right? Considering the mediocre script I have to say the actors did reasonably well, so no complaints there.Now what actually saves this movie from the hellish pit of horrible sequels are in fact the last 30 or so minutes of it. Probably by this point Garris had finally realized that he couldn't write a script whose quality can compare to that of the first movie so instead he cuts it down to a good old fashion revenge finale. Not to give away too much of the plot but let's just say that half-human half-fly hybrids are some mean sons of bitches and leave it at that. The effectiveness of this final part of the film is boosted by some very good make-up and gore effects. The Fly costume itself looks very intimidating and as every bit as good as the one in the original. This is probably helped by the fact that Chris Walas the movie's director and effects expert is also the same person who did the effects in Cronenberg's film.Well, considering the limitations of the sequel as a whole, The Fly II did adequately well. It's by no means even close to the quality of the first part but as a stand alone purely horror film it's enjoyable, thanks to the good effects and formulatic revenge finale.Special message to all those who thought the movie was crap because of the Dog Scene - talk about a bunch of P.E.T.A. lovers. This is a horror movie ! If you don't know why it's called that please go check around there are a lot of places where you could get a good definition of what this genre is about and what type of feelings it's supposed to invoke in the viewer. "},{"Title":"Bad Buzz  *spoilers*","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie since it first came out in 1989, mainly because it was so forgettable and dumb. I grew curious about it after viewing the 1986 Fly, so I rented it again. It was as bad as I remember it.The first scene set the tone for me. At the end of The Fly, Geena Davis was determined to abort the baby, but now she (or rather, her character) is giving birth under the watchful eyes of the Bartok Corporation. Well, perhaps they talked her into keeping it.One thing that cracked me up was that smirking, sneering security guard. He was such a bad, one-dimensional character that as soon as he showed up on screen I knew he was doomed to suffer a terrible fate. It was confirmed for me when he gave the transfer and the video to Beth. I guess that's what you get for F***ing around with Bartok's pet freak he says with a smirk and a sneer. But Mr. Smirksneer pays a heavy price for being such a badly written character when Martin the Flything ejects a stream of burning fly vomit into his face, which melts off. The special effects boys had such fun melting John Getz's body parts in The Fly that I knew they'd bring the fly goop back for an encore, and I wasn't disappointed. That's what you get for being a smirking, sneering villain in a B horror sci-fi flick.Speaking of John Getz, I felt he was the only good part of the movie. He livened up the one scene he had and his character was pitch perfect, bitter over what happened to him, but able to crack wise about it. Stathis Borans didn't miss a beat. To this day when I see John Getz I can't help but look to make sure his hands and feet are still intact.Bartok's character reminded of one of those evil, mad scientists in old cartoons or pictures. He knows Martin will mutate, but instead of investing in barrels of Raid or a large fly swatter, he plans to use him as a means to world domination. You vill help me to discover ze secret to biological engineering, and zen I shall rule ze vorld! He pays the worst price of all, being mutated into the lumpen, hideously deformed monster. I don't know. I guess he deserved it after what happened to the dog, and for his plans at world domination, but it still turned my stomach. You think one person involved in the movie would say let's end with with Bartok dying and knowing he's getting better than he deserved. I guess that is one reason why I truly don't like the film-the ending. I like Eric Stoltz, don't get me wrong, but this film didn't do it for me. Of course, if you know any smirking, sneering security guards or fiends bent on world domination (Stewie Griffin, perhaps) and have fantasized about their getting a badly needed comeuppance, then you might like this film.I don't mean to offend those who might genuinely like the film. I just didn't care for it. "},{"Title":"Don't blame the actors","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen all the comments and i'm really in shock with the simplicity of the people. It's good to have an opinion but only if you have bases. Everybody thinks that the main problem is the acting but nobody says anything about the script.The movies can only succeed with a great story and with writers whom give the characters something interesting. The problem here is that Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga had almost nothing to hang on, their characters were poor, they had a very few to work with. It seems that this movie had no intention to give a chance to the actors to show their skills it was just a excuse to showcase a lot of special effects and blood. Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga have my respects for doing two films that I'll never forget Some kind of wonderful and The sure thing(Daphne you were amazing there!). "},{"Title":"A weak and unnecessary sequel","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just as Return of the Fly (1959) was a weak sequel to the original The Fly (1958) so is this version very much inferior to the 1986 remake of The Fly. The story is basically very similar and copied from Cronenberg's version however it lacks the touch of class that made it so good. Boy meets girl, boy loves girl, boy becomes monster and starts killing people. However this time they gave it a nicer ending. If you have seen The Fly you will be disappointed with this sequel. If you just want to see an average horror/sci-fi movie there are worse examples of the genre than this one.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not a great sequel, but as a Sci-Fi, Horror, it succeeds.","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***SPOILER WARNING***I checked this flick out right after seeing the first. As a sequel, it is basically a cash cow, milking off the success of the first one. Made for the wrong reasons, it is a very weak sequel to the earlier masterpiece. Now, as a Sci-fi, Horror flick on it's own, it's not bad. A decent plot line, with a very interesting lead character played excellently by Eric Stoltz. The gore and monster effects are pumped up greatly. So if you are going to watch this special effects vehicle, watch it for the makeup and gore, not for a sequel or even for a plot. Just for plain, shallow, fun. The acid effects were cool in the fist one and their cool in the sequel. As well, the vengeance issued in this movie is some of the harshest revenge material I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"Like father, like son...","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Contains Spoilers! Picking up where the 1986 remake left off, Veronica (exit Geena Davis, enter Japanese Anime voice dubber Saffron Henderson) dies giving birth to what looks like a giant cocoon (for those of you who remember her nightmare about giving birth to a giant fly maggot in #1). But the doctors of the company Bartok, which funded the teleportation experiments of deceased Seth Brundle (Jeff Goldblum), the scientist who was tragically mutated into a giant fly monster in the previous film, open the cocoon up and they find a baby boy inside.Growing at an accelerated rate, the boy grows up to be Martin (played as an adult by Eric Stoltz, who looks nothing like Jeff Goldblum & Geena Davis and more like Michael J. Fox's brother), believing that both he and his father Seth has/had a rare disease that causes him to age faster (Brundle's Accelerated Growth Syndrome). Though technically only 5, he looks like a 20 something and has super intellect. The president of Bartok, Lee Richardson, has treated him like a son because Richardson and his cronies know that Martin has dormant fly genes that will eventually mutate him into another Brundle-Fly and they hope to experiment on Martin and exploit him for all he's worth. The Bartok folk have also been continuing the late Seth Brundle's teleportation experiments, but since a lot of the original information on how to work the pods died with Seth, they don't know how to work the pods (We're like a bunch of chimps trying to start a car.) One of the most gruesome things in the film concerns a pretty golden retriever that Martin had grown attached to being sent through the pods and being turned into a hideously deformed killer beast. They give Martin a house which is conveniently bugged for them to keep an eye on him and later get him to take part in working on the pods in hopes that he'll get them to work by getting him to watch a video of his dad Seth (Jeff Goldblum in un-billed archive footage). Eventually he does figure it out and, after ruining his new girlfriend Beth Logan's (Daphne Zuniga of Melrose Place and Space-Balls) cactus into a wreck, he manages to teleport a cat without mutating it or killing it.Things start going awry though when Martin finds out that they kept the poor dog alive even though they told him they killed it out of mercy and, in one of the film's most touching scenes, Martin puts the dog to sleep himself. Then they separate Martin from Beth after videotaping them in bed together. Around this same time, Martin's fly genes start waking up and the mutation begins. He finds a tape of Stathis Borans (John Getz) begging the Bartok folk to help Veronica and mentioning Seth working on a cure and Seth himself in more archive footage from when he was mutating in the first film (how they got footage of that I don't know) and realizes that the whole thing is a scam and escapes. After hooking up with Beth, they find Stathis and ask him for help, and although he's still the same old belligerent guy he always was, he tells them about the climax of the first film and that if he has any hope of a cure, it requires the pods and loans them the key to his jeep. Martin eventually turns into an even nastier Brundle-Fly but manages to have a happy ending, unlike his parents, by fusing himself together with Lee Richardson, which restores Martin to human form and leaves Lee as a mangled man-fly that can barely eat its own slop.Not as bad as I thought it would be, but that may only be because of Eric Stoltz delivering a noble performance in a film that may not have deserved it. Daphne does decent work as his girlfriend.  "},{"Title":"Inferior to both 58 and 86 versions, but good effects","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***  THE FLY II is pretty crappy.  It has some good acting, a few decent scares, but mostly it's the usual cheap horror schlock genre fans were stuck with throughout the 80s.The story is somewhat similar to RETURN OF THE FLY.  The son of the scientist who created the teleportation machine (Jeff Goldblum, who appears in a cameo) is urged by his father's company to continue the research. Eventually, as his father did, he gets it working correctly.However, the genetic mutation which lies dormant within him begins to awaken, and he slowly transforms into an insect-like creature. Ultimately, he goes on a rampage throughout the lab, killing the evil corporate scientists who want to study him, and finally giving the head of the company a taste of his own medicine in an undeniably creepy, TWILIGHT ZONE-ish ending.Eric Stoltz does some good work as the son, but most other performances are lackluster.  The direction is awkward and the screenplay is pretty run of the mill, but the effects work is very impressive, and provides most of the movie's entertainment value.We get such highlights as a man's hand mangled by a mutant dog, a face melted off with fly vomit, a head squashed by an elevator and a hideously deformed monstrosity which used to be the head of the corporation.Basically, it's worth a look for the effects, but pretty much a waste of time otherwise.  At any rate, it should be right up the alley of fans who equate gore with quality. "}{"Title":"Very poor, nearly unwatchable sequel","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** It seems like this film was doomed from the start, when David Cronenberg (director of The Fly 1) signed off and Chris Walas signed on to direct this one. This film chronicles the life of Seth Brundle's only offspring, Martin, a young boy played by Eric Stoltz.  He is exploited by lab scientists who somehow seem to own him, and he evantually starts morphing into a Fly a la The Fly 1. The first of this film's numerous problems lie in the fact that the main character (Seth Brundle's son) realistically never would have been born. In the first Fly his mother, Geena Davis, firmly decides to have an abortion, after having a dream in which she bore a disgusting larvae.  Yet the first scene in this film is her delivering the baby.  And, behold, the baby turns out to be covered in a oozing gelatin-like mold upon birth. Fine.  So she has the baby and dies.  What follows is a series of events that are both improbable and uninteresting at the same time.** SPOILERS BELOW **Martin lives his entire life under the dictatorship of 2 crooked scientists, who are a**holes to him every chance they get, for no good reason.  He meets a love interest (weakly played by Daphne Zuniga) who just happens to appear about 15 years older than him.  And since he has grown at an accelerated rate, she is ACTUALLY about 20 years ahead of him.  In the 2nd half of the movie, he unexplicably goes into a cocoon-like state, after which he emerges as a ridiculous-looking sort of creature that could have come from some B-Horror film.  (On second thought, this is a B-Horror film, isn't it...)The only fun part in this whole movie is a brief visit by Martin and his babe with the surviving doctor from The Fly 1, Stathis Borans (John Getz). Borans has a great camio filled with some wonderfully ironic lies.The film's conclusion is just as ridiculous as the rest, with Brundle going on a vengeance-filled murder spree before jumping in the telepod.  What comes out is simply ludicrous.  Both parts of it. "},{"Title":"it's a pity that this film was ever released!!!","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILERS* The Fly 2 is the worst movie ever!  The acting sucks, the F/X suck, and the story sucks!  I can't believe I even took the time to watch this piece of trash!  My eyes are still scorched from the pain!   The son of the original Brundlefly, Martin Brundle, is adopted by his father's employers, Bartok Industries.  Martin grows at an accelerated rate, and by the time he is 5, he looks like a 20 year old!  The sinister Bartok is trying to perfect the telepods from the original.  Many specimens are tested, including Martin's pet dog, but it backfires.  (The teleportation of the dog is a sad attempt at adding a sense of emotion to the film.  In the end, the dog is mutated and Martin cries away.)  Many other poorly filmed sequences follow, including the quick mutation of Martin into Martinfly.  Martin turns into his final form, a very reptillian-looking, fang-boasting fly monster and runs amok through out the complex, senslessly killing the company's employees.  In one scene, a man's head is placed within an elevator shaft and POPS when the elevator comes down on him.  Like a balloon!  In the climax, Martinfly goes through the telepod with Bartok and comes out the other pod a human being.  Bartok, however, is mutated into a savage, helpless monster, forced to eat muck and slop for the rest of his life.  Martin and his girlfriend live happily ever after.Ok, that said, THE FLY 2 is a mere spec of dust compared to the 1986 remake.  See that instead. "},{"Title":"This movie has teeth, which happens to be a 'goof'...","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *spoilers*      This film isn't terrible. As far as sci-fi sequels farmed out to first time directors go, it stands up fairly well, thanks to a decent cast and a basis for an interesting story. For some reason, metamorphosis tales such as this, and including The Fly '86 and American Werewolf in London, hold much fascination for me. The biggest problem with THIS film, however, is that the main character changes dramatically throughout the entire film, and there is no time to become accustomed to the character before he changes. The pace is confused, as the character changes constantly, but not much actually happens for the first hour. 	OK, now that that is out of the way, I have to make a complaint regarding the updated, less slimy full body fly costume created for this film. Yes, its pretty nasty. Yes, it spews corrosive vomit. BUT it has teeth. In the first film, Seth Brundle's teeth gradually fall out as his fly-digestive system becomes active. In this film, the fly actually has huge fangs, which serve no purpose whatsoever.  When I was 12 and I saw this movie, I guess I didn't notice, but about ten minutes ago, it really bothered me. All in all, this film is sort of fun, but only in context of the first film. If you are still a bit weepy about Jeff Goldblum getting his head blown off, you might enjoy seeing his progeny survive. Aside from that... eh. "},{"Title":"NO!!!!!!","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In terms of movies this goes in to my Hall of Shame, I found this film, quite shabby and overall disappointing. To be honest it was my fault as I hated the first, so why I wanted to watch this I don't know. Still if horror is your favourite genre, then watch it. If not don't even bother. Don't watch this film thinking that it might change your views of horror films, because trust me it won't.  "},{"Title":"Not Worth The Effort","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somewhat to my own surprise, I actually enjoyed the 1986 remake of The Fly. Because of that I decided to watch The Fly II, but sequels being sequels, I approached it with very low expectations. That was fortunate, because approaching this with anything other than low expectations would have led to a major disappointment.If you recall, The Fly ended with Veronica pregnant with Seth Brundle's baby. This movie picks up the story, with Veronica giving birth to Seth's son, named Martin, whose story this then becomes. We basically know where this is going. Martin inherits his father's genetically mixed up nature. He's very intelligent, he never sleeps, he ages tremendously quickly and he's raised in a laboratory by Bartok Industries who apparently think that studying him will accomplish something for them. The first two-thirds of the movie is rather dull to be honest. Not much happens. Eric Stoltz is decent enough as Martin, although he doesn't match Jeff Goldblum's performance as Seth in the original. The love interest in this is portrayed by Daphne Zuniga, who wasn't great. Passable might describe her performance.This is directed by Chris Walas, who's really known more as a special effects wizard than a director. It's his first outing as a director, and there haven't been many more - which probably says something. The pacing was poor and he didn't manage to coax much out of the cast. His unique contribution really comes in the last third of the movie as Martin begins his inevitable transformation. The movie becomes a special effects bonanza, and took on the feel (to me at least) of an alien loose in a spaceship type of monster movie - except that the alien is Martin and the spaceship is Bartok Laboratories. It turns into a rather gory bloodbath eventually. There wasn't anything particularly original and I had a been there, done that feeling as the security guards sought out the thing Martin had mutated into. There's also a pretty predictable climax and a gross out ending.If you stick with the original, you'll be a lot happier. "},{"Title":"The horror film equivalant of a sleeping pill!","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there is one thing I loathe almost more than remakes, it's a hollow and bland sequel film to a remake. The Fly II is, unfortunately, just such a beast.We pick up where Cronenberg's creepy remake of this classic horror film left off, as we now follow the exploits of the son of Seth Brundle (played by Eric Stoltz). After his mother dies giving birth to him, he becomes the personal experiment of a greedy businessman (played by Lee Richardson), who is determined to use him to unlock the secrets of his father teleportation device. You know nothing good can come of that.Right off the bat, almost none of the characters from the original return to this outing, with the exception of John Getz, who reprises his role as the token jerk. Not a very good sign. Then, you have four screenwriters on the script, which doesn't give you much hope of a solid story. The old adage about too many cooks spoil the broth is in full effect here, as none of the characters ever really come to life (except, perhaps, a little bit from Richardson's).Really, I felt like the cast was sleepwalking through their scenes most of the time. There's no passion or spark in any of the performances. To be fair, to follow up on the incredibly frenetic and passionate energy of Jeff Goldblum's character from the first film, would be a very unenviable task for most actors, but Eric Stoltz never even gets close to anything like it. None of the cast do. Maybe they were as bored with the dialog here, as I was, I don't know. But there's really no standout performances here. There's almost no performances of any kind. They are all just cyphers to the need of the plot (such as it is). Just plodding along until the Brundle-Fly can come out and play. This is only made worse by the fact that there's no really likable characters in the entire film. Even Stoltz and Zuniga's characters, who are supposed to be the heroes, never evoked any kind of emotion from me, save apathy.Director Chris Walas obviously wasn't interested in creating the eerie tension and drama that Cronenberg did in the first film, as he opts more for cornball performances and putting all his effort into the special effects. But even there the film is just lacking. You can tell he was trying hard to top the gross out appeal of the first film, but it never comes off that way. Much of the violence is pretty tame, especially compared to the first film. It comes off more like Cronenberg-lite and never really satisfies. Even the monster Martin becomes does more to invite laugher, rather than fear and revulsion.This film is just a clear cut case of how one movie's success was used as just cause to create a pointless sequel. Everyone involved here could only have been looking to get a paycheck. It's b-grade horror at its most dull and boring. It's not even so bad it's good b-grade horror. There's no scares to be had here, nor any humor, save the possibility of the unintentional kind. If you've seen the first film, you certainly don't need to see this one. And if you haven't seen it, go watch that instead of this. The only thing this poor production has in common with flies, is the fact that any kind of crap will usually attract them. "},{"Title":"4.3 ?! What is wrong with you, guys!","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Fly II is actually a really decent sequel with good storyline, amazing FX, wonderful soundtrack and some really gore moments. Without any doubts, I would recommend it to any fan of good old 80s horrors/slashers, but this one really makes sense. Go on, watch it now,you won't regret. Perfect for Friday night. And, one more thing to add, I'm kind of person, who really hates second, third, fourth or fifth parts of the movie with only couple exceptions (Terminator II, BTTF II, Evil Dead Trilogy and LOTR). As for the The Fly II - you will like it even without seeing the first part. By the way, it has some really touching moments too... "},{"Title":"i thought it was as good as the original,but definitely not for the squeamish","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this sequel to The Fly isn't all that bad,all things considered.it is however,more disgusting,believe it or not.a lot of the really gross stuff was overkill and gratuitous,i thought.in the original,the gross scenes were sort of necessary to the story.not so in this movie. also found the movie to have some slow spots at times,which in my mind,took away from the flow of the story.as well,this movie had a slicker more polished look than the original,which i think kind of takes away from the effect.the acting is not bad,and i liked the direction the story went.i really liked the ironic ending.i won't give it away,but let's just say that one S.OB really got what he deserved.i actually almost cheered at this.if you watch the movie,you'll know why.a word of cautionthis movie is definitely not for the squeamish.for me,overall,i'd say i liked this movie as well as the first one.therefore,i give The Fly 2 8/10 "},{"Title":"You Know What??? It Ain't that Bad!","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You know what??? This film is not so bad. I can see that some highly acclaimed movie critics as Leonard Maltin need to examine the films they reviewed again. He gave it a BOMB rating, and you know what? That hardly justifies how most people will, and do feel about this movie. When I watch this film, I see a story being told, sure there are some extreme gore effects and naughty stereotypes, but c'mon, it's a pretty entertaining film. It continues the Brundle life-line as the son of the genius Seth Brundle is born, and half- mutant. Obviously, even in the original remake classic, they knew the possibilities of another FLY beast within Veronica's pregnancy. Even so, this carries the tradition, in the same fashion as the original. Sure enough, it will never top the original, and why should it? It is, you know, a sequel. Even more so, Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga are great, and they give us something to hope for, as well as grief and humanity, elements that are, I might add, in the first film too. The direction is descent, and the acting is, as I said, above average. The Christopher Young score is to die for, and the special effects are awesome! Maybe in the future, this film will be recognized as a good film...wait a minute...it already has! 20th Century Fox already released a great 2-Disc DVD, so sorry Leonard M.-your opinion doesn't count anymore, and you know what? I'm happy with that. "},{"Title":"Strictly for fans of the 1986 remake only.","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Veronica Quaife, the former lover of Seth Brundle gives birth to a large hunk of fly larvae that houses a normal look new-born baby inside. Veronica then dies, leaving her child in the care of Bartok industries owner & billionaire chairman, the sneaky Mr. Bartok, who raises the child in a lab, naming him Martin, where he grows from infant to mere adult in only five years. On his fifth birthday, the fully grown & super intelligent Martin, is sent to live on his own free from the constant supervision of the lab where he has been kept since birth. Under Mr. Bartoks urging, Martin continues his fathers scientific experiments with the tele-pods. However Martin soon learns that he is only really being used by Mr. Bartok for his own diabolical purposes, to make matters worse, Martin learns that not only has he been lied to & is still under Bartoks sinister supervision, but he is also carrying dear old dad's mutated genes in his bloodline, meaning he is slowly but surely turning into a hideous fly monstrosity. Once in monster form, Martin sets out to get revenge on Bartok & his henchmen.THE FLY II, is a watchable, although disappointingly routine sequel to the fairly good David Cronenberg remake of the Vincent Price 1950's monster movie of the same name. Despite the name, THE FLY II is really not a remake of RETURN OF THE FLY, despite a few small nods to that film. The film starts off promisingly enough, but quickly loses it's footing, by generating into the usual standard direct to video slime & gore drenched monster run amok flick at the climax & the film is nowhere near as interesting or as involving as it's predecessor & the film never really does come to life until the last half hour. The films plot & execution is strictly of the B grade variety, falling back on the usual ALIEN plot stock device that so many direct to video B movie monster movies rely on as the monster stalks the halls of the laboratory picking off those responsible for betraying it while it was human. Director CHRIS WALAS make his directorial debut here, but fails to understand what made Cronenberg's 1986 remake work so well & just like most special effects artists turned directors, focuses more heavily on the gore & monster effects rather than building/focusing on the story & character development like the original film did. The romance angle between an intern & Martin, never really gels & only succeeds in slowing the film down at times, wherein the romantic angle between Geena Davis & Jeff Goldblum's character worked within the films plot.On the plus side of things, THE FLY II definitely has a lot going for it. The villains are especially hateful & slimy while the score by CHRISTOPHER YOUNG is one of his best ever & really makes the film, in a lesser note, Young is joined by his HELLRAISER I & II cohort cinematographer ROBIN VIDGEON. Despite lacking Cronenbergs directorial flourishes, the film is well directed by special effects wiz CHRIS WALIS, who manages to capture all of the monster carnage at all the right angles & manages to build a modicum level of suspense in many scenes. His fly monster is mucho impressive as well & the acting really works here, with Eric Stoltz well cast as Martin Brundle the films young hero, while RALPH RICHARDSON is at his all time best as the evil Mr. Bartok who is notably using Martin for his own sinister purposes, what a shame his character has been long forgotten about when it comes to remembering all the great movie villains in film history. Gore hounds will find plenty to love here when it comes to the special effects, as we are treated to several nasty gore effects & many gooey moments, as we get a needle broken off in an arm, causing a blood spurt, a melted hand, a crushed head, a melted off face, chewed off fingers, an infected arm oozes puss, a mangled body strung from the ceiling that leaves a puddle of blood on the floor, an umbilical cord snipping, a disgusting monster dog & a half human/half fly monstrosity at the climax. I also really liked the brief but touching relationship that a young Martin has with a golden retriever lab dog, that unfortunately suffers a hideous fate due to Mr. Bartoks sinister experiments. The scene where Martin learns what has become of his canine pal a few years later is really sad, as is the scene where he visits his canine pal who still remembers him after all these years, with Martin putting the animal down to spare it from it's hideous fate, it's really touching (Dare you not to get emotional during this scene) John Getz reprises his role from the 1986 original. All in all, while far from being a good movie, THE FLY II is nowhere near as bad as many are saying it is, it's just not a very memorable one. In fact I found it a rather watchable movie myself & definitely makes for an okay time passer for fans of the first. But if you didn't care much for the Cronenberg remake than don't bother with this one.**1/2 stars "}{"Title":"D grade sequel with added science experiments (May contain spoilers)","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  May Contain Spoilers...! The Fly 2 picks up right after the 1980s The Fly - where Geena Davis' character gives birth to the Son of the Fly (cue dramatic music).  She gives birth to what looks like a normal child - but of course - he will one day be (cue dramatic music) - the Fly 2...  And of course - a big gross blood bath will follow... This movie again attempts to tackle issues of ethics and morality with science and the testing of animals in science experiments.  But it only proves the point that the cast and crew of this movie should all be subjected to science experiments.  Can you imagine - Daphine Zuniga turned into a half mutated dog - then we can chuck her in a pit with a crusty bucket of water...  Now that is what I call entertainment! Only for the die hard Daphine Zuniga fans...  "},{"Title":"Great fun for horror fans!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had lot of fun with this movie. As sequel, it tries to concentrate on action and gore effects which are very very good. Story is interresting. Where are old times when horrors like this were made? No humour, teenagers, lot of brutal effects, suspense, action. If you like movies like Scream, you will hardly like this piece of silver ) "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first film's plot, which is basically 'man turned into giant fly by computer error' could not shake off the inevitable risibility of said premise, with some old hat 'man in rubber suit carries off damsel in distress' scenes. It's negativity about science also exhausted the viewer.This sequel flopped commercially which is a shame as former special effects maven Wallas did a creditable and solid job with the directing although there are irritating moments like a scientist standing to watch a potentially dangerous cocoon open and a man wandering around unarmed on his own with a pencil torch, knowing there is a monster lurking in the basement. It is a sort of teenage version of the original. I've always liked Eric Stoltz and he does a good job here with slight material. I was surprised that the girl (looking too much like Davis for us to believe) did not turn out to be a plant by Bartok. The sleazebag editor who got slimed returns in a flawlessly delivered, and welcome reprise. The negativity is as relentless as ever with all the scientists and doctors implausibly rotten, although the happy ending is a refreshing reversal.I chiefly remember this film for what has got to be one of the saddest scenes in cinema history, the deformed bow-wow. Stoltz was blubbing his eyes out, but not half as much as me. That wagging tail, that whimpering during suffocation...oh God, it's starting again...I...I...*blub*. Gratuitous, uncalled for? Certainly. Did it work? Hell, yes. It was worse than Bambi's mother. A surprisingly emotional and humane film with a solid love story is rather let down by some hard to justify repulsive violence tacked on at the end giving it some uncomfortable integrity questions. Monster could have been better, looks like it was slung together in a local school art class. Overall, worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Be afraid","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing this movie I thought it was very well thought out.  Unlike the first Fly movie when there is an abrupt ending this sequel has a much more pleasant end and I would recommend this movie to anyone who doesn't mind a bit of horror. "},{"Title":"Why horrible sequels are made.","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching The Fly 2 it is obvious to anyone with taste, sophistication and an appreciation for good acting can see that it is a bad movie and very inferior to the 1986 original. All the actors seem dead from the neck up as if they were unsure how to deliver the poor script that was given to them. In fact the dialogue is so lame it drags the plot line through the mud whilst dragging this underdeveloped story at a snail's pace.But why are these sequels made? My answer is that they are deliberately made, regardless if they are bad or good, in order to substantiate and draw closer attention to the original. If one sees The Fly 2 in the company of those who had seen the original he will be faced with commentary from those viewers that they should not compare the lousy sequel to the original, which is far superior. What this does is give the movie goers a false set of choices. They'll think, Hmmm, well I never saw the original, but if it's better than this illogical nonsense it must explain why it's such a good movie worth seeing and understanding. I've figured out Hollywood's scam. This trick and ploy has been played by Hollywood numerous times and it only gets more insidious and crafty as time goes on.Now, back to my review of The Fly 2. Even though it is a shame these movies are confused, you cannot omit one without explicating the other. The Fly 2 has wooden and sometimes amateur acting. Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga were overrated B-list actors who managed to have a fairly lengthy run in their career stints. Here, their on-screen chemistry is almost non-existent and their friendship looks very forced and awkward. The obligatory sex scene was intended to set the tone for the Fly 3 which thankfully never happened after this abomination. The characters throughout are unsympathetic, unlikeable without having any character development or clear motives. I was surprised to see an acclaimed actor as Lee Richardson lowering himself to be in this drek. Some veteran actors need the money.While the first hour just drags on the plot doesn't kick in high gear until Martin (Stoltz) undergoes his genetic mutation. Then things get ugly. People die gruesome deaths, two of which turned out to be quite gnarly and brutal. While I was hoping for an interesting plot twist, all we get is a boring sequel that denigrates into silly gross-out antics. What a waste. I feel that good Science Fiction thrillers have the proper balance of both science and fiction with the former element taking precedence. But in Fly 2 all we have is farcical and grotesque fiction with very little science. To the film's credit, the technical merits are impressive and are the only redeeming qualities to this poorly directed, poorly written film. David Cronenburg ( The original director) was smart enough to walk away from this project. The film was put in the hands of an inexperienced newcomer who knows little about directing a movie while resorting to cliché characters with one-dimensional personalities. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies ever!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Fly series is a remarkable one that makes sense,if a scientist actually had a teleportation pod or some type of machine this is the way it would happen n real life.The movies are jam packed with great acting,action,effects,superb horror and excellent gore. Both movies are very unpredictable and very scary and both films follow right after the other and both main cast in The Fly/Fly II have love interests(Fly I,Goldblum and Davis,Fly II,Stotlz and Zuniga)which is pretty cool.All in all The Fly series is a fantastic series of the 80s(which was a great decade I might add).In MY opinion there will never be movies like this again,they are classics,a real thrilling horror series.When the last time you got scared of a movie???Heres a tip DON'T WATCH THEM IN THE DARK!!!The Fly part 2 has a great beginning much like its predecessor with a great promo.You get to know Seth's(Goldblum in Fly 1)son Martin(Stoltz) as he goes on with life much faster than everyone else.You feel sorry for him as well much like Goldblum in the first movie.You also feel sorry for Beth (Zuniga) as she trys to help martin.Yes its true Strathis (Getz)reprises his roleThere are lots of doctors and security guards you just hate because of what they do to martin.Once martin evolves into the Fly,all hell breaks loose.You never know what is going to happen next.This is really one heck of monster movie and you won't believe what you'll see!By the way,listen to music score by Christopher Young,it really makes this movie even better.When you here the main title theme you think holytoledo,this is really gonna be good and you know what?It is, I suggest you buy buy the score,you'll love it!The film is great,like the other a bit sad but very good. The Fly II is an excellent horror movie! The acting by Eric Stoltz was really good! The part with the dog was sad but you can tell its animatronic. The real horror begins when Martin discovers the camera in his room! His transformation is really gruesome. I think the fly monster is one of the most terrifying monsters ever! I just love the score by Christopher Young! The music is beautiful, dark, and aggressive! My favorite part is the main titles! It is one of the greatest songs ever composed in My opinion! I liked in the main title how the credit says the Fly II in nice and bright blue letters! The Fly II is My favorite of the Fly movies and even though Jeff Goldblum acted superbly in the first, the sequel has some big time moments! Speaking of Goldblum, he has two archive footage scenes in the film! Some of today's horror movie are very good but there hasn't been a movie like the Fly II since it came out. In My opinion, if your looking for a great horror movie then this is it! Horror movies just ain't made like this often!Movie Nuttball's NOTE As you know I love the music and in fact I adore the score to the Fly II! There is a special edition CD of the score. It contains the score of the Fly and the Fly II! If you are a fan of the scores I recommend that you get it! It is well worth the buy! "},{"Title":"10 of 10 !","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a real sequel ! I watched this movie in 1993 on a sunday night and I really enjoyed!The leading couple (Eric Stoltz and the always beautifull Daphne Zuniga) is very atractive. I love the twist in the end cause I thought that the fly would die just like the first part of this movie. Of course I have a copy of this film that I keep very carefully.   I must say that the bad comments right here don´t bother me because I know that the people are very jelous with the first part of The Fly and I don´t blame them.But this film is a jewell if you compare it with the trash that is made in this days. "},{"Title":"not a bad sequel","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" the sequel tries to pick up where the original left off. though seth brundle died in the original directed by David cronenberg, the follow-up focuses on seth's son, martin, and his transformation from an infant to a young man within a short period of time as his appearance and intelligence accelerates due to experimental drugs and injections.i didn't mind the sequel though it could have taken a different turn in plot had cronenberg re-prised his role in the director's chair. it was a rather basic plot which i felt relied more on the gore and special effects wizardry in order to keep audiences glued to the screen. i felt that the graphic nature of the gore and violence in the original was more believable and realistic and essential the plot. here, it seems more gratuitous and there to gross-out or amuse the audience.either way, it isn't a bad effort, though most sequels or remakes never like up to the original. "},{"Title":"A Clever Sequel To The Fly (1986). Chris Walas Excels.","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film starts of in a delivery room in Bartok Industries research institute where Veronica gives birth to Seth's mutant child. She dies soon after delivery.The child, a boy named Martin by the staff has all the appearances of a human. But he has an accelerated growth rate due to the mutant fly genes given to him by his father Seth.Anton Bartok head of the Bartok Industries that funded his fathers research becomes a close father figure to Martin. Secretly Anton wishes Martin to finish Seth's Telepod devices and also as an added bonus to find out what transformation Martin eventually ends up with.At 5 years of age Martin(Eric Stolz) looks like a teenager of 17-18 years. Then Anton introduces him to Seth's Telepod devices and requests him to work on them.During this time he makes friends with an employee Beth Logan(Daphne Zuniga). He falls in love with her. She is then fired because Anton fears she will influence Martin to escape the institute.Martin meanwhile has corrected the Telepod's computerized teleportation sequence and they are working perfectly. He creates a scan of his body and saves it on computer. He creates a gene swapping program originally developed by his father. However he password protects teleportation program as a protection against double-cross by Aton.His condition steadily worsens day by day and his body is undergoing a strange transformation. In a last brave attempt he escapes and seeks refuge with Beth. However he and Beth are soon on the run again when the Bartok Corporation trace them.Martin goes to visit Stathis Borans the ex-lover of his mother. He tells Martin reluctantly that the only cure to his strange disease lies in the Telepod devices. He tells Martin that he can only be cured at the cost of another human life.Stathis gives Martin his car to escape in. Beth and Martin seek shelter in a motel. Martin now looks non-human externally he advises Beth to abandon him but she refuses. The next day they are captured.Will Martin find a cure? What happens next has to be seen to be believed.Novice director Chris Walas does a good job. The acting is very solid and the special effects are outstanding.A solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"A WiseGuy's Review Rock Bottom Expectations Greatly Exceeded! (26/M/Detroit)","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In many ways I found The Fly 2 to be more entertaining than the first film. This movie is much cheaper looking and cheesier than the first but that's one of the reasons it was more fun to watch. Not the biggest fan of Eric Stoltz but I liked him in this movie and it was refreshing to go back and see Princess Vespa in another role during that period (Spaceballs is an all-time favorite of mine).While I thought the storyline was pretty decent throughout, the final 30 minutes of the film was what I found to be the most exciting to watch. There were several good gore moments which is always a huge plus for me. I felt this movie also had a much better ending than the first. All in all much better than I would've guessed and not the giant waste of time I expected it to be. Definitely worth checking out. 5.7/10 "}{"Title":"Really I did not find this movie was that much worse than the original.","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If anything I thought in some respect the story had a bit more going for it and they ramped up the kills in this one. In the end, I would still say I prefer the first film as there was a shock factor you just can not recreate in a sequel. This film picks up with the birth of Seth's son, and the death of the mother, it then picks up with the son being raised under constant supervision under the watchful eyes of scientist and such. You watch as our young man grows up, very very quickly as he has part of the DNA of a fly so he is aging at a very fast rate. Of course, one man befriends him and acts as a father figure to him and there are scenes of the boy befriending a dog and a cruel experiment to be seen. Near the end though the boy begins to mutate into what his father became and then there is some trying to apprehend scenes and such at this point. A bit more super fly action as opposed to the first one and the plot has a bit more to it than the first, but the first was better acted and like I said you can not recreate the shock value a second time. However, this sequel was passable, not the best horror movie, and not the original, but it made for a fun little horror movie. "},{"Title":"Though it lacks the plot, character development, and budget of the original, i found it to be more entertaining and fun in every way possible than cronenberg's version.","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was about as campy as they come. silly, stupid, way over the top. that is why i love it. I watch it every time it comes on television.( for some reason it only ever seems to come on in October? not really a halloween film.) Now, many people HATE this movie. They compare it to cronenberg's original. Well, comparing the two films is just a bad idea. The fly was a serious horror?sci-fi film that just happened to packed full of totally over the top gore scenes. The fly 2 is a cheaply made gross out flick and I am fairly sure that the creators made it with a frequent USA Up All Night time slot in mind. so, don't compare it to the original. just watch it, turn off your brain and enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Fly II","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Martin Brundle(Eric Stoltz), the son of Seth Brundle, is only 5 years old and has progressed at an alarming rate into an adult. His mother died giving birth to him, and so Martin is raised by Anton Bartok(Lee Richardson)as a sort of lab experiment, almost a captive in a sealed room where scientists can study and observe him. He's released from this prison with Bartok informing him that he now can live in a home without mirrors which is anything but the case. Bartok's scientists have not mastered the pod experiments of Seth Brundle and through cunning manipulation, Martin is coerced into finding out how. Along the way, Martin meets an office employee, Beth Logan(Daphne Zuniga), and as they fall in love, he realizes that the supposed serums Bartok's scientists have been injecting him with, to halt his illness, were never useful..Martin is slowly progressing into what his father was, a monstrous fly. Bartok informs his son that he has desired for this re-birthing for many years hoping to use not only Martin, in his new state, but the teleporting pods as means to create a brand new world. It's clear Bartok sees himself as a God-like figure if he's able to gain control of his pet freak and the telepods with their abilities.While the love story between Martin and Beth is basically recycled from the first film, this sequel boasts a gory climax as the monster goes on a rampage getting revenge towards those who have betrayed it/him. Lee Richardson is a perfect heel, the kind of manipulating corporate slime who has clear goals and an empathy regarding the use of human life when it pertains to receiving success..casualties mean little when the importance of life stands in the way of big business and radical dreams. Stoltz and Zuniga have little chemistry and their tragic affair plays second fiddle to the gooey effects of Martin's changing/cocooning. But, I'd be lying if I didn't admit that the final twenty or so minutes is what draws me back to this sequel. The opening sequence is a doozy..when the Martin baby is born, it's hidden within a slimy insect cocoon. The final conclusion when Martin, in full fly form bursting from his grotesque cocoon, seeks retribution towards those who allowed this horrifying fate to happen, is exciting because there are highlights of gory attacks. The special effects from the director, Chris Walas, are superb. One security guard's face blasts apart as an elevator crushes his head. Another security guard's face melts to his skull appears when Martin Brundlefly spits acid directly at him. One security guard's hand is burned by acid before he's snapped into by Martin Brundlefly. Bartok's fate is particularly satisfying as it has a sense of irony. Sadly, John Getz turns up in a minor cameo as Stathis Borans from the first film, boozing in loneliness and quite worse for wear who gives little hope to Martin and Beth as they're on the lam from Bartok regarding a cure for the illness plaguing Brundle. Gary Chalk, as Bartok's chief security guard Scorby, plays a real loathsome scumbag, often making life unbearable for Martin and Beth just because he can. He takes delight in Martin's woes and often gleefully cracks wise towards Beth regarding her state of affairs with Brundle. The true star of the film are the special effects, Walas' real strength to begin with. "},{"Title":"Like father, like son!","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first remake was a lot of fun. This sequel here is a creepy, yet interesting one. Continuing the working of teleportation that his father left off. Unknowingly that a housefly entered the machine without the computer's knowledge and adding its genes to him. Martin Brundle's(Eric Stolz) mother died giving birth to him, he later meets Beth Logan(Daphne Zuniga) who was caught fishing for information. They meet, things are going swell. Unfortunately, one thing does carry on within the family. Seth's curse. Even though Seth was gone, his gene-pool relies a power of an insect. A housefly to be exact. In one scene, Martin was grotesque, he said, I'm getting better! It's because of that gene that's making him be that way. Since Seth was doomed for life, Martin had hope. The love from Beth, with the exchange of the guy who wanted to exploit Martin, got his just desserts through the teleportation pod. To me, The Brundle curse was no more to Martin, he can live a normal life. This movie was a little obvious in some parts, but I liked it anyway. 2 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"take out the quality, leave in the FUN","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a long time (before I consciously started pursuing bad movies) this was one of my favorite guilty pleasures. It takes the most basic ideas from the first film and finds something reasonably fun to do with them, and sustains a goofy light horror tone throughout. It's like a remix of a favorite song&#133; it's not going to be as good, but it's composed of elements you like and it'll probably be a little more upbeat.The movie opens with a woman who is not Geena Davis giving birth to a pupa, not too unlike the dream in the first film. They open the pupa and there's a baby inside. He turns out to be super smart and grows super fast, so by the time he's five he's Eric Stoltz. He's being kept as a science experiment by the company barely mentioned in the first film. He is given the task of figuring out how to work the pods from the first film, and falls in love with the nightmare of Daphne Zuniga. Actually, she's not such a nightmare, it's just that she's one of those people whose very existence exudes 80s. And her name, too. Anyway, soon Eric finds out that the company is made up of bad people and a mean security guard, so he runs away right about the time he is suddenly transforming into a big mutant fly, then he goes about getting gory revenge.This movie carries over a lot of the intrigue of the first film, like the telepods and all the issues surrounding them, which I find endlessly fascinating, the whole mystery of figuring out how they actually work, and the final answer at the end, which was an extension of an idea from the first film. This movie loses all the questions of morality and sexuality and love and everything from the first film and in its place supplies a fun 80s sci-fi spookathon. And I have no problem with that. And for a film that features only one character from the first film (in a greatly reduced role) I thought they did a nice job of developing the ideas from the first film, rather than just coming up with something entirely new altogether.I also like how the movie replaces the tragic romance tone of the first with an 80s teen movie tone that carries the first three-quarters. Then it turns into an extremely gory thriller thing wherein a guy gets his entire head squished like a watermelon, among other highlights. Fun! Making this a win-win situation all around, this film comes complete with the original remake by David Cronenberg, still a masterpiece, on one essential DVD!!!! Can you believe that?!?!?! Stop reading and buy it now! It includes trailers for both original (50s) Fly films, the remake and sequel, and things like Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea and Fantastic Voyage. Someone up there likes us.--- Hey, check out Cinema de Merde, my website devoted to bad and cheesy movies. You can get the url from my email address above... "},{"Title":"The Point Of The Movie Was Missed","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The special effects may have been hokey, but let them aside. It was realistic in that Martin Brundle was half-fly giving him the shortened lifespan, and half-human which gave him human traits. The real main point of this movie was to show us that people will do anything to get their hands on some money, which is why the corporation neglects the horribly mutated dog, and treats it like the monster it was. One of the things I liked was they gave him a lover,showing that even as a freak he has basic human needs. The boy aged to become (physically) a 35 year old man, when he was 5 human years, and soon went into a cocoon phase, before finally turning into a fly. Towards the end he goes on a killing spree to get to the man at the head of the corporation, and eventually he is cross bred with the man giving him back his humanity, and showing the boss, the hell that he faced as being a freak. Over all it was a cool plot, but the effects were a tad overboard even for the 80's. "},{"Title":"The fly II rules","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really love this film. I love it Eric is a good actor for martin The fly II is a sequel to the first fly film.Martin finds out that he is the son of Seth. he must fight all those who betrayed him and be back to human.In 1986, David Cronenberg, the radical and controversial Canadian filmmaker, brought us a remake of The Fly, the story of a scientist whose experiments spell doom on himself, and as expected, instead of making a straight remake of the 1958 classic starring Vincent Price, Cronenberg updated the material and injected it with his own sense of morality, visual style and of course some gory special effects.Martin needs some cure "},{"Title":"Poetic Justice","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, normally and naturally, I agree that this sucked compared to the first Fly. The Fly was a very cool and memorable movie that had horror and actual drama to it. And who can forget all that Jeff booty? D Sorry. But standing on it's own The Fly II is not that bad.We start off where instead of Ronnie getting rid of the child she was pregnant with in the first Fly, she is giving birth. Apparently, I think the government, lied to her in saying that she would have a normal child, but she dies in labor before she can see that she has a normal child. Is he normal? Heck no! He's SUPER FLY! Or as I'd like to say, The Flea. He grows a lot faster than a normal human baby would. The government decides to keep the son with them and watch him. When he goes out to explore, he finds a puppy that he can talk to and make him feel like he has a friend since he is isolated. When the scientists try to get the telepods from the first movie to work, the experiment with the dog that the son has grown a bond with. Of course, being evil scientists, something goes terribly wrong and the poor dog is disfigured. The son turns 5, but has the body of a full grown man. The main boss not only gives him his own nice apartment equipped with hidden camera's, but a job at his factory to get the telepods to work. While working on these telepods, he meets a nice girl who has really no character development. They fall in love, and do the hanky panky which leads to more evil scientists into the plot. He learns that he is becoming... you ready? DUN DUN DUN! A fly, just like his daddy! Can he and the girl stop him from turning into a fly and save the day? I guess you'll just have to see. So, overall, it's not a bad flick. It's a little bit more vague and disturbing to look at then the original Fly, but it's fun for horror fans.6/10 "},{"Title":"Okay flick, but stay with the first","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie wasn't too bad as a sequel given its obvious smaller budget.  It attempts to mirror greats like Jeff Goldblum and Gena Davis with Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga.  And it leaves a story more bizarre than its predecessor.  This was back when movie makers of the eighties and early nineties seemed mentally paralyzed in chasing get-rich-quick sequels.  Perhaps in doing so we are all now a little apprehensive when it comes to watching a lot of the horror and sci-fi sequels.  Honestly, was it really necessary to film The Arrival 2?  While this film does have something to offer in picking up where the first left off, its ingenuity falls short of the original. "},{"Title":"This is a beaut","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie of late on a TV Rerun.  In the last 6 months, I've seen this movie so many times and it still captures me.  With a clear story line, and none of the gory mess of the fly, this movie is a good entertainer. The scene where Martin kills the dog, the one where he overpowers the security guard and the climax are my most favourite scenes in the movie. Eric Stoltz fits like a glove into the part and looks more appealing as the hapless youngster and as a Venging fly than Jeff Goldblum.  The story was gripping cause you wanted to root for the monster.  And for die hard romantics like me who like to see good triumph, the ending was a boon.If you want to see a horror movie that does not leave a sour taste in your mouth, this is the one. "}{"Title":"This movie is O.k to see and average to buy!!!!!!!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie deserves some credit because it revolves around a movie that gave the creeps to a lot of people so a sequel to Cronenberg´s The Fly should be something like that,but it´s not,The movie doesn´t deliver anything that has to do with it´s predecesor. Erick Stolts is a good actor and Daphne Zunica is a good one on this movie (I mean after spaceballs)the guy who returns fromthe original movie does a good cameo and the special effects are well done,I was really expecting a lot of the original vomit stuff and human decay state like in the original but they didn´t aim for gross out stuff,they went for the Romeo to become fly and Juliet. It was a good to watch film. I´ll give it a nice 8 out of 10 on Monster Sequels. "},{"Title":"By the numbers sequel to a great film , great FX though.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Fly II is a clealry by the numbers sequel to a great film. When I say by the numbers I mean more gore, less story, more action, weak acting. Eric Stoltz does an okay job in the lead role but to me Stoltz has always been more of a serious actor and he seems lost in this film. Just check it out if you wanna see gore otherwise be afarid, be very afarid. "},{"Title":"cool!3.5/5","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw The Fly 2 only about 15 minutes ago and it was cool! The acting is good, the directing was pretty okay but the plot was poor. But it is a good squeal to The Fly! I hope there is The Fly 3 is the future! 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed the version made in 1986 but I'd have to say this is a lot better; edges out other insectoid thrillers like Roger Corman's The Nest, Mimic, and Blue Monkey(these are all good films as well); and to be brutally honest this is one of the best blends of sci-fi and horror out there; as with The Curse, people simply are embarrassed to admit they like it "},{"Title":"The FlyII defines the word 'Average'","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is just a typical B-Grade horror sci-fi movie which bland special effects and a silly plot with no meaning. The Fly I was good but this one isnt.  It just didnt do thing for me and I usually love horror movies. But, a horror is underrated then this will just be forgettable and silly.The acting is ok and the plot is poor but the direction is really good.If you are a mega massive fan or horror then this is for you, anyone else should stay well clear.6/10If you like this tryThe Simpsons (The one where they referance the fly)The Exorcist  "},{"Title":"Great horror flick","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm shocked this movie is rated so poorly!  I've enjoyed ever since I first saw it in 1989.  Having just watched it again on the very cool Fly/Fly 2 DVD, I still think it's great.  It has an intelligent story, cool effects, and one of the most satisfying endings I've ever seen.  A worthy successor to The Fly. "},{"Title":"Well made very well crafted movie","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought the whole movie  clicked.  we need more movies like this today..  what can happen when you screw with genetics! "},{"Title":"Not bad for a sequel...","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sequel to David Cronenberg's 1986 remake of The Fly doesn't hold a candle to the original (it's the rare sequel that does), but is still fairly entertaining in its own right.  Rather than horror, this one is more of an action/adventure/sci-fi/thriller, and *FAR* more conventional (read less creative/much more Hollywood) than the original.Still, I was entertained (the story is OK, but marred by poor acting by several of the leads (especially Daphne Zuniga) and only so-so pacing. Better character development might have helped as well, since I felt little sympathy for any of the characters.  I give this movie a 7/10, which is perhaps being just a bit too generous. "},{"Title":"pretty forgettable","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  3 years, or 9 months in this movies time period, Brundle Jr. is born.  The Geena Davis stand-in dies during birth so little Martin is an orphan.  The head honcho of Bartok industries decides to raise him (inside the research facility, great childhood) but knows theres money to be made by putting this kid on display.  Stolz, whos growing at an accelerated rate begins to dig into his fathers past to find out who, or rather what, he was related to. But before he can find out too much he pulls a like father, like son deal and begins to turn into a big fly.  Unlike with his daddy, theres a cure this time.  But Stolz has trouble making it happen as he's chased most of the rest of the film until the yucky conclusion in the research facility. And what would a fly movie be without more gratuitous bloodsoaked vomiting.  Here we get to see a guy get his face burned off.  Though this time its done quickly and is not so disturbing.  As for John Getz, the man who had to endure that type of scene in the end of part 1, all we see is five minutes of him as a reclusive drunk.  I was hoping for more with the way his characters fate was left in the last movie.  Aside from his scene, not much to recommend from this. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit that this was a great film. But, in my opinion, the first one was better. The sequel was excellent. Martin is born with the fly genes. He is also affected so that he has acelerated growth. When he is full grown, he is has just turned four. And it finally comes down to him becoming a 15 foot tall fly. I have to admit this one had better vomiting scenes. "}{"Title":"enjoyable insect fare","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Stoltz plays the offspring of Seth Brundle in an enjoyable sequel. Bartok is deliciously villainous and all's well that ends well. You'll never look at those little guys that buzz around in the same way again! "},{"Title":"Why does this exist?","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie a few weeks ago when my family was staying over at my mother's friend's house. During a late-night party, I was babysitting some kids (10, 13, 14 and me, 18) in the furnished basement, when our 14-year-old, Joe, saw The Fly 2 on TV and wanted to watch it out of morbid curiosity. Emphasis on the morbid.Why did The Fly need a sequel at all? It looked like something a bunch of film students make on a shoestring budget for an homage project. The characters aren't particularly interesting and nor were they likable, the plot was rather generic and the gross-out carnage was over the top. I can't understand anybody who would sit through this without wanting to heckle it MST3000 style.I had three main problems with the movie, one being how it was excessively gruesome, in an attempt to make up for everything else it was lacking. The protagonist (if you can even call him that), Martin, goes up to visit one of the failed test subjects of the Telepods, this hideously deformed dog that used to belong to him. He attempts to feed it, but it's so horribly mangled that all it does is howl in misery, to the point where Joe had to change the channel because it was freaking even *him* out. Think about it...this mutant thing was mentioned to be Martin's childhood pet, making the scene pointlessly twisted. As well, there's the opening bit in which Martin's mom gives birth to his larval sac and dies, which was just one big why is this happening to my eyes moment. Later on a female researcher is brutally killed and her corpse is shown on screen, which really just crossed the line for me. (Although her researching partner walks in to find her, and I must admit his reaction was very realistically acted, so he won respect from me.)Then there's the random sex...Martin suddenly strikes up a relationship with a young woman whom seemed to not like him earlier, and they have this drawn-out awkward sex scene. It was just stupid, to be honest. It's almost like the writers put it in to try and impregnate her for a The Fly 3 (which luckily does not exist). If it was supposed to be sensual, why have it follow on the heels of a scene about a mutant animal?Thirdly, it was tied to the original movie so loosely that it was almost insulting. Forcing Veronica Brundle to give birth to a larvae was embarrassing and gross, and even showing a clip of Jeff Goldblum as Seth Brundle on screen just to say, Remember how we're a sequel, you guys? Joe thought the throwback was cool, but I avoided mentioning how annoyed I really was.We couldn't finish it. All the kids started to dislike Martin Brundle so much that we actually started rooting for the bad guys until we couldn't take it anymore and watched Spongebob Squarepants. I'd really like to buy a coffee for any unfortunate unprepared soul who's able to sit through this movie without turning into the mutant dog. Maybe you'd like it if you're not underage and watch grindhouse for a living; I don't know. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Stand Up to Predecessor...","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sequel to David Cronenberg's remake of The Fly is nowhere near as entertaining. I felt like they put more thought into special effects than into storytelling. This time around, we are told the story of Martin Brundle, son of Seth (Jeff Goldblum's character from the 1986 film). While the first movie had heart to it, this one seems to lack it. It tries to mimic the relationship from the first movie between Seth and Veronica, this time with Daphne Zuniga as Martin's love interest. Unfortunately, it takes a backseat to the fly transformation and gore effects. Don't get me wrong, gore can be good. Just not when its the centerpiece of the movie. It had been a while since I had last watched it and I had an easier time remembering the elevator death than what the actual story was about.On the plus side the fly effects were impressive once again. The various puppets they used to bring the fly to life moved fluidly and were more convincing. I didn't really like how the fly looked less human than it did in the first. That was what made it easy to feel for the character and remember that there is still the mind of a man deep in there. This time it looks more monstrous. On the other hand, some of the other telepod mutations came out looking too fake for me to believe. They were like puppets rejected from Sesame Street for looking too unfriendly.The acting really got to me in this movie, and not in a good way. Every character the movie wants us to hate seems almost cartoonish. The scientists working with Martin gave me a Dr. Evil vibe and I half expected them to raise their pinky finger to their mouth and laugh maniacally. Scorby, the head of security at Bartok Industries played by Gary Chalk, oozes with a hatred for Martin from the very beginning that the filmmakers never explain. We got some good performances from the main three actors Stoltz, Zuniga, and Richardson. It isn't nearly enough to save the movie.If you were a fan of Cronenberg's Fly, I almost recommend against watching this one. This movie is best watched with no expectations, except for that of a mildly entertaining horror flick with some good special effects. "},{"Title":"0 out of 4.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The worst Sequel to a Cronenberg movie yet, thank god Cronenberg didn't have anything to do with this travesty. It stars Eric Stoltz and Daphne Zuniga and an appearence by John Getz. Just do yourself a favor, rent or buy the Fly 1 if your interested if not, go see some B horror flick. "},{"Title":"not a bad effort","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is'nt that bad for a sequel. tho not as good as the first this film boasts some great special effects scenes like the acid to the face and head crushing scenes. the monster looks good too as does that end thing.6/10 "},{"Title":"What can I say? It stinks.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sequels are rarely as good as the original, but they can at least be entertaining. The Fly 2 is NOT! The acting is below average, lacking any powerful or strong performances. The plot is poorly put together, making little sense. Special effects were even worse. They looked so pathetic.The original was a great mix of science fiction and horror, and offered lots of suspense. The Fly 2, however, is a movie filled with too much gore and too little story (a lot like slasher movie sequels). Granted, the original had some scenes that would really gross you out, but this movie goes far and beyond. Pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Sickening.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After a pretty decent first half, this sometimes sickening sequel to The Fly degenerates into an Alien ripoff and loses the sense of pain and tragedy that the first one had - although the 1986 film didn't devote enough screen time in those elements either, it was much better. Those who look for gore, though, shouldn't worry the film is even more yucky than the original. "},{"Title":"Miss this Movie, Please","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The director seemed obsessed with gore and special effects. This makes sense since He specializes in effects and makeup. However, as a director, he is creatively challenged. It is no small wonder that he only directed two horror movies (The Fly II included) and one episode of Tales of the Crypt (1989).I usually try to keep an open mind, but this movie is truly awful. It seemed that most of the effort was put in the gory makeup and special effects which in my opinion was the primary focus of the movie. And I think that the story should have had more character development. In the 1958 original and 1986 remake, you felt something for the characters. (Actually, I did feel sorry for Eric Stoltz and what he had to endure to make The Fly II). I realize the actors tried but they had so little to work with. The goo and poo that was to represent the change from one form to another was overdone. *spoiler*In the end, Martin Brundle (Stoltz), the main character was vindicated and his nemesis the evil Bartok (Richardson) got his just desserts. If the movie was done differently, the ending should of had one cheering at the end. I suggest you miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Horrible but cultish","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sequel is clearly suffering from the very common problem sequels have; spend 90% of the budget in buying rights to actually make the sequel, then 9% on props and gory effects, and 10 cents on a script, if there even is one or if the director makes things up as he goes along. The latter seems to apply to the Fly II. Crappy actors, crappier dialog, Alien ripoffs(of course). The only descent scene is when the main actor is spell-bound by the bugzapper when he is slowly turning into a fly. Thank God I watched this on free, ad-less TV. It's not worth spending money buying it or even renting it. If you like gore and silly movies, you'll not be disappointed. Otherwise, the Fly II is a movie you can afford to miss. "},{"Title":"A Disgrace to the Original!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing this movie, I finally realized that every sequel to an excellent sci/fi or horror movie would leave you depressed that the original movie had to have had such a terrible sequel (although some exceptions like Aliens and Terminator 2). The original movie, The Fly, is one of my all time favorite sci/fi movies. Everything about it was great. So I decided to watch the sequel, even though it looked pretty bad. I wasn't expecting much, but I was still shocked at how terrible this movie was. It was a disgrace that it had anything to do with the original. The script was so clique! The acting was terrible! The special effects were ATROCIOUS (I can't believe they were done by the same guy who did the FX for The Fly)! The only thing good about this movie was the surprise ending. I was quite pleased that it ended differently than the first one. Please, by all means, don't see this movie! It took everything that was cool about the first one and messed it up in a lame, predictable, flat out terrible movie!  "}{"Title":"Mediocre if not fun in  that bad sort of sequel way.","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember this as a fun if a completely weak second film to the superior 86' remake. I loved The Fly with Goldblum in probably his best role. This was a completely unnecessary sequel but I remembered it better than what it actually is. After re-watching it, it is really quite bad, but It is still moderately fun, if you can get over the pretty much terrible story, then you might like it. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone that didn't like the superior in every way first flick. But if you like some of the crappy 80's creature flicks then maybe you'll like this. I do think the crappy fly suit is really tacky, and so many of the special effects are really terrible. "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was awful! It is a sequel to a great movie, but this one is so bad, slow, stupid, and boring, I almost fell asleep during it! Although it has great effects, the rest of this movie is sick, cruel, nasty and has unrealistic gore. 1 star out of 5 for this trash. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous and Unnecessary Sequel","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unimpressive and overall empty sequel to the original which was a box office hit in 1986. The son of the Jeff Goldblum character from the first is born in the form of Eric Stoltz and slowly the terror builds as Stoltz is doing research like his father and already has the fly gene anyway. None of the performances are very impressive and only John Getz returns from the original in a minor and unwanted role. The special effects are sophomoric and the big budget did nothing to help the look of the movie as the whole project looks rushed and cheap. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Pits II, The","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though the first Fly seemed well thought out and decently carried out, this movie could have been thought up in less than a minute.  It was a total bloodfest, and, instead of carrying the chilling realism of the first Fly, turned into a tiresome and repetitive romp on the road of bad filmmaking. The ending was gruesome and memorable, but the rest of the movie paled next to the original. Zuniga was a horrible actor, and the lack of Jeff Goldblum, or an actor of equal caliber, was painfully apparent.  Still, it was a somewhat entertaining movie, and any fan of the Fly will want to see it. "},{"Title":"You broke the cardinal rule of film, you KILLED THE GOD DAMN DOG!!!","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What this film did was make me very uncomfortable. That dog scene, really, was that necessary? Haven't the writers ever had a pet that needed put down? Don't you know how bad that feels? Well, this movie brought back all those Awful memories. After that dog scene, I really didn't give a damn what happened to any of the characters in this movie. I'll never watch it again. I don't give too many movies bad reviews, but this one made me feel bad long, LONG after I saw it. All I could think of was the face of every pet I ever had to put down. I don't expect every movie to be a feel-good experience, but this movie was the equivalent of taking a family with a son in a Turkish prison to see Midnight Express. "},{"Title":"Yawn, yawn, yawn ... or How a good movie can get an awful sequel.","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think someone should make a law that forbids Hollywood to make sequels of popular movies. There is absolutely nothing wrong with making a big profit, so why shouldn't the film studio's do the same? Well, if they made a large profit with good movies I wouldn't have a problem with it at all, but apparently they prefer to make bad sequels, hoping that the average audience won't mind being ripped off. The Fly was a really good movie which I enjoyed a lot. The special effects were nice, the acting was very good. Overall it was a very convincing movie that still delivers after almost 20 years. The Fly II however is an utter piece of crap that has only been made with the intention to get the last money out of the unsuspecting fans' pockets. The studio and producers should be ashamed, very ashamed!The Fly II ends approximately where The Fly ended. As you know, Seth Brundle's girlfriend was pregnant from him at the end of the movie... Now she is giving birth to this 'baby'. Martin Brundle grows very fast and is perhaps even more brilliant than his father. He works on the telepods for the firm Bartok. In the meanwhile he lives and works in the factory, gets to know a girl and falls in love... Of course he gradually changes into a fly as well. The first hour of the movie I thought I was watching a family movie straight from the Disney studio's. It only made me yawn. After that I just saw an awful action flick, not worth being watched thanks to the far from original special effects and the worst acting in years.No, I don't like this movie at all. I recommended The Fly, but I will not do the same for this one. 3/10 is the best I can do for this movie. "},{"Title":"I DUNNO....","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw this ages ago, I was not very impressed by it, especially the storyline which reeked of cliche after cliche. For Example Girl sleeps with monster boy. 'Daddy' is the Baddy. Monster boy turns into human boy - VOILA! - thanks to wonder cure! Daddy pays big-time by being turned into a Daddy-Monster... and the Cliche List goes on!The original, although quite gross, was considerably better than this Sequel. As for 'horror' this was more of a 'comedy'Boy turning into drooling, many-legged Alien-look-alike (sigh) then performs the Ultimate Cliches of your Below Average B Grade Monster Movie...I found some scenes irritatingly Bad... The woman scientist alone in the room with a Huge Gooey Cocoon making Revolting Noises and dripping Pus and vomitus... And, of course, her standing there screaming while Beast Boy Bursts from its Balloon, making no effort to run!One scene that I found particularly effective was at the very end when Daddy was mutated into the giant maggot and he's the poor creature locked up in the cell. Now that's real horror. Too bad the whole movie wasn't like this. "},{"Title":"what a waste","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i watched it earlier today , what can i say? man it could'nt be any worse , i really hoped it would not be i wasn't convinced at all with the whole plot,it's a bad copy of part one, only that part one was a lot better , it was so lame & so vague that you don't know where you are standing , if it's a horror movie or sci fi movie or one of those scientists movies ,unfortuonatly i cant mention the weak parts of the movie cos i cant find strong ones, not to mention the silly monster they created it didn't scare at all , the children channel have shows with monsters that scare more than that one as for the acting eric stoltz tried to do some good work but the story & the plot wasn't helping so it all went the drains ,i've seen daphne zuniga in better roles , cant compare her with gina davis part one it wouldent be fair anyway i don't recommend it at all specially if you watched part one & like it "}]