[{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While I don't consider this a great movie, I must say that it is one of those movies like a favorite pair of slippers always so comfortable to put on.  I can't stop watching this old movie because it's so much fun, the characters are so comfortable to be with, the locations are so relaxing, and Washington is, as always, a wonderful actor.Though it is not the high point of the movie, my favorite moment occurs when Quinn (Washington) loosens up, sits down at the piano, and begins an amusing rendition of Cakewalk into Town.  Unfortunately, others subvert his song into The Mighty Quinn, disturbing the atmosphere somewhat, but that's all part of the plot.Quinn's serious cop is the straight man to another worthy character, Maubee (Robert Townsend), an impish rascal loved by everyone on the island.The Mighty Quinn makes me want to go to the island and party with everyone there, but, alas, it's only a movie.  "},{"Title":"An outstanding and entertaining mystery with Denzel","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most entertaining movies I've seen all year. It takes place in a town on a carribean island not unlike Jamaica, and tells the story of a drifter named Maubee accussed of murder, and his best friend who happens to be the town sherrif.  I loved this movie, because of it's wonderful characters, and the things they deal with over the course of this movie. The film may not be action-packed, or even contain a gripping plot, but I assure any readers this movie will not dissapoint you. Denzel Washington is delightful as the sherrif trying to prove his friends innosennce, and Robert Townsend plays the  down-and-out drifter Maubee, in an equaly pleasing role. While the films premise may not initialy draw you in, its wonderful characters and colorful island setting will. And everytime things start to slow down, the movie drops another dead body in. See this movie.  "},{"Title":"Easy does it","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an easy movie to like.I love Maubee's mystery and his history with Xavier.  I love Xavier's uniform and his relationship with all islanders.Even when Maubee is tearing down the house, he has a smile on his face. Even when Xavier forgets to pick up his son and finds him hours later, alone and in the dark, it's not the end of the world, the child is entertaining himself and he forgives his father - easily.These island inhabitants are comfortable to watch. What my grandmother would have called easy in their skin.Don't you know this is a goin' down road?I love that line.And I love a place that would designate a mountain road a goin' down road during certain parts of the day.Also, this rendition of Bob Dylan Mighty Quinn is the easiest version to my ears.  "},{"Title":"Denzel's mighty fine in this one!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Do you want to be magically transported to the islands? Do you want to hear raggae music that's out of this world? Do you want to see Denzel's beautiful brown skin against an all white uniform? The Mighty Quinn's got all three plus a pretty decent plot and some pretty well known actors. Robert Townsend is great as the wily Maubee, Mimi Rogers is convincing as a damsel in distress and Sheryl Lee Ralph showcases her talents as both an actress and a singer. But perhaps the best part of this movie, in my opinion, is Denzel's character Xavier. Oh yes he looks sexy, as he always does. But more that that it's the way he embodies a role so much so that by the end of the movie you can't tell him from smooth tongued Jamaican police officer that he's playing. Catch it one late night on television reruns and I bet you'll get caught up. You'll never feel the same way about a Jamaican accent again. "},{"Title":"It's always interesting to see cultures that we often forget about.","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Mighty Quinn is one of those movies that isn't a masterpiece by any stretch, but is interesting for what it shows. In this case, we get to see Jamaica, where sheriff Xavier Quinn (Denzel Washington) is investigating a murder and trying to clear his friend Maubee's (Robert Townsend) name. One of the most interesting scenes is when someone escapes from a house by climbing through the tin roof. Now there's a look at the Caribbean! Probably the best part of this movie is the soundtrack. Considering that it happens in the Caribbean, you know that there's got to be some great music. And you won't be disappointed. Like I said, The Mighty Quinn isn't a great movie or anything, but it's interesting for what it shows. See it if possible. "},{"Title":"GOOD CARIBBEAN ADVENTURE MYSTERY","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Washington plays a very low keyed Island cop who has a murder and some wealthy people to deal with if he wants to solve it. The if involves some racial and money overtones that would seem to put him over his head. Excellent supporting cast led by Walsh and Townsend make this a very good and underrated film. "},{"Title":"Rum Punch and Reggae","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I never tire of watching this movie. It is one of my favorites, and a great showcase for Denzel Washington. He gets to be the cool-headed Chief of Police that takes no crap from the rich white folks and, at the same time, is the butt of jokes from his own people.The cast of characters all add to this interesting mystery set in Jamaica. Robert Townsend shows his amazing versatility as the childhood friend of Washington and the chief suspect in a murder. Mimi Rogers is just luscious as the philandering spouse of James Fox, the man who wants Washington to go away and stop doing his job. M. Emmet Walsh makes the perfect government hit man, who is after missing $10,000 bills. Then, there is Sheryl Lee Ralph as Washington's wife. When she sings (I'm) Hurting Inside, you know it's true. Then she sings the title song as a dig at her husband. But, the whole film has a continuous soundtrack of fantastic music that adds island charm to the laughs and seduction and fun.It is the next best thing to a trip to Jamaica. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable mystery thriller","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Smooth and charming Police Chief Xavier Quinn (a fine and likable performance by Denzel Washington) has to search his Jamaican island beat for lovable local rascal and old childhood pal Maubee (a wonderfully engaging portrayal by Robert Townsend) in order to clear Maubee's name after he's accused of murder. Capably directed with considerable flashy panache by Carl Schenkel, with a pleasantly casual pace, and a colorful and absorbing script by Hampton Fancher, further buoyed by an extremely catchy'n'bouncy reggae soundtrack, nice touches of wry humor, and a flavorsome Caribbean tropical setting, this film possesses a certain affable laid-back appeal that's impossible to either dislike or resist. The strong cast helps a lot Washington and especially Townsend excel in the lead roles, with fine support from James Fox as jerky rich resort owner Thomas Elgin, the lovely Mimi Rogers as Thomas' neglected and enticing wife Hadley, the always great M. Emmet Walsh as hearty, yet vicious hired killer Fred Miller, Esther Rolle as fearsome witch Ubu Pearl, Art Evans as irritable Sergeant Jump Jones, Sheryl Lee Ralph as Xavier's fiery and sultry wife Lola, Norman Beaton as the meddlesome Governor Chalk, and Key Luke as the helpful Dr. Raj. Washington easily carries this picture with his supremely amiable and charismatic presence. Jacques Steyn's bright cinematography gives this movie an attractive sunny look while Anne Dudley's frothy score keeps things bubbling along. A winningly breezy and carefree romp. "},{"Title":"Interesting Look into Carribbean Culture","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I read a previous comment calling this movie boring, so I had to respond. While this movie is far from perfect, it is a great afro-centric murder mystery set on a Caribbean island. It shares aspects with Marlon Brando's Burn in that the locals fall victims to the whims and greed of white colonial, in this case, American exploits. This film was made in 1989, during a black cultural rebirth that included Spike Lee films and the political rap band Public Enemy. This film fits into that category and is unapologetic in its portrayals. If you can't handle the reality of colonialism and intervention then you cant handle this film. Its not much wonder this film isn't seen often, just like Brando's Burn, and Ben Gazarra's high Velocity, two other films that plumb honestly colonial politics and tragedy, long past and recent. "},{"Title":"Where's Belafonte when you need him?","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Relaxed -- very relaxed -- murder story, with Denzel Washington as a detective ordered to find and capture his friend so the murder can be rapidly cleared up and the tourist trade flow along liquidly. Halfway through, Washington begins to believe that there is more to the case than meets the eye, and that his buddy will be no more than a scapegoat.Very nice location shooting in Jamaica. If you like reggae, you will LOVE this film's score. There are lots of shots of the beautiful beach. Hey, mon, why you jomp in dee wah-tah faw? The more desperately seedy areas of Kingston are avoided, as they would be in one of Hitchcock's movies set in an exotic locale. The viewpoint is that of the tourist used to saying in nice hotels, the kind with jacuzzis but no venomous snakes.Denzel Washington handles the accent pretty well without quite shedding his own phones. Sometimes it fades more than others. The other performers don't really have too much to do. Everyone seems to be enjoying himself, as if on vacation.The movie is rather good-natured considering the plot. The white guys tend to be bad, while the local people of color are at worst raffish. Is there still such racial friction in Jamaica? I don't know, but in the Bahamas the races get along well with one another, as they do in much of the Caribbean. Maybe big cities breed animosities spontaneously.There's nothing truly outstanding about this routine flick, except, as I've noted, the score. It's not especially exciting, mysterious, amusing, or engaging in any other way. It's not a bad flick if you're prepared to let it take you by the hand and lead you along the colorful streets, pointing out sites of interest, suggesting you taste the jerky and try one of those pink drinks in a tall glass with a flower and a paper umbrella sticking out of it. We call it Captain Bluebeard's Mango Flavored Rum Punch. Mind the umbrella. One of awah tourists lost an eye last year. Don't drink? Fine, bad faw the health. Care for one of awah Jah-may-can cigars? You might not remember much of it later but you won't object to having watched it. "}{"Title":"You ain't seen NOTHING like 'The Mighty Quinn'","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one excellent Denzel film.  He's a Caribbean cop investigating a murder that his childhood friend (Robert Townsend) may be implicated in. The locales and the reggae music exude quite an atmosphere, and the supporting cast (Mimi Rogers, James Fox, M. Emmet Walsh, Sheryl Lee Ralph) makes this a classic.  They don't make movies like this too often.  It may be a bit more style over substance, but you have to see it for your self. My personal favorite  Esther Rolle (Momma on Good Times) appears as a witch in several key scenes.  She is totally awesome!   "},{"Title":"breezy Caribbean cop flick","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" something halfway DIFFERENT from Hollywood's usual fare; Denzel plays a rather straight-laced Chief of Police of a Jamaica-like island and must track down his free-spirit childhood friend, Maubee, suspected of murder. the best thing about this movie (to me) was its island locations and people, a great change of pace from the usual SoCal or New Yawk stuff. M. Emit Walsh is a scene stealer as a bemused corporate operative down to fix some loose ends. the numerous musical interludes are excellent (and its great to watch a movie without the usual hip-hop or angst-metal). many of the 'minor' characters--Ubu Pearl, Coco, Jose, Jump--are lots more interesting than the major ones. on the down side are some of the usual clichés--arrogant rich whites, the politician that browbeats the police so as not to alarm the tourists, the usual domestic strife, the precocious kid, a subplot involving the, gasp, CIA. watch this some night with 'Countryman' for a Caribbean Film Festival. "},{"Title":"Totally worth watching","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has some very personal conflicts that we could all use as many perspectives to as possible. It was one of the first movies ever made with a really emotional and well choreographed Capoeira fight toward the end that you can't miss! This is one of my favorite Denzel Washington movies of all times! The characterization in this movie was done very well. The cultural issues were also well portrayed for the time that this movie is set in. You really have to be in an attentive state of mind to appreciate this movie and have some sort of respect for the history of martial arts and the depths of having to fight a battle that you don't want to fight, to the death, because you are standing up for morale. I really liked this movie and I hate authority. The authority figure is the main character, so decide for yourself if these things sound interesting enough to give this movie a chance. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just discovered this movie a week or two ago. It is really fun! That's more than can be said for lots of movies these days. I am surprised that people have not commented on the three blind men following one another as they tap their way through one of the scenes. A real nod to James Bond's Dr. No. This is just one of the surprises in this very entertaining movie. Denzel Washington was excellent. The film is full of interesting, quirky characters and some great dialogue as well. It is also good to see location filming in a place that is not often seen in films any more. This is really an old fashioned type of film with a sense of life and warmth in it. "},{"Title":"I'm going all the way.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Oh the song from Manfred Mann does cop a work out from time to time, but that's one of its many colourful elements as Denzel Washington stars as a police chief Quinn of a small Caribbean island who begins an investigation after the death of an American tourist in a resort. The evidence leads to his shady childhood friend Maubee (an enigmatic Robert Townsend), which starts to cause a ripple within all levels of the island society. However Quinn believes there's more to it, as there seems to be some sort of cover-up occurring and this means that its less likely his friend was involved. Boasting a strong title, The Mighty Quinn is a humidly standard investigative thriller that examines human nature, but in doing so it feels a little too unfocused in its narrative structure by going off in many different paths. Espionage to family issues, throw in goofy humour and of course the musical interludes. Appealing in parts, especially since it captures the bouncy, carefree atmosphere of its culture and the dazzling backdrop is a character itself. However it does lack suspense when it tries to go for broke, because of its charmingly laid-back vibe and foreseeable storytelling. Even though you have everyone nearly acting suspicious and plot tries to be tricky it doesn't hide the fact it's easy to read. There's a capable cast in James Fox, M Emmet Walsh, Sheryl Lee Ralph, Mimi Rogers and Art Evans, but they seem like in a holidaying mood. Carl Schenkel's direction has a stylish verve to it. Charming, but unremarkable thriller. He knows the cops are after him, and the man is bang into the fourth dimension. "},{"Title":"GOOD CARIBBEAN ADVENTURE MYSTERY","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Washington plays a very low keyed Island cop who has a murder and some wealthy people to deal with if he wants to solve it. The if involves some racial and money overtones that would seem to put him over his head. Excellent support cast led by Walsh and Townsend make this a very good and underrated film. "},{"Title":"I put this in my top ten","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Truly love this movie - it has a great location, wonderful music, and an all-star cast. The Mighty Quinn brings me to the islands. Who wouldn't want to be Maubee? Everyone can relate to someone in this film. I don't approve, but I couldn't believe there were two scenes where women were slapped (not seen too much on any media). This is a great movie to rent on a rainy day, and after you return head to the music store and get the soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"Denzel as Jamaican is kinda fun","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Police chief Xavier Quinn (Denzel Washington) on a Caribbean island investigates the murder of wealthy Donald Pater. His childhood friend petty criminal Maubee (Robert Townsend) is the main suspect with a briefcase full of money. Quinn doesn't buy Maubee's guilt and has a tougher time catching him.There is one memorable thing about this movie. Denzel Washington doing a Jamaican accent. It's fascinating for quite awhile. The locations look good. The sun is shining. I kind of like it all.As for the murder mystery, it doesn't really work that well. It's hard to keep track of all the players. The mystery is too dense with too many suspicious characters. The movie is filled with hard-boiled stereotype characters. It is so over the top that it does get tiring. M. Emmet Walsh is playing a stereotype grizzled white guy living on the island. I rather have Townsend as Washington's sidekick. They seem to have a fun chemistry. The best scene is when Townsend almost gets hit by Washington. Washington is in desperate need of a sidekick to make this fun. It's not a bad movie, but the island feel can only go so far. "},{"Title":"Island Justice","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Mighty Quinn, a weak thriller by director Carl Schenkel, stars Denzel Washington as a police chief on an unnamed Caribbean island. Attempting to solve a crime, Washington navigates the genre's usual assortments of villains, femme fatales, red herrings and conflicts.Washington is usually good with accents. This film, however, finds him adopting a poor Jamaican accent. Elsewhere Schenkel tastelessly casts African Americans as West Indians. The film co-stars Mimi Rogers and Emmet Walsh.5/10 - For a better 1980s crime flick, see Ivan Passer's Cutter's Way. "},{"Title":"Robert Townsend is Tops","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Always enjoy the great acting of Denzel Washington, who plays the role as Xavier Quinn, police chief in the Jamaican community and is very serious trying to uphold the law and order. However, he encounters a homicide and intends to deal with this case strictly by the book and has great problems with all the local politicians and his friends. Robert Townsend,(Maubee) plays the role of a carefree individual who does just what he pleases and mostly the wrong side of the law and is constantly laughing at strait laced Xavier Quinn. James Fox, (Thomas Elgin) and Mimi Rogers, (Hadley Elgin) give great supporting roles. This is not exactly the greatest film but with the great talents of Robert Townsend and Denzel Washington it is a worthwhile film to view and enjoy. "}{"Title":"Man tries to find friend who was framed for a murder he didn't commit.","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great. Plenty of action and great acting sums up this masterpiece in movie history. Denzel Washington had a believable accent and very cool scenes. The fact that almost everyone in this movie were American actors playing Jamaican roles really made this movie what it is. The mystery made this movie a thrill ride and plenty of beautiful scenery. Robert Townsend gave this movie the bonus of comedy and the huge manhunt going to find him. Denzel Washington makes want to watch this movie over and over again in some of the dazzling action scenes and the great Jamaican signing. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie gives me a warm fuzzy feeling and I recommend that anyone that just wants to relax and watch Denzel Washington look awesome and enjoy a 1980s mystery this is it.  In fact I'm going to buy this movie to keep in my collection. "},{"Title":"Caucasian view of this African-American Mystery...","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As the title of my review states, I am Caucasian and rarely watch African-American flicks (most are comedies these days, and I am more of a drama and suspense fan).I am also not a huge fan of Denzel Washington - however, what I do love, is the country of Jamaica!! I have been visiting the island every year since I was 18, and was even married there. I now take my two young daughters there for summer vacations. So needless to say, I know quite a bit about the country and love immersing myself in their culture. The Jamaican people are so very different than the African American's that I know here in the US. With that said, the accents in this movie left something to be desired. (In fact, there were some accents that weren't even close to sounding Jamaican).But alas, I still enjoyed this movie. I was surprised to see that it was made in 1989 - for the longest time, I thought it was newer, perhaps 1995 or 1996. The clothing and hair styles in Jamaica are very far behind the US, so perhaps that is why I didn't immediately guess the movie was as old as it was. It isn't uncommon to still see a lot of island residents wearing clothes from the 80's and 90's. The cars/trucks are always quite old, as are the buildings (minus the new resorts that pop up).As many other reviewers have pointed out, the island feel in this movie is great. I am a huge fan of reggae - and although I dislike musicals, they blended the music with the scenes very nicely.The obvious tropical backdrop, combined with the small beach shacks, the colorful residents and the busy little towns with dirt roads winding around the countryside is a great setting for a mystery. All in all, I feel that the main character of this movie is the island itself. Without the setting, this movie would not have worked whatsoever. This is a great movie to watch on a cold winter day - it's a bit of an escape, and always has me counting down the days until my next visit to Jamaica.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very unexciting.","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Apparently everyone likes this movie except me. Strange thing, too, because while I was watching this I couldn't find a single positive redeeming quality to raise my opinion of it - even the locations are not photographed very attractively. It's a boring mystery tale, that never manages to get you involved, and when everything is revealed you don't get any particular pleasure from the resolution. In fact, the movie takes so long to reach at wherever it's going that you may feel like dozing off on several occasions. Denzel Washington, in this particular role, doesn't show enough star charisma to hold the picture; his co-star, Robert Townsend, steals the show as the cheerfully irresponsible victim of circumstances.    (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Jack of all genres, master of none.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  According to Ebert, who gave this flick a whopping four stars, ...Quinn is a spy thriller, a buddy movie, a musical, a comedy and a picture that is wise about human nature. And, though the film may be a jack of all genres, it masters none. Full of fun stuff which dilutes the drama and visa-versa, ...Quinn is also fraught with foibles. For example, if you were frantically trying to gather up large denomination bills strewn over the landscape, would you beckon your helicopter to come and get you? Not if you wanted the dinero. Nonetheless, this film makes for solid entertainment with a Jamaican flavor worth a rental for Denzel fans. (B-) "},{"Title":"This May Be One Of Denzel Washington's Worst Movies!","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You will surely laugh at the awful singing when you watch this movie! And it was so stupid having Esther Rolle to play a witch doctor. I was so annoyed with Denzel Washington,  Sheryl Lee Ralph,  and Robert Townsend's phony Jamaican accents! They were not speaking Jamaican. They were speaking Jamaicinglish! I thought this movie was stupid when I first saw it when I was 14. And I still think this movie is stupid! Denzel Washington cannot sing! This movie joined my list of movies that received a one star rating! "}]