[{"Title":"My first contact with Baseball...","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"46 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  As you might know, Baseball is not big in Germany. Hardly anybody knows or understands the rules. People watch soccer here. Basketball gets bigger. But Baseball? No.So this movie, which many of my friends watched as well, was my first contact with this interesting sport. Of course, it is a fairy tale. Of course, the underdog won't get that big that it will beat everybody and win the championship. Or will it? Sports history tells us different. The story is the same in every sport. Just two years ago, a team just promoted from second division won the German soccer championship! This movie depicts the glorious story of a bunch of outsiders and underachievers who finally win some games. And it is told in such a wonderful manner that you can't but root for them on their way out of the slumps. Yes! It is a simple story! But the characters are wonderful, the wisecracking Harry Doyle incredibly funny and the finals... well... no spoilers here.My most favorite moment is when oldtimer pitcher Harris is replaced by Charlie Sheens character in the finals. In the first games of the season, some die-hard fans had given Sheen the nickname Wild thing and sang the famous song. Now, the whole crowd is chanting this song as Sheen steps onto the field to pitch his largest enemy. This scene always gives me goosebumps. It is splendid.Many great moments, excellent humor and a fate you would wish for your favorite sports team as well - unless you are one of those boring Yankees, Bulls or Bayern Muenchen fans... "},{"Title":"One of the best sports/comedy movies of all-time.","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Over the years many times I have watched Major League and each time I enjoy it. This film just seems better if you watch it during baseball season. The cast and plot of this movie is just great. You have a bunch of misfits and old-timers who come together and bring the Cleveland Indians out of many years of a slump, and finally contend for an American League Pennant. The movie has plenty of funny moments and mishaps that the characters do just to make you laugh while at the same moment you cheer for the team in each game of the season. Charlie Sheen is great he was perfectly cast as the pitcher. Plus the cast of Wesley Snipes, James Gammon, Dennis Haysbert, Corbin Bernsen, and Tom Berenger all worked very good together even Bob Uecker is a joy as the Indians very funny play-by-play announcer. Major League is just one of those movies when you watch it each time you enjoy it and you just love to cheer for the underdog. If you are a baseball fan and love a little comedy mixed with winning then Major League is a movie to watch many times.  "},{"Title":"Couldn't Stop Laughing","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was released back in 1989 and I couldn't stop laughing;  This movie was hilarious.  It was very fitting, since the Cleveland Indians at the time were the laughingsock of the Major Leagues and for years, they were stuck in the realms of mediocrity or in last place year after year.The cast was great; Led by Tom Berringer, and Margaret Whitton.  She played the perfect villain in this movie.  You just wanted to hate her.  Charlie Sheen, Corbin Bersen, along with 3 unknown actors at the time, Wesley Snipes, Dennis Haysbert and Rene Russo.  Snipes was hilarious as Willie Mays Hayes as well as Haysbert as Pedro Cerrano, the power hitter who practices voodoo.  The cast was well rounded off with Checie Ross as Eddie Harris, the aging religious pitcher, James Gammon, Charles Cypers and Bob Uecker as Harry Doyle.There were many great one liners and hilarious scenes.  The American Express commercial was classic and here's a couple of my favorite scenes-Jake Taylor, Willie Mays Hayes and Ricky Vaughn are in a bar after a game and discussing the long ball Vaughn gave upTaylor  It wasn't that bad Vaughn Oh yeah?  Name one park that ball couldn't have left Taylor Yellowstone (All 3 laughing)That scene was in the theater version and I've seen it in the trailers for the movie, but it was deleted in the video version.  I'd like to know why, because that was one of my favorite scenes.-Oh now you come around; But he isn't fooled- Eddie Harris on seeing Pedro Cerrano crossing himself.Here's a few bits of trivia on the movie-Funny thing was seeing Pete Vukovich as Klu Haywood, a first baseman.  Mainly because he was a pitcher in the Major Leagues.-Catcher Jake Taylor wore #7.  This was the uniform number of longtime Los Angeles Dodger catcher Steve Yeager, who was the technical advisor to this movie and played 3rd Base Coach, Duke Temple (Fitting that Taylor wore his number?).-The movie was filmed in Milwaukee and 3 people affiliated with the Brewers were featured  Pete Vukovich, Bob Uecker (Brewers play-by -play man) and pitcher Jerry Augustine (Duke Simms).-Was it a coincedence that Miller and Lite Beer was used, since Bob Uecker at the time was spokesman for the Miller Brewing Company?This movie is one of the best sports movies around.  Getting the dvd is worth it. "},{"Title":"Classic Movie!","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is easily my favorite movie of all-time.  Being a sports fan who loves comedies, you can't beat this flick.  This is one movie that I can watch over and over without getting sick of it.  Definitely hilarious, the one-liners are great.  The cast is solid as well.  Wesley Snipes, Tom Berenger, Dennis Haysbert, Corbin Bernsen, Charlie Sheen and Bob Uecker are excellent in their roles.  I love how the film holds nothing back as well, unlike the sequel where the language and what not was toned down.Is Major League predictable? I guess...but it is still a great movie. Its a ***** movie in my opinion, plus it was filmed at the late MCS (Milwaukee County Stadium) so that makes it even better!  "},{"Title":"There Once Was...","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is one of the cleverest predictable movies of all time, and for my taste the best baseball movie. A great cast, an underdog plot, and one memorable choice after another by the writers and director make this a valentine to the foot soldiers of our national pastime. (Remember, this was 15 years ago.) The fabulous scoreboard, the hysterical radio play-by-play of Bob Uecker, even the motley occupants of Cleveland sports bars are irresistible hooks to reel us in, after we've been hooked by the motley team of colorful has-beens and never-were's. If this is a formula, it's the right one. I deeply love this movie, and regret not having seen it in its theatrical run. (I've seen it a dozen times since.) I'm sure the audience went wild during that climactic Yankees game! How about that Dorn making a bunch of clutch plays! Didn't you love Cerrano carrying his bat around the bases with him? Jake not dusting off, and pointing, twice...man, I wish I'd been there.Then there's the little insert, early in the story, about Jake's fantasy of hitting the winning run out of the park. What happened instead when the chips were really down? Okay, it isn't poetry -- it's more of a limerick, know what I mean? Just start with three words There once was.... and finish it yourself! I bet you'll finish with a big smile on your face! "},{"Title":"The Indians win it! The Indians win it! Oh my God the Indians win it!","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I grew up in Strongsville Ohio and suffered through many bad Indians teams in the 70's and 80's.  At the beginning of the movie it was great seeing the pan view of downtown Cleveland.  Oh yes, the movie.......THE INDIANS WIN IT! sums it up perfectly.  A million thanks to Tom Berenger, Wesley Snipes, Charlie Sheen and the rest of a great cast for making such a funny and heart-warming movie.  Thanks to you too, Euk, for giving that line its heart!  Give Cleveland a decent sports franchise and they will come for miles to support them.  Sold a few home games out at the Jake as you will recall..........a few tough times have hit the Tribe lately but they're coming back....With Mike Hargrove back that's a step in the right direction. Definitely watch this movie if you want to relax in the comfort and safety of a hilarious and nostalgic movie.   GO TRIBE!!!! "},{"Title":"Can baseball be any funnier?","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  There have been some excellent baseball movies made from Field of Dreams to The Pride of the Yankees, but no movie based on the national pastime can ever claim to be as hysterically funny as Major League.  Granted, the value of the original was hurt by the second and third attempts at re-creating the atmosphere.  Those two films were an embarrassment to all involved.Major League, however, personified the attitude of Nothing to lose.  Aside from the easily identified woes of the Cleveland franchise of the late-eighties, there were several actors in this film that had yet to hit big or had started to fall from grace.  The incredibly strong language of the movie only made it seem that much more realistic. "},{"Title":"Miracle On The Cuyahoga","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Major League was six years too early in its prophecy for success for the Cleveland Indians. I'm old enough to remember when they had a good team back in the Fifties. When I was just a small kid, large Municipal Stadium known without affection as mistake on the lake used to have 70,000 plus crowds because the Indians had such players as Bob Feller, Lou Boudreau, Joe Gordon, and Satchel Paige. But when that team went bad, the larger the stadium and they had the largest in baseball looked all the more empty.Terry Pluto wrote a book on the history of the Indians failure called The Curse Of Colavito. In 1959 the Indians finished a respectable second to the White Sox in the pennant race that year with Casey Stengel's Yankees having an inexplicable bad season and a distant third. Rocky Colavito led the American League in home runs and he was the most popular fellow in Cleveland. He became one of a select group of Major Leaguers that year to hit four home-runs in one game. And he was traded to the Detroit Tigers for the batting champion, Harvey Kuenn. It was never the same for Cleveland. Which takes us to the futile Indians of 1989 as futile in real life as they start on screen. The team comes into the possession of a new owner former showgirl Margaret Whitton. Her contract with the city specifies that if the team attendance dips below 700,000 for the season, she can move the team and she wants the warm sun of Miami instead of winters on the Cuyahoga River.Building a winning team in baseball is a lot harder than what you see in Major League. But this collection of goofballs, misfits, and has beens actually get mad enough and start winning.Major League has a nice collection of players playing ballplayers like veteran catcher Tom Berenger, narcissistic third baseman Corbin Bernsen, juvenile delinquent rookie pitcher Charlie Sheen known as Wild Thing for his lack of control, Wesley Snipes as center-fielder Willie Mays Hayes and Dennis Haysbert as a Santeria observing power hitter. It is the American League so Haysbert probably is the designated hitter. My favorite in the film is veteran manager James Gammon who pulls this collection together for a winning team.Major League is a film for baseball and film fans it so nicely blends the interests. As for the Cleveland Indians when Municipal Stadium closed down and they got a new ballpark in Jacobs Field, they actually won a couple of pennants in 1995 and 1997. Of course the process to build the Indians wasn't half as entertaining as Major League is. "},{"Title":"Best baseball movie","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I don't care what anyone says this is by far the best baseball movie ever made. Bull Durham was a bit too much of a chick flick to be a real baseball fans movie of choice.Major League isn't a movie that's going to solve world peace or anything but if you want a light hearted, entertaining film that is hysterically funny then you need to see this.Charlie Sheen being a former high school pitcher who was able to get 85 mph on his fastball, which isn't as fast as characters 100 mph. But close enough to with the way they film it to make it look believable as being a real flame thrower. If they had someone who didn't have a background in baseball they would've probably had to use a stunt double for his pitching scenes, which would've sucked. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but it grows on you","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This isn't a great movie, certainly, and it starts off particularly weak, but it does grow on you, particularly if you've lived in Cleveland. The characters are all caricatures, of course. There are no 3-dimensional characters here. But as time goes on, and despite their problems, this Cleveland team begins to come together and play well, you start to like them and hope they will do better, perhaps because we're raised to like the underdog.Some of the success of this movie must go to the director, who knows how to pace things so that we get involved in them, even though most of the characters aren't particularly likable.So, in the end, you could do worse, and you won't be bored. "}{"Title":"The best baseball movie, and maybe the best overall comedy, of all time","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Major League holds up today not only as the rare sports-themed comedy to balance goofiness and dynamic game atmospherics seamlessly, but also as a fleeting reminder of baseball's last remnants of participatory charm and gee-whiz curveball worship.In the History of sports there's always been at least two baseball films that has stood out above all the rest. For me it's Major League and The Sandlot. Major League is truly a sports comedy classic. What makes Major League such a winner is the many memorable scenes in the film and characters. Charlie Sheen as Wild Thing Vaughn, I mean you gotta love his bad boy character.As funny as this movie is, it's the vulnerability of the three main stars is really what makes the movie work. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The new owner of the Cleveland Indians puts together a purposely horrible team so they will lose and she can move the team. But when the plot is uncovered, they start winning just to spite her.While this is not the funniest movie or the most cleverly plot (it is actually very formulaic), it works. This is the sort of film that cable TV can play almost every day and people will sit and watch it. They love Wild Thing, they love the young Wesley Snipes.I sort of like the younger Corbin Bernsen. After his movie career, he had a resurgence thanks o his supporting role on Psych. It is fun to go back and see him twenty years ago, before he got old enough to play a retired cop! "},{"Title":"Wild thing, you make my heart sing.","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" There was a lousy football game on so I thought I would wait for a better one and watch this film again. I am glad i did as the game ended 40-10.The cast of this film is what makes it. They put together a great group to do a movie that is nothing special - losers and has-beens win the pennant.I like Charlie Sheen and he is worth watching in anything he does, especially Two and a Half Men. He was perfect in the character of the renegade.I just saw Corbin Bernsen recently in The Dentist, and he can bring laughs to any movie.Rene Russo? I love her and even though her part was small, it was great.Wesley Snipes, Tom Berenger, and Dennis Haysbert all had a unique way of making this a great movie. And, hooray for Stacy Carroll in her only movie. How did they let her get away? I want to thank the Japanese Academy for recognizing this film with a nomination for best Foreign Film. They recognize greatness when they see it. "},{"Title":"Fun and good but not excellent","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Reading my headline it may seem as though I have something against this movie. I like Major League but it is not as funny as when I saw it when I was younger. Still after all these years it is still charming and I did enjoy it. It has the classic one talent thing going on where there is one who runs fast, one who batter well etc. It has a great cast list from Charlie Sheen to Wesley Snipes to Tom Berenger. The story is nothing special. They put together a team of losers who of course manage to win the entire thing. And of course there is a bad guy in these types of movies. A lot of great characters mixed with fun situations and an ok story. What do you get? You get Major League. I rate this movie 6/10 "},{"Title":"great sports film to add to your collection","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Being a sports fan who loves comedies, you can't beat this flick. This is one movie that I can watch over and over without getting sick of it. Definitely hilarious, the one-liners are great. The cast is solid as well. Wesley Snipes, Tom Berenger, Dennis Haysbert, Corbin Bernsen, Charlie Sheen and Bob Uecker are excellent in their roles. I love how the film holds nothing back as well, unlike the sequel where the language and what not was toned down.no movie based on the national pastime can ever claim to be as hysterically funny as Major League. Granted, the value of the original was hurt by the second and third attempts at re-creating the atmosphere. Those two films were an embarrassment to all involved.Major League, however, personified the attitude of Nothing to lose. Aside from the easily identified woes of the Cleveland franchise of the late-eighties, there were several actors in this film that had yet to hit big or had started to fall from grace. The incredibly strong language of the movie only made it seem that much more realistic. "},{"Title":"Wild thing you make my heart sing!","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Major League is a lighthearted, entertaining film that also happens to be hysterically funny. Throw the great sport of baseball into the mix and it is a win/win for those who love the game and those who just want to have a good laugh. Major League is impressive on three levels. First, the actors are brilliant (even those relegated to smaller roles). Second, the plot is mainly baseball action, baseball action and more baseball action. Third, it's hilarious and makes you feel good. I watch it almost every summer, and for a comedy to lend itself to repeated viewings is a rare thing indeed. On another note, the screen presence of every actor and actress in this movie is phenomenal. Sheen, Beringer, Corbin, Rene Russo and Wesley Snipes all in the same movie acting at the top of their game. Even those minor characters like Cerrano, Bob Ucker and the old veteran pitcher are acting their hearts out here. It's literally an All-Star team of great actors! I felt this was a beautiful film. Just the right amount of romance combined with good old side splitting comedy! Overall rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rather fun baseball flick.","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This was a rather fun film featuring the old worst to first team. The catch here is that the owner of the team wants to relocate the Cleveland Indians to Florida or somewhere like that. To accomplish this she proceeds to put together a team that she hopes will be beyond bad. Enter a crew of misfits that feature aging players like Eddie the pitcher, an aging catcher whose knees are not what they used to be Jake Taylor, and Roger Dorn who cares more about life after baseball than playing the game with any passion in the present. Also present are some young guys like Pedro Cerrano who can hit a fastball a mile (a curve not so much), a speedy guy named Willie Mayes Hayes who invites himself to camp and Ricky Vaughn a hard throwing pitcher with no control. Well this team is not as terrible as expected and it is brought to the manager's attention and his plan is to win not only a few games here and there, but the entire division. The movie is funny and has a bit more bite to it than the sequel which is basically this movie again without much Reno Russo as Jake's girl and no Wesley Snipes at all as he is recast. For a baseball film featuring the whole underdogs trying to win it all it does fairly well. I enjoyed Charlie Sheen as the pitcher with a wild fastball that gets good by getting glasses. I also enjoyed Snipes and I was saddened when he was not in the sequel. Basically a good cast and a good funny baseball film. "},{"Title":"A Very Entertaining Romp","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I came across this on television, and had to marvel. It's been 25 years since this band of losers and misfits came together and transformed Cleveland Indians baseball.Major League may be formulaic, especially in the second half of the film, but it is memorably unpredictable in moments and quite charming. The cast is filled with Eighties TV icons like Corbin Bernsen and future stars, like a young Wesley Snipes. It is a blast to see Tom Berenger and Charlie Sheen, who were at each others' throats in Platoon, as teammates and friends. And maybe it's my old sentimentality, but the throwaway love story between Berenger and Rene Russo feels deeper and more real than it deserves to be. A terrific and fun movie. "},{"Title":"A Movie that I can watch over and over again","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I find myself sometimes just wanting to watch an amazing movie and Major League is one of those movies.I believe I have watched this movie at least 10 times and it never gets old when I watch it.The acting is first class staring a young Wesley Snipes, Charlie Sheen and Tom Berenger. Also, with future star Dennis Haysbert as a voodoo worshiping slugger (very funny)and of course Bob Uecker!!The plots and trials and hard-aches of the Cleveland Indians are so poignantly displayed and presented in a way that it makes Major League a movie that I can watch over and over. "},{"Title":"Great group chemistry in lovable comedy","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Former exotic dancer Rachel Phelps (Margaret Whitton) is left as the new owner of the Cleveland Indians after the old owner died. She wants to move the team to Miami. The team has a lease with the city that has an escape clause if the attendance falls below 800,000. So she has gathered a team of the worst scrap heap players that she can find.It is so refreshing to have a real MLB team name. The team has such a brilliant chemistry. The standout is Charlie Sheen as Wild Thing, but everybody is an unique character. Dennis Haysbert is amazing as voodoo using Cuban Cerrano. Tom Berenger is the worn out veteran. Even Wesley Snipes is funny back then when he was actually good. The best word to describe this movie is fun. "}{"Title":"we got to win the whole ^%$# thing","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The new owner of the Cleveland Indians has a plan, she wants her team to do so horrible that she can move them to Miami. Purposely putting together the worst team and players she can find. Enter Jake Taylor, aged catcher and veteran, Rick Wild Thing Vaughn, reckless pitcher and young upstart, and Willie Say Hey Mays, a fast as lightning nobody with something to prove. Along with a group of misfits they discover that the only way to save their team is to win the whole thing...This film is simply genius and one of my favorite comedies of all time. Though you might not be a huge sports or baseball fan but this film has a little bit of everything. Senseless comedy, romance, action (sport- wise), and most importantly a lot of heart. The characters, though a group of misfits and oddballs are extremely likable and the chemistry between them is wonderful. Charlie Sheen does a wonderful job as does Wesley Snipes in one his earliest roles, James Gammon will have you in stitches as manager Lou Brown. You will become attached to the characters plight and maybe find yourself rooting for the Indians in real life, after having viewed this film. Spawning two sequels, though less popular and less entertaining then the original, Major League will have you laughing and rooting throughout the entire film. "},{"Title":"You have to love films about baseball","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" You have to love films about baseball, especially when they are extremely well written. This is one of those films. Ward has a handle on baseball players and baseball fans that cuts straight to the heart and draws you in. Instead of focusing on a single player, he makes baseball what it ought to be...a team effort. His team is Tom Berenger, who plays the past his prime catcher ready to have one more decent season. Renee Russo is his ex-fiancé who has moved on with her life, but is still in love with Jake. Charlie Sheen and Wesley Snipes become the hotshots of the rookies, Sheen as the pitcher with the blazing fast ball and a lack of control, nicknamed the Wild Thing, Snipes as Willie Mays Hays, the runner out to score 100 stolen bases in the season. Dennis Haysbert gives an excellent performance as Pedro Cerrano, the Cuban who defected from his native land to practice his religion...voodoo. Harsh language and a couple of scenes of brief nudity drew an R rating from the MPAA, but the teens ought to love it, especially the ones who have played baseball in school. Definitely a collectible. "},{"Title":"Doesn't strike out...yet","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Major League is not only a comedy film with numerous laughs, it proves itself to be one of the grand-daddies of baseball comedies. A League of Their Own and Bull Durham are also among the list although those are more towards the drama genre. I attend various minor league baseball games a year. Approximately twelve. I love them. Being a Chicagoan, I think I'd rather watch minor league teams than major league teams.Some may call that strange, but I love the entertainment and the close to home feel provided by a minor league game. There are tons of events on the field to keep me interested, and I know pretty much every cop and concession stand employee there thanks to my father. It's an enjoyable time. I walk around most of the game, chat with various officers, it's a damn good time.On with the film. I can discuss Minors vs. Majors in a separate blog. After the Cleveland Indians' owner dies, her husband Rachel (Whitton) inherits the team. She plans to make the team as poor as possible so they can move the team to Miami. To put it simply, she sabotages the team, the stadium, and everything else in various ways to assure a poor season.The team is mainly made up of rookies like Willie Mays Hayes (Snipes), Rick Wild Thing Vaughn (Sheen), and Jake Taylor (Berenger). They're acceptable players, but no where near as good as they should be.One thing I really enjoyed and found worthwhile about Major League is the fact that we get closer into Jake Taylor's relationship life. It's good that all the fun doesn't take place on the field, and we get a wider variety and an in-depth look on one player's life. I would've liked to hear more about Lou Brown's (Gammon) career and more about some other players. But at least it's not all about on the field interactions.Charlie Sheen, James Gammon, and Wesley Snipes were all great in the film. It's a little sad that Gammon died this past July, and news about it really didn't surface too much. Not looking at Gammon's filmography, I assume his career wasn't made up of too many more famous roles like his portrayal of Lou Brown.Charlie Sheen was extremely hilarious in this film, but watching it only makes me more sad about he just continues to make an ass of himself to the media. His career is going straight into the ground as of now. In this film he was extremely handsome, but now his image makes him look older than he is, and his reputation is plummeting into the ground. Oh well, his role as Wild Thing was, say, WINNING.Wesley Snipes is fantastic in this as well playing Willy Mays Hayes. He is absolutely funny, and a great addition to the cast. Too bad for him as well because since Snipes refuses to pay his taxes, he is in prison until 2013. I really enjoyed him in movies like Blade and Passenger 57.What truly scares me is that this film has spawned two sequels. This kind of film can only be done well once, passably a second time, and pretty much end horrifically with a third film. Back to the Minors could easily make or break the franchise. Why make a sequel when Berenger and Sheen don't even return? It's all about the benjamins.Major League can be summed up with a few statements. An enjoyable baseball comedy, a cast of greats, but a cast of people whose lives either ended tragically or just were forgotten.Starring Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Corbin Bernsen, Rene Russo, James Gammon, Margaret Whitton, and Wesley Snipes. Diretded by David S. Ward. "},{"Title":"Major League","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Fun baseball comedy about a bunch of lackluster ball players who hear their new owner is counting on them to lose. Great cast all around, especially former ball player Uecker, whose play by play antics give the film its best moments.  "},{"Title":"A funny, but brash, adult baseball comedy","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is one of the funniest, but vulgar, adult sports films ever made. And, it's strictly adult, so parents will want to be wary and read the parents guide. But for many adults it's very funny throughout. From several of the reviews I've read, I'm surprised that none of them recognized this as a clever satire as well. It spoofs &#x96; mostly in a friendly but brash way &#x96; many aspects of professional baseball, from greedy management (not most, thank goodness) to prima donna players. It really has fun with baseball signals, and even the fans. Major League is a funny sports movie, but I can't agree with some who think it ranks among the best of the baseball films. To be in that category, it would have to be watchable by a larger, diverse audience. When it comes to the game, I think the more serious films tell a better story about America's favorite pastime. One of the best is Pride of the Yankees, the 1942 biopic with Gary Cooper playing Lou Gehrig. Another is the story of Monty Stratton in the 1949 movie, The Stratton Story, that stars James Stewart. Dan Dailey stars as Dizzy Dean in the 1952 biopic, The Pride of St. Louis. A recent move, 42 in 2013 tells the story of Jackie Robinson, another great ball player and the first black player to break the color barrier in professional baseball. Other top baseball films include, The Winning Team of 1952, Fear Strikes Out of 1957, Bang the Drum Slowly of 1973, The Natural of 1984, Eight Men Out of 1988, and A League of Their Own of 1992.These and many other films give a good picture of baseball and what it has meant to Americans since the late 1800s. Major League, on the other hand, is a spoof of baseball that's meant to entertain with brash comedy. Unfortunately, its appeal mainly is to men who enjoy vulgar humor. Had they toned that down a couple notches, this film could have been a real keeper and enjoyed by many more people. Yes, there is humor without vulgarity, and much more of it. "},{"Title":"One of the great sports comedies","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" As baseball movies go, MAJOR LEAGUE is my favorite. Been that way since I was a kid, and the laugh's are still fresh today. It boasts a terrific collection of characters (pretty much the whole cast - even smartass Bob Uecker - but mostly Berenger, Snipes and Sheen), and MAJOR LEAGUE II even proved that you can't just replace Snipes' charisma with another guy. I love this movie's profane attitude, that these misfits band together in one collective middle finger to the team's shrew owner. There's some real heart here and it's a great down-n-dirty triumph over opposition story. But at the end of the day, it's a great comedy with more than a few memorable one-liners and a winning sense of humor. It's even a great Cleveland movie. And I always forget, between the editing and the roar of the crowd, just how charged that final game is.Be ready to wear a smile when the end credits hit, 'cause there's no other possible facial expression. It's just science.It's a fantastic movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"So funny","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie is in the vein of Hot Shots but it is in baseball. Tom Berenger is great as the aging catcher who dreams of at least one for good year, which he gets. Tom is a team leader and a guide for the younger players. This team is put together to lose on purpose by the bitch who owns the team played nicely by Margaret Whitton. They get an old minor league washed up James Gammon to run the team expecting him to run it in to the ground. He doesn't do that but uses the fact that he owner wants them to fail as the motivation for the teams success. Charlie Sheen is good as the penal league pitcher Wild Thing. Wesley Snipes is fine as the over eager, wanna be power hitter, who must learn to hit it on the ground and steal bases. Rene Russo plays Berenger's exe and is decent in her role but not great. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Happy Hunting Ground!","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" If this film were made today it would probably be hit with charges of insensitivity and racism against Native American Indians, and I'm trying to think back to when things got so hyper regarding political correctness that you were made to feel guilty about things like the national pastime. This one, led by Bob Uecker, manages to hit all the clichés about redskins, featherheads, tomahawks and going 'off the reservation', but you know what - it's a funny flick and a blast for fans of the game. Granted, it makes use of all the clichés and has the most predictable of plots but the fun is in seeing how the hapless Cleveland Indians overcome their circumstances and become American League Champs. I'm probably not alone in picking the 'Wild Thing' sequence as my favorite part of the picture, coming at just the right time to vault the team to glory in their single playoff game. Every actor here is cast perfectly for their role, and if I had to pick a favorite, it would probably be James Gammon as crusty manager Lou Brown who pulls the team together for that final victory to the dismay of team owner Rachel Phelps (Margarter Whitton). I'd have to go along with Uecker here, and give Major League a big wahoo. "},{"Title":"Good Baseball Comedy!","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Corbin Bernsen, James Gammon, Wesley Snipes, Rene Russo and Margaret Whitton star in this 1989 comedy. This starts off with ex-showgirl, Rachel Phelps (Whitton) inheriting her late husband's team, the Cleveland Indians and plans on making sure they finish the season last so she can profit. Soon, we meet an interesting group of players which includes knee-shot player, Jake Taylor (Berenger), ex-criminal biker, Rick Vaughn (Sheen) who gets the Wild Thing title, business schmuck, Roger Dorn (Bernsen), Willie Mays Hayes (Snipes) & more. Gammon plays coach, Lou and Russo (Get Shorty) plays Jake's ex-girl, Lynn. Other cast members include, Charles Cyphers, (Halloween) Dennis Haysbert (Heat), Chelcie Ross (The Last Boy Scout) and Bob Uecker. I recommend this good baseball comedy that features a good cast and great score by James Newton Howard. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite make my heart sing","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Having first seen it many years ago when I recently watched Major League again I found that it did not live up to my memories. Nor did it live up to its reputation. It's not nearly as funny as I seemed to remember it being. And while it it has acquired a reputation for being truly outrageous that's not really an accurate assessment either. Honestly, the movie's kind of tame, it doesn't push the envelope nearly as much as you would think. Now all of this doesn't mean it's a bad movie. And any movie with Charlie Sheen playing a character nicknamed Wild Thing will have an outlandish moment or two. It's just that there aren't enough of those great moments to allow the movie to really be that brilliant, outrageous baseball comedy so many people remember it as being.The story is your typical sports underdog tale. A bunch of losers band together and prove that maybe they're not really losers after all. There's the requisite villain, in this case the team's evil female owner, who is trying to hold the team down. Obstacles are constantly thrown in the way of our plucky underdogs but they forge on towards the big game at the end which ends all movies of this sort. Along the way there are some laughs and hijinks. Not all the jokes and gags hit their mark but enough do to keep you entertained. There's an unfortunate romantic subplot which is a total dud. All the time spent exploring this relationship between the veteran catcher, played by Tom Berenger, and his old flame, played by Rene Russo, is really time wasted for the movie. We never really get to know Russo's character at all and Berenger's crusty old catcher is much more in his element around his teammates. You know the movie's going to try to pay this storyline off in the end but really who cares? This movie is about the Indians. And there were more than enough personalities in that group of misfits to carry the movie. Sheen, Berenger, Corbin Bernsen, Wesley Snipes, Chelcie Ross and, as the voodoo-loving Pedro Cerrano, Dennis Haysbert. Each of the characters has their moments. Perhaps the best performance of all though comes from James Gammon as the manager, Lou Brown. He gets many of the best lines and the way he delivers them is just perfect. And of course there's also Bob Uecker providing laughs every time he opens his mouth in playing the team's radio announcer. There are a lot of fine performers here and the movie has a lot of good pieces. But there's the sense it doesn't quite all add up. It's not as consistently funny as you'd hope. The whole thing is very predictable which wouldn't be so bad if the movie at least kept you laughing all the way to the ending you know is coming. But the laughs come and go, and when they do come they're generally not as explosive as you'd hope. And there's that romantic storyline which is a complete waste of time and which rears its ugly head again in the end at a time when all the focus clearly should be on the team. Major League is not a bad movie. But is has enough flaws to hold it back from true greatness. "}{"Title":"My FAVORITE baseball movie!","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" MAJOR LEAGUE (1989) might not be especially deep or provocative or ethereal like such more regarded classics as THE NATURAL, BULL DURHAM, EIGHT MEN OUT, or FIELD OF DREAMS (how did the 80s produce so many good baseball movies?!), but in retrospect, MAJOR LEAGUE is most probably my favorite among the bunch just b/c it is so plain entertaining! While those other films try to go for the long ball and swing for the fences, MAJOR LEAGUE basically just tries to make contact and get on base! And it does it with great humor, grit, and palpable appeal! The main reason MAJOR LEAGUE works is due to the casting, first and foremost the underrated Tom Berenger in one of his most accomplished film performances. Berenger totally carries ML as veteran, crafty, world-weary, womanizing catcher Jake Taylor, whose last chance at glory is upon him with a tryout with the Cleveland Indians, a franchise that hadn't been in a World Series since 1954. Berenger's laid-back, man's man appeal sets the tone of the film and everyone basically plays off of him. He's as effortless as the lead in ML as Kevin Costner was in his 80s baseball movies.The diverse supporting cast is sublime Charlie Sheen as closer Ricky Wild Thing Vaughn, Corbin Bernsen as egotistical, media-schmoozing 3rd baseman Roger Dorn, scene-stealing James Gammon as scruffy, take-no-prisoners manager Lou Brown, Wesley Snipes as slick Willie Mays Hayes, Dennis Haysbert as voodoo-worshipping Pedro Cerrano, sexy Margaret Whitton as devious team owner Rachel Phelps (undercutting the team hoping it will lose so she can sell it for profit), enchanting Rene Russo as Jake's true love Lynn Wells, and last but not least Mr. Baseball Bob Uecker, used brilliantly in an all-too-welcome role as Indians announcer Harry Doyle.The strength of ML is that it has a real everyday appeal that one doesn't find to often in movie comedies. It has a lot of (seemingly improvised) montage scenes of the team throughout the season and just random extras playing Indian fans in bars, at games, at work thrown in to give it a universal appeal; in this way, it allows the viewer to root for this underdog team along with them. But these scenes all feel REAL and the movie doesn't work without them.Everything in ML is relatable to the viewer. The laughter comes from the reality of the situation and is not manipulative at all. Of all the baseball movies I've ever seen, ML feels like the one that gets the sport of BASEBALL right! "},{"Title":"Likable baseball comedy with an good comedic cast.","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cleveland Indians have been losing for decades. An former showgirl turned owner of the team, Rachel Phelps (Margaret Whitton) is hoping to move the team to Miami, if the team enters dead last in the season. She decides to hires has beens, ex-cons and even players with no talent behind the game. Veteran catcher Jake Taylor (Tom Berenger), who has bad knees is given one last chance to play with the leagues. An incarcerated but talented if trouble pitcher Rick Vaughn (Charlie Sheen) has an chance to play with the big leagues as well. The brash but speedy Willie Mays Hayes (Wesley Snipes), veteran pitcher (Chelcie Ross) who lacks an strong arm, an voodoo practices baseball player (Dennis Haysbert) has trouble hitting curve balls, an spoiled third baseman (Corbin Bernsen) who is already under contract and Lou Brown (James Gammon) is hired by Phelps since he knows how to manage an baseball team. Since Phelps expects nothing for this team. The Cleveland Indians will do their best to prove her wrong.Written and Directed by David S. Ward (Major League 2, Down Periscope, King Ralph) made an likable baseball comedy with an amusing comedic cast. It's an pleasant comedy if unremarkable movie at times. But it is played straight with some funny satire as well. Berenger and Sheen are certainly good in the movie. Berenger has an nice subplot romance with Rene Russo, who plays his ex-wife in the movie. But it is Gammon, Haysbert and even Bob Uecker as the baseball announcer have the better moments in the movie. An surprise box office hit during the spring of 1989. Which it's spawned an so-so sequel and an decent third movie. Major League did went on to have an loyal cult following. The movie certainly tries hard to be the next Slap Shot, although not totally successful. Still, it is an good movie. Charles Cyphers, who is best known for John Carpenter movies like Halloween and The Fog has an nice supporting role as the general manager of the team. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" One thing you don't really see anymore is sentimental comedies. Movies with heart. And Major League is a prime example that really hits the core of entertainment value. It has such a perfect balance of everything. It's hysterically funny, overwhelmingly heartwarming, and perhaps even a tad inspiring, and may yet leave a tear in your eye at the end. In short...a good movie.Although the story itself is rather basic, a classic underdog Cinderella story, the comedy is undeniably clever. But it's not the story that drives this movie. It is the characters, and their relationships with each other, which is pretty much what good film-making is all about in my opinion. There is not a single weak link in the entire ensemble, which makes picking a favorite character almost impossible.Without a doubt my favorite baseball movie, the portrayal of America's favorite past time is done with a humorous touch to the slightest detail, with the score board, the local regular fans, and of course Bob Uecker as the broadcaster, who utterly steals the show.If you haven't seen this movie, give it a try. You're in for a treat, and you may even find yourself succumb to its incredible re-watch value. I know I have. "},{"Title":"One of the best baseball comedy of the 80's","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" It's amazing to see how this movie also serves as a time tunnel to how baseball was, twenty years ago, before there was major league baseball in Florida. It's nostalgic to see the old White Sox and MAriners uniforms.The premise of the film is centered around a stripper who marries a billionaire baseball team owner. The owner dies, and the stripper inherits the team.But she doesn't care much for the city of Cleveland. She wants to move the team to Miami. She, she promotes manager Charlie Donovan to GM, and names Lou Brown, played to great effect by James Gammon, to manage the team. Problem is, Brown has never managed in the big leagues.So she signs several players, none of whom she hopes to be of major league quality. Jake Taylor, a catcher with fading skills. Ricky Vaughn, a pitcher who's better at stealing cars then striking out batters. Pedro Cerrano, a power hitter who can't hit a fast ball. And by the way, Cerrano has an unusual religious affiliation.Add Willie Mays Hayes, a hopeful who crashes the gates to order to make the team, Roger Dorn, who's more interested in his post baseball career then anything else, and Eddie Harris, an aging pitcher, and you have the perfect ingredients for a 100 loss team.Instead, the team bonds together, in spite of their owner's plans for the team. The team comes out of nowhere to race for the AL pennant. All that stands in their way is a powerful New York Yankees team. A team that has gotten the best of Vaughn all season.What happens in the most used formula films actually becomes a funny one because of the development of the characters involved. The film is witty, comical, and with the awesome performance by Bob Ueker, this has to be one of the best baseball comedies of all time. His performance as Harry Doyle has to be one of the best in film history. I really loved the following line One hit, that's all we got one goddamn hit! Former Dodgers catcher Steve Yeager and Brewers Pitcher Pete Vukovich each make small appearances in the movie, and this was one of the first major films for Rene Russo.This is a really great movie, and it's more then a guilty pleasure. It's actually a good movie. Too bad the sequels tried to be a little too slapstick. But the first, remains the best! A must have for any film collection! "},{"Title":"A Classic Comedy Romance and Feel Good Movie All In One","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Spoilers This movie is about the Cleveland Indians how their faithful fans finally get a winner out of (ironically) a team put together to lose. The Owner of the team, a former showgirl, wants to move the team to Miame, so she puts together the worst collection of ball players she can possibly assemble. In spite of her actions, the team starts to win, they begin to gel a little, but are not yet playing together as a team. She decides to take some of their things away, like their plane and their equipment. They have to travel by bus, and have no equipment (like whirlpools or hot water, to help their aches and pains). Bob Ucher plays a baseball announcer who adds tremendous comedy to the movie at almost every turn. Tom Berringer plays Jake Taylor an aging catcher, who knows the game well, but his age is causing problems. Jake's wife (Played by Renee Russo) has divorced him, because he played around when he was younger, but now his aging has changed his view and he is far more serious about baseball and his relationship. He wants a shot at some sort of Baseball Championship as it may be his last shot. He also wants his wife back. However, she is now engaged to a rich successful guy and in addition she continues to see Jake Taylor for the playboy he used to be. It may be too late for either of Jake's goals. With 41 games left, the Indians have been a shocker in that they are 60 and 61. This is when the coach discovers the new owners true plans to move the team to Miame and get rid of these players. The Coach relays these plans to the players. This is it, the thing that brings them together! Jake verbalizes their goal to win the whole thing. They determine they need 32 more wins to do it. That goal of going 32 and 9 seems impossible, even as motivated as they are to do it. The Indians begin to play as a team. They work on their weaknesses and the city energizes behind them during a good music/movie montage. They win their way to a one game playoff with the New York Yankees for the Eastern Division Championship. Well you can guess what happens, and you can also guess what happens with the Jake Taylor and his wife. But, despite this predictability, this movie climax has enough surprises (Centering around Jake Taylor) to rank up there among the very best movie climaxes ever.This movie exhibits a sound/music climax coinciding with the story climax. Therefore, if you can, try blasting the volume just at the point the Manager calls Ricky Vaughn (the Wild Thing) out of the Bullpen. Leave the volume up from that point upto the final shot. It will be worth it. "},{"Title":"Hats for bat! Keep bats warm. Garcias!","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" That is the line in the movie when i decided to post a comment. Let me start by saying that I love this movie! When I was driving home the other day I was listening to the local sports station on the radio and they were taking calls on everyones favorite line in Major League. I couldn't help but think to myself that there is no way that i could even pick one line, but it did remind me of how much kids of my generation loved the movie. So i gotta tell the story.I remember when i was in fourth grade everyone loved this movie.When our teacher asked us what song we would like to sing at the parent teacher show and tell the only answer could be Wild Thing! We forced our teacher to learn the song. Great movie. "},{"Title":"A major classic in the realm of sports films, very funny and very inspiring","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Jake (Tom Berenger) has just been signed by the Cleveland Indians again. Having spent his most recent years in the Mexican league, he is happy to be in the SHOW once more. However, he learns quickly enough about the new owner's strategy. It seems this lady has deliberately assembled a team to LOSE, knocking attendance down so low that she can move the team to Miami Beach. How charming. Rookies Willie Mays Hays (Wesley Snipes) and Wild Thing (Charlie Sheen) are unhappy about their situations as well. But, what if they can rise to the occasion and become a winning team? After all, the team also sports a powerhitting, voodoo-believing clean up man, a born again pitcher, and a go-for-broke manager. And, if Jake can convince his ex-wife (Rene Russo) to take a chance again on him and the team, miracles can happen, can't they? This is an all star baseball movie, in every way, but is so humor-laden that any non-sports enthusiast will enjoy it very much, too. As the supposed rejects, Berenger, Snipes, Sheen, Corbin Bernsen, Bob Uecker, and the rest of the acting crew delight the audience at all times. The awesome script is brimming with humor, wackiness, and inspiration. As for the costumes, sets, and production values, they are top of the line. The final moments of the film, told in slow motion, are guaranteed to bring some lumps to anyone's throat. If you love baseball, you MUST, MUST see this film. But if you just want to laugh, cry, cheer, and feel good about life, this winning movie is for you, too. Catch it today, without delay. "},{"Title":"Perfect Baseball Comedy - Multiple Watch Worthy","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" If Troma, the Farrelly brothers, and Mel Brooks ever conspired to produce a movie with baseball as a centerpiece, it probably would end up looking a lot like Major League. The film benefits from excellent casting, clever writing that leverages these characters, and being able to take itself lightly. Take a look at the 'goofs' section and you'll see that it is riddled with issues! If anything, it means the audience is attentive enough to pay that close attention and probably by viewing the movie on multiple occasions. I think it adds to the movie's comedic angle, albeit accidental, to see the stadium clock set at 1040 am during a game! Great elements exist throughout. The lowly Indians of the 80s taking on the Yankees, their bitter rival that also serve as the unlikable bully. There is the wild rookie, the veteran player's last chance, the love triangles, the loathed owner, and Bob Euker! This is one of those films that has moments that burn into memory. Fortunately, when it ends up on a cable channel, I'll stick with it because there is always a good moment ahead. Note This review does not apply to the sequel! It confirmed the law of diminishing returns. 'II' is the dreadful counterbalance to the original. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's comedy.","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Easy going charm and an assortment of nutty characters make this one of the most entertaining sport's comedies ever. Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Corbin Bernsen, Rene Russo and Wesley Snipes all star as the Bad News Cleveland Indians who are searching for their first pennant in thirty years. The Plot Rachel Phelps as Margaret Whitton inherits the management of the baseball team after her husband dies and puts together a roster of players with a sure fire recipe to lose. However the team overcomes it's difficulties and fights Mrs. Whitton's various hurdles to you guessed it.Some great characters and great scenes make this one a winner. Charlie Sheen as the juvenile delinquent Wild Thing has a scene stealing moment as he exits the bullpen and enters the last game against the Yanks. Dennis Haybert as the voodoo worshiping Pedro Cerano adds more flavor. Wesley Snipes (before he started taking himself too serious) was charismatic as the speedy Willie Mays Hays. James Gammon is great as the barking, gruff manager who does a classic with Corben Bernson's character's contract. Even Bernsen, who plays a spoiled playboy type is marvelous. Berenger and Russo, who play the romantic side, do it well, keeping it low key as to not take anything away from the main plot. Very upbeat, funny film.Two of my favorite moments Wild Thing in the restaurant with cut off shirt, crazy hairdo, earring and a tie wrapped around his bare neck says deadpan I look like a banker. Classic Charlie Sheen. Also Tom Berenger in slow motion in the final game headed for first. The look of heart, as the movie certainly has. "},{"Title":"the best baseball movie??","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" In my opinion this is the best baseball movie out there. Sure there are others (the natural, the babe, field of dreams, etc.) but this one had it all. Put it this way, it had everything all the good baseball movies had in it plus alittle extra. It had great acting (Berenger, Sheen, Snipes, Bernson, Haysbert, Russo, Gammon, etc.) they were all spot on with their characters and some will never live down their characters here. The story was intriguing one as well, the basic story is this evil GM of a terrible baseball team, and of course its a woman, is trying to get the team to loose all their games so she can move the team to Miami and out of Ohio where she hates being and replace the current players with better personel Along with that story, there is kind of a love triangle with Berenger/Russo/and her new man. This doesn't take over the main story though and its good it doesn't stray far from what it is, a baseball movie. It is good to have other side stories as well to keep the pace of the movie going Cerano having trouble with the curve ball and the old pitcher that gives him crap about being into Voodoo. Rick Vaughn having trouble with seeing, his temper, and his control. Willie Mayes Hayes trying to show off his hit like Hayes, Run like Mayes style, and Roger Dorn with his trouble trying to keep his self clean of any injuries and trying to cleanly field a ground ball. All these side stories get played out very well and they help the 2 main story lines keep the pacing of the movie very sharp. The script was sharp as well, a lot of baseball jargon and quick witty dialog, I think some was ad libbed by some of them and the comedic timing was right on. If you are a baseball fan you cant NOT like this movie and you should get chills like I do every time I see the final game and the finale of the film, very emotional and a great ending. The finale might of just made this one of, if not the best baseball movie ever made. Like I said before you aren't a baseball fan if you didn't like this movie! plan and simple. "}{"Title":"Capt. Ron????","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Just a quick question that has bothered me for some time. Before the series with the Yanks, when the team is flying to the game, Lou calls Ricky to the back of the plane to advise him that he is not starting. Rick is wearing a shirt with Capt. Ron on it.At first, I thought maybe this was a reference to the movie Captain Ron, of which I had never seen (I thought maybe he was in it). I looked up this movie on this site and found out it was made 3-4 years later and Charlie Sheen had nothing to do with it.Does anyone know the connection, or is there any? What does this cryptic shirt mean? I know I should let it go, but it bothers me. "},{"Title":"The Bad News Bears Meet The 1973 Mets","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" In the last three games of the 1980 seasons, the Mets played the Pirates, and set a record for lowest home attendance for a three-game series, at slightly over 5,000 tickets. Three of those were mine. The Indians from this movie were about as bad, and the stadium about as empty.The plot a stripper's husband dies on their honeymoon, and she wants to move the Cleveland Indians, whom she inherited, to Miami. To do this, she compiles the worst collection of players she can find while still appearing to try to win.Like the Bears, who were court-ordered because everyone had to get a chance to play, these Indians are owner ordered because their mission was to lose games. Neither team would have existed otherwise.The Buttermaker role in this film, Manger Lou Brown (a tire salesman), is played stereotypically well by James Gammon. Englebert (catcher Jake Taylor) is played by Tom Berenger, with Rene Russo as his annoying ex-girlfriend that he inexplicably still wants. Amanda in this movie is Wild Thing (played by Charlie Sheen), the no-nonsense ex-con with the killer fastball. Kelly Leak was divided in half, with the delinquent half incorporated into Sheen's character, and the slugging half to political exile Pedro Cerrano, a Cuban national who fled Castro's persecution over his practice of voodoo. Corbin Bernsen (now a very bald John Durant on General Hospital) is Roger Dorn, the prima donna third baseman who refuses to give even 50 percent for this farce of a team. Wesley Snipes is Willy Mays Hayes, a gate-crasher at Spring Training who literally runs his way onto the team.The season starts off predictably, but the owner (Margaret Whitton) is not pleased because the team isn't as bad (16-25) as she had hoped. When they reach .500 at 60-60, only nine games out of first, she goes ballistic and cuts the team's legs out from under them, forcing them to train with poor equipment and travel in an old chartered plane that put the fear of God into the team. When the Bear-I mean the Indians, find out why they were hired, they have that coming-of-age moment when they decide to rise up and win the whole thing. Like the 1973 Mets, who came from 11.5 games back at the end of August to pass five teams and win the division, these Indians play hard, even Dorn gets into the act and plays like it's a contract year, and the movie climaxes on the final day of the season with the Indians and Yankees in a playoff for the title.The subplots are well-acted and the casting was superb, as the future careers of many actors in this film testifies to. "},{"Title":"Funniest baseball movie ever","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" And a great comedic lineup. Charlie Sheen, Tom Berenger, and Wesley Snipes light up the screen with their antics while Bob Uecker brings the wisecracks which I heard were completely ad-libbed. When the owner of the Cleveland Indians dies the new owner his wife, decides to move the team to Miami but first she has to break her lease with the city. So she figures out a way. If the attendance drops low enough for the year she has the right to leave. So she puts together the worst team in the history of Major League Baseball. They absolutely suck. But then they get better and threaten to ruin her well laid plans. The manager and the owner are so damn funny and they have all the good lines. Watching the skipper whiz on Dorn's contract for the first time was priceless. If you haven't seen this one run out and get it I sure did and I don't regret it for a minute. "},{"Title":"Baseball at its Funniest","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Indians can't win and now they have a new owner. Rachael Phelps (Margaret Whitton) is an ex-model and widow of the Indians owner. But instead of turning the Indians around, she wants them to finish dead last so she can move the team down south. So the worst bunch of players and strangest people together. Jake Taylor (Tom Berenger) is the washed up catcher, Cerrano (Dennis Haysbert) is a voodoo outfielder, Willie 'Mays' Hayes (Wesley Snipes) is the uninvited player, Rick Vaughn (Charlie Sheen) is the pitcher who can't throw a strike, and Roger Dorn (Corbin Bernson) is the player waiting to be traded.After learning of their owners ploy the team must come together to win the division without killing one another. The film is filled with profanity but used at the right times to bring out the most laughs. Charlie Sheen is absolutely hilarious trying to pitch and being an ex-felon at the same time. My favorite character doesn't even talk, Cerrano's god Jobu, as it curses people throughout the movie and screw Cerrano throughout the season by not letting him hit a curve ball.Major League. Starring Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Dennis Haysbert, Wesley Snipes, James Gammon, and Corbin Bernson.4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is one of my favorite all time movies. Its absolutely brilliant. The best scene is when Jake Taylor goes to what he think sis is ex girlfriend's apartment only to find out its her current boyfriend's place. The scene is so well done. Its a riot seeing other peoples reactions to what the other characters are saying. It gets funnier every time and it is so subtle, then topped off with Stay away from her. Suck my dick. Brilliant. My comment at this point is only three lines and needs to be ten so I will go on further with more genius scenes. The fact that Willie Mays Hayes car is a VW bug made to look like a Rolls is hilarious. This move is better then Bull Durham, not because the baseball scenes are better, they aren't. It is better because Renne Russo is sooo much better looking the Susan Surandon. Also worth watching are the edited for television scenes. Want me to take him outside, kick the *snot* out of him? Why oh why did they make the second movie PG13? that is what killed it. They wanted to appeal to the young kids who were my age who saw the movie and loved it. In effect they made it unfunny. Kids my age seen the movie regardless of its rating. It would have been the same for the crap sequel. Back to the minors improves a little bit, but is still not really funny. Bob Euker is of course Hilarious. I think I am at 10 lines now. "},{"Title":"The Slap Shot of Baseball","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Sure it's a cliché. Sure, there are no real surprises. But it's fun. Seeing the hapless Cleveland Indians, brought together as a team for the sole purpose of losing so many games the Indians can move to Florida, find a way to win with a manager who was selling tires before the season (James Gammon) with a catcher who's knees are shot (Tom Berenger) and a pitcher who was pitching in the California Penial League the year before. How did he get there? I stole a car, Wild Thing Ricky Vaughn (Charlie Sheen) responds. That is the makeup of an every-team that is the Indians, and is enough to carry the movie from start to finish. Corbin Bernsin plays a cocky (what are the odds?) third baseman, Wesley Snipes is a speedy centerfielder, Dennis Haysbert is a Voodoo loving rightfielder, and Rene Russo makes her movie debut as the love interest of one of the ball players. The man who steals the movie, however, is Bob Uecker as the bumbling Indian's announcer, who is famous for the phrase Juuuuuuuuuuuust a bit outside for a pitch 4 feet off the plate. A true comedic role that narrates the movie and gives us a sense of following a team through it's season. A fun baseball movie, while not the best ever, still good fun. "},{"Title":"So Predictable But So Much Fun!","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  From the moment you press play you will know the ending to the film, the misfits will come good despite the odds.  But in this kind of film that doesn't matter it's all about the fun they have on the way.  Charlie Sheen, Tom Berrenger and Rene Russo all provide good performances and keep the pace going at a fair clip but it's Margaret Whitton as the scheming owner, James Gammon as the coach and particularly the outstanding Bob Uecker who provide the films standout characters.  This is by no means the best sports movie you'll ever see that in my opinion would go to Slap Shot, it's not even the best baseball movie which I believe is the slightly more serious Bull Durham but it's a perfect popcorn movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is my favorite movie. I know saying that may make me seem unsophisticated to everybody on the IMDB, but hear me out. I love all of the characters Taylor, Hayes, Lou Brown, Cerrano, Dorn, Harris, the Wild Thing, Rachel Phelps, and even the hated New York Yankees.I think there is more quotable dialogue here than in any other baseball movie, including Bull Durham. The amount of profanity is just right; it's not over the top, but it's not subdued to the point that the players come off as unrealistic. The acting is good as well, even on the technical/baseball side of things.Comedy is tough to quantify, but this is the funniest movie I've ever seen (and I've seen it upwards of 30 times). If you want a heavy look at baseball and how it's a part of the American culture, go with Bull Durham or Field of Dreams. If you want a great comedy that's still a great baseball movie, you won't go wrong here.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Best baseball movie ever!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  And I love them all, Field of Dreams, the Natural, Pride of the Yankees, Bull Durham, but this one blows them away. Purely the funniest!  If you haven't seen this movie yet, go rent it now. It is the most hilarious look at Major League baseball ever. The jokes are great, the characters are fantastic, and the ending always pumps me up! "},{"Title":"Hidden Funny","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  At the end of the movie there is the funniest thing I have ever seen, and most people don't notice it.  When the fans start running on to the field at end, look in the bottom left corner of the screen.  Look for the man in red, white and blue. You won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Underdog ball team goes for pennant, with hillarious results.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  What more can I say?  Even though the jokes stopped being funny 10 years ago, and I can't stand sports, this is a movie I can watch and enjoy each and every time it's on.The proof is in the rest of the reviews posted here.  Some are less glowing than others, but I'd bet that this is one of the few films in IMDB that has nothing but positive reviews.It's a perfect balance of farce and story, and it will always have  a place in my library. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Simply the best movie I have ever seen in my entire life hands down....  This movie is non-stop laughing and if should be illegal not 2 see it...  When you are born a copy of Major League should be sent to you by the government as a gift. "},{"Title":"A question of balance","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This, whichever way you measure it, is a film of absolutely no  consequence. Yet I have probably seen it more times than any other (modern) film. Which I suspect means that (for me at least) it is a *perfectly balanced* film of no consequence. Set your cynicism aside and enjoy. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I rank this as one of my favorite baseball movies. They say the original is always the best one, and in this case I agree. I liked it better than the sequels they made on it. The Cleveland Indians owner wants to move her team to Florida, so she stocks her team with a bunch of losers, cons, and other misfits that she thinks could hardly win a game, much less the pennant. (which is the only thing that can prevent her from moving the team) The result is one heck of a funny movie with continuous laughs throughout.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"one of the best movies ever","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I really love this movie and I've watched it over and over. A bunch of has beens and nobodies are brought into to be on the Indians team by the new rich female owner who wants the team to be so terrible that attendence will be so poor that they can move to another state, I forget the state sorry. I like Tom Berenger and he does a great job as well as Wesley Snipes and Corbin Bernsen. The movie is filled with great characters and it's one of the funniest movies of all time. 9/10 "},{"Title":"I love this movie, the first is always the best","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Major League invented the modern day sports film formula.  That formula goes as follows take a team of any sport that is doing really horrible, add a bunch of misfit players with screwball personalities, spend most of the film showing how they have hidden talent, spend what's left of the film showing them kicking everybody's asses, then go into a big ending game where they win.  Now, we have seen this formula a thousand times.  This is quite possibly the most copied and repeated formula ever created because all the movies that use it are exactly the same, only with a different sport and characters with different quirks.  What are some movies like this?  Well, there's Necessary Roughness, Major League 2 & 3, The Replacements, all those Mighty Ducks movies, and, ummm, about 500 others that I can't think of right now.  Just trust me, there are enough clones of this movie to make those anti- stem cell people wet their pants.What makes Major League different is that is was first (but, if I'm wrong about this, please correct me).  To my knowledge, it was the first movie to use this exact formula.  Now comedic sports movies have existed since Edison's day, but Major League was the first to do this.  And I think it's the best.  What makes it better than the clones with the same formula is talent.  This film is filled with it.  Charlie Sheen playing a pot smoking, car stealing, punk, which is, well, himself.  Tom Berrigner before he started making straight to video films (what happened to him?  The guy's nominated for an Oscar, then he's flipping burgers at McDonalds.  Since when does it work like that?)  Renne Russo in her first film, I think.  Dennis Haysbert is hilarious as the voodoo man Pedro, my favorite character in the film.  Wesley Snipes is great and pretty much unnoticed in this film.  Had this movie been made today, he would have gotten top billing, but this was before he was famous.If I had to pick one thing about this movie that I don't like, it would have to be the routine big game at the end.  The movie is hilarious up to this point, when it gets serious.  It's like someone hits the brakes when you're going 80 down the interstate, in what I call comedic whiplash.  This happens in a lot of movies (remember Space Cowboys?).  But Major League just gets too serious too quickly.  But that's my only gripe and it hurts me to say it because I love this little movie.Yep, I love this movie.  It's very close to my heart.  It hasn't got the big laughs of some movies, it isn't filled with comedians, it isn't crude, racist, or blasphemous (not that I really care); but it is funny and it has heart.  It's just a fun, good ol movie.  In fact, I have yet to meet a person who didn't like it.  Now I can't say that about the clones.Rating Probably a 7 or an 8.  Somewhere in that area. "},{"Title":"brillant comedy","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Having just managed to get a copy on video, it is still a great comedy after all these years , remembering that i went to watch it twice when it first come out.Baseball is not a big sport in the UK but it did'nt matter if you did not understand the sport , the comedy was great, and a mixture of great characters, an ex con , a washed up player  with dodgy knees, a poser and a player that has voodoo as his religion , put it with a announcer who says what he thinks and you have the mixture for a great film . It is a film about the under dog who gets on top, a bunch of misfit players who come together to get one over on their bitch of an owner played by Margret Whitton , Charlie Sheen is great as Wild Thing Rick Vaughn with a brillant haircut , Berenger has a great line when he is talking to Corbin Bernsen, after Bersen had not dived for a ball during a game  If you ever tank a play like that again I will cut your nuts off and shove them down your F****** throat . The first was the best and the sequals were a let down , but after 12 years the original is still a great comedy film "},{"Title":"Inspired by The Producers","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Takes a satiraic look at baseball and the awefullness of the Cleveland Indians during that point in time.  Film was done when the Cleveland Indiand were one of the laughing stocks of baseball.  This was before the next decade when they would become one of the best teams in the American League of major league baseball.  Some good performances are given by Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Corbin Bernsen, Rene Russo, and Wesley Snipes.  Major League(1989) gave stardom to an unknown actor at that time by the name of Wesley Snipes.  Possiby the best performance ever given by Charlie Sheen.  Many of the film's plot elements come from Mel Brooks's The Producers(1968).  An entertaining and funny motion picture with some flaws in some areas.  Major League(1989) was part of a big wave of baseball movies made from the late 1980s to the early 1990s. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I love this movie and enjoy it each time I see it although I know it all by heart. I love baseball and this movie captures both the fun and enjoyment of it as well as the futility of it.  Great Bob Ueker lines - and there is just something about the underdog winning.  When this movie first came out, my son's teenage baseball team adopted the bench clap/stomp for their use and they had every line of the movie memorized (forget about the curveball, Ricky - throw him the heater.)  Other baseball films may be better acted and filmed, but this one is just plain fun.  I could have done without the boy lost girl/boy gets girl part which was boring and took away time from the real fun.  The sequels were horrible and not worth watching, but this first one was wonderfully entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Misfits play ball","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This in my opinion is the best baseball movie ever. Though some scenes were shaky in the actual baseball play, the acting was phenomenal. Berenger played a washed up catcher who wanted one more chance to win the big game. Sheen was the jail bird pitcher who might get his only chance. Snipes was the walk-on who could. It was a cinderella team that made a run at it all. Great rental. Next rainy day rent this movie. "}{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Major league is the story of the Cleveland Indians back when they couldn't win a ball game. The owner is justifiably sick of Cleveland (I've been there) and wants to move the team to Miami, but the only escape clause is if the attendance falls dramatically.So the owner decides to assemble the worst bunch of misfits possible to lose as many games as possible to move the team.The cast is full of future stars including Rene Russo and Wesley Snipes. They are all funny and entertaining.The movie's well written with the typical feel-good ending you'd expect from a sports movie. You should enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Funny, if timeworn","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A team of misfits is put together by a scheming owner who wants to move the team to Miami. Old plot is overshadowed by the acting of Berenger, Snipes, and especially Charlie Sheen. Bob Uecker is hilarious as the play-by-play guy, supplying a stream of one-liners to enhance the humor of the flick. Probably not good for someone who does not like baseball, but anybody who knows anything about the game should like this movie. Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"No surprises but lots of laughs.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  So you can see every joke coming a mile down the road. So what. It's a hilarious movie and my favorite baseball movie of all time. Number 2 is good but nowhere near this and even though I haven't seen 3 i'm sure it isn't either. It's not a landmark film but it made me laugh. "},{"Title":"A bunch of misfits make a run for the American League Pennant.","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A hilarious baseball movie about a bunch of misfits, cons, and old-timers that make the best of the situation and try to win the American League pennant.  The movie offers a lot of laughs as this group of so-called baseball players tries to overcome all the obstacles their owner puts in front of them.  Their new owner wants to move the team and can only do so by keeping attendance low.  She (Margaret Whitton) pulls out all the stops and tries to deter the Cleveland Indians from winning.  Charlie Sheen, Tom Beringer, and Corbin Bernsen lead an all-star cast is this all-out comedy that takes the Indians all the way to the pennant.  Bob Uecker plays the Indians play-by-play announcer as the lovable and funny Harry Doyle.  He throws in one-liners the whole movie and adds to the overall humor in this film.  If your a sports fan and love sports movies, this baseball blooper is a great choice. "},{"Title":"Still the best sports movie ever made.","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I can't work out Major League, it is about a sport I hate, and is made in exactly the same way - and covers much the same ground - as many other sports movies that I loathe.Only I think for some reason it is near perfect.The new owner of a Major League baseball team, the Cleveland Indians, decides to deliberately put together the worst team possible in order to drive down attendance and fan interest so that she can exercise a clause in the owner's contract and move the franchise to warmer territory.Gee, d'ya think they'll win?? You'd never see this movie made today, firstly I'm amazed that the overly PC major sports in the US allowed this one to happen in the first place. Baseball players are seen to be selfish, cocky, brash, prima-donnas who will think nothing of cheating or putting down others to better their own position.All true to from what I've seen in 20 something years of following sport.The strange thing is that in making a movie that seeks to send up the sport and the athletes the filmmakers showed exactly why sport is so awesome in the first place. The comraderie, the trash-talk and petty infighting, the pranks, the constant losing and then the exhilaration as the team actually starts winning.The team is made up of no-hopers and past their primes The no-hopers Charlie Sheen as an out of control pitcher named Ricky Vaughn, a cocky Willie Mays Hays who showed up with being asked to try out for the team, (Wesley Snipes in a very early role), a voodoo follower who can't hit a curveball and others&#x85; The past their primes Tom Berenger as Jake Taylor, a catcher who is wracked with injury, Corbin Bernsen as Roger Dorn, a pretty boy more concerned with his future endorsements than winning games, and Chelcie Ross as Ed Harris, a crafty veteran who now relies more on cheating than brute strength and skill.The team manager is the gruff, blunt and hilarious Lou Brown, elevated unexpectedly from his previous role selling tyres to the big league. Lou takes no sh*t, cares not for ceremony and tells it like it is, and his responses to some of the queries made by prima donnas are classic.As the team builds momentum the owner, aware that success means fans, which means no moving to a better city, removes the player perks including.The final game to decide the fate of the season, versus of course the team's nemesis is brilliant, you know you are being manipulated but still can't help but feel pulled into the contest. I still get pins and needles even though I've seen this soooo many times, and Bob Eucker as Harry Doyle is simply the best commentator for the game.The game lasts almost 20 minutes of screen time, and not a minute is wasted, even though there is hardly a joke or laugh to be had in the whole scene. By this stage if you are still on board this far into the movie you are likely less of a film watcher than a sport's fan, this last segment is so well made that it is almost as rewarding as rewatching some of the greatest games that actually occurred in sport's history.Final Rating &#x96; 9 / 10. I don't know what to tell you, aside from this movie made me love baseball - until the credits roll that is.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Funniest Sports Movie Ever!","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Even for people who are not fond of baseball, this movie will make you laugh. It tells the story of how the widowed ex showgirl wife of the owner of the Cleveland Indians takes over the team. Unhappy with Cleveland, she plots to move the team to Miami. The only way to do this however, is for the team to play badly enough to drop the season's attendance to an all time low. In order to accomplish this, she puts together a team made up of has beens, never-will-be's, criminals and nervous rookies. One of the best lines in the movie occurs when team management is going over the list of invitees to camp...This guy here is dead! Cross him off then! Great acting all around especially from Berenger and Sheen, but the one who steals the show is Bob Ueker, playing over the top commentator Harry Doyle. Listen for the subtle humor as he overplays the little action occurring on the field. The baseball action is great, and the humor is unending. I recommend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"Yo' bartender, Jo-Boo needs a refill","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" A major league baseball team in Cleveland gets taken over by bitchy Whitton who plans to insure that the team performs so badly to finish dead-last. Then she can relocate the team to sunny Miami and live the good life. However, the washed-up and burned-out ballplayers give their all to make sure that doesn't happen, and perhaps even win the championship.This formula driven sports comedy rises above mediocrity thanks to a superb cast, well written one-liners and sure handed direction from the man who brought us the Oscar winning The Sting. Tom Berenger is terrific as a burned-out ball player, James Gammon is a hoot as the coach, 24's Dennis Haysbert is great as Voodoo worshiping Cerrano and even Corbin Bernsen is good as well. But the real star here is Charlie Sheen, displaying a delightful comic talent, as Ricky Wild Thing Vaughn, the half blind, unbeleivably fast-throwing pitcher. The ending, while predictable, is sure to delight. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Favorite movie from my Childhood.","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  *****Spoilers***** This is by far my favorite movie from my adolecent age as I was 11 when it came out and saw it in the teatres and remember it like it was yesterday. I am on of the biggest baseball fans you will ever meet (an Orioles fan if your keeping track). This movie, that I probably should not have seen at the age of 11 because of the language, was great. It still holds the test of time. My wife and I watch it whenever it comes on TV and she hates to watch it because I will say the lines of the movie right befor they come on word for word, man I even think that I know the edited versions from watching it on regular TV. My cousin and I spent countless hours of our life watching this movie. The movie takes a look at the laughing stock of baseball, at the time, the Cleveland Indians. With the hilarious ex show girl wife of the now dead owner taking over the team and wanting to re-locate them to sunny Florida (this is prior to the Marlins being introduced in 94). So she wants to put together the worst team possible as she has found a loup hole in the contract if their attendance falls below a certain number for the year then they can move, with no protest from the city. The attendance number that it has to fall below is some ridiculously low number but she thinks they can do it. There are many great scenes prior to any baseball being played at all, including one of the best lines in the movie when they are looking over the people they want to invite to camp.This guy here is dead! Cross him off then. If you love this movie like I do your laughing right now. I know I need to shorten up the end of this review for word sake so i'll go quickly through the rest. So they assemble this team of a few has beens and a couple of never will be's.First there is one of the best guys in the movie Harry Doyle(Bob Uecker)as the announcer who's quick wit really carry a lot of the moive(not really part of the team but deserved to be mentioned). Lou-The minor league manager who works at Tire World and doesn't seem to be too excited about managing the Indians as he puts the GM on hold because he has someone on the other line asking about some whitewalls. Jake-The aging catcher w/bad knees. Dorn-The over confident 3rd baseman who can't field a ground ball. Hays-Who can run circles around anyone but likes to pop the ball up. Harris-The aging pitcher who throws nothing but spit balls. Cerano-The voodoo man who can't hit a curve ball. Then there is Vaughn, the pitcher who can throw the ball as hard as anyone but just can't control it. Playing the enemies in the movie, it's baseball so it still stands today and would have to be, are the Yankees. The Indians go thru the season struggling of course until the GM tells the manager that the owner has hired all of them just to loose. So this, like in most 80's movies, is the what I like to call we're gonna do it! factor of the movie. Where they Indians need to win something like 32 out of 40 games to get into and final day tie with the Yankees. This makes it so that there is a one game playoff between the two. This by far is the best part of the movie, this whole game. If you haven't seen this movie I won't give it all away, but i'm sure you know the end because it's an 80's movie. Still to this day whenever I see this movie I still get chills with the Harry Doyle call at the end. As I said before one of my favortie movies from my childhood.3 1/2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE FUNNIEST FILMS!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was funny!! Charlie Sheen was great as the WILD THING (Mr. Tough Guy) Denis haybert as Cerrano was funny with his pathetic voodoo stuff.. and tom berenger was not bad.. But this was about a bunch idiots on a professional baseball team and they end up going to the Pennant.. also Wesley Snipes played a great role of Willie Mayes Hayes!  "},{"Title":"Very funny baseball movie!","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I have heard pretty much mostly good reviews when it came to Major League, and I am a baseball fan, so I definitely wanted to give Major League a look. I was lucky, my mom has one and two, so last night I finally sat down and watched it and I have to say that I had a few good laughs here and there. I loved the scene where the guys had their first prayer and the monk set a fire for his little doll that he worships and it set off the sprinklers! Basically, Rachel Pheleps is the new owner of the Cleveland Indians after her husband dies, and she doesn't like Cleveland. In order to move the team to a warmer climate like Miami, she has to have a low audience for the games and she hires the worst team possible. But they prove themselves to be more, especially when the team finds out that Rachel wants the team to loose, they pull themselves together to win the games! Major League had some good laughs and I would recommend it for anyone, even those baseball haters, just have a good time. Charlie Sheen really stole the show as Wild Thing! I loved how he had his sleeves cut off all the time, even for formal events. Major League is a fun comedy that I'm sure anyone could get at least one good laugh out of.7/10 "}{"Title":"Juuust a bit outside.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Let me preface this by saying I can't stand baseball; I find it to be one of the most boring sports out there.  With that said, I love this film. It has a great underdog story, some genuine comedy, great characters, and heart.  It's a minor film, but it's thoroughly entertaining.  If more films could just be entertaining, I might go to the theater more often.The heart of this film is the characters.  We have the broken down veterans, the rookies, the love interest, the wise old coach, and the villain.   These are rather cliched characters, but they are written and performed so well, you don't notice.  Much of the humor arises out of character moments, which keeps it from becoming tired or dated.Tom Berenger and Charlie Sheen were hot, coming off of the success of Platoon.  Corbin Bernsen was enjoying fame on LA Law.  Rene Russo and Wesley Snipes were relative unknowns who got a chance to shine.  And then there's Bob Uecker!  Uecker is the glue that brings everything together and he gets the best lines in the movie.You can't go wrong with a film like this.  Everything works well and a good time is had by all. Too bad the sequels forgot what made this a success.  "},{"Title":"Baseball comedy classic","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Major League is nothing original... it borrows heavily from the Bad News Bears school of screen writing. What holds the movie together is the easy charm and camaraderie of the cast, which features some tried and true character actors Bob Uecker, basically playing himself; Margaret Whitfield, playing her patented bitch role, and James Gammon, playing the wise old coot who has seen it all. Rounding out the cast are Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Corbin Bernsen and Rene Russo, who at the time was new to features. The plot is as follows The owner of the Cleveland Indians marries a Vegas showgirl and dies on his honeymoon, leaving her the team. Cleveland (which the song being played over the main titles laughingly refers to as city of light, city of magic- perhaps they are referring to when the Cuyahuga River caught on fire?) doesn't agree with her, so she wants to exploit a loophole in her contract with the city which stipulates if attendance falls below a certain level, she can take the franchise out of Cleveland. So she goes out and gets herself the sorriest looking group of ballplayers you've ever seen... A Cuban defector (because his religion is voodoo) who can only hit fastballs (Dennis Haysbert), the worlds laziest third baseman (Think Bernsen as a clean shaven Wade Boggs), a catcher with shot-out knees (Berenger channeling Johnny Bench or Cartlton Fisk), a near-sighted pitcher who throws 100 MPH at everything but the plate (Sheen), and the lead-off hitter who thinks he is Rickey Henderson (Wesley Snipes). The movie has a lot of laughs and it's a fun way to waste 90 minutes. Directed by David S. Ward of The Sting fame. Interestingly enough, this movie did give the nickname Wild Thing to one-time Philadelphia pitcher Mitch whatshisname who threw a bad pitch to Joe Carter in the 9th inning to lose the '93 World Series to Toronto. "},{"Title":"These guys don't look to f**king good!","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Cleveland Indian's owner Rachel Phelps puts together the worst baseball team she can find, the hope is that they finish plum last and she can then relocate the franchise to sunny Florida. However once the assortment of oddball players get wind of the plan they find a goal to achieve collectively, with hilarious results.Goofy? Well yes it is of course, but Major League has charm in abundance and with a pretty smart cast having fun, the result is a truly enjoyable and laugh filled piece of fluff. The striking thing to me is that you don't have to have any knowledge or love of baseball to enjoy this movie, it thrives on locker room mentality and crowd demented loyalty for its laughs; and Major League delivers them almost at every turn. The assorted members comprise such characters like a voodoo nutter and a wild child parolee And those are the sane ones!! The cast is made up of big names-Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Corbin Bernsen, Rene Russo and Wesley Snipes are in it for laughs-and you should be as well. On its release, Major League proved a popular crowd winner, so much so that two desperately bad sequels were spawned, do avoid those at all costs but make sure to see this one if you are in need of a pick me up.Wild thing you make my heart sing indeed. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Terrifc Crowd-Pleaser","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Major League (1989) **** (out of 4)Wonderful crowd-pleaser about a group of misfit baseball players who are thrown together by an owner who hopes they're bad enough so that she can relocate the team to a new city in the off season. The players of the Cleveland Indians find out about this and decide to give it their all to become winners. MAJOR LEAGUE really isn't anything that we haven't seen before in countless sports movies. We have the typical stereotypes and the clichéd story and we all know how it's going to end. With that said, who says you can't take something old and make it fresh and exciting? This here is without question one of the best comedies of the 80s and I really think it keeps getting better with age. The movie really has one terrific scene after another as one can't help but fall in love with these losers, their situation and of course you want to see them win. What works so well is that we're given a terrific cast with Tom Berenger and Charlie Sheen leading the way as the wise vet and the wild rookie. The two of them work perfectly well together and certainly help keep the film going at a fast pace. The supporting cast gives us wonderful work by Corbin Bernsen, Margaret Whitton, James Gammon, Wesley Snipes, Charles Cyphers, Dennis Haysbert, Chelcie Ross and Rene Russo. We also have the priceless Bob Uecker who turns in one of the memorable roles in sports film history. The film is perfectly directed by David Ward who perfectly plays up the various comedy routines but he also manages to packs some wonderful tension during the final ballgame as the Indians go up against the Yankees. MAJOR LEAGUE has non-stop laughs from start to finish but we even get a little side romance and of course plenty of dirty jokes. The R-rating really helps this film because it just seems like one of those macho movies where guys talk dirty and it's all wonderfully funny. "},{"Title":"entertaining and amusing,though not insanely funny baseball movie","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" i thought this was a pretty good movie.it wasn't insanely funny or anything,but it had some amusing moments and was certainly entertaining.what i liked about this movie is is the fact that,although it's an underdog story,it is not preachy and schmaltzy.there's very little rah,rah,rah,everyone's a winner clap trap.it just goes to show that a movie can tell an under dog story,without hitting you over the head with it,and making you nauseous.i also liked the unique mix of characters in the movie,with all their quirks.they are really an oddball assortment.i'm not really a baseball fan,but i liked the movie just as a movie,and not so much as a baseball movie.for me,Major League is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"A genuinely funny fantasy","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Cleveland IndiansA Major League Baseball club not without its troubles.For over thirty years,this team never even contended for any type of glory.It became taken for granted over the years that the tribe would finish in the cellar or not far from it.Although things have improved for the club in recent years,in 1989,the year of this film's release,things were still far from glorious.This film takes a great story idea,applies it to one the American League's most historically troubled clubs,and the results are fantastic.It not only gave the long suffering Indian fans something to smile about,it perhaps catapulted the team into it's less troubled and more satisfying years of today. This is is a genuinely funny,well casted baseball comedy that's well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Yes Yes Yes","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the best baseball sports films ever made.  Notg because it exactly depicts the tradition of baseball.  Mainly because of a pitcher who can throw a ball at 96 mph at a guys head, a vodoo guy who doubts Jesus Christ's curve ball skills, and a guy named Willy Mayes Hayes who can run like haze but hit like s***.  These are the original comedy things added to this great baseball film about the new owner of the Cleavland Indians who wants the team to finish dead last so she can sell the team.  That is until the team (which includes Tom Berenger, Cornin Bernson, Charles Cyphers, Wesley Snipes and Charlie Sheen) changes all that.  Incredibly funny, and it gets better with each viewing.  My favorite moment, when Hays (played by a good newcomer named Wesley Snipes) finds out he made the Indians and just runs outside and goes (Owwwww, yes yes yes).  A+ "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cleveland Indians have gone 34 years without a division title. Team owner Donald Phelps has died, and his snobby wife Rachel Phelps, a former showgirl, has taken over as the new owner. Some in the media think Rachel shouldn't be the owner of a baseball team. Rachel hates Cleveland, so she makes plans to move the Indians to the warmer climate of Miami, Florida, but she can't break the team's lease with Cleveland unless the team's attendance for the season is below 800,000. Rachel's plan is to put together a team so awful that the season attendance will be lower than 800,000. Rachel and general manager Charlie Donovan hire a manager for the Indians Lou Brown, who has been the manager of the minor league Toledo Mud Hens for the past 30 years. Charlie then recruits some misfit players catcher Jake Taylor, who is a major league standout with knee problems, Ricky Wild Thing Vaughn, who is a pitcher who throws wildly, third baseman Roger Dorn, who is a product endorser and former major league star who will do anything to avoid injury, outfielder Willie Mays Hayes, who runs fast enough to steal a lot of bases but can't hit very well, and Pedro Cerrano, who is an outfielder who practices voodoo. As expected, the Indians get off to a slow start, but when they discover that Rachel wants the team to lose so she can move the team, the Indians get their act together and start winning games and raising their attendance, as Jake tries to win back his ex-girlfriend Lynn Wells, and the Indians do what they can to win the division title.This movie is really a cheesy good time. Acting is really cheap and a good spoof to the baseball genre. All two sequels are dumb, except this one, the sequels were even less in quality.Rated R for Profanity. "},{"Title":"Ball Sixteen","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is very funny and worth seeing.  It contains every sports cliche since the Greeks first threw a spear.  It is not a great baseball movie but a great comedy.  The Rene Russo character is aboard for the sole purpose of being The Girl, so she is wasted.  There are several good actors in this movie - James Gammon and Margaret Whitton among them - which adds to some mediocre acting by Bernsen and Berenger.  Wesley Snipes first showed his star appeal in this movie and Charlie Sheen is tolerable for a change.  Why this movie needed two sequels is anyone's guess, though. "},{"Title":"Big league laugh riot!!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is a very funny baseball movie. An ex-showgirl inherits the Major League Cleveland Indians ball team. This team is mired near the cellar and if they keep losing the new owner can move the team to a better money making locale. This band of misfits suck it up and end up competing for the pennant.Tom Berenger is an all but washed up catcher that revives this teams pride to become winners. Charlie Sheen, known as the 'Wild Thing', is the bespectacled relief pitcher that helps  bring fans back out to the ballpark. Bob Uecker steals the show as the Indians play-by-play announcer Harry Doyle. His one liners really hold the movie together.Corbin Bernsen plays a lazy infielder with a large ego. Wesley Snipes is the teams base stealing showboat. The gravel voiced team manager Lou Brown is played by James Gammon. The new team owner is Margaret Whitton and she plays the role of bitch to perfection. The lovely Rene Russo is Berenger's love life past and present. Uecker is not the only former ballplayer in the cast. Look for former stars Pete Vuckovich and Steve Yeager.This movie is laugh out loud funny. Typical foul language is part of the comic relief. You can't make a realistic baseball film without spittin' and cussin'. "}{"Title":"Funny but not a masterpiece.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Funny baseball parody that feels very much like a typical ZAZ comedy (though it isn't one). A team of baseball players (Sheen, Berenger, etc.) all have to play a season of pro baseball, even though they have no talent. Corbin Made-for-TV-King Bernsen co-stars.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Why do I love this film?","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Beats me! All I know is that virtually EVERY time this flick hits cable...I watch it. There is something about the way this simple, very funny movie fits together that just compels me.  Sheen is great as Wild Thing Ricky Vaughn.  And the same can be said for every other actor (and character) in the film.  They all just seem to click.  Bob Uecker is priceless.  I don't know, maybe I'm losing my taste, but this is a film that will ALWAYS pick me up and makes life just a bit better! "},{"Title":"Solid And Funny","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is what any sports league should be like -- a bunch of underdogs with genuine personality who get their act together and win the league championship along their girls' hearts.  Reality is probably a bit more mundane.Overall, not a great work of art or anything, but undeniably an enjoyable, solid film with plenty of good lines and laughs.  Catch it on TV or get it from your video store if you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Major Comedy","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Major League is a funny and yet somewhat serious and dramatic film about the woeful Cleveland Indians.  Their new owner (Margaret Whitton) has brought together the worst players so the team will lose more games than anyone else in baseball.  Why?  Well, she wants the attendance to be so low that she will be able to move the team to Miami and then buy the players to make the franchise successful.  The has-beens and never-will-bes include catcher Tom Berenger, third baseman Corbin Bernsen, center-fielder Wesley Snipes, and wild pitcher Charlie Sheen.  However after a rocky start, the team comes together and begins winning.  They unite the city and unite the team in grand fashion.  Major League is a film that tries to be more than it is and almost succeeds.  On first glance it is a pure comedy, but does have some dramatic aspects as well.  This makes the film somewhat uneven and disjointed, but somehow it still over-achieves for the most part.  Far from a masterpiece, but it is still a good film overall.  3.5 out of 5 stars.        "},{"Title":"A must see for baseball fans!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie hits close to home because I live in the Cleveland area and am a HUGE Indians fan! I remember back in the days when Cleveland and especially the Tribe were laughingstocks...oh, back to the movie, hehe...Bob Uecker is hysterically funny as the Indians' radio announcer, and Tom Berenger looks very comfortable and relaxed as the veteran catcher. Charlie Sheen is funny, and Rene Russo makes the most of her small role as Berenger's girlfriend. Wesley Snipes was great as the Kenny Lofton-esque Willie Mays Hayes, and the rest of the cast was great.The script offers no suprises whatsoever, but it's still fun to watch. Recommended especially to Indians fans. "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time.  It is awesome! Not only is this movie one of the funniest sports movies ever made, but it also has one of the best endings to any sports movie ever.  I still get chills when I hear Bob Uecker yelling at the end! "},{"Title":"Top Guilty Pleasure","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is pure Velveeta and packs every sports-flick cliche ever seen into 90 minutes...but I still laugh out loud during many of the lines I can quote verbatim and still get chills every time Ricky Vaughn strides out of the bullpen at the end.Not a great movie by any means, but ten years later it's still one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Why the score?","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Major League is by far my favor sports movie, beating out Caddyshack although most would disagree. Why it has a score of 6.4 I can't understand. Everyone I know loves this movie. While the sequels are almost as bad as sequels to such other classics as Home Alone and Caddyshack, it shouldn't affect this movie. The wonderful one-liners and story alone make this great movie what it should be ranked at. Having it at a 6.4 is almost as bad as Mr. Showbiz saying Haley Joel Osment should be voted for worst actor of the year award, while he is the most oscar worthy supporting actor to be in a movie yet.  "},{"Title":"A must see for a true baseball fan","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Any true baseball fan has to see this movie if they haven't seen it yet. It is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  Many of the lines are unforgettable.  You have to love the characters in this movie.  Ricky Vaughn, Willie Mays Hays, Pedro Cerrano, and Harris are terrific. "},{"Title":"The funniest in the series!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This one is the funniest in the series, but  maybe not the most entertaining. A tie  between this one is part II for the most  entertaining. The baseball stuff is a  bit better in part II. The people in  this one are a little bit more interesting  than they are in part II, but I like both  movies about the same. I give this movie ***  out of ****  "}{"Title":"One of the funniest baseball movies I've ever seen.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Major League is definitely one of the funniest baseball movies I have ever seen. The only thing I didn't like about it is that I'm a life-long Yankee fan. They make the Yankee's out to be such jerks in this film, how could you not root for the Indians. The casting is excellent and there are some truly great moments in this film. It suffers from a Cinderella type storyline, but that is the only true weakness. "},{"Title":"I don't understand","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't understand why people think this movie sucks.This movie rocks, if you know what I mean.  I'm talking about Wild Thing  yeah it sure is a wild movie, and in a good movie are conflicts. There's Roger Dorn against Ricky Vaughn because he is a rookie, Eddie Harris against Pedro Curenno because Curenno believes in a different religion, and Lou Brown against Rachel Phelps because, well, she's just a bitch.  So, all of you people who think Major League sucks, why don't you watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" this is my dad, sister and my favorite comedy of all times. its great. Charlie Sheen is fantastic i love the wild thing t shirts and his glasses in the movie they're awesome. its my favorite movie and recommend it to everyone.its so so good best movie. I hope when i get married m husband will love it to or we'll have issues. its the best baseball movie. this would be a great date movie. there are lines i love to repeat in this movie. Charlie Sheen is so hot in it. this movie has made me love baseball. the best movie in the world so see it trust me. it is also sorta stupid but so great. i can't say how great it is. Watch it i mean it. "},{"Title":"Downright irriestiable.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Amusing and fun-filled baseball comedy about some players of the Cleveland Indians who band together to make a serious run for the play-offs when they hear that their new owner has plans to move the team to Florida.Writer/director David S. Ward (Down Periscope) has served up a charming and in-genius treat for anyone who still love the game of baseball despite what has happened to the game in recent years.  The cast that Ward has assembled here (Tom Berenger, Charlie Sheen, Wesley Snipes, Rene Russo, etc.) is marvelous.  In addition, two notable former big leaguers (Pete Vukovich and Bob Uecker) also appear in the movie.There are plenty of nice touches applied here, such as having the old County Stadium (home of the Brewers) and some of Uecker's punch-lines make the film downright irriestiable. "},{"Title":"It is very unwise to steal joeboo's rum.","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was originally released in 1989.  As a not-so-strapping boy of 15, I wasn't particularly familiar with baseball, and didn't have any particular interest in it.  But hey, it was a movie, and I got to see it for free.  And it was funny. (I think that this movie was made for 15-year-old boys!)But I also couldn't believe for a moment that the Indians were a real baseball team.  I mean, what baseball team would allow themselves to be made fun of this way?Imagine my surprise the next morning when I discovered that the Indians were, in fact, a real ball club, and they really were as bad as they were portrayed as being in the film!  I immediately bought a Chief Wahoo hat and declared myself an Indians fan.Watching this film today is like a nostalgia session.  Cleveland's Municipal Stadium (the mistake by the lake, built as part of Cleveland's bid for the Olympic games) has long since been torn down, as was the Brewers' stadium in Milwaukee used for the scenes inside the ballpark.  The Indians, though faltering in the 2002 season, are still a far better team than they were in 1989.  (An odd side note - the San Francisco Giants' last trip to the World Series was in 1954 - when they played the Indians!  That was the last time the Tribe won the AL pennant until 1997, when they lost the World Series to the Marlins.) Cleveland has actually been cleaned up pretty substantially since the film was released, and a few buildings have been added to the skyline.  The Browns even have their own stadium nowadays!There are certainly movies that have better baseball (Bull Durham comes to mind), but not many that have as much fun with the sport. "},{"Title":"Clichés galore and no real substance but it is amusing in an undemanding and distracting sort of way","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" When her husband dies of a heart attack, former exotic dancer Rachel Phelps inherits the Cleveland Indians &#150; a baseball team that has enjoyed a 34 year slump. She immediately makes her plan clear &#150; to make the team lose so badly that she will be able to move the team to Miami. Her first move is to bring in a whole raft of new players &#150; deadbeats, former stars, no-hopers and such and then bring them under the management of Lou Brown, now working in an auto-repair garage. With all the players in place the team is naturally a mess and start the year as such. But can the misfits pull together as a team to make a hit in the league?With a plot that is pretty much just one long cliché this film was never going to be anything special but it isn't terrible and it does actually manage to be amiable enough to entertain. A couple of times the narrative tries to do something interesting with the characters but it never gets to the point where you could compare it to the much better Bull Durham and really it shouldn't have bothered. Outside from this there isn't really anything that provides consistent laughs but it does manage to have a vaguely humorous air to it for most of the running time. I suppose it depends how demanding you feel when you watch it but if you accept the clichés then you'll probably buy into the relaxed air it has. This isn't to suggest it is any good (because it isn't) but sometimes it is comforting to be somewhere familiar and you can't get much more familiar than the clichés on display here.The cast are quite impressive on paper and their collective charisma is part of the reason that the clichéd material actually is amusing. Berenger plays grizzled better than many an actor and is solid in the clichés despite not being able to do anything of value with his subplot with Rene Russo. Sheen and Snipes are both very young looking and play their roles well enough. Bernsen isn't the most convincing but he does alright (again not able to do anything with his more serious subplot though). Russo is totally wasted but Ross, Haysbert and others in the team are reasonably enjoyable while Whitton delivers her character well.Overall then, hardly the greatest film ever made, or even that good a film but one that just about does enough to be enjoyable if you are in the mood for it. Trading almost totally on clichés the film was never going to be anything special (and it isn't) but the sequels indicate that there must be a market for even stuff this derivative and I suppose that it pretty much delivered all I wanted on a very lazy Sunday evening where I didn't want to think. "},{"Title":"'Major League' Anti-Christian Bias","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Being a big baseball fan, I was anxious to see this movie. I did enjoy parts of it and got laughs out of Charlie Wild Thing Sheen's character as well as a few others. It was nice to see the poor Cleveland Indians wind up winners, too.But, in addition to being a fan of the game, I am a Christian, too, and the bias against my faith in this movie was disgusting. Had they done this to any other group, I suspect you would have heard an uproar over it.....but Christians are fair game in the film world. Here, the dumbest and most annoying player on the team, of course, is the religious guy, Eddie Harris, played cartoon-ishly by Chelcie Ross. He is pictured as a nutcase and a guy nobody likes. On the other hand we have the very likable voodoo-believing Latin American player. His superstitions are given great credence, naturally, with the voodoo actually being something that has real spiritual power. In the end, even Harris starts believing in them! Puh-leeze. This film is one of the worst examples of Hollywood's prejudice you'll ever see. It's also sad comment that no one else here points this out. "}]