[{"Title":"The Karate Man Part III","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"59 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Spoiler Alert This film is about a 35 year old karate boy and his wise old martial arts instructor. Ralph Macchio plays the title role, and seems to have gained about 45 pounds since the second film. Daniel LaRusso and Mr. Miyagi come back from Okinawa (the story of Part II) and continue to dress and think like it's 1984, even though the rest of the world knows it's 1989. The brutal karate teacher from the earlier films, John Kreese, has been run out of business thanks to the bad PR that resulted in his defeat at the hands of Daniel and Mr. Miyagi. Kreese closes down his Cobra Kai dojo. This film is from 1989, and the 45 year old Kreese decides to call the karate deal quits, but his billionaire 25 year old Vietnam war buddy talks him out of it. Kreese's 25 year old war buddy from the 60s is named Terry Silver, and he has a pony tail just like Steven Segal. Terry Silver also knows karate, just like Steven Segal. Terry Silver is also a pompous, full of himself a-hole, just like Steven Segal. Terry Silver is also younger then The Karate Man, Daniel LaRusso. Terry Silver helps Kreese get revenge on Daniel and Mr. Miyagi, using some outdated racist lingo like slope in reference to Miyagi. Hmmm, maybe Terry Silver was around for the 60s?Steven Segal, errr, I mean Terry Silver sets up a new Cobra Kai dojo and enlists the aid of a bad boy karate teenage punk named Mike Barnes. Mike Barnes is a teenager with a ruthless style of fighting, and he is determined to defeat the Karate Man. Terry Silver promises Mike Barnes a hefty sum of money if he is able to beat the Karate Man in the karate tournament. Terry Silver lures the Karate Man to the dark side of the force, against Miyagi's noble Jedi ways. The Karate Man trains under Silver and starts to become evil like Mike Barnes. In a subplot, Mr. Miyagi and Daniel open up a Bonsai tree store, and they are repeatedly attacked by Mike Barnes, who wants the Karate Man to defend his championship. Daniel briefly gets a high school aged girlfriend, but then she dumps him when she finds out he is 35 and she never shows up for the second half of the movie. But after the Karate Man beats up an 18 year old kid at a dance club, he runs home to Mr. Miyagi feeling bad for what he has done. Daniel repents and Miyagi forgives him, Daniel then goes back to the Cobra Kai dojo to tell Terry Silver that he can no longer train under him. Terry Silver says, you owe me more then that Danny boy. Mike Barnes and John Kreese show up and start beating up on the Karate Man, the Karate Man makes a run for the door after a few beatings. Mike Barnes is hot in pursuit of him outside. But then out of nowhere, as usual, comes Mr. Miyagi to save the day. Miyagi throws Mike Barnes back into the Cobra Kai dojo and knocks out the teenager after another punch. Miyagi then takes on Terry Silver and John Kreese after they make a few more bigoted comments against Asians. Miyagi easily defeats the both of them, and finally agrees to retrain the Karate Man. Terry Silver tells Miyagi that Cobra Kai dojos will open up everywhere and he won't even be a memory. Daniel yells back, Yes he will! You won't!Mr. Miyagi then tells Daniel come, now we do kata!, and they do the kata on the beach, on the top of a mountain, and in Miyagi's backyard. After a few days of this kata training with Mr. Miyagi, the Karate Man enters the All-Valley Under 18 karate tournament for boys. The Karate Man does not have to fight the other young boys this time around, as their is a new rule saying he only needs to fight once, lucky for him. The punk teenager Mike Barnes makes it to the championship round and starts to once again beat up on the Karate Man. The Karate Man is out of his league with Mike Barnes, despite defeating Johnny Lawrence in the first film, and defeating Chosen in a fight to the death in the second movie. The Karate Man seems to have forgotten everything he learned. After getting severely beat up by the teenager Mike Barnes, the Karate Man tells Miyagi to throw in the towel. Mr. Miyagi comes to the Karate Man and tells him not to give up but to use the secret kata that he taught him. The man-boy gets up off the mat and proceeds to do the super secret Miyagi kata from Okinawa. Mike Barnes is stunned when he sees the kata, and actually waits for the Karate Man to finish his entire form before he attacks. When Mike Barnes finally lunges, the Karate Man in a single move flips him over and punches him to get the winning point. Mr. Miyagi and the 35 year old boy celebrate with a hug. THE END.  "},{"Title":"Dear God, Please Rid Us Of Daniel!!!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"39 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  What is Daniel Larusso's problem? Why after three torturous films is he no more a man than when he first moved to L.A? I just don't get it!! In the first installment he had an excuse to be a sissy; he was being bullied by the bad boys of his new school and he didn't know how to defend himself. I accept that! In the second one, he was in a foreign land and was being bullied by some oriental bad-boy. He gets his butt kicked throughout until the last scene when in the face of near death, he looks into Miyagi's eyes and gets the inspiration to overcome fear and win the day and the girl. I don't buy it but I can bear it!! In the third installment, he projects so much obnoxiousness and pathetic emotion that you hope that his clearly, superior opponents will kick his ass once and for all. No such luck!!In this film Daniel is forced to defend his title which requires him to fight only the final match.(Easy enough no?) His opponent is some blonde punk who is being trained by Kreese (the disgraced teacher in the first film whose nose Miyagi twists to render him unconscious)and backed by the finances of Terry Silver, a smooth Karate kicking business man. Silver, played with nice slick touches by Thomas Ian Griffith is watchable as he disrupts Daniel's level of discipline and successfully convinces Daniel that he wants to help him defend his title after Miyagi refuses. Daniel, idiot that he is, can't see the charade and accepts his help. Griffith projects some air of smoothness but doesn't quite convince he's really all that cool. Still some Karate student that I know,  Amir Hashim-Zada seems to think he epitomizes 21st Century Maleness. To each his own, I guess! The three of them have a business deal going that requires Daniel to fight the final and get beaten in order for their new Dojo's to be opened. Miyagi refuses to train Daniel because he feels Daniel's reasons for defense are wrong. Please excuse Daniel for getting beaten up throughout the film and being forced to enter the tournament!!. Sorry Miyagi, how unreasonable Daniel has become!!! Anyway enough plot....What I don't get is why Daniel complains and cries consistently about his circumstances and seems to have forgotten any skills that Miyagi has taught him over the past couple of films. That is until, in the heat of the moment, he looks into Miyagi's eyes and everything comes back!!(How realistic!!). I loved the first film, for although Daniel was predictably annoying, he was living out the zero to hero story we all love. And Miyagi became a household name that we couldn't not love. Incidentally, Miyagi remains good throughout the films. Without him the movie hasn't a leg to stand on. It's a real statement on the charisma of the leading man Macchio. He simply has none.The trouble with Daniel is that he has the weakest personality that doesn't ever appear to develop, despite all Miyagi's wisdom, until the last 2 minutes of the film. I can accept that these films don't expect that much from the viewer, but come on!!, we should at least believe that Daniel is a worthy hero by the end. I find it really funny that Miyagi likens Daniel's spirit to that of a bonsai tree with a strong root. Daniel seems to make Miyagi's wisdom and teachings look meaningless. Daniel ought to be a man's man by this film, but he still walks like a girl, he talks like a girl, and BY GOD he still FIGHTS like a girl!!!Any sympathy you may have mustered for him from the past two films is quickly dispensed in this film because he whines and cries when things consistently don't go his way. For God's Sake Daniel, are you that dense, since when do things go your way??? By now you should be man enough to deal with the bad things in life!!!! Everyone else does and most haven't had the privilege of Miyagi's teachings!!I must say the final scene is truly pathetic!!The bad boy is keen to win a point then lose a point thereby keeping the scores at 0-0. He wants Daniel to suffer (Don't we all?) so he claims a legitimate point then beats the life out of him to lose the point. The match makes it abundantly clear that Daniel is 5 belts worse than this guy. BUT the match tied at 0-0 thanks entirely to the bad-boy, goes into sudden death when Daniel searches deep inside of himself, giving the obligatory look to Miyagi, and pulls off one good move and wins the match. Then he has the arrogance to say Yes We did It as if he should have the audacity to think he deserved to win the fight. It could be poor writing or bad acting, or both, but it's a pity that even after 3 films, even my young girl cousin reckons she could beat up whimpy Daniel!! The irony of all of this, is that this film is shamefully watchable. I like it because Daniel forces giggles from the audience and Miyagi is always watchable as he chants his pearls of wisdom and does his various spiritual mantra's that are meant to mean something!! Sorry Miyagi, I didn't quite catch their significance this time around, and as much as I like you, I fear Daniel has not learned a bleeding thing from you since you met him!!! "},{"Title":"Unintentionally hilarious &#x96; does it deserve a 1, or a 10?","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I don't know how many stars to give this movie, because a 1 tells you not to see it, and a 10 tells you that it is an excellent movie. Truth be told, this is one of the worst movies ever made, and that is why you absolutely must see it. It is more unintentionally funny than most actual comedies, and it provides as much entertainment value by accident as lots of movies do on purpose. It is like a train wreck, but with this wreck, the passengers are all slipping on banana peels as they exit the train.Here is what I think happened &#x96; the producers decided that they wanted to cash in on the franchise one more time, so they decided to bring back Mr. Miyagi and Daniel for one last hurrah. The script writers cooked up another story about Daniel fighting the Cobra Kais, getting beaten up, competing in the karate tournament once again, and then winning in the end. Then Ralph Macchio showed up for day 1 pudgy and out of shape, and panic erupted. Quickly, the script was rewritten with all of Daniel's fight scenes taken out, and the tournament rules changed so that all Daniel had to do to defend his title was show up for the last fight. I find it next to impossible that anyone associated with this movie honestly expected the audience to buy this, but they were far enough into the project that they had no choice but to finish it.So what do we get? We get an hour and a half of poor Danny getting abused over and over again. He's chubby. He's pushing 30, but he is still 17 in the movie and he sounds like he is about 13. He gets punched. He gets taunted. He gets kicked in the balls. His, uh, girlfriend gets harassed and almost assaulted as some bullies trash Mr. Miyagi's shop, but Mr. Miyagi does absolutely nothing but push the bullies out the door. At no point, does it cross anyone's mind to call the cops. At some point, we start sympathizing more with the bullies than Daniel. He is such a wimp with no defensive instincts, and at this point, Mr. Miyagi seems like an insensitive dope because he makes Daniel get beaten to a pulp multiple times before he will finally agree to train him.You can tell that just about everybody acting in this movie knows that it's a stinker, so why bother trying? Ralph Macchio totally phones in his performance, and so does Pat Morita (Miyagi). The minor actors in the movie, like Thomas Ian Griffith (the evil pony tail guy) and Martin Kove (the big evil trainer from the first movie) seem to get the joke here. They play over the top, exaggerated cartoon villains, whose only function is to be pointlessly mean. They are grown men, but their lives revolve around torturing a 17 year old boy as revenge for winning a karate tournament. At the end, Daniel finally faces down the big bully. Only this time, he doesn't try to throw any punches or block anything. He just stands there like a doughboy punching bag, yelping out in pain with his girly voice. I have always thought that the greatest achievement of the first two movies was that they made Daniel's triumphs believable and convincing. Since Mr. Miyagi focused on defense and maintaining a positive attitude, Daniel could survive a fight against a privileged bully and a brutal Okinawan street fighter who did not have this kind of positive influence. But in this one, it's just a massive beating. It is just so hard to take seriously that you get a sadistic pleasure out of it, kind of like watching somebody get hammered with a 2X4 in a Bugs Bunny cartoon.Maybe the worst thing about this movie is that deep down, somewhere buried underneath the terrible acting and the awful script, there were some good ideas here. A Vietnam vet befriending Daniel and teaching him the darker side of martial arts &#x96; sounds like a story with a lot of potential. Maybe the world isn't inherently a good place. Maybe life has predators and prey, and maybe a Vietnam vet is an appropriate guy to teach that to Daniel, who up to this point is still pretty naïve. Maybe a movie that questioned the idealism of the first two and dug into some gray areas could have been really good. But, nope! We just got a tired rehash of the lessons from the first two movies, but they don't even seem to make sense here. Our Vietnam vet is actually just a villain &#x96; so cartoony that he even goes around a corner for a sneaky evil laugh while he listens to Daniel punch a piece of wood. Ouch! This one shows up on cable somewhere every once in a while, and if you can catch it, I highly recommend it. Invite some friends over, have a few beers, and have a few laughs at the expense of this tire fire. "},{"Title":"Part III? What for?","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Rumor has it Tom Cruise was offered the chance to reprise his signature '80s role in two (!) Top Gun sequels, but refused because he didn't want to do the same thing over and over. He has a point some films, like Star Wars or Indiana Jones (even Rocky or Rambo, to a reasonable extent), can and in fact deserve to have follow-ups, because the people who made them genuinely think there is more to tell about those characters (Rocky V is too much, though); others, like Top Gun or The Karate Kid, are crippled from the beginning by the fact that they are indelibly connected to the decade that spawned them, and also suffer from having fairly basic scripts and characters that wouldn't really benefit from any continuation of the story. Sadly, Ralph Macchio never realized this, and so here we are The Karate Kid, Part III.Whereas the first film dealt with a recycled subject (young boy gets revenge on those who humiliated him) from a new angle, Part III resurrects the revenge theme with all its clichés. The driving force (assuming there is one) of the screenplay (if you can call it that) is John Kreese (Martin Kove), the sadistic karate teacher whose students got their asses kicked by Daniel Larusso (Macchio). Broke and lonely, Kreese decides to ask an old army buddy, Terry Silver (Thomas Ian Griffith), to help carry out a diabolical plan that will make Daniel and Mr. Miyagi (Pat Morita) suffer like never before. Getting them to fight back, however, will prove harder than usual, as Miyagi is more interested in opening a bonsai shop and Daniel refuses to act violently since he is - what a surprise, this - in love.Love, vengeance, honor, blood and gratuitous butt-kicking are all thrown in the mix, though hardly any of them work to full effect. As a matter of fact, the more explicit violence suffocates the franchise's trademark comedy bits, leaving a few underwhelming Daniel/Miyagi moments with the duty of lightening the tone. Even worse, though, is the over-the-top behavior of the villains Griffith does nothing but stare manically, shout and laugh, while Kove, who was funny in the first installment of the series, transforms Kreese into a grotesque parody of his earlier work. Only when the dead-certain final battle arrives, there is a sense of the trilogy regaining whatever it lost from Part II onwards. But the question remains how many people will still be paying attention at that point? "},{"Title":"A truly funny movie!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"29 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have to say, every time I watch Karate Kid III, I laugh many, many times. Trouble is...it's not intentionally a comedy! That's okay with me though, I still watch it every time I catch it on cable. It's definitely a so bad, it's good movie. Ralph Macchio isn't a great actor, but Robin Lively was terrible in her role as the supposed love-interest...which only made it better in my eyes. The dialogue was corny, over-the-top, and oh-so unnatural. Brilliant!I sincerely liked the first KK, was bored by the second one, but KK III is definitely my favorite. It's poorly-made, poorly-acted, and poorly-written. And I loved every minute of it. "},{"Title":"Lousy Movie","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  SPOILER WARNINGYou know when the formula is getting old when you see Daniel Larusso get the third girlfriend and bring her over to meet Mr. Miyagi saying how he's a great friend and always has an answer to a problem.  What I'm starting to hear at this point is, I have no life and this old guy from Okinowa is the only guy who be my friend!  Another dragging formula is Miyagi's discouragement to Daniel of fighting and he has to kick the crap out of all the bad guys beating on Daniel before he decides to train him for the tournament.  Then I felt this whole movie crush under it's own weight when Daniel takes a beating over and over before finally winning with just a single punch.  Am I supposed to be impressed with this?  I guess by tournament terms he won, but by fighting terms he had his butt handed to him.  There was just no feeling of victory here.  Just plain LOUSY! "},{"Title":"Number three should have died the death, but it didn't.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Perhaps the film company was a little short so far as budget is concerned; but this time we are back in the USA, and John Kreese, the thug who ran the dojo in number one, and who got both his fists cut up in number 2 returns with an ally. For the first time, we see a little depth to Kreese, who starts the film by falling apart; we see that Kreese has done military service, and it is probably his experiences on service that has screwed him up.The ally is a lot more complex the silver-tongued, pony-tailed Terry Silver, excellently played by Thomas Ian Griffith.Pat Morita steadily plays the wise Miyagi, who goes into business selling his other passion bonsai trees. But business is threatened when Kreese and his thugs try to goad the karate kid into a revenge match.This time, the kid rejects the teachings of his sensei, and follows a path mapped out for him by Silver. The kid becomes frightened when he breaks the nose of an idiot in a nightclub, and returns to the one true path just in time for the revenge match.It is easy to find criticisms in number three. The plot is predictable Although I did not find the film at all threadbare.Speaking objectively, if I had to choose which of the three karate kid films I liked the best, it would be this one. For all its faults the oriental philosophy is still running through it; and it underlines in a more elaborate way the message of the first film karate is a sport and a form of self improvement, and has nothing to do with thuggery. "},{"Title":"Horrible, terrible conclusion to the trilogy.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"31 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Ya just gotta ask, What were they thinking?  The first movie was a classic - a genuine piece of pop culture, and a great underdog movie.  While the second wasn't as good, it was still a decent movie which expanded on the story of Daniel & Mr. Miyagi.  But this one stunk up the joint... first off the new bad guy Terry Silver (the millionaire mogul/karate expert) is laughable as a villain - his performance is *so* over the top it's ridiculous.  It's obvious they got someone who knew his karate, but didn't know jack about acting.  It's also ironic that he's actually younger than Ralph MacchioRobyn Lively - she's attractive enough, but belongs in sitcoms.  Also, what's with Daniel *never* getting the girl in the long term???As for Macchio - I don't know... he seemed to be *way* too enthusiastic. Was he this much of a motormouth in the first two movies?  It's almost as if he was trying too hard to compensate for the fact that he is five years older, trying to portray a character that is only one year older.The pacing of this movie is all wrong.  They spend way too much time on trivialities such as the Macchio/Lively relationship.  What was the point of that anyway?  There was hardly any time spent on the training and actual fight (and as any fan of the Rocky movies could tell you, that's the most important part!)As for the karate itself, it's L A M E.  The Karate Kid series has always been more about the philosophy behind martial arts rather than the physical aspect.  All of Mr. Miyagi's wise platitudes are dead-on, but the crane technique would be easily countered by any half-competent black belt. Even so, it worked in the first two flicks.  But in this one, it's just ridiculous.  The final fight, the bad boy of karate is whipping Daniel like a government mule, then in sudden death Daniel decides to break into his Secret Miyagi family kata, which causes both his opponent and his partners to suddenly back away in fear!  This is so absolutely ridiculous it's pathetic.  Once again, any competent karate student would simply look at Daniel with a bit of confusion, then continue on with the business of kicking his butt.  It just seemed all too anti-climactic.I'm really surprised they made a fourth movie after this stinker, but at least it gave us our first look at Hillary Swank.  Yum ) "},{"Title":"Too Silly.","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" After returning from Japan, Mr. Miyagi & Daniel(Pat Morita & Ralph Macchio again) try to settle in to their lives, only to have old foe John Creese(Martin Kove) return seeking revenge after losing his students, his school, and his money. He turns to grateful Vietnam veteran buddy Terry Silver(Thomas Ian Griffith) to help him regain what he lost, and punish Miyagi and Daniel.A great pity this is such a comic book level script, with over-the-top villainy(at one point, both Creese and Silver laugh at Miyagi & Daniel like they're the Joker and Riddler!) and redundant character development(Did Daniel learn nothing from the first two films?) Only Pat Morita keeps this disappointment from complete ruin, with his fine performance(he looks appropriately weary of it all!) Ending is predictable, but too abrupt, leaving loose ends never tied up. "},{"Title":"Where was the movie?","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This started out good. Then all of a sudden the girl he met is gone, he wins the tournament, and the movie is over.I was upset when I saw the credits rolling; I'd hoped that the movie would progress more. He gets a kiss from the girl after he flips out and makes her angry, and then she leaves for Christmas never to be heard from again. They started a new business, but you never see the grand opening. He starts training again for the fight and all of a sudden the fight is there, and it only lasts all of five minutes, and he wins with one simple move after getting beat on for the whole fight.It's kind of like they spent a lot of time writing the script, got bored, and just ended it as quickly as they could. "}{"Title":"Final episode of the enjoyable trilogy with the lovely duo taking on violent bad guys","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This third installment in the Karate Kid series begins moments after the conclusion of the second movie . This is an entertaining and heartwarming martial arts movie in which appears the intimate Ralph Macchio but the show belongs to Noriyuki , Pat Morita . First it was teacher to student. Then it was father to son. Now, it's man to man. The story deals with the troublesome young boy named Daniel , after vanquishing the Cobra Kais, and Miyagi humiliating their Sensei , Kreese (Martin Kove) and then all his pupils desert him . Kreese decides to close the Dojo , he then tells to his partner , Terry (Thomas Ian Griffith) , who is also the Dojo's proprietary , to turn in the keys , and announces that he is leaving city . Terry decides to send him on holiday , and while he's away , he'll get his particular vendetta on Daniel ( Ralph Macchio) and Miyagi (Pat Morita) . As the bad guy from KK1 attempts to gain revenge on Daniel and Miyagi, with the aid of an old army buddy . Part of his scheme is to recruit a violent karate fighter named Mike Barnes (Sean Kanan) , to contend Daniel in the championship but Miyagi thinks that it's not a priority . Again Daniel aware that Kung Fu is his salvation, as he fights an evil nemesis , facing down a deadly contender trained by an expert Karate man . Meanwhile , Daniel makes a new enemy and a new love , the latter named Jessica (is quite well performed by newcomer Robyn Lively). Then Mike terrorizes Daniel and his girlfriend and he faces an old rival .This enjoyable third entry , a sort of junior version of 'Rocky', develops one more time a sincere and deep friendship among two protagonists , the rockie young boy and the wise old man . Using more than his fists , Daniel/Ralph Macchio learns about himself and the sense of life . As Miyagi/Morita , the great master of martial arts , teaches him that Kung Fu is not about punches and parries , but maturity and calm . Agreeable and likable acting by two main actors, Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita , accompanied by newcomer Robyn Lively along with the ordinary plethora of nasties this time played by Thomas Ian Griffith , Martin Kove , Sean Kanan , among others . The picture contains adequate cinematography by Yaconelli and long-standing score by Bill Conti , including usual leitmotif . This feel-good message picture is professionally directed by John G. Avildsen .The two previous films, all produced by Jerry Weintraub , written by Robert Kamen and directed by John G Avildsen , are the following  original Karate Kid I (1984) in which are presented the classic characters and including Elizabeth Shue , Karate Kid II(1986) where the protagonists travel to Okinawa with Tamlyn Tomita , and subsequently ¨The new Karate Kid¨ by Christopher Cain with Hilary Swank and again Pat Morita . And recent version ¨Kung Fu kid¨ (2010) by Harald Zwart , it results to be a good remake starred by Jackie Chan , Jaden Smith and Taraji P Henson . Rating Karate Kid III  Acceptable and passable following , worthwhile seeing . This heartwarming and sure-fire crowd pleaser picture will appeal to Karate Kid trilogy fans. "},{"Title":"worst one of the 3 in my opinion - possible spoiler","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I loved Part 1, and I couldn't wait for Part 2, and when I heard there was a Part 3 coming out, I was actually counting down the days until the release of the movie but I will say I was very disappointed with this movie, out of the 3 of them, I think it was the worst one first of all, it seems a lot like the first 2, when Daniel comes across someone trying to hurt him and good old Mr. Myagi comes to the rescue, but he hardly does much in this movie - for instance, in the scene when Mike Barnes, Snake and Dennis come into the Bonsai Shop, all of a sudden, Mr. Myagi appears out of nowhere (how he got past the oncoming train is anyone's guess), and all he does is grab Mike's hands, forces them behind his neck and kicks him in his rear-end The only good fight that he did was in the Cobra Kai's dojo against Terry and John Kreese, and he didn't even do much in that fight. All he did was throw Terry into the mirror and then at the end, in the tournament scene, Mike Barnes is standing there in the ring shouting all kinds of offensive comments to Daniel, as if that would ever have been allowed, and then after totally pulverizing him, Daniel does some type of Kata and of course, he just grabs Mike's arm, throws him in a somersault and then chops him in the back, and then gets the point and wins, and Terry literally throws in the towel (or actually he throws up the shirt into the crowd) if this were a real tournament, even though Mike Barnes didn't win the tournament, he won second place, and people would have still been interested in learning karate at his school I think a better ending would have been if Daniel had lost the fight and then realized that winning is not everything and he went on with his life and continued with his karate, or maybe they could have had a part 4 where he would have come back for a rematch a year later after having more training "},{"Title":"Not that bad, but it is nothing brilliant either","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Having enjoyed the first two films, I wanted to see this film too. While not particularly brilliant, I do think it is better than people make it out to be. The script is weak, the plot predictable and the villains unbelievable with somewhat unrealistic motives. However, it did move fairly briskly, had some neat direction, it looked good, the karate sequences were efficient and well choreographed, the ending was decent and there is some nice messaging. I have liked the character of Miyagi as well, he strikes me as wise and caring, the sort of character I like. The acting also was not too bad, Ralph Macchio once again is appealing while Pat Morita, who is always watchable, gives another solid performance. Overall, it was decent, while nothing exceptional. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"First he suffers!....","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Absolutely the best of the KK series! This is a must see, no wait, must OWN film. The best part about the whole movie is the fact that Terry Silver, the multi-millionaire toxic waste dumper, finds time in his lavish life to make a teenage boy miserable! Who would've thought such a character exists.I mean c'mon, doesn't he have better things to do? Apparently not, but lucky for us, it's those crazy moments in which he makes Danny Laruso miserable that make this film so hilarious. For instance, the scene in which he's training Danny with the wooden dummy. He sees Daniel bleeding and struggling, yet he hides behind the corner and takes a few moments to snicker and snarl at the young boy's pain. THE VERY BEST part of this movie **Spoiler** is when Silver (wearing an ascot like any other billionaire) is at the final tournament with Kreese and they both instruct Mike Barnes to do the following to Danny Silver First he Suffers!Kreese then he suffers some more!If this doesn't deserve a one million out of ten, I don't know what else would. Do yourselves a favor and purchase this film!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious. I think my stomach is still sore.","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" the worst movie ever made in my opinion, also the funniest. This isn't terrible like Face Off or Con Air or even Airborne...these films were able to do much more of what they intended. There are no jokes in Karate Kid 3. just trash. The script is so horrible and Macchio knows it, that's why he has to overact with his body... He hops around like a pogo stick in an attempt to make the dullness and pointlessness go away. It honestly sounds like a 6th grader wrote the script. And the acting is putrid. The love interest is completely pointless (they decide to be friends before leaving on their first date), and her acting is not even worthy of a detailed criticism. THere is so much here... I could go on forever, so I'll just mention the biggest plot foul-up. The bad guys spend the whole movie trying to force Macchio to defend his Under 18 All Valley Tournament (he's a real life 27 yr old) while periodically kicking the hell out of him... Why force him to enter the tournament? Just kick the hell out of him. Anyway, with the stale, worn out, bottom of the barrel guidance of Myagi, Larusso pulls out a one punch victory to finish the tournament over his nemesis, who had been penalized points for kicking the hell out of him illegally throughout the match. So Larusso is beside himself with pride, laughing, cheering and pointing to Myagi in triumph. Now, what's to stop his enemies from kicking the hell out of him as soon as he leaves the building? Bottom line is the story and acting are both the worst failures I think I've ever seen. There was nothing that worked. Only exciting moment is Myagi taking on 3 dudes, but it's obviously a stunt double. F for intent. A plus for accidental humor. It's literally given me and a friend a stomach ache on several occasions. we couldn't breathe. I recommend it with all my heart. "},{"Title":"So bad that it's good?","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" The third installment in the Karate Kid trilogy proves to be director John G. Avildsen's most lackluster attempt at the series of films. It's almost as if he has given up with the process of making these films, perhaps taking a whole Let's just see how this goes and hope for the best approach to it. While it is possible that he directed this film with the intention of making a film that was so bad that it's good - it is more likely, however, that that was not the intention.From start to finish, the film tends to break down new and exciting barriers of outrageous and ridiculous plots and actions. For one, the film begins with an unnecessarily long montage reminding the viewer of what happened in the first two films - stretching to about 5 minutes long. There's nothing wrong with a quick recap, but Avildsen's choice was to include whole scenes from the other films. As a result, the movie started at an awkward pace, already upsetting the usual flow of the first two films. Ralph Macchio acts as though he was tricked into participating in this movie, and as a result has decided to act in a most over the top and comically awful fashion. Not that Ralph Macchio has ever done anything worthy of an Oscar in the past, but this seems like an almost premeditated sort of low for the actor. Martin Kove returns as John Kreese, back and more ridiculous than ever. Pat Morita tries his best to save the film and maybe an attempt to make it slightly serious, but there is far too much overpowering this attempt.The movie crosses the line of so bad it's good countless times. It is still possible to enjoy watching this film for the sheer fact that the outrageous acting and the obnoxious story in general is in fact so ridiculous that it allows the film to be enjoyed by some as a comedy, regardless of how it was originally intended to be. "},{"Title":"A bit vacuous","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  While this film went back to the more casual  appeal of the first film, it proved to be a bit  of a rehashing of the first. The only difference,  we see Daniel take on the `dark side' (a.k.a.  not Mr. Myagi's way) of fighting. Sure, this  had to be a little different, but Daniel trying to  be a tough guy seemed a little off in a way.  Sure, this film was entertaining, but it proved  the series was running on empty. However,  Mr. Myagi proved he could still kick plenty of  butt, making the ending all worth it. "},{"Title":"Just a few things I would like to say...","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I thought this movie was...well, how exactly can I describe it? I mean, I laughed about one million times, especially at Terry's totally mad, hyena-like, shrieking laugh. I actually even got a but teary eyed, mainly at when Daniel and Mr Miyagi had any touching moments or when Daniel starting yelling at him, the look on Mr Miyagi's face really got to me. I LOVED this movie and I've watched it many times and I still love it. It's funny, touching and at the end when Daniel and Mr Miyagi hugged, I thought one thing and that was YAY!!! I loved all the different roles and how the characters from the previous movies were brought back and used to start a new story. The fighting was still as excellent as always (kudos to Mr LaRusso) and even the small-ish roles such as Snake (you know it) were lovable and enjoyable to watch. Overall, as I said before, I think this movie was BRILLIANT and I hope that many other people enjoy watching it just as much as I did! "},{"Title":"So bad its good","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Minor spoilersThis is the definition of a guilty pleasure, it's so incredibly awful, but also fun to watch. Filled with unintentional comedy, I actually went to see this twice at the movies, I had to show a friend of mine how terrible it was. First of all, it takes place exactly a year after the first one, even though it's really been over 5 years, and Ralph Macchio is pushing 30, but playing a 17 year old. The evil karate instructor from the first movie wants to get revenge on Daniel for beating his star pupil, and enlists the aid of a pony tailed rich friend, and a teenage bad boy of karate. The pony tailed guy is really into this revenge plot, he goes over the plan sitting in a sauna, and just bursts out laughing, just like from a comic book. The ponytail guy pretends to befriend Daniel, and train him, because Miyagi wants nothing to do with Daniel fighting in this tournement because......well, because that's what it says in the script. Of course, eventually the terrible trio let Danny in on their little plan right before the big tournement, and miyagi shows up and says that he'll train Danny, and then proceeds to wipe the floor with all three of the karate experts, and as Danny and Miyagi walk away, the three are still laughing and taunting Danny, which seemed odd to me since he's being trained by the guy that just beat all their asses all at once....but the laughing and the taunting were in the script, so why not. Of course, Danny is losing badly up until the last moment, until Miyagi gives him a word of encourgement, and then Danny snaps out of his stupor and wins......because it was in the script. Yes, it's really as bad as it sounds, but you'll laugh yourself silly, I promise. "},{"Title":"It's kinda like the first two movies, just without the heart and decent characters","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I've gotta say, I was surprised by the ending to THE KARATE KID PART III. Daniel was physically outmatched (yeah, I know, he always is), but it was just nice to see something good come out of all of this. And seeing him outsmart the other guy was kinda nice. But there's a dour tone to this entire movie, and it all seems a bit silly. Alright, so Kreese has bottomed out, and he's looking to rise from the muck and destroy Daniel LaRusso. That's kinda by-the-numbers for a second sequel, but I can see how they'd go with this for the hook. But the plan is to put the kid through psychological torment and macho head games to finally break his spirit and put the hurt on him. And it's all at the behest of the always-leering Terry Silver. They're just such one-dimensional bad guys. Pitting Daniel against Miyagi didn't make much sense because it could've all been handled with some rational explaining (but Daniel this time around is more hotheaded than ever). Pat Morita makes this all sorta worthwhile because he well wears the weariness of a character that loses so much in the story. But I was surprised at how unsympathetic LaRusso was in this movie, and it's not very well-written. I've gotta wonder how this movie is different from Kamen's original script because it all feels very off. It's not a bad movie, just . . . silly. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Not as impressive as the first two","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" The movie started out excellent. The first Karate Kid was wonderful and I really loved it, minus the odd ending.The second movie was okay, it helped to show more of the older man's life and we got to see his culture and history. It was okay.This one goes back to the kid's life, only now he's older and more of an idiot for lack of better word. No offense, but he's definitely more annoying in the third. So what he grew up a little? He doesn't have to spend his college money on the older man's house, and in continually insist on entering the tournament, only to end up refusing to and getting angry at everything when he has to.I found the bad guy to be not that bad, just annoying. Again, it was okay, and by the end it was better than I thought it would be, but I just wasn't that happy with the initial idea behind this.Anyway, I'll rate it 6/10. "},{"Title":"The MTV sequel.","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" The third but not last Karate Kid movie had no reason to exist in my opinion because the plot was old by it's time but producers thought it would be interesting to have Daniel defending his title. I mean, after all, he's the reign champion.Daniel's life has changed in one year. He went to Japan and won a local tournament, he now has another girlfriend (not as hot as Elisabeth Shue) , but he's confused this time as he becomes again the whinny, disturbed teen. He's now coward, has lost faith, and can't even make a difference between good an evil.Also, his number one nemesis, John Kreese returns to his life and this time he's got a few friends to steal the title from Daniel... with dirty tricks.Terry Silver is Daniel, and Miyagi's new nemesis but not only on the ring, but on the psychological side because he tries to convince Daniel that he should fight for Kobra Kai. Also, he tries to convince Daniel that violence is the answer for everything (for example, in the club when Daniel beats the hell out of a boy hired by Silver).The final match has Daniel defending his title without dignity because he only managed to get ONE point and in sudden death. He was a coward until the end. I'm sure Mr. Miyagi was not proud after this second title in a row.Still, a movie to watch for it's high cheese factor and entertainment values. Not that bad... "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as it's reputation would suggest","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" The Karate kid Part 3 is a film that if looked at again today reminds you of how great the 80's were. No CGI, no massive budget, no massive stars, just good old fashioned entertainment where Daniel LaRusso yet again succeeds against all the odds.This film is not perfect by any means. It has a fairly weak story and some poor dialogue and character motivations are somewhat unbelievable. Don't the villains have anything better to do with their time than to harass our hero into entering the tournament. does it really mean that much to them to get Daniel to fight. come on, get a life guys.As has been stated on countless other reviews, the love interest here is pointless because their relationship goes nowhere, they decide to be friends because she has an on off boyfriend. Her purpose here is to hang out with Daniel and eat macaroni cheese with him. not exactly Romeo and Juliet. heck its not even bert and ernie! However, in my opinion the positives just about outweigh the negatives. Mr Miyagi is yet again the strongest link, adding his usual mix of humour and wisdom in equal doses. As his friendship with Daniel slowly disintegrates, you really feel for him as the sadness washes over his face, that his surrogate son is for the first time against him and not with him.Mike Barnes is a good foe for Daniel. you can really believe that he is Karates bad boy as his PR make him out to be. You believe that Mike could and does kick Daniels ass at almost every opportunity. He is much more threatening and abusive than previous opponents.The music in this film is beautiful. Bill Conti in all 3 movies has done some of his best work. The music that plays over Daniels Kata training is tranquil and memorable. The music that plays over Daniels final bout leaves goosebumps all over your body.And speaking of the final fight, yes it is a letdown that Daniel doesn't need to make his way to the final this time because of a new rule that allows the previous champion to automatically reach the final. Its almost as if they thought Macchio didn't have it in him to do another 6 round fight montage due to his obvious weight gain. whatever the reasons for this, it sucks. its like you wait 90 minutes for the inevitable fight and unlike the first movie where you watched Daniel make his way to the final, here he goes straight into the final. I mean doesn't he need those early fights to warm up. Obviously because he gets his arse whipped big time.Daniel gets beaten up but Barnes keeps the score at 0-0 because he deliberately loses a point for kicking his balls and punching his face. he's basically trying to make him suffer until sudden death over time. and when sudden death over time arrives, your either gonna be split into two camps. you'll either laugh and call it ridiculous or you'll be swept up in the moment and think, wow, that was magic movie-making in 1 minute. i'm for the latter. i love the ending. the whole scene from Miyagi telling Daniel to shut the hell up and find his best karate inside and let it out to Daniel getting up with a new determination in his eyes to the music to his opponents confusion and to the final move, it all just gives me goosebumps and almost brings a tear to my eyes. silly and unbelievable it may be but you could say the same about the crane kick. i personally like this film quite a bit despite its flaws. rewatch it and maybe you'll agree. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming tale of a 30 year-old boy trapped in the early 80's","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Getting a little fat there, Daniel? (I'm not even going to try to seriously evaluate this film.) It's comforting to know that after all  his intensive training throughout the film, he doesn't gain any muscle mass or lose any chubbyness.  He does learn how to act like a baby though, and thank God for that.  It's also nice to know that even though he has lived and worked in America for x-number of years, Mr. Miyagi's broken english has progressively become worse.  This movie marks the transition of Miyagi from philosopher to caracterture/comedian.  We get to witness him act out of character and say things like You want to learn the sweep? I teach you the sweep, and sweep a broomstick on the floor.  Very, very mature move there by Miyagi.  What lesson was he teaching Daniel-son then?  The even-I-can-act-like-a-pre-teen lesson?  But, as one reviewer has already mentioned, this movie is so egregious that it's fun to watch.  Every character is a stereo-type(Miyagi and Daniel-son are stereo-types of themselves from previous films), and that means that the film is automatically going to be amusing. Honestly, though, I would like to see another Karate Kid movie with Daniel and Miyagi; it would have to contain a spoof premise.  People would pay to see that, still.    "},{"Title":"Deeply flawed, but undeserving of 4 razzie nominations","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" The Karate Kid, Part III、as the title suggests, is the third film in the Karate Kid film series, released in 1989, directed by John Avlidsen, and starring Ralph Macchio as Daniel and Pat Morita as Mr. Miyagi. The Karate Kid film series is a rather typical example of other 1980s film series (such as Robocop) which just run out of steam as time goes on to the extent that they began with a bang and ended with a whimper. Despite its flaws however, The Karate Kid, Part III isn't nearly as bad as some people make it out to be and is certainly no Robocop 3. This review will discuss the problems with the movie as well as what it gets right, with an overall assessment of the Karate Kid original film series as a whole.One of the biggest problems with this movie is the lack of continuity with the Karate Kid Part II, which for all its flaws did genuinely advance the story and develop Daniel and Miyagi's character. The film is fairly graceless in its dumping of Daniel's love interest Kumiko; it's explained that she just got a job in Japan that she couldn't turn down. This just didn't strike me as believable, perhaps because they had done it before in Part II. Daniel's relationships always happen to end between films? It's frankly insulting when sequels hit the reset button like this.But the real continuity problem is one that is never addressed at all, and that is the relationship between Yuki and Miyagi. This is not presented as a mere superficial teenage romance, but instead as true love. Miyagi even says that he would stay in Okinawa, if not for the people trying to kill him. So why doesn't Miyagi stay in Okinawa after the conclusion of Part II, or take Yuki to America? It's never explained. This film takes a dump on Miyagi and Daniel's development; the second film may as well have never happened.Moreover, all the balance and self-control that Daniel developed in the first two films is gone, indeed Daniel if anything seems even more neurotic and unbalanced than he was at the beginning of the original film. Daniel is whiny and angsty, going into long diatribes about his own inadequacy. This would be less irksome if it were a response to something far more drastic; but in Part II the villains were trying to kill him and his master; in Part III they are just trying to take away his title as champion by defeating him in a local karate tournament. So, Daniel is cool-headed when threatened with death in a foreign land, but the prospect of losing his title to a bunch of local punks turns him into a nervous wreck? The film also fails to find a coherent theme, besides poorly retreading the original.That said, the film does manage to get some things right. As whiny as Daniel is, he retains something of his likability, even if it is diminished. We also have the things that make the whole series fun; wonderfully over-the-top villains and pseudo-eastern wisdom. The emotional core of the film is tarnished but intact; that of the relationship between Daniel and Miyagi. These two characters, although somewhat botched, still work together well.None of the original Karate Kid films are by themselves incoherent, but taken as a whole the series is rather lopsided. They do get progressively worse as the series goes on, and by the end of Part III one is glad they never made a fourth film (unless you count the Next Karate Kid, and I don't). Still, while it's a shame that they never managed to quite recapture the magic of the first film, I'm glad I got to spend 3 films in the company of these terrific characters. "},{"Title":"Watchable but nowhere near as interesting, or as good as the first two.","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Returning from Okinawa to sunny California, Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio) & his mentor Mr. Miyagi (Pat Morita) attempt to settle down & open a Banzi shop, however their attempts to retire from karate permanently comes to a halt when the broke & broken down/sour John Creese (The returning Martin Kove) has come across his old war buddy Terry Silver (Thomas Ian Griffith) a millionaire mogul & kumite expert who insists John get revenge on Mr. Miyagi & Daniel, for causing him to lose his Cobra Kai martial arts dojo, following bad publicity his dojo received at the end of the first movie. Hiring karate expert Mike Barnes, the two men pair him with a couple of former Cobra Kai students, in order to force Daniel to defend his championship at the prestigious karate tournament. When Mr. Miyagi refuses to train Daniel (who at first is open to the idea of defending his championship) Daniel is disheartened by Mr. Miyagi's decision, but comes to see his mentor is right in his choice of not doing so. However when Barnes & his two partners humiliate Daniel countless times & bring him to his breaking point, he agrees & signs the contract. When Mr. Miyagi yet again refuses to train Daniel, Daniel turns to Terry Silver for training who causes him to abandon everything Mr. Miyagi taught him & trains him in a much darker form of martial arts. When Daniel discovers Terry is really a devil in angels clothing, he re-teams with Mr. Miyagi who finally agrees to train him in the days leading up to the tournament.Third film in the KARATE KID series while watchable, sadly is nowhere near as good as the first two films. The problem is, is that this third film feels tired & really adds nothing new to the KARATE KID universe. Even by the time of THE KARATE KID II, you could tell that the story between Daniel LaRusso & Mr. Miyagi was pretty much over. However never doubt the power of the almighty dollar, as Columbia Pictures clearly got greedy & wanted another film in order to squeeze more cash from the KARATE KID franchise. I think the main problem I had with the film is that the script by Rob Kamen who also penned the first two, is illogical & full of holes, it not only is much darker & mean spirited than what the first two were in terms of the villains, but the villains here are so over the top, they come off as laughable, including Thomas Ian Griffith, who is so hammy as the millionaire villain, one can't help but chuckle & the film is really nothing more than a rehash of various elements of the first two, only executed with less enthusiasm & heart. The formula is here, but the magic that made it work is not. Daniel comes across as an obnoxious, whiny, complaining cry baby & clearly looks to have put on some pounds in the the years between the second & third movie & is a bit to old to be reprising the role he made his own in the original. His character of Daniel LaRusso has seemingly neither matured or evolved emotionally & even more confusing is how Daniel seems to have no memory of everything he was taught by his sensei up until this point. LaRusso is clearly nervous about facing the karate champ Barnes, which makes no sense at all, since while Barnes is a tough opponent, the match they are fighting in is for the championship only & not a fight to the death match like he had in Part II, so why is he all the sudden afraid of losing his title? Surely if he could overcome his fear of death & being scared at the end of the second movie, a title match with an opponent like this, surely wouldn't bother him. While both Ralph Macchio & Pat Morita still retain the same chemistry in their scenes together it doesn't really help all that much & Mr. Miyagi's platitudes are so trite they tend to invoke chuckles, rather than any kind of life lesson. The film yet again sets up what looks to be another new love interest for Daniel in the character of Jessica (Robin Lively) who works in the pottery shop across the street from the two men, however this plot thread proves to be utterly worthless when it turns out that she is leaving town about midway to go back & try to patch things up with her old boyfriend, which begs the question Why include her into the films story if they were going to do nothing with her? her role could so easily have been written around since the scenes with her are just pure filler. Originally she was supposed to be another love interest for Daniel, however a the request of Macchio, this was written out of the final script, when it should have been written out completely. Centering the story around the Cobra Kai leader John Creese was not needed since that story was closed in the opening shots of THE KARATE KID PART II. Returning director John G. Avildsen does well behind the camera & while the same writer & producer of the first two return, the rest of the crew is pretty much brand spanking new. The final showdown between LaRusso & the main villain at the climax lacks the power & drama & uplifting feel good climax of the original. LaRusso's mother & the weird old lady sitting outside the apartment in the original film, both make cameo appearances. Regardless of it's short comings the film marks the end of the LaRusso storyline. Followed by THE NEXT KARATE KID.*** stars "},{"Title":"The Karate Kid Part III? What for?","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" The Karate Kid Part III is the second sequel to the hit motion picture The Karate Kid. The film stars Ralph Macchio, Noriyuki Pat Morita,Thomas Ian Griffith,Robyn Lively and Martin Kove.Like the first two films,it was written by Robert Mark Kamen and directed by John Avildsen,who rehashes his underdog story formula and the elements of the first two films for another round this movie which ultimately earned him a Razzies nomination for Worst Director.The story picks up when Daniel La Russo goes against the wishes of his mentor,Mr.Miyagi.He will defend his karate title in an All-Valley Championship match arranged by his nemesis Kreese,whose karate studio folded after his star student lost the championship to Daniel. Kreese's friend, Vietnam veteran and toxic waste dumper Terry, agrees to help his old pal regain the championship trophy.Mike Barnes,who happens to be his rival, is known as the bad boy of karate,. For this reason, he feels he requires more training to vanquish him. But Mr. Miyagi refuses to help Daniel train for the tournament Karate to defend life and honor means something. To defend a plastic trophy means nothing. As a result, Daniel naively falls into the clutches of Terry, who takes him on as a karate student. But after Daniel finds himself trapped at the bottom of a cliff and Daniel's girlfriend, Jessica, has her life threatened.After this incident,Mr. Miyagi realizes the bad guys have gone too far and agrees to coach Daniel for the tournament.And everyone knows that Daniel fights Mike Barnes and beats him in the end.The second sequel evidently has gone far off.It should have ended after the first sequel.The third movie just goes through the same elements of a Karate Kid movie.The screenplay has run out of steam that this film got nominated for the Razzies for Worst Picture and Worst Screenplay.As for the performances,both Macchio and Morita have already looked tired and weary performing the same roles.They lacked enthusiasm and interest which the viewer could feel as both actors earned a Razzies nomination for Worst Actor for Macchio and Worst Supporting Actor for Morita.Ultimately,this film is only good for fans of the Karate Kid Movies and it cult followers.Overall,it destroyed the third film is a disaster as it earned five Razzies nomination. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings... It's fun though.","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Spoilers! This movie is fun to watch. It's definitely the most gritty of the Karate Kid trilogy, with darker, more realistic violence, and more language and innuendo than the first two.This movie takes place right after the second film. Miyagi and Daniel return home from Okinawa, only to find that the apartment where Daniel lives and Miyagi works is being torn down. Mrs. Larusso is (conveniently) away taking care of Uncle Louie, so Daniel will stay with Miyagi until she comes back. Daniel uses his college fund to fulfill Miyagi's dream of opening a Bonsai store, and they lived happily ever after. NOT! You see, John Kreese, the evil sensei from the first movie, has lost all his students. Even though the real reason his students quit was probably because he tried to kill one of them, he blames it on Miyagi and Daniel. So, his rich old war buddy Terry Silver decides to help. He sends Kreese on vacation to Tahiti, buys him a chain of dojo's, and vows to get him his revenge on Daniel. He recruits tournament terror Mike Barnes to beat Daniel at the tournament from the first movie, stealing the All-Valley title and putting Cobra Kai back on the map. However, Daniel dosen't want to fight, and only after he is stuck into a life-or-death situation is he forced to enter the tournament. Miyagi refuses to train Daniel, so Daniel decides to train with Terry. Terry deceives Daniel and trains him until he is as bloodthirsty as any Cobra Kai, setting him up to fall. Only when he sees Silver's true colors does Miyagi train Daniel. Mike plays the tournament, scoring points, and then losing them by doing face punches and crotch kicks. When the tournament goes into sudden death, Daniel surprises Mike and scores the winning point.This film has the best music in the series, some good fight scenes, and decent acting. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but it's the weakest of the three","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This film has been consistently regarded as the weakest of the Karate Kid films with Ralph Macchio, and I do not disagree with that. However, it is not as bad a movie as it is made out to be.Nine months after his assault on Johnny Lawrence after the All Valley Karate Championships, John Kreese has hit bottom. All of the students left the Cobra Kai dojo, and he has had no newcomers since then. Finally throwing in the towel, Kreese pays a visit to his friend Terry Silver, who served with him in the Vietnam War.Like Kreese, Silver is a member of the Cobra Kai, and once he hears the story of what happened at the Karate Championships, he decides to gain revenge on Daniel and Mr. Miyagi.As for the two protagonists, they return home from Okinawa to discover that the landlord of the apartment building where Miyagi works has sold the place. Therefore, Miyagi is out of a job.While Daniel's mother is taking care of his uncle, Daniel stays with Miyagi, and helps his sensei realize a dream of owning a shop where bonsai trees are sold. Across the street from the shop, Daniel meets a girl named Jessica and they become friends.Meanwhile, Kreese is in Tahiti for some relaxation while Silver puts his plan into action. He recruits Matt Barnes, who has developed a reputation for being a dirty player at karate tournaments, to get Daniel to fight in the tournament. The problem is that Daniel, who has taken Mr. Miyagi's advice, decides against fighting. Thus begins the harassment from Barnes.As for Silver, he introduces himself to Daniel and Miyagi and comes off as a really nice guy. In other words, he puts together one heck of an acting job. His plot is to separate Daniel and Miyagi and have Daniel come train with Silver. Will he be successful? Will Daniel fight? Macchio and Morita are good as always. Kove doesn't disappoint as Kreese, and Thomas Ian Griffith, who plays Silver, gives a decent debut performance. And Robyn Lively is well cast as the girl next door Jessica. Sean Kanan also deserves a mention for playing the arrogant Barnes.For those who don't care for the story, the performances may be enough to get you stick with it. Like I said, it's not bad, but it's not as good its two predecessors, either. "},{"Title":"The Karate Kid triogloy  could not be complete without it.","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I mean sure Dainel still gets beat up quite a number of times, but Ralph Macchio put so much heart into that role just as he did in his role as Johnny Cade in the timeless classic The Outsiders. So give the guy his props for taking this predictable plot line and turnining it into a masterpiece. That will be cherished throughout time. From generation to geration. This is a real American film which we can not only enjoy ,but we can also learn from. So we will not make the same mistakes Daniel did. We can teach are kids the un forgettable morals that we learn fromm this great film. The Karate Kid just wouldn't be complete without it. "}{"Title":"Not As Good As the First Two","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS              Ever since the events of the first Karate Kid, Sensai John Kreese has been down on his luck. His Karater dojo has gone out of business. He goes to a rich army buddy of his, Terry Silver.He vows revenge on Daniel and Mr. Miyagi, who were returning home from Okinawa at that moment.           Mr. Miyagi was out of his custodeon job so he packsh is Bonzai trees and heads for the homestead. Daniel suggests he open a Bonzai store. He also takes care of that for him. Terry Silver hires Karate champ Mike Barnes to take on Daniel when Daniel declines from entering the tornament again that year. He did so because Miyagi wouldn't train him.          Trouble ensues and Daniel soon finds himself forced into the tornament. He get's help from Terry Silver, not knowing who he was or what he planned to do. He trained Daniel into an aggressive fighting machine. The friendship between he and Miyagi was hanging in the balance. Daniel comes to his senses and tries to back out, but Silver, Kreese and Barnes won't let him. Soon the tornament comes. Mike Barnes was not an easy oponent to beat. But Daniel used what Mr. Miaygi always taught him focus, concentration and wins the fight.         I'm sorry to say that this was the worst of the Karate Kid movies. I don't know why, I guess this one just didn't have what the first two had. Ralph Macchio was 27 when he did this movie, but he really only looks 18, right? Also, Daniel and Mr. Miyagi know eachother quite well, but Daniel keeps calling him Mister Miyagi. I guess because he doesn't know Miyagi's first name. It's actually Kesuke. It was mentioned in the fourth chapter, The Next Karate Kid. So in conclusion, if you saw the first two, better see this one.--  "},{"Title":"The ending...ugh...the ending","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" You know, the movie shouldn't have been made period seeing as Ralph Macchio (Daniel-San) was pushing 30. The sorry fact is it was still watchable...but for the wrong reasons.The plot is Daniel and Mr. Miyagi come back from Okinawa (where the 2nd movie took place) and have to re-locate due to the dilapidated hotel being sold. Danny forgoes college and uses his tuition money to help Mr Miyagi open a store to sell Bonsai Trees.Now think about that for a second, the kid (in name only) just gave away his future to help an old man with a store sell something maybe 10 people out of every 100 want.Meanwhile evil dojo owner John Kreese (played by Martin Klove) is down on his luck, avoiding bill collectors after his students ditch him after his outburst in the second movie. He plans to retire but his old Vietnam War buddy Terry Silver talks him out of it. Terry convinces Kreese to go on vacation while he plans revenge against Danial and Miyagi. He enlists the help of renegade karate kid Mike Barnes (Sean Kanan) to pester Daniel into defending his under-18 title.The funniest thing is that the actor who played Silver, Thomas Ian Griffith, was 27 at the time making him a year YOUNGER than Ralph Macchio. Its just hilarious knowing this fact to see Thomas bully Ralph around like he's a little boy. Sean Kanan was supposed to be playing a 17 year old and he was 23 himself. In fact, only Robyn Lively who played Jessica Andrews was the age she was supposed to be, 17. John Kreese and Terry Silver were supposed to be Nam buddies, now with Martin Klove at 45, I could believe him but with T.I.G. only 27, I found it really hard to believe HE was in nam. Its unintentional comedy at its best, you got T.I.G. playing a character who he's too young to be and Ralph Macchio playing a character he's way too old for.Now here's where the ingenious plan takes place. Silver's plan is to befriend Daniel into turning against Miyagi and being put into position to be swerved and humiliated by the Cobra-Kai. This is actually a very brilliant idea since Daniel is (in the storyline anyway) getting a little old to be hanging around Mr. Miyagi so in his mind its time for a change. I won't bore you with the rest of the plot because you've either seen it anyway or need to see it to appreciate, but I have one very large complaint....the ending.The first 2 movies had rather unfufilling endings, but while Part 2 pretty much filled us in on the events after Part 1....part 2 was pretty much forgotten. This one however takes the cake. Daniel is able to defeat Barnes and win the tournament, which is all fine and dandy but the movie ends with him hugging Mr Miyagi. What happens with Cobra-Kai, what about Jessica, with Terry Silver? Ralph Macchio was pushing 30 so there was no way a 4th movie could be made (with him as the lead character) so why have an ending where NOTHING is settled? Imagine you're watching in a theater, Terry Silver does all these devious antics to humiliate Daniel and Miyagi and all that happens is Mike Barnes loses the fight.....so we are to assume Terry just goes back to his normal job and Kreese re-forms Cobra-Kai with Barnes? The ending left a bad taste in my mouth and if it wasn't for T.I.G. the movie would have been a washout.The highlight of the movie is where Mr. Miyagi beats up Barnes, Kreese and Silver single-handedly and they still taunt him 25 seconds later as he walks away with Daniel.I give it 4 out of 10 because Pat Morita and T.I.G. deliver the goods "},{"Title":"Good Movie, a little boring in the middle","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" OK, this movie is good, however, there are few things that could have been changed to make it better. I believe there was way too much emphasis on the bonsai tree. All of the mountain climbing tree planting etc....was just plain boring to me. The fighting scenes on the other hand were excellent. As usual Mr. Miyagi did a wonderful job of acting. Ralph Macchio, however, was less than watchable, he is pudgy and whiny and seems a lot less skilled. He beat Johnny in part one, He beat the the oriental guy in part two, and he has all these wonderful skills that miyagi has taught him, yet he can't beat Barnes Bad Boy????? Come on!!!!! In both scenes where Miyagi fought Barnes, he easily defeated him....and I mean easily! Yet, Daniel can't even hold a leg to Barnes! I just don't get it! Miyagi wiped the floor with both John Krese and Terry Silver, he had absolutely no problem with either of them,(I never could understand why Miyagi didn't fight Sato in part II, that would have been excellent! but that is a whole other story) and he is the trainer of Daniel.....yet Daniel is still such a wimp! In my opinion, just because he beat Barnes in the tournament doesn't mean he will ever be able to beat him in a street fight, because with that kata move he did to Barnes in the tournament, Barnes could have gotten up and beaten him down in a street fight with no officiating. I would recommend seeing this movie if you are a Karate Kid fan, even though it isn't as good as the other ones, just for pure curiosity sake. "},{"Title":"Why did they bring Daniel without a backbone?","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" In this movie they really failed to give us the same message that martial artists always give when they perform in public self-confidence.In this part, Daniel comes back from Okinawa, after he had to fight to the death Sato's nephew, Chosen, a true Japanese black belt. Daniel had to fight this guy who was really stronger and a much better fighter than Johnny (KK1) or Mike Barnes (KK3). Anyone could think that after such an episode in his life, Daniel would gain tons of self confidence and backbone made of steel. It did not happen that way.Mike Barnes was just an average fighter, perhaps a bit better than Johnny but as I said, perhaps. Mike is violent, a total bully, but even so he doesn't pose a threat like Johnny did in KK1. If you've seen the first part, you'll remember that Johnny was about to crush Daniel's skull when Miyagi stopped him. Johnny was more menacing that Mike.In this part, Daniel has to fight Mike, and Daniel is so nervous and fearful you just stare at him and wonder Is this the same Daniel that defeated and could have killed Chozen back in Okinawa?. Just to make a rough comparison, it's like you were able to fight and defeat Hulk and then you were afraid to fight Mike Tyson or any other ordinary human boxer.When humans face and defeat big difficult obstacles, they grow stronger and more self-confident. This is not Daniel's case. In KK3 we're presented a weak and unsure Daniel, who fights Mike like he had no combat experience at all.I think they did not sit down and see this in their minds before they went ahead with the movie. This is the part that does not make sense.Anyways, the movie in general is fine, just the part that completes the trilogy with Daniel-san. Pleasant to watch, specially because it's a movie from the '80s and it can bring so many nice memories back to you, when we all were almost two decades younger. "},{"Title":"confussed","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  I still remember watching this from the first time and I've always wondered a few things - What happened to Johnny and the other bad guys ? Why didn't they show up at this tournament and see how things turned out ? After all , Johnny lost and he should of came back to see how good this guy was. How was their instructor able to stay in business for nine months without any students ? Who was Daniel going to sell the tree to ? How come Mike acted like he did during the last match ? Actually I thought Johnny was going to help Daniel somewhere since the Cobras tried to cheat on him and probably knew Mr.Kreese was going to do it again. This would of been interesting - let Johnny stand up for Daniel since he now knows what's right and wrong and take on Mike. Too much cussing was in it also. Johnny could of done the same but at least he kept it smooth and acted his age. His clothes were perfect also. "},{"Title":"Fairly horrible sequel!","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" So Mr. Miyagi and Daniel LaRusso are back a third time. The original is still one of the best, Little guy takes out Bullies stories ever realized on film. It was definitely a classic. Ralph Macchio managed to pull off the part fairly flawlessly, despite being older than he was supposed to be. The Karate Kid part 2 is in some ways just as good, some ways better. But, it was another good movie that is worth seeing again.Now, 35 year old (!) Ralph Macchio comes back as the Karate Kid again, and now they are back from Okinawa. The film opens with John Kreese, the defeated Cobra Kai sensai from the first film. He is disgraced, broke, and still steaming at both Daniel and especially Mr. Miyagi. He runs into an Old Vietnam war buddy named Terry Silver, played by Thomas Ian Griffin who happens to be a year younger than Ralph Macchio in real life! Silver is a rich businessman and like Reese has a deep rooted mean streak plus likes to see frail looking teens suffer. Together they vow to bring the Cobra Kai dojo back and better than ever, and (as the main plot of the movie) get revenge on both Daniel and Miyagi. I like the plot premise, and I always wondered what happened to Kreese. Martin Kove still does a great job here.We learn a lot of things about Daniel in this film. He has been eating too much without exercising (looks easily 30-40 pounds heavier than in the first 2 films), he likes to have conversations with Bonsai trees, and he apparently forgot all that training and lessons from the past. We also learn, (again) that a simple glance to Mr. Miyagi can make Daniel defeat a far superior opponent. I need a Mr. Miyagi when life gets rough! Robyn Lively is Jessica Andrews, the new love interest and her acting is just plain terrible! I remember when I was younger I found her very easy to look at, but even then I thought they had no chemistry. Later I found out later he is not even near her age either. I have recently seen her in a couple of shows and she has improved and still hot...maybe she just knew this was a bad film and wanted to complete it asap? The true standout in this film is Thomas Ian Griffin as Terry Silver. He plays the role perfectly, when he is making Daniel hurt himself and he hides around a corner and celebrates you really get a grasp of how well he played the part. Martin Kove and Sean Kanan both do a great job as well, but he is the real standout. He also seems the most skilled of the 3 villains but is easily dispatched by Miyagi.I think this was a poorly written sequel that has the purpose of making a quick buck off the Karate Kid franchise. It's sad really, because the first two were awesome films that I remember as part of my childhood. It's better than the spin off but that is not saying much. "},{"Title":"not very good, was it","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  *spoilers*nowhere near as good as the first two. I saw all three in a row, and watching this last did not let me sleep with ease. there are many problems with the movie, and I think most of them can be put down to plot flaw there are openings of ideas here, but no conclusions to those same ideas.For example 1) the love interest -- we needed one sure, but it wasn't really there; the girl didn't even turn up at his tournament defence. what happens with her? goes home for thanksgiving *bah*. she wasn't cute either (another problem). 2) we don't know what happens to Myagi's store in the end, thanks to the typical ending of the movie. 3) what happens to the bad guys? Danny just beats the challenger in the tournament, but the evil sensei and his financial backer don't get beat up or anything -- same problem I guess with the first, but KK2 resolves this, and the 'reformation' of the Cobra Kai fighters at the end of KK1 helps too.other painful facts - the sheer stupidity of Danny Laruso. I mean he is REALLY REALLY dumb in this movie; I know it's sposed to be part of the plot, his 'confusion', but we have to have some sort connection with reality right? Danny isn't particularly bright throughout the series, but he really peaks in this one. - Myagi plays a comparatively minor role. - Danny doesn't learn a 'special move' to implement in the end fight. - Macchio starts to look his age, and not uhh 17 or whatever he was sposed to be.stick to the first two.  "},{"Title":"Karate Kid back for a third time, in a movie about revenge, independence and inner strength!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Karate Kid III proves that the &#145;Karate Kid' series has finally died a most painful death, with the most popular of story running out of legs. The first two movies were wonderful, yet the third movie loses what appeal the other two had captured. What is even more distressing is what the story contains, ideas that have just been rehashed. KK3 shows why so many sequels are unsuccessful.Kreese, the ex-marine and Karate teacher, who was humbled with a few punches and kicks, has never forgotten the bitter taste of defeat at the hands of Miyagi and Daniel. Bankrupt after the first tournament defeat, he's back with a particularly nasty friend and a new fighter. He is aching to lure Miyagi and Daniel into the fight of their lives. When Daniel decides not to compete in the challenge, he becomes the target of numerous attacks by the villainous fighter, who will stop at nothing to win Daniel's title back. But when the relentless abuse becomes blackmail, Daniel goes against the sound advice of Miyagi and enters the competition, alienating his mentor.What I find most frustrating about KK3 is its story. In the first we learn about a loner kid, who has shifted to L.A, who meets a Japanese janitor, who knows the ancient practices of Karate. In that film we get the chance to feel for both Miyagi and Daniel. In the second, we learn more about the history of Miyagi, and the background as to why he came to America. Yet the third film has a story that I would say is boring. It is all about revenge, but to do it, they recreate what was done in the first film and bring it back into the third. All of the Karate Kid screenplays were written by Robert Mark Kamen, who I believe ran out of fresh ideas for this movies script, and tried to cash in on what made the first movie so popular.The popular characters of this series, Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio) and Mr. Miyagi (Pat Morita), return from their most extraordinary trip to Miyagi's native land of Okinawa. Daniel's home and Miyagi's workshop are being demolished, with the pair told that is &#145;progress'. So with all this doom and gloom, Daniel has the bright idea of helping Mr. Miyagi start a bonsai store for his retirement. Through these actions, Daniel gets to meet a new girl named Jessica (Robyn Lively), who works in a pottery store across the street. This part of the story, while it was different, did not have the same affection, as say the relationships Daniel had with Ali or Kumiko.Yet the other new characters in KK3 are not what I would call that &#145;great'. After being humiliated by Miyagi and Daniel, Kreese (Martin Kove), has given up his life as a Karate teacher. When he goes to return the keys to his Dojo, the owner is long-time army friend Terry Silver (Thomas Ian Griffith). He has slicked back hair, a sneaky grin, and deals professionally in dumping toxic waste. Karate is just a hobby to this man, and is the perfect person to get revenge on &#145;the slope Miyagi and the punk kid' for Kreese. To get this revenge he asks for the services of &#145;Karate's bad boy', Mike Barnes, (Sean Kanan from The bold and the Beautiful), who is a mean, nasty and hateful character. He is out to make Daniel's life a misery, forcing him to sign up and fight in the next &#145;All valley karate tournament'.When Miyagi does not agree to train Daniel in the tournament, he says his reason being &#145;if karate used to defend honour, defend life, karate means something. If karate used to defend plastic metal trophy, karate no mean nothing.  So Daniel decides to get some training from Mr. Silver, who puts his revenge plan in action, making Daniel &#145;do things that he doesn't wanna do'. Through this we get to see one new part to the story, which is Daniel, the star student of Miyagi, being unfaithful to his friend and wise teacher, treating him without honour or respect.   Look there is plenty of rehashed elements in this film, with what I have discussed being just a few of them. The fighting scenes in this film are a little more violent than the previous films. Yet the highlight of the film has to be when Miyagi helps Daniel from being beaten up by the bad guys, in the process thrashing all of them one by one. After, he agrees to train Daniel, so he can be rid of this petty fighting once and for all.I am sure that director, John G. Avildsen, had the right intensions when he went about making this movie. However, I am afraid that the story had run out of good ideas, and so they wanted to show Daniel getting picked on just that little bit more. Daniel sure has had an ordinary life. Thankfully he has had Miyagi as a &#145;father figure', saving his butt many times. What is good about all of these movies is Miyagi's view about karate that it is to be used for good, not evil, with the concluding scenes of this movie showing how true Miyagi's words really are. I want to leave you with one final thought. Ralph Macchio was 28 when he agreed to come back and be 19 year old Daniel LaRusso in KK3. My question to you is, &#145;was Ralph just a bit too old to look 19?' I believe he was. CMRS gives &#145;Karate Kid III' 2.5 (Ok - Good film) "},{"Title":"Diabolical film, but a good laugh","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I've read a lot of the comments others have left about Karate Kid 3, and although the majority of them have a point, please bear in mind it's the third in the series of the Karate Kid movies for heaven's sake! Why are you people seriously analysing the realism of it? The whole concept from day one has been ridiculous. OK, so it IS possible for some wee wiener to somehow win a karate competition in a month or two of waxing cars, and painting fences, against guys who have been doing karate for probably their whole lives. But come on, the whole Mr Miyagi thing clapping his hands and rubbing Daniel's leg? Who is he, Jesus? So, when you bear in mind the whole series are stupid, why heavily criticise the film? You've obviously sat through one and two, so should know by now that the film is going to be poo, but it will be enjoyable. An ideal film to watch when you've had a few beers, or fancy laughing at the cheesy bad guy characters they've thrown in. How can anyone seriously say they don't like the film when Terry Silver delivers such classic likes as I love it when he pounds him!? I would recommend watching this movie, but watch it with a pinch of salt. Just enjoy the roller-coaster ride of hammy acting, and seriously un-menacing bad guys they have. I mean, Kreece was a cheesy slime-ball in Cagney and Lacey for God's sake. Are you really going to feel intimidated by him? "},{"Title":"Just Terrible","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I was going through my DVD collection and came across the Karate Kid Trilogy. It was right after Pat Morita died and I began looking over the DVD case and I remembered I had never watched the Karate Kid Part III.I was a huge fan of the original Karate Kid, and part II was a worthy sequel. I was bored that night and figured I'd give part III a try, even though I knew it would probably not be very good as most part IIIs of any movie typically pretty bad.I can honestly say, The Karate Kid Part III, is the worst movie I have ever seen - its a shameless rip off of the original. I wont go through a plot summary since that has already been done by several other reviewers here. But some of the low points are worth mentioning.1) Acting is terrible. Ralph Macchio either forgot how to act, or simply mailed it in, which is likely the case as who could get excited over this script? It was simply ridiculous to have a 28 year old man play a 17 year old teenager. Pat Morita's role was tired and predictable, and just worn out. Martin Kove, aka John Kreese, looked like a puppet with that goofy evil smile he had plastered on his face the whole movie.2) The plot was recycled from the first Karate Kid. You know the storyline Daniel gets beat up by a superior Karate student trained by the evil John Kreese and sidekick Terry Silver. Mr Miyagi saves the day yet again with his unorthodox teachings, all culminating in a dramatic tournament at the end where Daniel surprises his opponent with some Karate move that looks more like a dance scene. Crowd goes nuts, evil John Kreese foiled yet again, My Miyagi smiling proudly, blah, blah, blah.3) The last fight scene. The only reason I did not turn this movie off half way through was because I figured at least we'd have a great fight scene at the tournament. Some type of payoff for having to suffer through this catastrophe. The fight scene was an unmitigated joke. The whole fight is Daniel getting his face beat in. Then, the very last scene when his evil adversary is going to win the title, Daniel does this gimmicky dance move and punches the guy in the stomach. Oh Boy!First, an 80 year old man could have defended such a lame move. And second, all the movie gave you was Daniel getting lucky at the end. I mean, the whole movie he is pulverized, and the very last scene he gets a lucky sucker punch in, wins the tournament and all is well.You have been warned. Stay away from this mindless garbage. "}{"Title":"Almost accidentally funny, but worst of three Karate Kid's","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" By almost accidentally funny, I mean that I believe that Miyagi and Daniel-san seem to be spoofing their first two movie selves. Their behavior here was ridiculous. The serious worldly wisdom, the steady focused and structured mind of Miyagi went out the window. The improved confidence and skills of Daniel also went out the window. Daniel now decided to turn into a whining crybaby. And he seemingly lost a lot of the karate skills he'd previously learned because he let himself be completely overtaken by yellow freakin fear, fear he did not have in the far east when fighting Chozen. Chozen was a tougher, more dangerous karate master enemy than Mike Barnes is in KK3. In KK2, Daniel was actually fighting to the death. He was fighting a real Asian martial arts man, someone much closer to Bruce Lee than Barnes is. In KK3, Daniel is back to just fighting for points with a referee, and he acts three times as whiny and scared as in KK2 and he seems to not know what he's doing anymore karate wise when Barns and his goons are attacking him. Daniel's trainer even tells Daniel the absolute correct message that proves my point I make wimps into winners, not the other way round! No joke! What was Daniel's deal here? How did he fall backwards like that? What happened to all of the skills and courage he'd learned? I don't get it!Mr. Miyagi also lost his pearls of wisdom and karate mastery. And for some reason he never explained well, he refused to train Daniel for this movie's tournament. He obviously chose to step aside and to stop trying, and even caring. When Barnes and his pals beat the **** out of Daniel and trash Miyagi s new Bonsai shop, Miyagi chooses to handle it by completely ignoring what happened, singing, and going fishing. If this was supposed to have been some kind of joke from the writers, I wasn't laughing. And then the sweep joke from Miyagi with the broom. I, personally would not even be sure Daniel needed much training for this movie's tournament after defeating Chozen. If he could triumph over Chozen, how did he suddenly turn into such a chicken s*** helpless wimp with Barnes? And Daniel's constant scardy cat whining? Why did he suddenly turn into a complete little p***y b***h!? Then we have a Steven Segal look alike who offers to train Daniel because Miyagi won't. But Segal is not really on Daniel's side. He's really with Barnes and he's twofaced with Daniel until near the end of the movie. Segal is actually the guy who helped set Barnes up to go after Daniel. Robyn Lively is the girlfriend of this movie, but she was actually more of just a friend and she leaves the movie (moves back to Ohio) before the tournament and the end of the movie. Why? Daniel's girlfriends stayed through til the end in the first two films. And why didn't the cute Asian girl from KK2 come back with Daniel from Asia and be with him here? Simple, because the actress that played her didn't want to sign up for this joke of a movie. "},{"Title":"tired repeat and silly villains","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Disgraced karate teacher John Kreese loses his students and his dojo. He finds help from his Vetnam war buddy Terry Silver who is a wealthy toxic waste disposal businessman. Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio) and Mr. Miyagi (Pat Morita) return from Okinawa to find their apartment being demolished. Daniel uses his college fund to buy Miyagi a bonsai tree workshop. Jessica Andrews (Robyn Lively) makes pottery across the street. Terry Silver buys properties for Kreese to restart his dojo. Miyagi won't let Daniel defend his title. Terry recruits thugs to force Daniel to enter the tournament. Miyagi won't train him and Terry tricks him into being his student. Terry teaches him all the wrong techniques.The major problem is that this repeats the original and even ends with the same tournament. There are also a few minor annoyances. I doubt the cops would ignore the vandalism and the beatings. There has to be a more devious way to force Daniel into the tournament. Those young thugs are cheesy villains but Thomas Ian Griffith is infinitely worst. I love Martin Kove but his character mostly gets sidelined. The most disappointing is Daniel himself. After all these years, he has not grown much. The third film should have Daniel be a big brother to someone else. It's an obvious way for the franchise to continue but they decide to do a repeat. "},{"Title":"It Really Doesn't Add Anything New to the Story","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This third film is definitely my least favorite. Its main problem is that it suffers from superfluousness.For the most part, it feels like a rehash of the first movie without nearly as much spark. It adds nothing new to the Karate Kid saga, and the whole thing comes off as unnecessary and tired.That's not to say that it's bad, however. The acting is still good, the charm is still there, Thomas Ian Griffith plays a fantastic villain, and as usual, the final fight scene will have you cheering.It's still worth a look if you're a fan of the series.6/10 "},{"Title":"Big letdown -spoilers","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Well, they really should have either left a good thing alone with Part 2, which I still consider to be the best of the trilogy, or brought Tamylin Tomita back so we could have watched her obviously predestined relationship with Daniel continue. This was my biggest gripe about this film. Daniel's romantic interest in this film isn't a romantic interest and quite honestly I don't even understand why she's there. Komiko would have been been excellent in this and also provided an added injection of emotion (conflict/possible separation) that was absent. Daniel's girl leaves before the final fight and we don't give a rat's arse. Also I find it annoying, as other posters have pointed out that Daniel manages to beat the life out of Chosen (an old school Karate master) in part 2 but can't seem to even fluster a token tournament fighter from the States. This film could've been legendary but instead just leaves us with a bad taste in our mouths. And yes, it looks liife Ralph has been hitting the Jack in the Box pretty regularly as he's obviouly packed on a few pounds. Maybe thats why Daniel seems to be off his game? "},{"Title":"Now, Miyagi teach you","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This returns to the concept of the under-dog.Daniel wants to defend his championship but Mr.Miyagi has other ideas while Kreese brings in a friend to help him gain revenge. This is unlike the previous movies it sees the deterioration of the friendship between Miyagi and Daniel.Daniel is swayed from the 'right' way and begins to lose control of his anger and realises his wrong....The Miyagi fight scenes are always exciting; especially when he takes on Silver and beats the **** out of him....One thing that was a little annoying and lets face it a let down, they got rid of the Kumiko from the second movie; and it seems to me Daniel is a player...An entertaining movie nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Since the first two Karate Kid films, made me think that the third part was going to be great. The movie is great in some areas, but overall the film falls into medoritcy. This film picks up after Mr. Miyagi and Daniel-san return from Okinawa. We learn that Daniel is single again (he seems to have the worst luck with the ladies) since his girlfriend from the last film got a job in Tokyo. We also learn that Daniel's apartment from the first film, is now being turned into something else. Daniel wants to compete in the tournament again from the first movie, but Mr. Miyagi tells him no. Daniel turn to Terry Silver, a war buddy of Kreese, who teaches him to be more aggressive and violent in his martial arts training.While this plot seems to be good, there are somethings that this movie doesn't get right. First off is Ralph Macchio who when doing this film, was like almost 30 and he still looks like he is 16. Second, most of the returning character do not seem to live up to their previous roles. Mr. Miyagi is less phlioshopical and more comical, which makes me less likable in my opinion. Daniel now seems to make more mistakes now then when the first movie was made. Daniel does give us the impression that he is young person and always tries to make things work, even if they are not the best choice. For example when Daniel tries to get the real Basani tree, he knows how much it means to My. Miyagi, but thinks only the money and goes for it.Kresse also has changed from the first movie. Now that all of his students have left him, he is more depressed, and doesn't give off the evil type as much in this film as he did in the first. Thomas Ian Griffith does a wonderful job of Terry Silver. We know Terry is more on the darker side of martial arts as is Kresse, but Terry gives the impression at first than he can seem nice, and then just bait you for the trap. Sean Kanan easily becomes Mike Barnes, as the bad boy of the film.Overall, this film could be much better if the characters stayed the same way as they did in the first film. I watched this film once, and I think that's probably all I can handle of it. If you have already since the first two films, then watch this sound you can finish the Daniel arc, and watch the next film in this series. "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie isn't as bad as other viewers have said it is. It's a good sequel, although it doesn't measure up to the first two. And people, Daniel isn't as wimpy as the other reviewers say he was.Possible spoilerIn this movie, Daniel was more confident, assertive and obviously had some of Miyagi's peacefulness rubbing off on him. He even kicked a guy's ass(I think his name was Dennis). Sure he got knocked around, but it's supposed to happen, the good guys have to take a few a hits.I do agree however that Daniel should have been able to beat Barnes in a streetfight. He was more skilled now and Chosen(Daniel's nemesis in part 2) was a much more fierce and more skilled opponent than Mike was. Not only that, he and Daniel had a fight to the death and Daniel was able to land a lot of good hits on Chosen and win.Still, in the end when Daniel won with just that one punch, it just felt so triumphant because he realized that that there was no reason to be afraid.(which was the only reason he was getting beaten in the first place. If he had snapped out of his fear earlier, I'm sure he would have been able to defeat Barnes before the three minutes ran out)To top it all off, it was the first time I saw Mr. Miyagi and Daniel hug.Definitely worth a look, 7/10 "},{"Title":"If it were a standalone film it'd work","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Karate Kid was one of the defining movies of the 80s, sure it seemed a lot like Rocky, but it was believable, and enjoyable and it had more realistic characters.  Its sequel, although visually better could not fully take up the mantle and couldn't really be as good as the original.This film, the third in the series, would have probably worked much better if it were a standalone film because in essence it seems to be a complete rehash of the first, Karate Kid movie and it suffers because its just the same thing all over.Ralph Macchio is back as the Karate Kid - but instead of learning from his mistakes and learning what honor, fear and the values of karate are from the previous films, he instead continues to be the bullied, tortured kid who projects so much pathetic emotion that you hope that someone would just should shut him up once and for all.Daniel constantly complains and cries about his predictament and seems to have forgotten any skills that Miyagi taught him over the previous installments to this series.Indeed Daniel's perstant wining is parodyed later on when Griffith starts saying stuff like look at the trail, I think he peed his pants...Anyway, Macchio, clearly the only 30-something teenager around wants to fight some kid from Sunset Beach who looks meanancing enough - and is taught by both Kreese and his comerade in arms the rich, smarmy Thomas Ian Grittifth (Thomas would be cursed after this film and be only remembered as being that bad guy with the pony tail from KK3).Griffith is smarmy and nasty enough for the job as the main bad guy and tempts Macchio into an ideal where he believes he's tough when he really isn't.Anyway, there is a subplot with nuclear waste that is there for no reason, and Kreese is now a dejected drunk guy who can't stop his maniac laughing at Macchio.  And the bad boy karate kid from Sunset Beach seems tough enough to deal with Macchio - so why doesn't he just get rid of Macchio when he has the chance rather than looking dumb when Daniel starts doing his Kata (which probably won't win you a fight, nor any tornament).This is a horrid film which wasn't really needed.  It is watchable and sometimes enjoyable - but that's because it'd be better as a standalone film.  But it isn't a standalone film, and because of that it suffers so bad as to ruin the whole series.Overall 3/10 "},{"Title":"A HUGE step back","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I enjoyed watching Daniel-son progressively develop his karate skills in KK1 and KK2, but then came the third installment of the trilogy.After defeating a pair of formidable opponents in the climax of the first two films, somehow Danny boy transforms back into a complete wimp, relying on a a questionable rule and fluky technique to defend his title at the All-Valley Karate Championships.Since he won last year's tournament, the suddenly weak Daniel is allowed a free pass to the championship bout without having to engage in a single fight. After getting thoroughly dominated in the match, Barnes, LaRusso's opponent and Kreese's hired hand, decides to toy with Danny and execute a rather cheap move, allowing for the score to get knotted up. But instead of standing up to Barnes like a true warrior, Daniel falls back and implements a technique called kata, which calls for short, choppy air punches and deep breathing, almost like meditation. Confused, Barnes charges and Daniel lands a frail, but victorious blow.Needless to say, it was a profoundly disappointing to witness Daniel &#x96; the same guy that stood toe-to-toe with each of the Cobra Kais and kicked the crap out of the Chozen in a death match &#x96; regress so greatly. "},{"Title":"I had forgotten just how bad it really was!","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" And yes, I have seen much worse in terms of films. But considering what a classic the original was... to arrive at this point is pretty sobering for a kid who was truly inspired by a great film in 1984. And part 2 was pretty good also, but mostly for the exotic location and convincing villain. But this 1989 disaster is saddening for two basic reasons. First of all, it has a ridiculous plot. And worst of all, it was obviously made for $$$ purposes only. All the inspiration was gone by this point, and this is painfully obvious in nearly every lame scene.First off, the film is oblivious to the concept of the passage of time. Five years had passed since the original film, yet the film would have us believe that it picks up the moment Daniel and Mr. Miyagi step off the plane from Okinawa. By 1989, Ralph Macchio was almost 30 years old, and he had gained significant weight since part 2 was released in 1986. And above all else, it just isn't natural that all of the things we've seen since the original could happen to one person in the span of only a year. The film doesn't even try to hide the changes in clothing and hairstyles. I was actually surprised I didn't see a bolo tie on any of the band members at that dance. Virtually every soft rock musician wore them back in the late 1980s. Anyway, the film is full of cheese, but there are some reminders of how good the series had been. And even some nice new things, too.There are some good things in this film. Frankly, I think actor Thomas Ian Griffith walks away with this picture. He overplays his Terry Silver character to immense proportions, and he looks like he's having fun. The man never became the star he probably should have. Wouldn't he have made a better action star than the wooden Seagal? I think so. Anyway, it's fun to see him put Daniel through all the pain while training him for his title defense. Pat Morita is great as always with his humor and wisdom. He was the one constant in this series, and he was always on his game. The film also scores points for exploring a big rift that forms between Miyagi and Daniel. There are some scenes where the old man looks absolutely crushed that Daniel won't listen to him any more.But there are more problems here, folks...... lots more. Simply put, the plot is so laughable that anyone over perhaps age 8 could have written the original treatment of the script. The thought of a millionaire toxic waste dumper tormenting a teenager to somehow win back the honor of the evil karate master from part one. Just laughable! How about the new tournament rule allowing the returning champ to only fight in the final match?? Huh?? That would be like allowing the Kansas Jayhawks to only play in the last game of March Madness this year while their opponent would have had to win 5 games in the tournament just to get to the game. Ludicrous! The dialog is so over-the-top, so amateurish that I cannot imagine how these actors got some of the words out of their mouths. Acting from many of the supporting characters is unconvincing to say the least. Robin Lively has no chemistry with Machio, but I guess they were just supposed to be friends. It wouldn't surprise me if they decided to just make them friends on the set when they realized how much older he is than her in real life. The actor playing Mike Barnes had some good moves, but no thespian talent to speak of. Oh well, the remake with Jackie Chan and Will Smith's kid is bound to be worse, though! 4 of 10 stars.The Hound. "}{"Title":"Better than part 2,  I think NOT.","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Part 2 was the best out of all them, the fight scenes were exciting, it proved to be better then part 1. Who would think this one is better then part 2? I thought Ralph Macchio's acting was so over the top, it was incredibly annoying to watch, his immature dialog was insane to listen too, when he is trying to play Daniel at 18, In real life he was 27 at the time. Not to mention he pudged up some. The late Pat Morita always gives a memorable performance as Mr. Miyagi, but he couldn't save this movie from the humiliation that it is. The fight scenes were not even believably, they more silly. I'm sure Ralph Macchio grabs his head like a headache ever time this movie comes to mind. "},{"Title":"Worst of the series","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  I've never been a big fan of the series, but being i've watch each installment from the 1st and to the Next Karate Kid. I must say this is the worst. First of all , why is Daniel still a wimp? He gets knocked around easily in this film rather than the previous film which he had a fight that was to the death (or thought to be) as well as competing against several people in the 1st. Someone with this much experience, you would think they would be a master at fighting. The story if not known by now takes place about a year later than the first one. Daniel and Miyagi return from Okinawa , where Daniel find a new love intrest and is invited to defend his title in the same tournament from the last movie. Since Miyagi disaproves of Daniel wanting to do this he refuses train him once more, and since Daniel wants to enter it so much he desperately needs training so he finds a instructor who teaches him but in the wrong way. The instructor who is friends with Kreese in the first movie ends up betraying Daniel where from then Miyagi agrees to help him.The characters in this movie are very stale , and stereotypical. We have Daniel again even though he has proven himself in the previous film to become a fighter he is the wimp who gets kicked around and wants to fight back, and then theres his love intrest pretty pretty girl who likes Daniel as well as everything else, and then theres Miyagi , always mysterious and wise who trains Daniel, but doesn't want Daniel to fight foolishly. Then theres the villians Terry , Kreese (from the 1st) , and one who is dubbed BAD BOY are just pitiful, lame , and just bitter.In the end you wonder why then even would want to continue this series, and even continue with The Next Karate Kid. Why is Daniel always a wimp and never keep a girlfriend. Why does he use the same overs , and why can't this series just of ended with the 2nd one. "},{"Title":"Absolutely right!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  KK3 is the BEST of the series, no doubt. It may even be the BEST martial-arts movie ever filmed, because it's a movie about martial arts and real martial artists; not just a bunch of violence-loving machos, unbelievable kickin' combos and no-plot-please-who-needs-it.I liked the way that Macchio's character develops over the films, specially in this one. After all, he's a teen, and he wants to win again. He wants to compete again, attracted by fame, physical power and the possibility of earning the respect of his peers. Or so he believes.Miyagi's refusal to train him makes him closer to this dark side of martial arts, just like a fallen Jedi Knight )One more thing have you noticed the utterly strange (for an 80's teen movie) absence of a girlfriend to Macchio? Oh, sure, there's one, but she dissapears in mid-movie to go see her real boyfriend, and doesn't appear at the climax. Doesn't appear anymore. "},{"Title":"Tired retread of a good film","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a walking zombie, brain-dead movie. It pretty much ignores the action in Part II, and plucks up the villains and locations of Part I.If Part I was a knock-off of ROCKY, then this is sort of a knock-off of ROCKY II, but with less heart. John Kreese, the villain from the original whose philosophy was Mercy is for the Weak, is back, and wants to get even with our heroes. So he solicits the aid of business tycoon and martial-arts expert (Thomas Ian Griffith) - unfortunately, the new villain is a silly, shallow, cartoonish caricature - he pollutes, he's corrupt, he's a rich white guy, he laughs diabolically every few minutes, so you KNOW he's evil.Gone is the sweet, father-son, vaguely homoerotic relationship between Daniel and Mr. Miyagi. Now the byplay is forced and predictable, and it revolves around bonsai trees - I guess they went for the most boring subject they could find.There's another tournament, there's more bad people doing things to make Daniel breach his vow of non-violence, and there's another predictable climax. Have fun. "},{"Title":"Astonishingly bad!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Alright, so we've got a multi-billionaire who can leave his business practices and grand jury indictments at will in order to exact revenge on an undeserving kid... Right.The original Karate Kid had heart and brains. The sequel was basically a rehash, but with a few wise words of wisdom and an exciting climax. This one is, well, words cannot describe how awful it really is.I like looking back on this and thinking how funny it is that Ralph Macchio was not only a spell older than the nemesis, Mike Barnes, but was actually a year older than Terry Silver, the evil toxic waste dude who trained him!I think I'll download Vegas Video and redub this, ala Steve Oedekerk style - it's deserving of that fate! "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is just awful! The story is tired and totally predictable, and the Ralph Maccio character is incredibly annoying! The ONLY reason I watched this movie was to see the parts filmed on the Northern California coast, near Kris Kristofferson's ranch in Elk. The scenery is just stunning, but only about 15 minutes of the film takes place there. Maccio's annoyingly juvenile babbling is at complete odds with the serenity of this beautiful and breathtaking Northern California setting, as it is with the teachings that the late Pat Morita tries in vain to impart to the kid for the third time in this series! Pat Morita is always a pleasure to watch, but everything else about this movie is just excruciatingly annoying and painful to watch. "},{"Title":"For my money the best of the series...","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This time Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio) goes up against Karate's bad boy Mike Barnes (Sean Kanan) to defend his title and prove that karate is not to be used aggressively and repair what damage he did to Mr. Myiagi(Pat Morita) who refused to train Daniel due to the antics led by John Kreese (Martin Kove) and Terry Silver(Thomas Ian Griffith) Will Daniel regain his title or will Barnes clean the floor with him. People of taste in movies are often surprised as I label this as the best Karate Kid movie. But it had banzai trees! said my cousins in 1989 when I walked out of theaters and said Finally a good movie! Most people in the theaters as well as everyone in general were shocked that I could stand alone and praise this as the best of the series but for my money this is the best entry. Why? Because it is the greatest camp-fest of 1989.(Seriously Cyborg and Road House made more sense.) For starters we have Ralph Macchio looking in his late 20s playing a kid we have bad guys who for some reason throw their head back and laugh for no reason. I also want to acknowledge that Thomas Ian Griffith is great in this movie. His laughing at in which he gets the not too bright Daniel LaRusso to kick two by fours as well as punching solid wooden boards is ultimately great to watch. I also loved how Pat Morita refused to train Macchio for no reason, as if Daniel was supposed to drown rather than except the challenge posed by Karate's Bad Boy I also love how Macchio never seems to get the girl. (Come on even Sasha Mitchell finally had a wife in Kickboxer 4!) So the sheer homoeroticism between Morita and Macchio make this far more interesting than the hideously boring predecessor. (#2) After all the bickering between the two is non-stop. The Karate Kid III in all seriousness actually takes it's formula and provides more action and pumps up the villains to full effect and really it is this reason why I balk at the notion that this isn't the best movie of the series. In fact I think it makes required viewing for camp addicts, action fans and anyone else game for some fun cheese. Also watch for the final fight sequence which could quite possibly be the most one sided battle ever. Also it is worth watching just for the scene in which Daniel asks What do we do if they come back? to which a not even phased Myiagi says Sing happy song! * * * out of 4-(Good) P.SSeriously check it out. It is made with enough craftsmanship that you can respect it but so blissfully stupid you just love it. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, but has its moments","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" After watching the first two movies, I might as well give my thoughts on this one because I have never seen this one, and I heard that this one isn't good. So, what's the story? The Karate Kid, Part III picks up where the second one left off (like the first one, recapping scenes as flashbacks like in the Rocky movies) as both Daniel LaRusso and Mr. Miyagi return home to Los Angeles after their trip in Okinawa started working a business of themselves by selling bonsai. Meanwhile, Kreese is now broken down after losing his students due to his behavior at the All-Valley Tournament wants revenge on Daniel and Miyagi as he calls in his old friend Terry Silver, who they serve together during the Vietnam War. So Terry agrees, and makes Daniel to be a bad influence by teaching Karate in the wrong way; its now up to Miyagi and Daniel to go one more round against Kreese; Terry; and their student Mike Barnes. First off, I don't mind the idea of a revenge story for Kreese getting revenge on Daniel and Miyagi, but it was not well executed enough. Secondly, didn't the filmmakers learn their lessons to make Macchio's character not be bullied like what he had in the first two movies? Guess not. Third, the new love interest Jessica Andrews played by Robyn Lively who I think is an okay actress in this movie but doesn't seem that interesting to me. I felt that it would've been something if either make our main hero be together with Kumiko from the second movie or renew his relationship with Ali from the first film; its one or the other but I think they are much better love interest in this girl in the third movie. Fourth, the ending is so anti-climatic because there nothing exciting going on, it has just gone back to basics like what the first movie did. I wish the action in the last act of movie would have been something new and different. Why not have Daniel go against Terry? If Rocky V can do that, so can this. What I mean is teacher against student. Miyagi is the good and Terry is the bad. Terry is suppose to be a bad influence for Daniel because he wants him to fight dirty and do what he does; he also has more of a personality than Mike Barnes. The first two movies where always about Daniel going against a bad student; this is one would have been something new and different if a student goes against a teacher. Daniel would have just said to Terry that he doesn't want to fight Mike Barnes, he wants to fight Terry because like said be a bad influence. That is what the ending should have been. Lastly, for my criticism, I wish if this movie hasn't taken the Rocky III route if you had Miyagi saying that he doesn't want to train Daniel anymore. Just like Mickey saying to Rocky Fight him without me. Anything good? Yes. I thought the movie does have some good acting, but for Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita. I am sure that these two will always have a chemistry than Morita having a chemistry with Hilary Swank, which I might review that one. For Macchio, I know he is a fine actor, but he looks old to be a teenager. Should have been called The Karate Man or something, which that would have been something if you are going for a different approach to the series. Also, his character is a bit to aggressive when he keeps having issues with bullies and losing his temper. The filmmakers would have made his character smart, but no, they didn't learned their lesson. The music by Bill Conti is very good as well as the film's cinematography. John G. Avildsen is a fine director, but he doesn't add anything new to the table besides bringing the old stuffs back. Of course, I do say Thomas Ian Griffith plays a very well done villain and I still wish if his character fights Macchio's character instead of Mike Barnes. The movie is watchable, but it is misguided. Sometimes I thought the series should have end with the second one. The Karate Kid, Part III is not the worst, but has its moments. I give it a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I know places and people, some that might pass for the world in The Karate Kid Part III. I have seen people drink themselves evil. I have seen young people fall apart because of those around them. But, I guess there is always the chance of coming out, and surviving, if you keep up the fight. Dysfunctional families live in decaying shacks, without money or food. Violent dogs are barking everywhere. Disagreements are settled by fistfights. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. The acting is very effective. This is the kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. "},{"Title":"Should Have Stopped at Part II","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" When you look at the acting in this movie, it makes you realize that the first two movies were probably much better acted. Everyone in this movie, including Pat Morita, just ham it up. The worst offender has to be Thomas Ian Griffith, who plays Terry Silver. It looks like he and the actors playing the bad guys took acting lessons from Eric Freeman's performance in SILENT NIGHT, DEADLY NIGHT PART II. Eric won that role on account of his good looks, not his acting talent. I think it must have been the same situation regarding Ian Griffith.Next time you take karate lessons, use copies of the DVD to do your hand-breaking exercises. "}{"Title":"Not Bad, But Could've Been Better!","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Ralph Macchio, Pat Morita, Robin Lively, Martin Kove, Sean Kanan and Thomas Ian Griffith star in John Avilden's 1989 drama sequel. This sequel picks up a couple months after the last film with Daniel (Macchio) and Mr. Miyagi (Morita) returning from Okinawa. Kove also returns as karate teacher, John Kreese plotting revenge on them with help from wealthy friend, Terry Silver (Griffith). Terry meets them and gains their trust while hiring karate champ, Mike Barnes (Kanan) to force Daniel to defend his title. Terry begins teaching Daniel the wrong side side of karate and Mr. Miyagi senses confusion in Daniel feeling betrayed. Soon, Daniel and Mr. Miyagi learn of Kreese's plot and decide to enter the tournament against Mike. Lively plays Jessica, a girl who Daniel becomes friends with. This isn't bad, but I think it could've been better. I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"Over-the-top and pointless","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This time, we come back to insane karate teacher, John Kreese, who wants revenge on Daniel and Myagi for what happened in the first movie. So he contacts another crazy villain named Terry Silver to help him out with his plan. Meanwhile, Daniel and Myagi are opening a plant shop and have problems of they're own. A been there, done that feeling all the way through and tons of filler. The whole movie it's just one dumb scene after another and just goes on forever. The only thing mildly entertaining about it is the hammy, over-the-top acting from are two villains. I don't know how John Avildsen was trying to cap the franchise but he made this stupid and boring. "},{"Title":"Not Quite The Movie I Remember","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I remember watching this movie not long after it came out and really liking it. Then I watched it about ten years ago and still liked it. Watching it still again today...doesn't quite do for me what it did for me in the past.I still find the movie entertaining, as the plot is actually just the first movie and even some of the second movie, again.You've got Larusso and Miyagi back from Okinawa but you've got Kreese back as well, but this time with some heavy ammunition. What I liked was, we finally find out why he's been such a prick in the first place. Look who he's been hanging out with for twenty plus years, the true driving force, Terry Silver! Silver is like Sato from the second movie, only more over the top than you could possibly imagine. Although, again, being that this is the Karate Kid world, I can imagine. Like Sato, he's really revenge driven, despite seemingly having it all. He's rich, he's great at martial arts and he's a genius. He sets about trying to hurt Daniel in every conceivable way, which in turn will hurt Miyagi. Again, it's like what Sato wants in the second movie revenge at all costs.Silver doesn't have a powerful relative to do his thing for him, he's got more than that Mike Barnes, the film's version of Johhny and Choozen. And that's not it he's got a trainer and, don't know what to call him, also Snake.Okay, so what's this all for? It's to get Daniel to enter (again) in the tournament he won last year. Miyagi doesn't approve and won't train him, which opens the door for Terry to train him! This is probably for me the best part(s) of the movie. You have Daniel learning martial arts the mean-spirited way. Silver drives home the point on how to win, each lesson getting more and more dirty than the previous one. And Daniel, by the third lesson, not only masters it but then, as we can all can figure out, uses it when he shouldn't have. So we do get a question answered How would Daniel have turned out if he was a Cobra Kai instead of Miyagi Kai? But Daniel eventually comes to his senses and realizes (Again, with Miyagi's help. Where would Daniel be without Miyagi, eh?) that he doesn't need it. What he does need to do is enter the All Valley Tournament, as finally Miyagi agrees to train him. And of course, you'd bet the farm on who wins, right? And all of that is fine and good within the Karate Kid franchise. The problems I had with this movie? Remember, I said I thought it was still entertaining, so boring it isn't. The problems are in that this movie feels like that table that you buy that has nothing but rough edges. There are a lot of plot developments (and it could even be argued that the main plot element of Daniel regaining his title) that didn't end the right way, or never got resolved at all.Daniel helps Miyagi by giving up all of his college money to open a bonsai store. But, get this, about forty minutes left in the movie, the store is never seen or even mentioned again. Which is odd considering that it's all Miyagi is going to have to cling to. Shouldn't there have been a scene where we see that it is finally taking off financially? Daniel, for the third time, has a new girlfriend. But she never really becomes more than a friend to Daniel, and then her character leaves with still about twenty minutes to go in the movie and still so much more to tell. Again, she's never seen or mentioned again. So two very important plot elements end very unsatisfying.Then there is Daniel's winning the tournament, which is fine. But he gets a bye to the final! That's not fine. Then you have Daniel win the finale, but not really showing off any martial arts skills! Again, I find that odd considering HE'S the Karate Kid, isn't he? Daniel himself has become a bit of a problem to me in this movie. Although, this was also a problem in the second movie, so I had better include that to be fair. The whole second and third movies, except in the final 5 minutes and despite all the training he got in the first movie, he get manhandled by BOTH Choozen and Mike. You really come away thinking that THEY are the true Karate Kid(s), but Daniel always gets the last laugh, or kick or punch, whatever. One movie of Daniel, The Karate Master, getting his comeuppance would have been enough. Throwing two down our throats is a bit too hard to swallow.Some here have pointed out that Daniel looks too old for this movie. He's playing a teenager when, as pointed out by some, looks like (and is in real life) more like 30 or 35. Actually, Ralph Macchio would have been about 26 or 27 at the time. He looks about 23 or 25 in this movie. That's still too old. And when he's not getting beaten up, Daniel's either whining or being overly exuberant. And that certainly doesn't help, either. It's as if some scenes he's trying too hard and others he isn't trying enough.As mentioned before, I still find this movie entertaining, and all things considered, has anyone here ever thought about where this movie would compare to say, Halloween 3, Howling 3, Jaws 3, Alien 3, Critters 3, Rambo 3, RoboCop 3, and Batman Forever (That's Batman 3)? "},{"Title":"weakest of the original trilogy","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" this movie is hands down,the worst of the original 3.the writing is seriously lacking in this one.the story is weak an not compelling.the protagonist is weaker than the previous 2,by a mile.this whole movie is anticlimactic.very little happens over the course of the film.Basically,Kreese,from the original movie wants revenge on Daniel and Mr Myagi for events that happened during the beginning of the 2nd movie. there is very little wisdom or philosophy dispensed by Myagi in this 1.the ending is weak and anti-climatic,to say the least.if you do decide to watch Karate Kid 3,you should watch the previous 2 first,otherwise you might not quite understand what is happening.it is unfortunate that they had to end the trilogy on such a low note.maybe they just couldn't come up with anything better.in which case,they should't have bothered.The movie is watchable,even entertaining at times,but does not live up to The Karate Kid name. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Part III?  They should have stopped at II","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" But then again, forgive me. I showered praise on The Karate Kid (1984) because I thought it was the first American-made film to portray martial arts in a non-stereotypical, serious fashion devoid of old chop-soki theatrics. The Karate Kid, Part II (1986) was not as good even though it followed up directly after the first film and kept me watching despite its contrivances. Now we're at 1989's part III, and those repeated spin-kicks to the head are finally starting to wear us down.Director John G. Avildsen has never strayed far from his underdog story roots and it's a formula that has been ever-present in nearly flick the man has ever touched. It's a theme that has been apparent in both the Rocky movies and these Karate Kid movies and it's quickly tiring itself out and its welcoming as a formula. The sequels just keep repeating the same storyline the hero gets his butt kicked, undergoes training, and finally finds the strength and skills to return the favor to the bad guys.In The Karate Kid, of course Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio, noticeably older and - pudgier?) had a pretty good excuse to be a wimp. He was the new kid on the block, a socially green transplant from New Jersey to California, he had set his eyes on a cute girl, ran afoul of her ex-boyfriend, he kicked Daniel's butt, Daniel meets Mr. Miyagi (Pat Morita), learns Karate, wins the cute girl's affections, and kicks the bad guys' butts at the big tournament.Most importantly in that earlier movie, we liked Daniel. Here, he's obnoxious, pathetic, and pig-headed. He even risks his life at one point to retrieve a bonsai tree from a steep cliff to aid Miyagi's blossoming business, which had been opened with LaRusso's college money. It's also a shame that his new crush (played by Robyn Lively) doesn't see it either. Plot-wise, Daniel gets it in his head that he needs to defend his title and eagerly awaits Miyagi's signature on an entry form. Somehow or another not long after, Miyagi's wisdom manages to convince the chap it's not worth it.Meanwhile, Kreese (Martin Kove, reprising his villain role from the first movie) has pretty much lost his entire business because of his defeat at the tournament. He's not had a student in some time and the bills are piling up. In desperation, he turns to his old Vietnam buddy Terry Silver (Thomas Ian Griffith), a slick businessman with a number of shady ties to illegal toxic waste dumping.The two scheme together to get the ultimate revenge on Daniel and Mr. Miyagi by forcing them to enter the tournament to defend their title. To do this, Silver contacts Karate bad-boy Mike Barnes (Sean Kanan), whose reputation as a bad boy is a hazy shade of green to the fact that he's a violent psycho with a black belt in a sport that emphasizes discipline and self-control above everything else other than your self-defense training. It is Barnes's duty to coerce Daniel by any means necessary into signing his entry form so that he'll have no choice but to fight in the tournament.I really wanted to like this movie but I had to wonder, Gee, not only does it seem like Avildsen's running out of ideas, but does he hate Daniel so much that he sends a Karate-trained nut-job like Mike Barnes after him? I do get the picture that in the Karate Kid movies, our hero does have a penchant for attracting violent psychos.I guess in the end it's all good fun, even if it's strained. I'd like to heed Miyagi's advice from the first film though, Wax on, wax off. Being, wax this movie off your list and just stick to part I and, if you can, part II.4/10 "},{"Title":"Danny Boy....","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" After Daniel and Miyagi defeated the Cobra Kai, Kreese decides to close the dojo, then goes to to his friend, Terry, who is also the dojo's owner, to turn in the keys, and announces that he is leaving town. Terry sends him on a vacation, and he'll get his revenge on Daniel and Miyagi. Part of his plan is to recruit Mike Barnes, to fight Daniel in the tournament. When Daniel's invited to the Karate tournament that he won last year, Miyagi believes that it's not a priority. So Terry offers to train Daniel, but he is puts Daniel through a gruelling training regimen as part of his plan. Eventually all of the training that Terry puts Daniel through and Barnes' hounding, causes a rift between Daniel and Miyagi....Yes, the film is bad. We have some silly subplot involving a Bonsai tree, and Martin Kove does the best 'Boo!' I have seen in any movie, but because the acting is really dire, and when Daniel san gets involved in any scrapes, Miyagi sings, you have the most entertaining entry into the franchise.and this is thanks to one Thomas Ian Griffith. Not only is the bad guy called terry, but he has this knack of doing a maniacal smile every time he walks away from a situation.Macchio looks a little rough in this, and his problems at the beginning mirror that of the second chapter, and it's hilarious when he loses it at the nightclub, but he is second fiddle in this film, once again thanks to Griffith.to be fair, the end battle is really good, and it's great when the inevitable happens, but as a stand alone movie, it's ripe for discussion and mockery.as a franchise, the Karate Kid movies are the pits. The first movie is way too long, the second is boring, but the third is beyond bad, beyond bonkers, and this is what makes it so good in a bad way.it's worth watching such a failing franchise just to laugh at the absurdity of it all.It's the best movie ever made that wants you, begs you to watch the Next Karate Kid. "},{"Title":"Lackluster, but not as terrible as the reviews say it was!","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I loved the first two Karate Kid films. Although not masterpieces due to their schmaltzy moments, they had original concepts and very compelling story lines while having some great character depth to it. I wasn't sure whether or not this would disappoint me, but after watching several clips of this on youtube, it doesn't look that bad, but it could've been so much better. The story's predictable and a retread of the first, the script is much weaker compared to the two predecessor's scripts, and the villains are boring and uninteresting due to their unrealistic motives.There are some redeeming qualities, however. The acting isn't all that bad. Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita did great with their chemistry, it did move very briskly, the directing is pretty solid, the karate action sequences are perfect and well-choreographed and the ending is decent and emotional along with great messaging about never lose to fear. Overall, not terrible, but completely lackluster, in my honest opinion.Rating 5.8/10 "},{"Title":"Part 3, really has bad as you think? Naw it was pretty good.  READ","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie, while not as good and the First and Second all together, has the two best scenes of any Karate Kid movies. That includes the new one. Correct me if I'm wrong, but Mr. Miyagi throws down hard in this one. He takes out the whole Cobra Kai group! His fight scene was the best part of all the movies! Second, the ending fight scene was pretty damn climatic. The enemy is screaming racist things at Daniel about Miyagi and cussing and going crazy. It was intense....your slump teachers nothing, and your nothing, I own you! I own you! Where's your little Jap teacher now? He's a phony, a fake!! Mr. Miyagi a phony? I don't think so son!!!!! Good scenes in this movie, Parts 2 and 1 were better overall movies though, but I enjoyed this movie. Long live Mr. Miyagi!!! "},{"Title":"Doomed if the did and Doomed if they Didn't","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Here is what I have to say about number 3. It is definitely my least favorite. I was shocked to find out the same guy wrote all three of the movies. (4 is more spin off than sequel in my opinion.) I got all four movies for Christmas this year in a box set and here is the conclusion I came to. Karate Kid was truly unique, Karate Kid two was great and better than the first. So good in fact there was nothing they could have done to top it. You put Daniel in Mr. Myagi's homeland, have him fight for his Life and win what else can you do beside having him save the world. It's been my experience that there are two kinds of sequels, a direct follow up and a stand alone. In Back to the Future for example, Back to the Future 2 was a follow up and part three was a new movie. Karate Kid did it the other way around. They did the biggest Idea they could have done second and a direct follow up third. So I guess you could say they went backwards progress wise. It's almost like Part 3 should have been part two and Part Two should have been the story for Part 3. But that's just my opinion. Also, it seems like the people who make these movies just want to keep the Teacher and Student alone together. There were a whole bunch of Characters they could have brought back either time. Johnny as a good guy maybe, or Sato from Japan, or Comico or her Aunt. They never mention why she didn't come to America to be with Myagi. Karate Kid Doesn't Stink, but it's not what I would have done for Part III for a great series like this. "},{"Title":"OK, it's pretty bad, but not as bad as a 3.9","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Finally, I found the third Karate Kid! I was dying to know how the trilogy ended, this was a lot like Rocky. They were inspirational films and always made you feel like you could achieve anything. Now, the problems with the third installment, the plot was 4th grade, He hit me so I have to hit him back, not to mention that the villains were just plain trying to hard. It was pretty bad acting, it was like they were trying so hard to convince me that they had no justice in their plan, totally unrealistic.But, I mean over all it's not too bad, there are some very nice and heart touching moments in the film with the same inspirational message. So, just for the sake of completing the trilogy, I would recommend.5/10 "}{"Title":"Not as bad as the reviewers would have you think but not as good as the first two","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Karate Kid III isn't as bad as all the reviews but it's no where the levels of the classic first two. I think with the plot of this film more action would have been required. Daniel comes off as a jerk this time around but I personally wanted to see Daniel fight some more. Thomas Ian Griffith is good as Terry Silver though he has some good one-liners. But Mike Barnes is a horrible villian. All in all the formula is lost. "},{"Title":"Great, underrated film","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a great follow up to the first one which is as good as this one cause the movie has lots and lots of great fight sequences. If Daniel does one thing he has to do another it's really interesting and the best thing is there's always something happening and you wont be able to lose interest the only bad thing is at the end when they give like a complete preview of the third one which I found to be the worst in the series this movie gets a 10/10 for its ability to captivate you through out the entire movie.I don't know why this movie got such a bad rap. It is very clever. Might be viewed as confusing but that just shows how well written it was. Thank goodness for the pause button! That way you can think about what you saw & how it was interwoven into the plot.Love Miagi and Ralph Macchio's characters. Martin Kove does a splendid job as well.Kudos to the filmmakers for a brilliant Karate Kid series! "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Karate Kid, Part III","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" The Karate Kid, Part Three (1989). Well, well, well. The clock has struck twelve on this franchise. The series has finally ran out of gas and the cash cow is gone. Thankfully the last film of the trilogy has arrived.The Karate Kid has to defend his title. Even though this takes place a year after the first movie, Young Danny has aged tremendously. He has a dilemma, defend his karate title or go to school. Everything seems to go along mundanely until an old nemesis comes back to haunt Danny. The series has been ran into the ground and every single story line has been used. This is the worst of the series. Everyone looks tired or bored and they all go through the motions.Recommended for die hards fans only. "},{"Title":"Expired material","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I made this comment on the message board, but i will also add it here. I love the Karate Kid, but this film doesn't work. Everything from the script to the performances is irrational. It basically exists to cash in on the previous movie success, if you make a sequel to name as popular as the Karate Kid, anyone will see it if they like the series regardless if the material has worn thin (it will work once or twice). Basically, one sequel to many resulting in a film that has upset many loyal fans of the series looking for rationality and heart over formulaic and over the top production. I'm giving it a 2, just because id hate to give a Karate Kid movie a 1 since I love the idea behind the series. "},{"Title":"Absolutely No Redeeming Features.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Karate Kid was one of my favourite movies. It was a fairy tale. Boy fights the bad guys with the help of a mysterious and wise teacher, overcomes the odds and gets the girl. Enough humour, action and feel good vibes to keep anyone smiling.  But somehow....they lost the plot in the second sequel. The Karate Kid III is one of the lamest kids films I have ever seen.  Ralph Macchio, who was only mildly annoying in part one shows he hasn't really learnt anything, despite looking like the only Forty year old teenager in California.  I wanted him to get his head bashed in, if only to stop his whining.  The bad guys dress in black (of course), and go Bwa-Ha-HA! a lot. They just need capes, top hats and long moustaches to fill out there characters.  They certainly don't fill them out by acting.  And the Climbing scenes!!!! Girl takes Ralphie rappelling down a cliff with no training and no safety rope, then they get back up by climbing hand over hand, which is frankly impossible for anyone lacking superhuman strength, and totally unsafe.  What passes for plot is about Daniel-san not wanting to quit while he is ahead. Maybe the director should have taken the hint. "},{"Title":"Why So Scared??","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  I consider this entry the weakest of the first three KK movies.  It had it's moments, but it lost me with one irritating detail.  Why was Daniel so darn scared to fight the new bully?  Heck, he just fought for his LIFE in Okinawa!  You'd think he would just be laughing in the face of the zipper-headed 'wonder boy' of karate....Also, Daniel sure whined a lot during this entry... "},{"Title":"Better than Part II","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Karate Kid III was a lot better than Part II. The only good bit about Part II was the beginning with Johnny and his gang - maybe the plot should have revolved more around them as Part II definitely need William Zabka and Elisabeth Shue.Anyway Part III brought us back to the original. Kreese wanted revenge for losing all his students. He enlists his old army buddy to train Daniel in order to get him to avenge his title. Another good factor was the relationship between Daniel and Miyagi - they are more like father and son and even though he kept quiet you could seen the pain in Miyagi's eyes when Daniel's personality became out of control.My opinion is see Karate Kid II for the first 10 minutes then see Karate Kid III as it was a nice end to Daniel's story. "},{"Title":"Best of the series and best movie in general!!!!","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is great. Ralph Macchio brings it and so does Pat Morita. John Kreese comes back to kick some butt and this time he has the help of as bad as he wants to be Terry Silver.Thomas Ian Griffith gives one of the greatest performances ever captured on film.This movie also contains other classic villains such a Snake (You know it!) and Karate's bad-boy Mike Barnes the tournament terror.A lot of jerks try to say this movie isn't any good but they obviously have no taste.This is better than Jaws even.I would tell anyone to buy this movie because you will want to watch it over and over again.A true American classic. "},{"Title":"Real garbage...","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The first one was great, the second one even did pretty well for a sequel, and third installment is the absolute worst. This time around, Daniel son (get a new kid, Daniel is now an adult)  is being forced to fight a vicious opponent. His girlfriend Robin Lively, should have gotten a Rasberry Award for worst actress. What happened to Elisabeth Shue? When you see this, not only will you lose respect for Daniel, you'll actually want the bad guys to win. Even the fourth one was better than this.UGGGHHHH! "},{"Title":"Lame attempt to cash in on the franchise","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie reminds me of the cute puppy that we all fall in love with only it grows up and loses some of its cuteness. That, in essence, is the KK part 3. Actually, the title itself is way off base here. Daniel-san is no longer just a kid, but here we have Ralph Macchio playing it just like he did in 1984! A better name could be perhaps the Karate Kid Wannabe, circa 1989. At any rate, the viewer is treated to clichés, plot lapses, and a simplistic script that wastes the talents of the actors. One would assume that since Daniel-san idolizes Myagi that Daniel-san would remember the old sage's advice and not turn to the so called dark side of Karate. As such, we see Daniel sucked into the dark side, all to easily it seems, and that makes me question Daniel-san's true roots and commitment to Myagi. Of course, without this character flaw, there would be no movie and that is just as well. Still, the character of Terry Silver provides some interesting moments. The final match, All valley under 18, (ahem!) is weak, obtuse, and overwrought with emotion. Naturally, Daniel-san has to win to give some thread of legitimacy to the plot but a neat twist would have him lose then spend at least 15 minutes of movie time figuring out why he lost, then set up a rematch for KK part 4 the new beginning or something like that. The franchise did just fine with the first two. They were fresh, unique, and realistic. The third was an obvious attempt to cash in and it shows from the storyline all the way to the anti-climatic ending. "}{"Title":"Ralph Chunkio, but a great movie.","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" OK, it's obviously been at least two years between karate kid 2 and 3, so why on earth does the director feel the need to make it look like Daniel is coming back from Okinawa, when it's clear for everyone to see the difference, he's aged, he's got more flip, and yes, the actor has got fatter. Have you seen his chubby cheeks? All of this aside, the movie is very good i feel. Thomas Ian Griffith's performance is classic, threatening, but very funny. The conflict between teacher and student becomes a tad boring though,plus the little sweet love story between Danial and the tree girl is insulting, we have seen this in the first two movies, forget it,move on.This is way better than the second, and has some better moments than the 1st. It's the most comical if you like that sinister style. "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN PART 2","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"18 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  I believe The Karate Kid Part 3 is a worthy, entertaining and well-acted final installment in the popular trilogy. An improvement over Part 2, this final chapter couldn't have been done any better. Having watched Daniel and Mr Miyagi's relationship develop in the first two film's, Part 3's story threatens to break up their friendship, thus creating a perfect blend of tension and drama. Having Daniel train under the sadistic Cobra Kai teacher adds to the film's intensity. His relationship with Mr Miyagi further threatened by lies and heated arguments, Daniel(Ralph Macchio) gives a solid and engaging performance, proving that he is a competent actor. I found the film refreshing in many ways, especially in regard to Daniel's relationship with his female friend, which doesn't develop into a typical love-interest subplot like the previous two film's. This film may be a little on the dark side but in all honesty it's a decent finale to a very entertaining movie trilogy. "},{"Title":"A movie about First World problems","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" These may not be in order, except in the order they come to mind.After watching all three in their proper order (thanks G4), this is a story about First World American problems, and they wouldn't even exist outside of the context of the rich and spoiled (and, need I say artificial) San Fernando Valley. In fact, at the beginning of KK1 Daniel is an outsider, and by KK3 Daniel is one of the Valley Boys and we have little to no sympathy for his get-the-girl, get-the-trophy conflicts by now. This movie had almost zero purpose. Well, maybe it was something like a low correlation coefficient, of, say, .0299 or something.There were two sub-themes that did make sense. One was that Mr. Miyagi continued to be shown as a human being. Noriuke Pat Morita was a great actor, whose emotion looked just like you would expect of that situation if it were real life. But, beyond that, the Miyagi had hobbies other than karate. I think the use of the bonsai metaphors makes for good life lessons.The other lesson was that tournament karate isn't real karate. The beautiful moment in the Kobra Kai dojo where Miyagi takes on Snake and Keese, and Snake is standing there covered in paint and continues to make himself look like a jack ass in front of the defeated student thug sitting in a heap in the corner, you can just see the excessive external showcasing of practicing to win tournaments and basically beating people up style of martial arts versus the very artistic and classical Okinawan styles (I am familiar with Uechi Ryu and Goju Ryu, and Morita makes them look like they should), which are very sparse and devoid of flashy Hoo Haa Yoww Hollywood styles. One is karate for getting chicks, the other is moving Zen.Finally, in the final tournament round, Daniel goes into kata mode. He does maybe 10 moves from a kata, and I really don't know what the practical application of that is. Don't get me wrong, I'm not putting down kata. I love kata. Kata contains the essential defensive technique of a karate style. But to perform a kata in the ring while your opponent is standing there waiting to throw and block punches is actually nonsensical. If anything, they could have gone into slow-mo while the Kobra Kai guy throws some punches or kicks, and Daniel performs various counter techniques from his kata. But to simply do a kata is meaningless. Did you see Mr. Miyagi perform kata while fighting Snake and Keese, or in any fight, ever? No, he performs kata at the lake or on a mountain top or by the sea or in his dojo. But not while actually fighting. A master of karate will not move until his opponent moves. You see lots of frivolous and nervous fist shaking and twitching in tournament-minded students.From Karate Kids 1 through 3, Ralph Macchio's karate is not very good to look at. Sure, Karate Kid 1 is the story of him setting out on the karate path, but by Karate Kid 3 I am thinking, He'd better do this well, or don't show him doing it at all. Watching Macchio act karate moves very much reminded me of watching David Carradine act kung fu moves on TV. When I was 14 Kwai Chang Cane was my hero, but to see old Kung Fu and other David Carradine movies now, I realize he wasn't very good. It required some sketchy and quick pans to make the imagination believe he was doing kung fu, and I think that's the best we can say about Ralph Macchio.Story? Meh...Beautiful nature shots of the cliffs overlooking the Pacific, and the sea cave scenes was stunning. The girl? Like all Daniel San's girls, she serves as something like a motivation template, because he's your basic hot blooded Italian adolescent, and even though none of the girls in Daniel's life seem permanent, this one didn't even stay for the duration of this one movie. What's up with that?On a positive note, Daniel eventually shows signs that he may eventually mature emotionally. "},{"Title":"a real let down (some spoilers)","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  i was really let down by this movie, after loving the first two. it just did not ring true why would daniel be intimadated by this opponent after having a life and death fight at the end of karate kid 2. Also the acting and new charicters were not up to the standerd of the first two movies. I would have to class this as a money making sequel that adds nothing to the story. Only watch this if you like anything to do with karate kid  "},{"Title":"The film failed.","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" From ignorant pantywaist to skilled karate champion- film 1.From champion to death match participant lacking confidence to confident, merciful champion- film 2.From reluctant, terrified participant to self confident champion- film 3.Up, down. Up, down. By the final film, Daniel-san is the height of wishy-washiness. I realize it would have resulted in us having no movie, but come on. There's so much illogicality in this flick that it seems to take place in an alternate universe. Daniel tossing his future to help Miyagi open a Bonsai store? Couldn't Daniel recommend a product more likely to, you know, SELL? Was the entry form for the tournament a legally binding contract with legal consequences should the signatory be a no-show? Given Kreese's threat in film 1, that's highly unlikely. Even if that were true, LaRusso always had the option to forfeit, relieving him of the need to defend the title and short circuiting the entire revenge plan. And let's face facts, deciding not to defend a title in an 18 and under karate tourney is hardly going to impact one's life for all time.As to Kreese, this film continues his cardboard cutout persona of the vengeful, evil dude. It's stupid. Were I him, I'd get Daniel away from Miyagi and train him myself, with this in mind this is a kid who jacked up ALL of Cobra Kai's top fighters, including the best of the best. Daniel became a local celeb in doing so. What could be a greater coup to score than to have HIM join Cobra Kai? Kids would flock to join and Kreese wouldn't be able to open dojos fast enough.Just more examples of the realm of the senseless these characters inhabit. "},{"Title":"Not Great, But Better Than Part -Two","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This isn't a very good film, however it's better than the second one!I just watched all of the Karate Kid movies back-to-back, and Part III did have some good moments..... unfortunately, it still fell flat.There's not much to say here, it's just another predictable Karate Kid film, with no big surprises.The first film was the best one, there's no doubt about that. Big fans of the trilogy will probably want to pick up part III just to complete their collection, that's about it.I can only recommend this movie as a fun way to kill a boring Sunday afternoon.. "},{"Title":"I saw this film.","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I saw this film, and I really liked it. Someome wrote that they thought Daniel had not learned anything from Mr. Miyagi. I totally disagree. I think he learned a lot, but that he thought he could do better alone. He finally learned in the end that it took Mr. Miyagi's help in winning. Someone also wrote, Daniel ought to be a man's man by this film, but he still walks like a girl, he talks like a girl, and BY GOD he still FIGHTS like a girl!!! How are they supposed to fight? I think that he fought quite well, and that he was a man's man in every way. I really enjoyed this film, and would recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I first watched this movie The Karate Kid Part III, when I was thirteen, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. The plot was about the Cobra Kai sensei John Krease still holding a grudge against Daniel LaRusso, and Mr. Miyagi for losing the tournament and his students after wards one year earlier. Krease teams up with his old Vietnam veteran friend and co-owner Terry Silver to get revenge on LaRusso. Silver hires a violent ambitious karate student named Mike Barnes, to get LaRusso to fight him in the All Valley tournament. Silver also starts stalking LaRusso, as well pretending to befriend him, and tells him he can train him for the tournament. Meanwhile Mike relentlessly hounds, and beats Daniel up to sign for the tournament. Miyagi tells Daniel to ignore Mike, but Mike is too much for Daniel, so he turns to Silver for help. If you want to know more about this movie, you are going to have to watch this movie. In conclusion this movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Below-average, downhill sequel that could have been a whole lot different","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Incredibly disappointing sequel picking up right where Part II left off, Daniel and Mr. Miyagi returning from Okinawa. Well, it appears that the karate master from the original, Kreese, is still being a baby about how he lost in the tournament, so he gets his rich friend Terry to hire someone to beat Daniel in the tournament. When Miyagi declines to help Daniel, Daniel seeks help from Terry. When he finally discovers that Terry is teaching him the wrong thing, Daniel must fight the way Miyagi taught him in the tournament. I expected a lot more from this movie than what I got. What I got was a sequel that was nowhere near the first two, and with a script filled with hatred. I was so mad when I saw Daniel filled with anger inside his system. I guess he wasn't paying any attention to Mr. Miyagi when he said Karate comes doesn't come from here (points to his fists) but it comes from here (points to his heart). That was one of the most important lines ever said in a movie. Overall, the movie is extremely disappointing and not recommended from me.2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Better than 1 and 2","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is so underated out of the trilogy of the Karate Kid. I mean it just is. The plot which consists of Mike Barnes a karate bad boy and Daniel Larusso which they both begin feuding is good. The acting was good and the supporting roles were nice especially by Thomas Ian Griffith who played Terry Silver. I liked this movie and consider it the best in the series next to 1 than 2, but they are all good in there own way but Part 3 takes the cake. Mr.Miyagi (Pat Morita) also delivered good in this movie as Daniel's mentor/trainer. The ending is good and memorable as it is the last in the Karate Kid series not including The Next Karate Kid which was just bad.Overall The Karate Kid Part III is a overall good movie that you can see again and again. "}{"Title":"Cool Movie in all (some spoilers)","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  I'm a big fan of all the K.K. movies. I'm also a big fan of Ralph Macchio...seems he's gained a bit in this movie, but still a cutie! Well anyway, I liked this movie a lot. I bought it before I watched it (I thougth I'd like it anyway so..) and I was happy with it. I'm sorta wondering about Daniel and the red-head in this movie. Unresolved stuff there..umm..lol I wish he woulda found a girlfriend at the end of this K.K. series thing. I loved this movie, but I still like the first the best. I haven't seen the second one, but I will soon. Daniel Larrusso and his mentor/friend Mr. Miyagi arrive back in California from a trip to Japan. Super meanie Kreese wants his revenge on whatever it is they did. Blah blah blah, Daniel finds a girl, he gets in a fight with Mr. Miyagi, they make up, Daniel wins the championship. Okay, great movie. Watch it for more detail. I liked it personally.  "},{"Title":"The best in the series","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is truly the best in the series.I would suggest you  buy  this movie cause this is 1 of those movies you gotta see again and again.It had all the drama and alot of good acting.This movie should have  definatly won a award.I give this movie a 9 cause it finished  off the best.Its better then the first because the ending wasnt  all that great.But the first one is also a classic.Ill reccomend everyone see this   movie  you   wont be dissapointed! "},{"Title":"Ridiculous Entry in What Used to Be a Good Series","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Karate Kid, Part III is a pure mess of a film.  This time the evil Thomas Ian Griffith wants to get revenge on Macchio and Morita because of their roles in the first film.  The film never does take off the way it should.  The screenplay is really mean-spirited and the actors struggle with very weak material.  A disappointment in the popular series.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Familiar, but a definite improvement over Part II.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Karate Kid III is a definite improvement over the dull and plotless Part II. They actually made an effort to tell a story here, while the previous installment was just meandering along without ever going anywhere. The only thing the film lacks in comparison to the original is...originality it all seems overly familiar by now. Still, Macchio (who looks, in some scenes, YOUNGER than he did in the original, even though he is 27 years old here) and Morita give OK performances and the film, mild as it is, has an atypically - for this series - fast pace. "},{"Title":"second best in the series!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  i don't know why critics or other people bash this movie.it's almost as good as the original,but not quite. butthey still say this is a worthless movie,and very bad. ican't understand that.  the thrill of this movie isn't asbig as the thrill in the original,but it's still pretty big. iguess it's hard to out-do the original,because the  original was so fresh. even though this movie is  far-fetched it still is a very fun movie. it's better thanpart II,and a lot better than the forth one. i give thekarate kid III *** out of **** "},{"Title":"get your kix elsewhere","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  They try, and succeed some of the time in this film, but its just not enough for a recommendation.  The villain is approached differently this time around, which was interesting.  Yes, there is the usual hot headed punk bothering Daniel, but the real bad guy is Griffiths character who befriends Daniel.  After returning from his Okinowan adventure, Danielsan tries to prepare for college.  While he's busy with that, Koves evil teacher is out for revenge, and enlists the aid of old buddy Griffith.  He convinces Daniel that he needs to change his approach, thus starting a deterioration of he and Miyagis relationship.  It all unfolds decently enough, but the wrong turn is made by making the baddies so racist much of the time.  And Kanan tries too hard to be smooth and just causes you to roll your eyes most of the time.  Biggest of all, I couldve really done without that pointless, slower than hell bonsai tree stuff.  Writer Kamen (of director Avildsen) shouldve tossed that out as fast as they could.  It sucks up about 15 minutes of our time, a sequence that, if removed, woudlve made the film a little more tolerable.  As for the ending, its back to a tournament finish, that hardly matches the first two films for drama.  The musics exciting enough, the move Daniel uses was ok, but it was so quickly over that it lacked the punch of the others.  Fair but not awful 3rd entry.  "},{"Title":"Chop-sucky","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Let's face it. We all watch the first three movies in this series because it's fun to watch oafish Daniel-san get the tar kicked out him repeatedly until the last scene. One thing of interest is the fact that although Kreese and Terry Silver were supposedly both trained in Cobra Kai Karate, their fighting styles are nothing alike. Kreese's maneuvers seem to concentrate on straight line punches and Silver's seems primarily focused on circular kicks. At least by the time we get to #4, we've actually managed to get somebody that doesn't look spastic while fighting. "},{"Title":"No Worse than the Rest","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  And that's about the best you can say about it.  Kove and Thomas Ian are great villains, and they're actually more interesting than the now-badly-overaged Ralph Macchio and the endlessly philosophising Pat Morita.  And I like watching Ralph Macchio get his butt kicked as much as the next person.  Probably as good a way to end the series as any...ugh, but then they gave us Karate Kid IV.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie! The best of the series!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Karate Kid 3 is an excellent movie, with Daniel facing the most difficult opponent he has ever come across. It is filled with plenty of karate, and is very dramatic. The best scene comes towards the end when Daniel goes to the dojo to tell his teacher that he will not compete. That's when his teacher brings out the opponent. It is a superb film. Don't let this one pass. It's better than the first two entries.  "},{"Title":"The Karate Kid III  Fight The Anger !","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" Firstly Viewer-San, must bear some idiocy  Daniel came back from Japan so tall (Boy! The kids grow up pretty fast in the east !). The returning Daniel seems to have gained at least 25 kg (Boy ! They do eat too much in Japan !). The evil guy is A-one genuine nut-job who was a Vietnam veteran (Boy ! the Vietnam war ruined a lot of minds brutally !). The Japanese girl left Danny (Boy ! This guy sure knows how to lose girls !).Then Viewer-San, must bear main course in crap feast  The plot is one of the silliest BS I have ever seen in my life. Isn't a bit too far, exaggerated and complicated to plan this long-term scheme on Daniel?! Wasn't beating the hell out of him and Miyagi easier and faster?! Plus the whole first 15 minutes were a bore, the attractive details of Miyagi's techniques were out, and the shots of him and Daniel exercising were repeated lifelessly from the previous 2 movies with nothing new (except one helicopter shot that this movie doesn't deserve).After that Viewer-San, must know point of weakness  Daniel's girl this time just goes to come back, and comes back to go (one time she goes to never come back !). To add more fuel, (Robyn Lively) is no competitor to (Elisabeth Shue) from part 1, or the cute Japanese girl of part 2, looking older than the lead as well. And about the interplay between them both; let's say that they were like Donald Duck and Minnie Mouse. It just won't work ! And must know your enemies, your real ones ! The performance of the bad guys was extremely fanatic. They seemed like a bunch of hopeless psychos that fits a Police Academy movie. While the viewing, I was doing a funny faces to (Thomas Ian Griffith)'s acting which was nothing but many evil smiles. Actually this portrayal, as a writing or acting, weakened the conflict, making it damn predictable.Then Viewer-San, must know that greatest enemy could be your own hero !  It is the biggest disaster at all; Daniel himself or Ralph Macchio. He got to be in the world's records encyclopedia as the only human who can talk and talk without any stop to take his breath for the longest possible time ! He was delivering the lines so fast, being in uncontrollable hype all the time to a degree pushed me to shout in many places  CAN'T YOU SHUT UP A LITTLE ! Maybe the desire was to show how Daniel is living a tight phase in his life. But it is axiomatic that there is a difference between high-strung person, and high-strung performance ! After the deep headache he gave me, I said to myself if that didn't make it to the Razzie at its time then I'd hang myself. Although I already found him on the list, but I was so angry when I discovered that he was a nominee not a winner !!!!!! Now Viewer-San, learn good this great deathblow  It's the main problem forever and ever  the script. It's pretty obvious that the choice of the story was all wrong. And don't wait for the forth; it's no more than a remake of the first but with a chick ! Anyway, some of Mr. Miyagi's moments, along with the sequence of the mountaineering, were the only bearable things in here.Viewer-San.. Must control feelings  Read with me what was written on the original poster of it  First it was teacher to student. Then it was father to son. Now it's man to man. WAW. How serious. I'm about to cry, really. But what the heck was that about ?!!!!!!!!!!!! Finally, Viewer-San. OK to lose to movie. Never OK to lose to anger ! "}{"Title":"review of the karate kid part III","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of my all time favourite childhood films of the 80's. Actually,my kids are sitting watching it this very minute and they love to too!I never get bored of watching it even though it's been at least once a week recently and neither do they!Ralph is just to die for in this movie just ask any thirty year old female. Ha, ha!Also each time I watch I still get butterfly's in my stomach at the big fight at the end. Thanks for making such a trio of memorable movies as the karate kid trilogy. Cheers! "},{"Title":"AWESOME FILM","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The greatest Karate Kid sequel is an improvement over 2 but still lacking the heart that part 1 contained. Ralph Macchio was superb in his final performance as Daniel. He was a little fatter, older(27), and wiser. So wasn't Morita as well. The villains were top notch with Kove and Griffith doing a great job as evil Vietnam vets who want strictly revenge on the old slope and that punk kid. MIKE BARNES was awesome. The greatest challenge Daniel has ever faced. BARNES was better than Johnny in part 1 and Chozen in part 2. MIKE BARNES I think made this sequel turn out so good. HE WAS AWESOME. His karate was great while Daniels was a joke. I give Karate Kid Part III **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Too Bad, Mr. Miyagi","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The first Karate Kid was a wonderful, heart-warming movie. The first sequel, Part II, was a passable entrant, consisting of warmed-over plot lines, but at least the venue moved from California to Okinawa. Now comes the third installment and they're back to their old stomping grounds in California. The time is supposed to be only a year after the original and it's time for Daniel to defend his championship. I can't go on...the movie is too insipid. The moviemakers make a complete hash of Part III. All the characters are reduced to two-dimensional punch-outs. Nobody behaves believably, sadly even Mr. Miyagi. This is certainly a sequel too far. Avoid.  "},{"Title":"Back On Track for a Good time!!","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  A Big improvement over the rather slow-paced part 2, KARATE KID 3 gets things back on track in a great way!  Part 3 is much more like the first film as we watch Daniel get bullied by a rude Karate Hot-shot (and his buddies) that he will eventually fight in the tournament at the end of the movie.  All of it is so that Kove (the villainous sinse of the first film) can watch Daniel pay for putting an end to his ruthless teaching methods. This movie is a great fun to watch, a real crowdpleaser like the first film. Full of beautiful scenery, nicely choreographed fight-scenes, and the priceless interaction between Daniel and Miyagi..this film is a genuine good time!! After seeing such a great part 3, I can only wonder why they didn't bring The Karate Kid and Mr. Miyagi together again for part 4...??  "},{"Title":"Psychological test","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I rented this one about ten or so years ago had my beers while I was watching and repeatedly went out of my head for a few hours. The first movie was a psychological attack on a lonely teenager getting attacked by a popular clique of stuck on themselves high school karate boys. This one has an older Danny getting back from Japan then proceeding to get a total psyche blast from someone who just wants to psychologically ruin his life by becoming his friend then taking that back then trying to destroy him by using karate. Danny has to figure it out on his own this time but Miyagi does help him eventually. Just for guidance and we finally get to see him fight what a scene! I'd recommend this to anyone liking the first one and maybe they did try to squeeze out another movie but it is way better than the next karate kid "},{"Title":"The Karate Kid Part III","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" The first film is of course the favourite, the sequel was a bit of a repeat, and this final part to star both original actors is also the same kind of thing, from Razzie nominated director John G. Avildsen (Rocky). Basically the film opens once again with the winning kick in the face by Daniel LaRusso (Razzie nominated Ralph Macchio), and the little squabble between bitter trainer John Kreese (Martin Kove) and Mr. Kesuke Miyagi (Razzie nominated Noriyuki 'Pat' Morita) in the second film, before it moves on. Kreese has lost students and business since Daniel won the fight against his student, and he wants to get revenge by pitting a new high class karate student against him. Kreese goes on vacation and gets his Vietnam comrade Terry Silver (Thomas Ian Griffith) to take care of it for him, by getting deadly karate student Mike Barnes (Sean Kanan) ready for the up and coming tournament Daniel won a year earlier. Daniel and Mr. Miyagi meanwhile have returned from Japan, and Daniel helps his old friend achieve his dream of opening his own bonsai tree store. Daniel has met and hanging out with pottery shop across the street from their shop worker Jessica Andrews (Robyn Lively), but is being hounded by Mike, in town demanding he sign the tournament form. Of course this is part of Silver's plan, first to get Daniel in the tournament, and then meet him as a new trainer to make him a ruthless fighter and get away from Mr. Miyagi, maybe even split their friendship. Daniel gives in and signs the form to take part when rock climbing gets in the way, and he agrees to let Silver train him to become much more aggressive than he normally would be, and Mr. Miyagi and Jessica both get this new attitude. Daniel realises his change in attitude, and goes to Silver to stop training with him, and that is when Kreese, who Silver told him was dead, comes up behind him, with Mike, and they all reveal their plan. Mr. Miyagi didn't want him to compete for the glory, but to keep his honour, and of course seeing this thing too gives him the confidence to allow the fight. In the final fight, Mike is told to fight rough, but keep the score even until the point they announce sudden death, Daniel is weak and scared, but Mr. Miyagi gives him the confidence back, and he does win like he should. Also starring Jonathan Avildsen as Snake and Glenn Medeiros. This film is the most despised of the original films, I didn't think it was as bad as they make it sound, obviously the first film is the best, but there were small parts of this martial arts adventure to like, only small. It was nominated the Razzies for Worst Picture and Worst Screenplay. Adequate! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of American Cinema (sigh)...","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  You have to take this movie with a grain of salt. Purely unbelievable on some parts, KK3 is not nearly the movie of either part I or II. However, if you liked the first two you will enjoy the third. Terry Silver provides plenty of one-liners, but that alone cannot make up for the deficiencies of plot and script. This series should have ended with part II.  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" So what if this movie was nominated for a Razzie? This movie actually wraps up the trilogy quite nicely. Daniel LaRusso's character needed a conflict, where things were no longer black and white on the surface, to grow. Daniel now has some power and responsibility, how will he handle it? Granted, the back story of the new Cobra Kai was laughable, and Mike Barnes's character was less intimidating that Chozen's. The same people who didn't like Return of the Jedi (in the Star Wars OT) won't like this film, for basically the same reasons. Towards the end, there was a lot of re-use of elements of the first movie, and going from a fight to the death, back to a point karate-tournament match in the finals may have hurt the payoff at the end. However, all-in-all, this was a worthy entry to the trilogy. "},{"Title":"A martial arts joke.  Insult to the series","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was really disappointed by this movie.  It was just another sequel.  The first two karate kid movies were more about spirituality and martial arts growth.  The original karate kid helped young children learn the value of martial arts.  The movies were about life and what the real meaning of martial arts is.  The third movie was only about a fight.  They reused the original plot, but removed the spiritualism.  It was a disgrace to the series. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":" I decided to revisit the entire original Karate Kid saga because of the remake that came out. Getting to part III reminded me of why I had not seen its original theatrical release. This movie is just awful. The twisted, overly-elaborate revenge plot cooked up by Sensei's rich friend is ludicrous and the acting, especially by Ralph Macchio is embarrassing. The villains are so over-the-top as to be cartoonish and Macchio's Daniel-san is exceedingly annoying, to the point that the film becomes nearly unwatchable. He acts like he's an overgrown teen with ADD. As someone else suggested, it appears as if Macchio actually forgot how to act. Any raw talent he displayed in the original film is completely gone. "}{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  The worst of the series, THE KARATE KID PART III proves that a film without a script is not any good. If you liked the other films, you will be disappointed. The whole plot seems like a child thought it up, the acting's gone down the drain, and the script also seems like a child wrote it. 1.5/5 stars--JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Ralph Macchio what were you thinking","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Family","Review":"  Daniel and Mr. Miyagi return from Okinawa, only to find that the evil karate teacher John Kreese wants revenge on them, an selects a fierce opponent for Daniel. This could have been good, Only problem that Ralph Macchio put on a few pounds and started to show his age a little. This film was an embarsement to his career. Part 1 was good and Part 2 was excellent, but this one was silly and immature. Part 2 should have been his last and it should have went straight to the Next Karate Kid with Hillary Swank, which did fairly better. and Robyn Lively is beautiful and talented, and she is wasted in this role. "}]