[{"Title":"one of those good scifi-movies!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"44 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Leviathan is one of those underwater scifi-movies wich were made 1989. Abyss was a success with all that fantasy it included, but Leviathan and for example Deepstar six never made it to the stars. It just wasn't the right moment. Leviathan was made with good budget, average actors(Peter Weller, Richard Crenna and so on) and with professional director(George P.Cosmatos, who made wonderful job in Tombstone 1993). So what went wrong? Personally I liked the movie, because it had a good plot, lots of action and little humour there and there. I liked it, let's see if you like it!  "},{"Title":"Soggy, but Good","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is always going to be compared to Deep Star Six and The Abyss, because all three films came out at the same time. It is an underwater Alien movie, but it doesn't rip off The Abyss, which came out third of the three and none of them did any real business.Anyway, this movie was one of those films that is engrossing in the theater and transfers very poorly to television and video. I would venture a guess that a wide-screen DVD version may be able to pick-up most of the considerable detail that was placed into this film. The acting is not awful and the story is well-paced, which is a step ahead of the other two 1989 underwater movies. This isn't Shakespere folks, so don't expect it. A little more polish to the script would have helped this movie greatly, but it is a fairly B horror flick so it was expected.The cast is Weller, Hudson, Crenna, and Pays doing their things. They don't exactly phone it in, but they aren't expected to deliver that many lines convincingly anyway. Whatever happened to Amanada Pays? After seeing this I thought she had a chance to break through, but instead she disappeared.The setting and special effects are the keys to this one, though. Visually, it is as tough as they come. Like I wrote before, stick to the DVD version, because I already know the VHS version stinks because it is so cloudy and out of focus. Watch the DVD and I can almost guarantee that you will find this movie to be better than you have been lead to believe by others. "},{"Title":"Slightly better than expected.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first half of Leviathan is competently made and surprisingly absorbing, with strongly drawn characters and good acting all around. In the second half, the film degenerates into an Alien rip-off (and later on, it even steals a classic scene from Jaws), with derivative special effects and too many familiar elements. But it is saved (and gets 6/10) by Cosmatos' professionalism; he certainly redeems himself here for making the absolutely terrible Cobra three years earlier. "},{"Title":"underrated...","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers...The crew of an underwater research lab fall victim to a mysterious genetic mutation  after two of its members drink a tainted bottle of liquor taken from a russian shipwreck.   One by one, the crew are contaminated when they encounter the ever mutating  monster derived from improperly disposed of bodies of the original two infected crew  members.  Once a member of the crew is attacked, they become part of the monster.Perhaps ironically, the film itself is a bit of a hybrid mutation, borrowing story elements  from the Alien film and its genre, as well as The Thing, especially John Carpenter's  version.  Like Alien, the creature stalks those inside the underwater complex through its  maze of dimly lit, high-tech looking corridors, crawl spaces and labs.  When the crew  learns of a bogus cover story about their supposed deaths in the news, they realize the  corporation they work for has lied to them about a rescue (the good doctor has supplied  them with enough info) and struggle to survive while look for a way out.The characters are believable enough, especially Richard Crenna who does a good job  playing the role of crew doctor who begins to unravel what's going on.  The creature  effects are very well done and they're shown just enough (until the laughably predictable  ending with its intentionally? humorous borrowing from Jaws ) to build terror.  There is  a sub-genre of underwater movies just like this one, but for some reason none seem as  tightly wound and enjoyable as Leviathan.  Perhaps because of the cast (and there are  two beautiful actresses in this one) or the sfx, none linger in the mind like this one did.   A fun rental for a rainy day.  "},{"Title":"One of the better sci-fi movie from the '80s","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The movie is an obvious Alien copy, only that it's settings have changed from outer space to under water.In my opinion, '80s was the decade of low for good sci-fi movies. There were many really bad B sci-fi made during that time. But this is one of the few well made movies from that era.If you're going to be cooped up in a small area, you might as well be with sexy good looking people like they did in this movie. I liked the scene where doc just went right into the shower stall where Bowman was taking the shower, just saying Bowman, it's doc. Doctor's privilege ?I don't have much bad things to say about this movie except that in my opinion, they spoiled the movie at the last scene where the creature comes to the surface. The creature looked so fake that I think it destroyed the good image of the movie.So asides from the ending, the movie was very well made, and was entertaining to watch. "},{"Title":"Good classic monster movie","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This science fiction horror film has what it takes to be a top notch monster movie. Like Frankenstein and Jurassic Park the moral of the story is that it's not nice to tamper with mother nature,and those who do so will have to face the terrible consequences. Not by any means an original story,but more like a takeoff on Alien or John Carpenter's The Thing. The big difference however being that it takes place below the ocean depths at a silver mine.Still it has it everything to be a good thriller,suspenseful moments and good special effects along with some memorable characters. Highly recommended for late night entertainment with friends. Guaranteed to be scary enough for the kids. I give this film an 8. "},{"Title":"Rambo, come rescue me!","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Honestly, that's the line that seems to be running through Richard Crenna's mind throughout this flick. As if he can't imagine why he is in this pic.Basically, Leviathan is probably the best of the '89 glut of aqua-horror-action movies. It's made on a decent budget (unlike DeepStar Six) and doesn't have bloated pretensions of greatness (unlike The Abyss). It's got a decent cast (hey, Hector Elizondo is a class act!) who seem to know they're not making a classic here, but are willing to give it their all for what is basically a cheesy horror flick.The plot also seems to at least bother to explain itself (unlike DeepStar Six, there' s an explanation for the monster). The cast is likeable (Peter Weller's another can't-miss sort of actor). I wouldn't give it high marks, but it's competently done. "},{"Title":"Alien Rip-off Underwater","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In the Atlantic Ocean, 16,000 feet deep, the Tri Oceanic Mining Corporation keeps a eight-men crew with the mission of extracting silver and other precious metals. The geologist and leader Steven Beck (Peter Weller) works with Dr. Glen 'Doc' Thompson (Richard Crenna) managing the miners astronaut wannabe Elizabeth 'Willie' Williams (Amanda Pays), the prankster Buzz 'Sixpack' Parrish (Daniel Stern), Justin Jones (Ernie Hudson), Tony 'DeJesus' Rodero (Michael Carmine), Bridget Bowman (Lisa Eilbacher) and G. P. Cobb (Hector Elizondo). He is also the liaison with the Tri Oceanic executive Ms. Martin (Meg Foster).In their next to last day, Willie and Sixpack are assigned to work outside the base and Sixpack falls in a hole. Willie seeks him out and finds a Russian vessel named Leviathan. Sixpack finds a safe inside the vessel and brings it to their base. They find money, vodka, a videotape and documents and Beck keeps the content of the safe. However Sixpack steals a bottle of vodka and drinks with Bowman. Meanwhile Beck and Doc watch the videotape and the Russian Captain explains a problem that killed his crew. On the next morning, Sixpack does not feel well and stays in the sickbay. Soon Doc learns that his patient has a genetic mutation. When Bowman shows the same symptoms, Beck asks Ms. Martin to rescue them. But there is a hurricane on the surface and the rescuing mission is not possible. Leviathan is an Alien rip-off underwater, but it is nostalgic to see this movie in the present days to admire the excellent cast in the late 80's. The lovely Amanda Pays shines with her beauty and is always good to see the eyes of Meg Foster. Peter Robocop Weller, Richard Creena and Hector Elizondo, all of them in good shape, is another attraction. Another good point is the special effect with the monsters, usual in the 80's and 90's and different from the exaggeration of the CGI in the present days. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Not Available "},{"Title":"Hokey fun cramming in as much as it can.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Leviathan is directed by George P. Cosmatos and then screenplay is written by David Webb Peoples & Jeb Stuart from Peoples' own story. It stars Peter Weller, Richard Crenna, Amanda Pays, Daniel Stern, Ernie Hudson, Michael Carmine, Lisa Eilbacher, Hector Elizondo & Meg Foster.Let me start off by saying that the rating I have given is purely for personal reasons, I love daft creature features and rate them accordingly. Artistically the film scores about the average mark of 5/10, the acting, story and effects really don't demand much better unless you have got a soft spot for the genre. Tagged as Alien underwater, the film was always going to struggle to live up to that particular tag for sure, but yes, in structure that is what we get. A group of deep-sea miners come across a wrecked soviet ship and after plundering what they can they end up with more than they bargained for. Enter the plot of deep-sea miners under attack from a very bad and creepy monster. Will they survive? How did it happen? And on it goes to a joyously (unintentionally) funny finale. The film crams as many creature feature clichés in as it can get away with, and sure enough the boo jump scare moments are not in short supply.The cast are all in on the joke (I'm pretty sure they are), so all in all you get a flipping great genre entry that isn't demanding much of the viewer, that is if you are so inclined to check the brain at the door first. So enjoy a B lister that has no pretensions other than to homage and entertain those of a certain persuasion. Quite a cast of pro actors assembled as well. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Seen it all before - but still quite good!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Leviathan is one of those films that has rip-off written all over it. Alot of it you've seen before in better films.  The most obvious comparisons being Alien ( several isolated crew members, the dubious doctor, the suits etc.) and of course The Thing (a gooey monster spawned from human beings, it getting to the blood supply).   I've viewed this one a few times and although it is an inferior movie it does have some pretty neat special effects, a recognizable cast and a decent music score by Jerry Goldsmith.Not a total wet squib - it certainly has its moments. I'd give it 7/10. "}{"Title":"Tries to be Alien,  tries to be The Thing, tries to be The Abyss. But doesn't come close.","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remember watching some talk show where the host and another character went deep sea diving and mentioned a movie that had deep sea diving where they all die at the end. I recalled it as The Deep, so I saw that movie at Wal-Mart for 10 bucks, so I bought it and found a rather dull wreck-diving movie. So I asked my dad What's the movie where they all die at the end? he said Leviathan I think. So years went by, I am once again at Wal-Mart and saw this film for 6 bucks and it immediately reminded me of that conversation. So I read the synopsis, saw that it had Peter Weller and Ernie Hudson, directed by George P. Cosmatos who directed one of the greatest westerns ever made; Tombstone. As well as this being a deep sea horror film, very few of those exist so I was intrigued.What I got was a movie that was so blatantly ripping off 3 other movies it was nearly insulting. I can forgive a movie that has lame special effects because it's old, but this was made in 1989, that's not that old! The first creature we see, is seen scuttling across the floor, however it's 8 legs didn't move at all. Alien was made 10 years before and it's special effects still stand up against most of today's films! The movie takes most of its inspiration from Alien, including some almost frame for frame identical shots. They even have the only black character as the mechanic. (Yaphet Kotto as Parker anyone?)Lets see who else we can compare to...Peter Weller as Tom Skerrit's character Dallas. Richard Crenna as Ian Holm's mysterious scientist character Ash, also combined with A. Wilford Brimley's character from The Thing in terms of cutting off the crew from being rescued...the list goes on. There's the flamethrowers of course, from both movies yet they do almost nothing against a SEA creature that's soaking wet! MY GOD! Who'd a thunk it!? Not to mention the flamethrowers jam when sticking it directly under pouring water to shoot the creature. The creature gestates inside people (alien) but then takes over and molds their cells together (The Thing) The one thing that impressed me is that at the very end of the film the last 3 survivors (it was obvious at that point that this movie was already too predictable and I knew my dad was mistaken and they wouldn't all die) One of the survivors was Ernie Hudson! I thought to myself My god! Out of all the clichés in the movie, they didn't buy into one of the most common ones, the token black guy getting killed! Then of course in the last 2 minutes of the movie the creature comes out of the water and instead of swimming towards the helicopter that landed in the water to rescue them, Ernie Hudson swims TOWARDS the creature in order to allow the others time to escape! The movie's one redeeming feature was flushed down the toilet.If you haven't seen any of the aforementioned movies (The Abyss, Alien, The Thing) you might enjoy this movie. I understand that not all movies can have the budget or script strength of those films, but...there could at least be effort. All in all, I'm not angry I bought it for 6 bucks but it won't be one I'll watch again any time soon. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Occasionally Suspenseful Deep-Sea Thriller","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'd been wanting to see Leviathan since I had somehow, out of nowhere, heard of it. Negative reviews (from IMDb, FYI) dulled my interests, but finally, I figured what the hell, and as it turned out, this isn't a bad movie.A deep-sea mining crew, counting down to its last few days (well, first, of their project, and later, of their lives--ouch, that was pretty promo-like, huh?) and, seemingly out of nowhere, one of the crew members becomes infected with an odd sort of skin disease, which may lead back to a small, spider-like sea creature brought on board. In any event, things don't look good, and this disease is apparently something more. Something very deadly. This may also explain the sunken Russian ship they find, with the mysterious captain's log and, well...one thing leads to another, and Alien-style fun ensues as members of the small crew are infected or killed (or, in one rather unique case, kill themselves), leading up to a somewhat flat climax, where the film falters.Indeed, we'll start with that. Leviathan has a good amount of build-up. Bores the hell out of some people, but it really isn't boring. (And doesn't take THAT long for the screaming to start, so to speak.) We get to know the characters, and what is going on here, and what is causing this whole fiasco. I, for one, liked that, and liked the way the characters are developed. Peter Weller as the pacifist head honcho, Beck. Richard Crenna as the doctor, Dr. Thompson. Amanda Pays as the requisite tough-but-likably-innocent miner, Willie. Daniel Stern as the slimy Sixpack, and so forth and so on. All in all, a great group of characters. (Loved Ernie Hudson's Jones.) And you don't really want to see them all die. So, when it all goes down, the movie manages to envoke some sympathy for them all.But once it's time to get into action mode (running around steam-filled corridors, toting a flame-thrower, screaming and hollering and all that fun stuff) the movie doesn't deliver. Sure, the final trio of survivors gets to do their fair share of it, and they do it well. But then it just seems like the ending came too quickly, and there was still more to be milked. Let's look at Alien again. (I think it's a prerequisite that anyone who reviews this movie mention that one, too.) In the end, after everyone but Ripley is killed, we get a pretty harrowing thrill ride through the soon-to-be-detonating ship. Sure, it goes to the extent of Ripley going back to get the cat, but it's SCARY! And you're on the edge of your seat the whole time. Here...well, no cat, but the the mining ship was going to implode, due to lack of oxygen. So, what happened to all that drama and suspense? I felt a little cheated. Would have loved to have knocked off the others and left Willie running around doing all that fun stuff, trying to escape before she ran out of air. Instead...well, you get the point.Since we're talking about characters a little, let's move on to the acting. For the most part, the cast gives a good show. Peter Weller is leading man material, and he pulled it off well. Richard Crenna never gives a downright bad performance, and I liked him here. Loved Amanda Pays's British accent, and she gave a good performance. Would have liked her a little bit more gun-ho, though, she seemed to need some saving a little too much. Daniel Stern has a surprisingly smaller role, considering his billing, but he does well with what he has to do. Ernie Hudson is a dependable actor, and you can always trust him to give a great performance. Here, he does it again. I really liked his character, he was probably the one I liked the most of them all. Another great actor is Hector Elizondo, and here he gives another very Hector Elizondo performance, and he does a great job. Lisa Eilbacher also gave a great performance, and I really liked her. Michael Carmine may have seemed a bit like the we'll think of a character later Hispanic, but I thought he did quite well, too. Last but not least, Meg Foster, who actually only appears on a television communicating with Beck (she sent them all down there) and a little bit in the end, but, well...she's got the most amazing eyes I've ever seen, and that's the most I could say for her.The special effects are excellent, and with all this CGI crap we have today, its great to see these genuine effects, and they look great.Overall, the movie isn't bad. It sustains a good amount of suspense in parts, and George P. Cosmatos can handle a swift action scene quite well. Check out Cassandra Crossing (the only other Cosmatos movie I've seen--I'll be sure to check out more), it's very Italian but it's a pretty good 70s disaster flick of his. The Jerry Goldsmith score is good, too. Not The Omen good, but he never fails to give a pretty rousing score.So, in the end, Leviathan ain't bad. Try the much frowned-upon Sphere (I liked it) or The Abyss for similiar fun. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Three Aliens Underwater Films Of 1989","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Of the three aliens underwater movies of 1989 this one is certainly the best . THE ABYSS might be slightly more remembered but that's possibly down to James Cameron as director and it was also the film that brought us CGI which changed the face of Hollywood but not necessarily for the better . DEEPSTAR SIX felt like each of its three acts belonged in different movie genres and at least LEVIATHAN sets its stall out from the start that it's going to be a straightforward horror movie set under the ocean None of the films did much at the box office that year but watching the movies more than 20 years later this is the most enjoyable one . Interstingly cast would probably have the bigger names of the three movies with Murphy from ROBOCOP , the black guy from GHOSTBUSTERS , John Rambo's commanding officer and the posh chick from MAX HEADROOM. in a film directed by the same guy who directed RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART 2 and the screenwriter of BLADE RUNNER so it's not really a film that has to sell itself down to the plot Perhaps this is just as well because as so many people have said this is like a cross between ALIEN and THE THING . Definite B movie material but if you dig a little deeper you'll notice that it contains a somewhat prophetic criticism of corporate capitalism ( As did ROBOCOP ) and perhaps a dated subtext involving AIDS . It seems somewhat ridiculous now but at the end of the 1980s television would broadcast adverts warning people of the very public danger of AIDS while some so called experts predicted the decimation of the world population before the end of the century due to the disease . In some ways the film also owes a bit to the body horror of David Cronenberg As it stands LEVIATHAN is a tense and exciting B movie set beneath the waves and beautifully shot and avoids the cliché of having the token black guy getting killed first. One wonders though how different things might have worked out for Hollywood if George P Cosmatos had directed THE ABYSS while James Cameron had directed this film . Would we have got a film industry that was too reliant on CGI . One wonders "},{"Title":"Above-average but still needs work","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" An undersea mining troop looking for precious minerals accidentally comes across a strange compound that mutates the genetic configuration of whoever touches it and forces them to battle their hideously-mutated friends to get away alive.This wasn't all that bad at all and definitely has it's moments. During the later half, when the creature's loose and begins to hunt them down, it takes full effect of a perfect hunting ground for the creatures and lets them have some good moments in the stalking to derive some fine suspense, and the tactics of self-protection are certainly worthwhile, coming off as creative and logical and helping in the action nicely. This suffers from several problems however. The most notable is the film's reluctance to fully embrace the horror of the situation and trying to keep it as classy-looking as possible, from a lack of screen-time for the mutants to the near elimination of gore during the kills and keeping it looking classy instead of revealing in it's horror-based origins. Some pacing issues and a really contrived story are also to be worried about, but luckily the make-up effects, especially the final stage of the mutant when we do see the creature make-up for it, so overall, it's flawed but definitely watchable.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"Better Than Average","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reading numerous reviews about this film I wasn't expecting to much. Many top critics have condemned this film like it was absolutely a waste of time. In my opinion, this film was worth the hour and half. The director of this film, George P. Cosmatos has been ridiculed for making some of the most mediocre films in cinema history. Well better mediocre than terrible! Leviathan isn't even really that bad as critics say it is. This movie has a really good cast and the special effects make it even more enjoyable.The cast of this film has actors from various genres. Peter Weller, Amanda Pays, Ernie Hudson, Richard Crenna, and Daniel Stern to name a few. Even though this film is sci-fi part horror, there are so parts of comedy under the mesh of genres. Same thing goes for Cosmatos' film Cobra (1986); a serious movie with some comedic moments. Weller and Hudson are fun to listen to. Mostly these two actors have all the fun lines to say. Amanda Pays is nice to watch too, mostly because people enjoy the scenes where she has barely any clothes on. For me though it's her accent and her eyes. She just has a very innocent character and she does it well. Even though the cast is not massive, I don't want to give away all the character's personalities. The viewer will be able to figure it out when they watch the movie.The effects are the second best thing in this movie. Stan Winston who also did a series of other amazing creature effects in previous movies such as Alien (1979) provides the creature effects. For any horror fan that doesn't like things that squirm and wiggle, this will be a good movie to see. The only issue I had was how the characters were picked off. What I mean is how much gore was involved. Although this movie was rated R, it is mostly for language and some blood. There is blood but I felt that there could've been more. Either way it works well in creating tension. Jerry Goldsmith who I think did a great job composed the music in this movie. Never have a heard a movie soundtrack that has whale sounds in it; it's very eerie.Finally what I like most about this movie was the whole idea. I don't really understand why but 1989 was year that underwater thrillers were the up and up. Along with Leviathan was Deepstar Six (1989) and The Abyss (1989). All three of these didn't really fair well but I feel that this one is the best, even though Cameron's Abyss is now the most famous. But the creature in this movie is like a hybrid of Alien (1979), and John Carpenter's The Thing (1982). Just like The Thing (1982), this movie uses flame-throwers and they look a whole lot meaner too! To some, this film is a cheap knock-off. This is not cheap knock-off, it is a well done knock-off. It has good effects and nice cast to back it up. It hurts to hear people scorn this film, all it is a mixture of previous ideas.With the suspense from The Abyss (1989), the setting from Alien (1979), and a creature like The Thing (1982), Leviathan is a true knock-off. But what makes it better than other knock-offs is its distinguished cast, exceptional special effects and a murky soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Great set design / good writing / lame monster.","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" To be clear, the creature feature Leviathan is the movie that gets muddled in your memory with Alien, The Abyss, DeepStar Six, Deep Rising and several other claustrophobic undersea or outspace sci-fi films. If, for unfathomable reasons, you needed to draw a distinction, this one has the really lame fish monster. And the human / mackerel / alien hybrid mess is unfortunate because the writers made a laudable attempt to imbue its eventual victims with realistic personalities, foibles, petty gripes, jealousies and sub-plot lines. For some reason many of the cast members playing these characters are distractingly thin particularly Peter Weller, Daniel Stern and Amanda Pays. Stern appears positively emaciated while Pays manages not to pose much threat to censors even during the obligatory scene where she is stripped to her underwear and doused with seawater. One assumes the film's craft services sucked. The high point of the cast, as he is with most of his films (which is not saying much given he costarred with Sylvester Stallone in three Rambo pictures), rests with the permanently at-rest Richard Crenna. Crenna exemplified square-jarred, middle American, straight-shooting authority and was criminally underutilized. In particular, he deserved a much high level of stardom by using the instant trust he generated in audiences in work where he turns out to secretly be the heavy (as he sort of is here). Theorizing why Hollywood failed to impart on Crenna the stardom he richly deserved deserved stands as a valuable pastime while wading through the wildly unconvincing scenes of miners supposedly 2 miles undersea (remember actors, walk really slow and deliberate because all that water would probably be heavy!) and any scene involving Aquaman's congenitally deformed fourth cousin. In short, rent First Blood and watch all scenes where real men (a now extinct species) Richard Crenna faces off against Brian Dennehy (skip any scene with Stallone) instead of sitting through Leviathan. "},{"Title":"Better than you might think, but messes up","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" An interesting case for sci-fi fans and a missed opportunity for the director, having a generally decent cast, a sufficient budget and a story, let's say 'not overused enough for that time'. The totally obvious Alien rip-off is technically surprisingly well executed and pleases with almost top notch set designs and very good creature effects. Now that all this didn't make an absolutely satisfying, or actually even really good sci-fi movie can be blamed on the lack of tight pacing in the script, occasionally bad editing or I guess generally the rather inconsistent lead of George P. Cosmatos, resulting uncalled-for moments of amateur filmmaking entering into a movie otherwise to be taken serious. These then start accumulating and gradually getting out of control as the movie gains speed (among others resulting conversations on the subjects of popcorn and puzzles) and then ultimately explode into a 5 minute orgy of total C-Movie crap, actually even added after the anyways forgettable climax of the movie (how the hell did that happen by the way?). Otherwise, we can say, that the first 2/3rd of the movie is pretty okay, not counting a few minor downers and then gradually messes up in the finale. In the end you decide weather it was worth watching or not. Though for genre fans I guess this is absolutely obligatory. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Partly turned in Italy aboard a Saipem Agip platform built on Adriatic Sea,this movie beats easily Deep Star Six and Endless Descent. We've a crew of workers on a ship placed on the bottom of the ocean and some of them go to make some explorations outside the base, near to a Russian wreck.Six-Pack (Daniel Stern of Home Alone) finds a bottle apparently containing vodka, but this particular is for a moment let aside because De Jesus (Carmine)is in danger.Only the ability and cool blood of Beck (Peter Weller-Robocop & Screamers!) ,the crew's leader, saves for the moment the life of De Jesus.Back on the ship, despite Beck's ban,Six Pack and the second female worker Bowman (Elibacher) drink the bottle of vodka. Unfortunately it isn't vodka,but a mutant gene that will cause the 2 to become a powerful monster that will possess one by one the rest of the crew!Despite their best efforts and the massive use of hi-tech buzz-saws and flame-throwers,only 3 people are still alive at lastBeck,his love interest Elizabeth Williams (the gorgeous Amanda Pays-The Flash and Max Headroom) and Jones (Ernie Hudson-Ghostbusters!).More and more, Dr.Thompson (Crenna-Rambo 1,2,3!) has activated the escape pods still empty in order to avoid that the monster could reach the surface.So,are the three survivors doomed? Not at all!Beck arranges a system to reach the surface fitting three suits with oxygen cans,so he and his 2 friends manage to escape before the ship could implode on a very impressive scene!Once at light Beck and Williams manage to defeat the monster once at all causing him to explode with high amount of gore.Unfortunately Hudson is killed,the only low moment of the movie.At last back on the platform,Beck punches his boss (Meg Foster-Blind Fury,Tripwire,Masters of The Universe!) that formerly refused to rescue the crew and also considered them already all dead. Great FX,skilled actors,a beautiful heroine,continuous perils for the heroes,a powerful monster,a more than good script (that seems to foreshadow Mimic), make Leviathan a great sci-fi movie.And George Pan Cosmatos demonstrated that he wasn't skilled only for Rambo.10 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A very great movie. I think that if have never Watch Leviathan, you have miss a movie that is a date in the Cinema history. All is good in this movie, all the actors are excellents but there is one who is simply a genius  Peter Weller. Peter Weller is The actor and he found in this wonderful movie his best role (with his absolute interpretation of Robocop). He can be humoristic, frightened, courageous.......) He can play all and in Leviathan Peter Weller give a lesson to all beginning actor. The FX are very good for the date of this movie. Leviathan is the ultimate movie of submarine monster. Watch Leviathan and you will become a better guy. "},{"Title":"Organism of unknown origin.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Leviathan, The Abyss, and Deepstar Six all came out the same year and bombarded audiences with underwater terrors. I think we know who the winner was. But Leviathan gave us something The Abyss did not a down 'n dirty monster flick. So check your brain at the door (and don't compare it to The Abyss) and you might enjoy this one. It's basically an underwater version of Alien with some of John Carpenter's The Thing thrown in for good measure. Hell, there's even a chest-bursting scene. Stan Winston is handling creature effects so you know you're in good hands. Add to that a likable cast (including Peter Weller, Richard Crenna, Ernie Hudson, Hector Elizondo, Amanda Pays, and Daniel Stern) who are all possible entrées and a nice atmospheric setting and you've got your movie. It's filled with the usual genre clichés and stereotypes but I try not to be too criticizing of it. Of course then I remember it was written by David Peoples (The Unforgiven) and directed by George Cosmatos (Tombstone). So maybe it should have been a bit better. You might want to turn the movie off when our band of survivors hit the surface. Otherwise, you will be left with 2 questions. 1. What was the deal with the sharks and 2. did I really just hear Peter Weller spout the cheesiest one-liner in film history? In the future remember, Don't f*ck with mother nature. "}{"Title":"This movie is awesome!!","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am surprised that this movie got such a low rating! Sure, it's probably not the best written movie, but but as far as under water Sci-Fi flicks go, I thought it was pretty good! Horror movies are for thrills and screams, not for intellectual dialogue. It does have some corny scenes that actually made me laugh, but all in all I really enjoyed it. The cast was pretty popular at the time, (Peter Weller from Robocop, Richard Crenna from Rambo, Ernie Hudson from Ghostbusters, and Daniel Stern who would later go on to star in Home Alone and City Slickers). Waaaay better then the Abyss, (snoozefest), which got a 7.5! If you see it in the bargain bin, grab it! It's actually a pretty cool movie. "},{"Title":"Very cool special effects","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie, aldo it was a huge ALIEN rip-off. Jerry Goldsmith did a beautiful job on this movie's music score. Special effects are great. Performances are decent. Script is enjoyable. Overall, I think this movie much better than most of the similar movies. It's definitely better than Deep Star Six, similar movie in 1989. "},{"Title":"Its aliens. No.. its the thing! Who cares its entertaining","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Robocop, a ghostbuster, a suspicious doctor, some pervert called 6-pack and some women who are hot and.. not so hot are stuck deep underwater while a hurricane blows above. After finding a Russian boat an exercise in film rip-offs begin. wait the opening was like the Abyss... anyhoo i digress. Although ideas are homaged/taken from other films, the end result is a unique awesome underwater monster movie.Part alien, part the thing, the real, non cgi creature fx are nothing short of superb. Its hard to rate the creature as it looks like slugs that attack people, mouths in hands, and many people cobbled together in a lot of pain. The latter reminded me of the thing, but is unique in its own way. There is some decent gore, a solid pace, and some glaring pot holes, or more things left unexplained. This film feels incomplete in some respects, and heavily censored in certain scenes. When Peter Weller gets grabbed and reaches for his power tool, he just jumps on screen after a nasty jump cut. like a 60's horror, the slow close ups of the ominous safe from the Russian boat amused me, and the fact that the hip flask containing some genetic mutating experiment/sea creature is left for you to have ideas about. which i liked. Throw in the doctor that figures out to much and screws his crew-mates and some message about corporations employees being expendable and you have the mixed bag Leviathan.Out of 'the deep', 'Deepstar six', 'the abyss' and 'deep rising' Leviathan is my favourite, heavily enjoyable, even if somewhat restrained at points, and all out gore at others.If you dig creature features or underwater films that go wrong, check Leviathan as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"Skip It.","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" An underwater mining station with a diverse crew discovers a sunken Russian ship, which they loot. Among the loot is an organism that takes over the people exposed to it, one by one. It raids the blood supply, it absorbs its victims, and in one case it tears itself out of the guy's chest. The remaining three crew members search the station for the slimy monster, wielding ungainly looking flame throwers. But there's no stopping the thing. Three of the crew -- Weller, Pays, and Hudson -- escape and rise to the surface as the station implodes behind them but the monster has followed them to the surface. It eats Hudson and as it tries to gulp down Weller, he throws a flare into its mouth and shouts a wisecrack, something like Bon Appetit. Boom! A Coast Guard helicopter ferries them to safety.It's not Alien. It's a shameless ripoff of Alien, done more confusingly and less artfully. There is little of the tension in the original and this production adds nothing in the way of innovation. Alien at least got rid of the stereotype of the sterile environment. It had rusty cargo hold, swinging chains, and unfriendly maze-like interiors. This movie has the same sort of sets but it breaks no new ground. Come to think of it, though, there may be nothing new here but it's NOT all stolen from Alien. Weller's final wisecrack is from Jaws. Steal only from the most commercial successes.The acting is okay. I've always kind of liked Peter Weller. His acting style is cool but intense, and he has an appointment at Syracuse University teaching Ancient Civilizations. You have to admire that kind of versatility in an individual. William Blake and Marcus Aurelius are among other admirables. I admire Ernie Hudson, too. He was my co-star in Weeds. But his role here is tightly bound up with the character and it has no spark.Oh, well, I guess I admire Amanda Pays too, but for entirely different reasons. She's an actress of modest talent but precise and conventional beauty. Makes one wonder where that beauty comes from. Genes, of course, but why does it take the shape it does? A few millimeters less or extra, here or there, and the beauty becomes base.Anyway, if you like Alien you might like this, but less so. "},{"Title":"One big mess, from a bad chain of errors...","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" LEVIATHAN...tries to be ALIEN on a many number of levels, and never comes close. At a far shot, I will say this had a good chance of being it's own film, but in attempt to cash in on the ALIEN/ The Thing fad that was about in action films in the 1980s, this film falls flat on it's face. Heck, I almost feel sorry for Aliens (plural-the sequel) which I did not care for in the least. This film follows a crew of miners (gee, isn't THAT a familiar occupation for these characters) who toil around with uncharted, and undiscovered ship (be it a sunken ship, or lost spaceship, what difference does it make?) and find one heck of a consequence for it. Invading the underwater grave, they stumble upon, the crew then take to bounties and treasures therein. Soon, a (literally) monstrous situation is breaking loose, and HOW? Well, that's even worse, but I won't go into that yet. The question at hand is, with little to NO novelty, or logical correctness to this story, why should we care?The cast consists of fairly talented, to no talent at all performers who give us a number of unsympathetic characters we couldn't manage to care less about. Do we need to listen to a constant miscast Daniel Stern rave on with his one-track mind on pairs and practical jokes? That kind of character worked better in the later Friday The 13th films starting with part 4, but that's neither here nor there. Then there is Ernie Hudson in the (bad) vain of Yaphet Kotto as Parker from ALIEN.Two women among a ship of many men. People like this do not exist, surely in serious businesses such as underwater mining, and that one would even care about a one of them is a waste of emotion and time. There is even a perennial scientist who, with all his accumulated knowledge, is corrupt and out to sacrifice the entire crew for sake of the creature, or scientific breakthrough. Just awful!!!There is also an impeccable production design that would suit JAWS The Revenge in comparison. Heck since we're on underwater films, HUMANOIDS FROM THE DEEP has more dignity than this, but there is not enough room to go into that either.Sights and sounds strung through a film, does not a good experience make, and it certainly doesn't here.Just a lot of wasted time and energy.The make-up effects of the Monster are hardly affective. In this, they cleverly attempt the ALIEN approach, to show as little as possible, and leave the rest to the imagination, but what we do see is cartooning, like a monstrous Daffy Duck. Stan Winston allegedly put some study into this, but it didn't pay off quite as well as it could have. I guess it looked better on paper.Plus, chances at redemption are abandoned at the shallowness of what would be a regularly talented group. Peter Weller is a great actor, and has potential. However, as a Dallas (ALIEN)/MCready (The Thing) copy-cat role, he fails, and his diction and deliverance are flat and obviously fake and staged like a bad high school production. Lead female Amanda Pays is decent, but no Sigourney Weaver, that's for sure. One cannot argue that such an imitation was made, because it was, and to defend this action is ridiculous. Same goes for a character named Jones. A ha ha, funny reference, it's like good one guys.Then there is the biggest problem, being that of logics and continuity. We can barely tell when and where the film is headed, because the story jumps back and forth to no avail, in shame. How are we supposed to believe that decompression happens in a matter of moments, and furthermore, how can we believe such a monster exists with this type of caliber? It takes away from any shock moments the film might have had, but then again, there aren't any (good) ones to speak of. Pretty boring really.The final error, as it were, is due to blame they who were behind this. The European companies and producers obviously had their way with how they felt a BIG BUDGET BLOCKBUSTER would do with this caliber of octane energy. They FAIL on all accounts. The dialog suggests that they have a very bad perception of how they think Americans behave, such as drunks, sex fiends, and attempted flashy movie moments (say AH mother*beep*er!) that really make this one a cringe worthy piece of cinematic rubbish. Not even an out of left field Jerry Goldsmith score can suffice in this one, and he NEVER misses, except maybe on this one. 3 Stars for his efforts, whatever they might bring us -( Pity! Were I anyone who reads this...head the WARNING...skip it! "},{"Title":"Good monster movie from the 80's","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Three miles beneath the Atlantic, deep-sea miners extract precious metals from the ocean floor during an extremely hazardous 90-day shift. When they find a sunken Russian ship, Sixpack (Stern) confiscates the safe, which is filled with the personal effects of numerous crew members who died from some mysterious malady. He also filches a bottle of vodka, which makes him deathly ill&#x97;then kills him. The Doc's (Crenna) best guess is a virus causing genetic alteration. Good call It transforms Six-Pack into a slimy, gut-crunching monster, half human, half deep-sea creature. When the thing goes on a rampage looking for new meat and tearing up the station in the process, can any of the others escape? And why is The Company dragging its feet in sending in a rescue?The cast consists of Peter Weller as the geologist boss, Richard Crenna as the semi-doctor and crewed by Ernie Hudson (who gets some of the best lines and steals his scenes), Amanda Pays (and her annoyingly fake accent) Daniel Stern, Michael Carmine, an adorable Lisa Eilbacher, Meg Foster (what is it about her eyes? And why was she trying so hard to do a crappy acting job?), and the wonderful Hector Elizondo. Leviathan is okay and in many ways an almost by-the-numbers clone of Deepstar Six, with a few mostly transparent alterations. It has a superior cast of name actors and a slightly better F/X crew going for it, but features a pretty silly-looking monster; (which co-star Ernie Hudson likened it a big, killer chicken.) The thing isn't very scary, honestly. The mouth looks stupid & silly, not to mention fragile and rather non-functional. The final amalgamation creature looks slapped together. While the idea of a creature created by genetically fusing various deceased human team members together is undeniably frightening in concept, the actual beast we see in the film looks more like a stiff, rubbery carny sideshow attraction slathered in buckets of K-Y. Leviathan is better than it ought to be thanks to a first class cast and some better than average make-up and special effects work. Definitely a B film with some bite, and best relegated to the second or third video in a Saturday night sci-fi blitz.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Alien meets Deep Star Six meets The Thing","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Year 1989 was one of those odd years where we had three mainstream movies with similar premise. Probably the most popular was the Abyss by James Cameron, then Deep Star Six and then this, Leviathan. All of them on the bottom of the sea, sci-fi, monster-ish flicks.Of those three, Leviathan is maybe the most straightforward one in terms of story and pacing.Cast is similarly strong as the two other sea movies. We have always lovable Peter Weller, Richard Crena (who you may know as Col. Trautman in Rambo franchise), Ernie Hudson, Meg Foster, Amanda Pays, Daniel Stern and Hector Elizondo. They may not be that famous today, but they were all very busy and famous actors in the 80's and 90's.For the story, well, as I previewed in the title, it's basically first Alien movie intersected with Deep Star Six and a lot of The Thing. And this is not just some comparison for the sake of explanation. You can actually feel and see all of those influences while watching Leviathan. Performances are okay most of the time, characters themselves are not that interesting and are a bit stereotypical but mostly bland. Camera-work is okay, but movie lacks some serious money shots of the main monster. Now I guess it was because the monster itself was not designed that well, so they tried to hide that. Because if you look closely, creature is mostly a mess of some concepts, limbs, heads and all. Which then again did really fine job in The Thing. But maybe they just wanted to avoid people saying they copied the creature from the Thing and gave it their own touch just for the sake of diversity. I personally didn't like that, because a good copy is always better than a forced diversity. Effects were done by Stan Winston Studios, because of course they were. Music was orchestrated by Jerry Goldsmith, because of course it was. Which also brings me to a conclusion that this movie is a great show and tell of the times when it was made. Through actors, effects, music, screenplay and story itself. Okay movie to spend hour and half watching, but nothing more than that. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and worthwhile, though fairly formulaic and utterly spoiled by the fourth arc","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Let's get he obvious out of the way Ridley Scott's 'Alien' set the precedence for all films of the sci-fi horror genre, even if the protagonist isn't a monster from the dark reaches of our imagination, I more so mean in the visual aesthetic and tone lighting, mood, shooting style, set design &#x97; anything that bases itself around being both terrifying and off-world, and with a dash (or copious amounts) of thematic human ignorance, owes itself to this film.This Leviathan (not to be confused with the Russian one from 2014) is one of those perceived Hollywood moments where more of the winning formula equals best for business. Between the mid-70's and late 80's was a time for a cinematic revolution of sorts. You had the first in many juggernaut franchises Rocky, Star Wars, The Terminator, the aforementioned Alien, as well as singular cinematic classics The Shining, The Godfather, The Thing (lots of The's) &#x97; RoboCop and Jaws. Particularly of these last two, Leviathan does something quite intuitive in response to the movie market and of that time in cinema What if we took a rising star (Peter Weller), a good looking cast, and combined three of the best and most successful horror films in the last decade (Alien, The Thing, Jaws).Well, you get Leviathan, a movie truly of it's time in all sense of that statement. That's not to say the movie is bad, it's actually quite interesting. The pacing is there; the build and anticipation as well as a little trans-governmental conspiratorial paranoia thrown into the mix &#x97; because the best intentions of humankind are ultimately, always the biggest bad guy. However, unlike the films that it shares company with, the reveal of the 'creature' is ultimately underwhelming, more so confusing. It's not fully explained what is it, possibly the closest thing is the Creature from the Black Lagoon, though that already has it's own film (1954). The body horror employed here is interesting in it's premise &#x97; it acts like a skin lesion that evolves into full blow leprosy which first kills it's host before birthing the creature life form &#x97; but then there's chest bursting, face morphing, tentacle wrapping, all of which feels too familiar.If you have a rainy Sunday and you feel like some legit scares, or fan service in the form of female scientists in 80's aerobic gear or rocking ascots, then watch this film. It may or may not be worth it, especially for Weller's well (poorly) timed punchline at the very end. "},{"Title":"Very underrated creature film","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Plot Underwater deep-sea miners encounter a Soviet wreck and bring back a dangerous cargo to their base on the ocean floor with horrifying results. The crew of the mining base must fight to survive against a genetic mutation that hunts them down one by one.This is one creature film that has been largely forgotten by people and that's sad in my opinion. This film knew what it was from the beginning and that's what these films should be unlike Sharknado which makes these films look like one big joke. Everybody in the cast does a great job especially Peter Weller, Ernie Hudson, and Amanda Pays. Each character is likable and you really feel that these are real people. I personally feel the creature effects are very good even if it is somewhat like the thing they at least try to be something different. I don't get why the effects guys trash them, I just don't get it, but that's their opinion so I can't change that.This film is one of the better creature films from the 80s that deserves to at least have some respect from certain film fans. It has a great cast, good creature effects, a solid script, and very good direction by George P. Cosmatos. When you get the chance to watch this film, watch it you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"A Homage To Alien And The Thing, But 16000 FT Below The Ocean.","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I liked this movie even though it got a lot of ideas from the movies Alien and The Thing. This movie is about underwater miners mining silver; and discover that a lethal life form gets aboard their ship.When  Sixpack(Daniel Stern) and Elizabeth( Amanda Pays) get caught pulling pranks on the ship; Beck(Peter Weller) assigns them to work duty the next day. The next day the two are venturing out on the ocean floor, ready for work. When Sixpack and Liz discover a Russian Ship(Leviathan) they explore it. Sixpack finds this box and they both take it back to see what's inside. The crew is stunned and find a videotape of the Captains Log. On the video the Russian Capt.(Eugene Lipnski) is explaining that his crew is dying off, due to some deadly virus. When Beck and his crew finish watching the tape they are stunned,they believe the Leviathan was deliberately sunk. They think the remaining crew sunk it to save the rest of the crew; and possibly to keep their virus secret. When Sixpack hides a flask of vodka in his pants he as well as the rest of the crew are doomed.Sixpack and Liz drink from the flask and the next day Sixpack realizes he has caught some type of virus. He goes to see DOC(Richard Crenna). The virus starts to get so out of control it ends up killing Sixpack in 8 hours. The crew panics and when Liz finds out what happened to Sixpack and how it transforms him she kills herself. The virus lives in it's host for awhile then it kills them, consumes their intelligence; and starts to form into some type of monster. It knocks a majority of the crew, and after each kill become more intelligent.When Beck contacts Ms Martin( Meg Foster) she gives him some crap story for not rescuing them right away. She explains that a hurricane is coming and their trip to the surface is delayed. so for the next two days the remaining crew will have to fight for their lives against this life form in order to survive. In the end 3 members to escape, but two only make it all the way back. The ending is priceless, and somewhat the AHHHHH moment of the movie.Even though this movie is not an original I still like it. The story a simple one about big corporations that value profit over human life. Those that have worked for big companies in the past know what I am talking about. This movie has some known names in it and some I never heard of, still good acting from all. So if you like Alien or The Thing you should like this movie. It is one of the better Sci-fi/horror films from the 80's so give it a watch. "}{"Title":"Almost a Scifi Classic","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have now seen this film a few times, and have come to the conclusion that Leviathan is a shallow movie about the deep ocean. The premise is really the only interesting aspect of Leviathan, while the special effects, story line, and character development are lacking in quality. First, the SFX of this film are truly sub-par. Even though I understand the limits of practical effects, the effects in Leviathan are not convincing at all, and the designs are poor and lifeless. Compared to similar films, such as Alien (1979) and The Thing (1982), the special effects come off as cheap. This pulled me out of the film every time I saw the ridiculous lumbering mountain of wet rubber that was the ultimate monster. Second, the story line is basically a rehashing of Alien, expect taking place on Earth. It borrows heavily from The Thing as well, which all three have the archetypal scifi-horror story of finding a horrible creature trapped for eons, that is freed and subsequently wrecks havoc on the human characters. This in itself not a huge issue for me, but Leviathan added no interesting twist on this template, it just filled in the blanks. Third, the character development remained a low priority on the filmmakers mind. The characters are flat, and expendable. Peter Weller's character is the most developed, but still doesn't fill the necessary depth I need to care about him. In fact, the characters felt like a rip off of The Thing, even the Doc had a similar fate to Blair in The Thing. The spoiler part of this review is about the atrocious ending. It felt slapped on and shallow. The ending made this film go from just okay to bad. "},{"Title":"One of the better films of its lot","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's no shortage of horror/science fiction films that heavily ape Alien and The Thing. This is certainly one of those films, and it's pretty solid.The cast is pretty great. All the characters are basically archetypes, but they're played well by Peter Weller and Amanda Pays especially. I'm a big fan of Daniel Stern, but I think he's kind of miscast as the jerky slob of the group, and Meg Foster (those eyes!) is a bit obviously up to no good.The production design is fantastic, the deep sea station looks great in every single room. Jerry Goldsmith also composed a great score for this, his use of recorded whale sounds makes the score very memorable and unique. Stan Winston's creature effects are good, but the direction generally doesn't showcase them that well.Even though it blatantly lifts from Alien and The Thing, I pretty much enjoy this a lot until the last five minutes, which suddenly take a huge nosedive. Sharks pointlessly arrive, and then the Sixpack/Bowman monster makes its appearance (pretty contrived that it would suddenly show up again and make it to the surface that quickly, although to be fair the protagonists get up there pretty quick too) and kills Jones, which is just unnecessary. Then, how is the monster killed? By blowing it up of course! Even though it's been established that the independent body parts of the creature can live and mutate others, so this is no solution.I still like the movie, but the last few minutes drag it down from an 8/10 to a 7/10. Should've just ended with them getting on the helicopter, and if they really needed to address the other monster they ought to have just included an earlier scene where it got back on the station and merged with the other one. "},{"Title":"Good Idea... Questionable Creature","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" May contain Spoilers!Leviathan is a movie based on underwater mining crew that is stationed in the depths of the ocean looking for silver and other valuable metals. The crew is small, yet diverse with both men and women along with an unqualified geologist as their foreman, Beck (Peter Weller) and an on site medical/scientific doctor (Richard Crenna) who also has a questionable ethical history. The crew has been in this claustrophobic environment with each other for several weeks and is close to hitting the end of their mission, as well as their pay day should they hit the quota of mining that has been set for them. The cast does a great job at creating a bonding atmosphere as well as tension, showing small insights to each of the 8 characters lives and personalities. The setting is moderately believable as the characters transition to their underwater suits and go back and forth from the ocean floor back to the ship its self. Two crew members discover the Leviathan which is destroyed ship not far off from their mining site. One of the crew members discovers a chest and brings it back to the ship.It is discovered the chest contains a video ship log, crew medical records, and a bottle of vodka. The eerie atmosphere builds as the doctor reads aloud that all crew members were documented as deceased. Beck confiscates the vodka from the crew,(As anyone would do)although sixpack secretly discovers a small flask and hides it away locking eyes with Bowman who later both enjoy the flask.The story keeps a good pace and keeps the audience engaged and informed when finding out the crew from the Leviathan were under some sort of distress. Sixpack and Bowman both begin showing signs of an illness and the doctor starts to correlate the disaster of the Leviathan has now found its way onto their ship. Sixpack dies from the unknown illness that began to deform his body, and Bowman kills herself in fear of suffering the same fate. The cast effectively creates a underlying panic and tragic helplessness as they are now even unable to leave at the arranged time due to a supposed Hurricane above the area.It is soon discovered by the Doc that the diagnostic testing done on sixpack shows to be a possible genetic mutation brought on by tainted (bio-experimental) vodka. The same vodka that was originally used to do secret testing on the crew of the Leviathan ending in their demise. The testing apparently was geared to create a perfect genetic aquatic man. The crew moves to throw the bodies of sixpack and Bowman to the sea to eliminate a chance of contamination when the dead body begin to come to life and lash out at the crew. They manage to toss the mutated and fussed bodies to the sea not before a small piece is severed in the door and left on the ship. The remaining part of the movie leaves the slow build of tension and moves into grizzly action when the severed piece of Sixpack and Bowman takes a violent life of its own and kills and fusses itself to the crew one by one creating semi-scary creature that resembles some sort of human slash toothy fish. (Not bad for 1989). Leaving only Beck, Willie and Jones fighting for their lives and making their way to use the sea suites and pressure from the tanks to bring them the several miles to the ocean surface. Unfortunately not believable that this level of pressure would not have crushed their bodies.The three survivors make the claustrophobic journey to the surface only to be terrorized by the creature who also made it to the surface. And there is a shark for a minute or two.(Maybe not necessary). Jones sacrifices himself to save Beck and Willie, who are being rescued by a near by helicopter. This is unfortunate as Jones is a way more likable character then the other two. Beck manages to blow the creature up by placing a flare in its mouth. (One would only think this would create multiple genetic creatures? But hey its just a movie.) Beck and Willie meet with the sinister direction of the mining mission (Meg Foster) who lied about the Hurricane in efforts to contain them at the bottom of the ocean indefinitely. Beck manages to give her a nice friendly punch in the face before him and Willie walk into the sunset. "},{"Title":"Leviathan","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" So back in 89 there was a spate of deep sea movies which included James Cameron's 'The Abyss', that movie was the only one to actually do well. I guess its a little ironic that the only other deep sea flick that was of any worth at this time was this movie which just happened to completely and utterly rip off Cameron's previous two mega hits of the era.So the plot here is basically 'Alien' combined with 'Aliens' and 'The Abyss' along with various other horror movies such as 'The Thing'. A small team of undersea miners are on the ocean floor erm...mining stuff, when along the line one crew member discovers a sunken Russian vessel which contains a deadly secret. This turns out to be a mutagen of some kind that infects a crew member killing him, his body then begins to mutate into a sea creature and I'm sure you can guess how this goes.The general idea is not completely identical to the James Cameron 80's filmography, the creature is basically a toxic mutant which is made up of the various dead crew members. This thing absorbs its victims intellect and is physically formed by the crew members bodies...or something like that. The crew members don't appear to be completely dead, more like trapped within this creatures body or they are being slowly absorbed/digested (?). Anyhow the visual design is not entirely shown in the movie, its kept out of sight and hidden behind lots of steel pipes, but what you do see revolves around tentacles (as usual) and snapping maws. The look of of the beast and the way it mutates does run along similar lines to John Carpenter's 'The Thing' where as everything else is 'Alien' within the set of 'The Abyss'.Put it this way the special effects are a solid example of old fashioned hands-on craftsmanship with plenty of blood gore goo and body shock horror, the good old days. Despite the fact Stan Winston, Alec Gillis and Tom Woodruff Jr. worked on the effects they aren't the best you will see, like I say they are solid and fun for fanboys of the craft but the other movies of the day were better examples. I think the creature is mostly hidden because they knew it wasn't too good, earlier in the film the smaller leech type things were effective but the main creature is a bit of a lifeless lump.The deep sea base set does actually look pretty good with some obviously solid production values in play. Again if you think of the Nostromo and the Deep Core combined then you have a good idea of the visuals. Lots of metal corridors, pipes, gratings, the odd beige coloured medical bay, beige living quarters etc...its all too familiar really. I did like the deep sea diving suits they use which have a nice futuristic realistic look, more like space suits admittedly but that tends to be the way with these types of movies.Although not actually filmed under the sea the film does look very good with some brilliant use of indoor sets, heavy mist and lighting, it does look as though its on the ocean floor. This is helped by good camera angles with the crew in their suits when walking around, a great submerged Russian shipwreck and lots of little floating bits in front of the camera to simulate the deep moving ocean.I guess overall this movie is just way too much of a carbon copy of the other movies I've mentioned. The characters are all extremely clichéd and look like they've just stepped off the set of the 'Alien' franchise. Richard Crenna would be the Ash/Bishop character, Ernie Hudson is Parker, Daniel Stern would be Brett/Hudson, Eilbacher would be Lambert etc...and yes I did just mention Daniel Stern who was totally miscast incidentally oh and his characters name is Sixpack. Along with that the plot trundles by exactly the same as the Scott/Cameron flicks. I mean exactly the same right down to the self destruct finale with loud computer countdown, the company knowing all about the mutagen and setting the crew up and ridiculously similar weapons including the obligatory flame thrower. The finale doesn't really help its case either with a brief shark attack that ends just as quickly as its starts, the coastguard flying overhead at the exact moment the survivors surface and the fact the beastie seemingly comes back from its watery grave. Its a bizarre finale really as we see the creature getting crushed and then the entire deep sea base implodes...yet it manages to survive.The movie then still continues as we see Peter Weller getting his own back on the company director or representative by punching her out!! he knocks out a woman! Everything about the finale just feels tacked on and rushed, as though they weren't sure what to do...and it really shows. It is a fun deep sea thriller but its not very scary truth be told and in an era of sci-fi classics this movie fell well short I'm afraid, but its not a total loss.6/10 "},{"Title":"The Thing Meets Alien In The Abyss","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you are completely unfamiliar with this film you might wonder why the title of this review is the thing meets alien in the abyss. It is because leviathan takes elements of those three movies and mixes them up to create an end product that is unfortunately no better then any of the movies it seems to have borrowed from. A group of seven deep sea miners is nearing the end of its ninety day rotation at the station located on the bottom of the ocean. They stumble upon a Russian ship that seems to have been sunk by a torpedo. They carry the safe from the ship to their station and rummage through the contents. One of the miners even drinks vodka from a flask found in the safe. Soon he is dying from what the doctor on the station calls a genetic alteration/mutation. Once he is dead the parasite that killed him mutates into a sea monster. From there on the movie basically combines elements of the thing and alien with the crew members trying to survive the monster that is stalking them and get to the surface alive.The pros of this movie are that it's entertaining in a b-grade sort of way. The first 45 minutes or so is more entertaining than the last half though. The cast is decent enough with Paul Weller, Richard Crenna, Ernie Hudson and Hector Elizondo being some of the crew members. The effects are decent enough I guess, but not great.The cons of this film are that once the infection occurs there is no suspense as to what will happen. When watching the Thing or Alien, the viewer is held in suspense until the very end. This is not the case here. Another thing worth noting is that both Alien and The Thing pre-date Leviathan and yet have vastly superior effects. Another thing that gets tedious near the end is that the story and dialogue start going down hill and you get the sense that the film-makers ran out of ideas and fail to offer a decent explanation as to the origin of the monster. Is it an alien form or is it a biological experiment gone wrong. These issues are not addressed in depth. So over all this movie gets a rating of about 5.5 out of 10. Worth a watch if you feel like wasting two hours with a simple b-grade adventure horror. "},{"Title":"Intelligence may not be the right word here.","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A deep-sea mining crew discovers a Soviet shipwreck and unknowingly bring back a deadly mutagen. Sci-fi horror movie that borrows heavily from Alien and The Thing. There were quite a few underwater films released around the time this came out, most notably The Abyss. This is one of the better ones. The cast is pretty good, though they're all playing stock characters. It's hard to dislike anything with Peter Weller, Richard Crenna, Daniel Stern, and Ernie Hudson in it. The special effects are pretty good, too. Leviathan's an entertaining movie. Not without flaws and not wholly original but it's a decent time-killer. "},{"Title":"Leviathan","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Title Leviathan Condensed Storyline A deep sea mining crew find a sunken Soviet ship, they bring its contents back to their base. This is where they learn that the ship was sunken for a reason. One of the crew mutates into a horrific monster and starts killing everyone. Think Alien but under the sea and a little less believable. Notable Acting Almost everyone in this movie is good, that is except for it's main character. The head of the mining operation who is played by Peter Weller. Everyone else has their own personalities and you can tell who they are from it, expect for the only guy who will survive, he has the personality of a plank of wood. This is because the writers tried to make him out to be the sticking to the rules kind of guy. This doesn't make him seem like that kind of nerdy guy who turns hero, it just makes him seem like a boring to watch stick in the mud. This is the same guy who was the original Robocop. I did enjoy the Richard Crenna who played the Dr on the ship, he was one of my favourite character, mainly because he was so interesting and he was the only one who was actively interested in the sunken ship, granted that Peter's character is only a geologist. But even geologists have a curiosity for other things. Noticeable Camera work I sadly haven't noticed any good notable camera work, but this is odd because there actually was a cinematographer on the crew list for this movie, so there should be some decent angles and framing. But we did get a zoom in on the vodka being poured into the glass, this felt more like a nudge nudge wink wink type of shot to indicate that there is something wrong with it.Graphics This movie came out in the late 80's and had a standard budget, so you can tell CGI isn't going to be that much of a factor in this movie. We get what looks to be either an animatronic or CG spider which looks a bit fake, but doesn't stay on screen for long. Costume The costume for the Leviathan is pretty good as well, interesting design and looks pretty damn cool. Good to see that most of it was done using practical effects similar to how the original Alien was done. Incorrect Science The movie's monster is created by Russian genetic engineering. This is to allow Russian soldiers to adapt to a marine environment. This level of engineering is far past that of the movie, which for all points and purposes I will assume is 1989 also. That type of genetic engineering was impossible than and frankly is still impossible today. The scene which has one of the crew fixing a suit, until a spider jumps out. This wrong as that seemed to be a land only spider. All sea spiders have very thin limbs, no visible eyes and are generally one solid colour. Overall Feel Apart from being a shameless Alien ripoff, it is a good and enjoyable movie. Even if Alien is more believable. But regardless, this is a fun classic monster movie, if you enjoy monster movies when they were about story and not just how good the CGI is, this is a movie for you. The actual horror movie starts at 40 minutes in, the first 40 minutes are just used as character building to get you to know the crew who are going to be dying shortly. "},{"Title":"The second best underwater movie of 89","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Plot  The crew of an underwater mining operation fight for their lives against a deadly foe.Acting  Daniel Stern really annoyed me with his one dimensional horn dog. Amanda Pays was not very convincing either. Peter Weller was solid and Richard Crenna was the stand out of the cast reminding me of Ian Holm in Alien. Effects  We don't get to see Stan Winstons monster on screen too much, when we do it is underwhelming, it's best viewing in quick cuts but i enjoyed the practical effect nonetheless, scenes of humans trapped inside a constantly mutating creature is disturbing, i remember seeing this as a kid and those images stayed with me. The flamethrower props looked dreadful, not only did they look cheap and impractical to use but why would undersea miners even need flamethrowers? welding torches maybe but i don't see the use for flamethrowers.Action/Suspense  Things don't really get going until final third but are hampered by having an animatronic creature which limits what can happen, lots of pipes bursting etc, the final ascent to surface is cool though, the exploding creature at end looks a bit disappointing.Music  A solid but unspectacular effort from the amazing Jerry Goldsmith, however the end credits music seemed out of place. Cinematography  Excellent use of lighting to convince viewers the underwater scenes are actually in water and not filmed on a dry sound stage.Overall  A fun and enjoyable monster movie borrowing heavily from The Thing and Alien, my problems are with the rushed ending where they randomly get attacked by sharks before monster shows up, Killing off Ernie Hudson annoyed me also but i loved the punch at end when Weller knocks Meg Foster out. "},{"Title":"A shameless rip-off - but good fun with it","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Of the numerous monster-at-sea movies to have been made - and it's a big list that includes the good (THE ABYSS, DEEP STAR SIX), the not-so-good (THE RIG) and the plain crazy/awful (CREATURES FROM THE ABYSS), LEVIATHAN is probably the best of the bunch. When it comes down to it, it's a shameless rip-off of both ALIEN and THE THING, but when the production values and calibre of the cast are all so strong it's pretty hard to go wrong.Veteran director George Pan Cosmatos (RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART II) handles the directorial chores in this tale of an undersea base at the mercy of a sinister Russian creature which has the ability to infect those who come into contact with it. A cast of somewhat clichéd characters are thus forced to fight for their lives against the unknown menace, and there's plenty of horror, both in the form of icky effects and more unsettling suspense scenarios.Cast-wise, we're treated to ROBOCOP's Peter Weller as the stalwart captain of the crew, and the ever-great Richard Crenna as the doctor, who plays probably the most interesting - and morally ambiguous - character. Amanda Pays and Lisa Eilbacher are easy on the eye as the female crew members, and there's an average-sized past for the ever-underused Ernie Hudson (GHOSTBUSTERS) as the token black guy. Watch out for Daniel Stern (VERY BAD THINGS) as a slobbish character, Hector Elizondo (PRETTY WOMAN) as another expendable and she of the glowing eyes, Meg Foster (THEY LIVE), as the stock corporate villain.LEVIATHAN will win no awards for originality, but I liked it well enough. The pacing is strong, the deaths are well handled, and there's just the right among of gore without it feeling excessive. In addiction, the sticky special effects bring just the right level of eye-popping spectacle to the production. For reasons unknown I'm a huge fan of this underwater sub-genre, and LEVIATHAN just might be the best of the bunch. "},{"Title":"Nice little horror nasty, underwater style","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 89'S first underwater sci fi horror, which on the whole isn't a bad creature feature if for some long tides of nothing happeningness territory, but it's the story that has us. A couple of deep sea miners, retrieve relics whatever, from a sunken Russian ship, which then, one by one, they falls prey to a contagion that kills them off horribly, reducing them to practically jello. Pays is great eye candy, and Lisa Eilbacher's assets are great, plus a great performance by Stern as a crass, obnoxious miner, who's prank which is pulled on Pays, comes back to really bite him in the arse, in true revenge fashion. The great Crenna as the doc comes in here and there, where the movies well steered by the always reliable and seasoned Weller. If for a stupid ending with the monster, this isn't a bad and entertaining flick of it's kind to start the trio of underwater horror pics that made 89 memorable. With moments of humour as well, I just too love Weller decking his heartless sour employer, a great performance by Meg Foster. "}{"Title":"Slow start Monsters too resilient","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Tri-Oceanic Corp has an deep water mining operation. It is led by geologist Steven Beck (Peter Weller). They encounter a Soviet wreck and bring back a safe. In it they find innocuous items. At least they are on the surface. The wreck is a mystery and something in it is coming after the crew.This starts very slowly. The set borrows heavily from Alien. They even have a spider crab jump out at one of the crew's face. The intro first act takes way too long. They needed to discover the wreck much earlier. Once we start having creatures, the movie works competently. The two things that bother me are the obvious copying, and the monsters.The copying is so prevalent that even the computers have the same feel. It's a distraction. On the other hand, the monsters are a different story. They don't die. The amputated parts just keep growing. Which means the monsters will just spread throughout the world. This plays as a happy ending, but it really isn't. Also they obviously can survive in water, so sinking the soviet ship wouldn't have solved anything. The ocean should be full of these monsters. "},{"Title":"Waterlogged.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Deep sea miners who discover a derelict Soviet ship that contains(what they think) are bottles of alcohol learn to their dismay that one of them contains an alien genetic mutation that gradually takes over the host, and transforms them into a violent monster who must kill. The survivors must stop this threat, and prevent it from reaching the surface, before it's too late.Derivative Sci-Fi thriller(Alien, The Thing, etc.) has mostly stupid supporting characters that set the contrived plot in motion, a predictable plot, and unimaginative monsters. Some good actors(like Peter Weller, Richard Crenna, and Hector Elizondo) cannot save it. "},{"Title":"good casting makes all the difference for a horror movie","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a relatively old Movie, released in 1989. I was 15 and I watched it a couple of years later. I recall it being awesome. I watched it again today and I still find it awesome.I Think the 80's was a tremendous decade for horror Movies, perhaps the best decade ever, i.e. The Thing (1982), Prince of Darkness (1987), C.H.U.D. 1 & 2 (1984/1989) and Day of the Dead (1985) to name a few.Plot miners on the oceanic floor discovers sunk ship. They bring back an intact safe, but not Everything in it is inanimate...The Movie is quite a traditional investigative horror Movie, i.e. Discovery...unnatural happenings...physical tests...disappearances...and action and gore finale. Think the Thing, Alien, the Andromeda Strain and World War Z.If you know Cosmatos' work you probably also know what you get. You get good craftsmanship, some excitement, some gore and action, Everything you need on a popcorn Friday night.The Movie stars Peter Weller, Meg Foster and Richard Crenna and a few other well-knowns. together with cosmatos' craftsmanship, sfx by Stan Winston and few dull moments they lift this Movie to higher grounds.The downside is that the Movie is too much The Thing on every level. It is, admittedly, a the Thing set in the depths of the ocean. however, as mentioned above, its high production values make it memorable.If you like horror creature Movies see this one, if you prefer slasher-, ghost- or vampire horror...don't.Despite its common structure I still give it......7 out 10 because it is well made. "},{"Title":"Greaty Sci Fi, but IMDb is playing the wrong trailer","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" IMDb - you are playing the wrong trailer for this movie. You're playing the 2012 documentary version...oops! This entire time I've been watching the movie thinking I was watching the movie in the trailer, and thought, where the heck are the fisherman and fishing boats. Oh well, on another note, if you love The Thing and Alien, you will probably enjoy this film. Don't expect it to be the best sci-fi thriller you've ever seen, but is does have some good affects,for 1989. The movie was done in Italy for god sake,so give them some leeway! Instead of a green screen, you get an upgraded blue screen on the computers - oh yeah!!! "},{"Title":"I'm gonna pop your tops, all six of them.","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The underwater creature feature was all the rage in 1989, including such efforts as DeepStar Six, The Abyss, this movie, and the obscure Roger Corman knockoff Lords of the Deep. It's not bad at all, but it's very familiar, at least to fans of this sort of thing. Co-written by David Webb Peoples (of Blade Runner fame), it borrows elements from such previous films as Alien and The Thing, and is overall mostly predictable.The cast full of recognizable faces does give it some curiosity value. They play miners working at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean who make some spooky discoveries, starting with a sunken Russian vessel. It turns out that the men on this ship were up to your standard issue genetic tampering. The result are big & ugly man-fish hybrids that wreak havoc on this hapless crew.The talented crew of this production does give Leviathan a very good look. Among them are production designer Ron Cobb and cinematographer Alex Thomson. The music by Jerry Goldsmith is appropriately atmospheric. The creature creations by Stan Winstons' team are enjoyable. And the script does manage to come up with one great spin on one of the clichés that some people expect from this genre. The ending packs a real punch.The actors are generally fun to watch, especially Richard Crenna as the disgraced doctor. He and star Peter Weller had previously worked with director George P. Cosmatos on the films Rambo First Blood Part II and Of Unknown Origin respectively. Both Weller and the late Michael Carmine are likable, while Ernie Hudson and Hector Elizondo are typically solid in their roles, Amanda Pays and Lisa Eilbacher supply fine eye candy, and Daniel Stern is hilarious as the lewd, crude Sixpack. Meg Foster has a delicious role as the obviously not-to-be-trusted corporate ice queen.Leviathan is basically good if not great entertainment, well made enough to keep it watchable for an amusing 98 minutes. It's about on a par with DeepStar Six, and would make a reasonable alternative for anybody who might find The Abyss to be too bloated and too sappy.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Great Undersea Adventure","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Underwater deep-sea miners in search of precious metals encounter a Soviet wreck and bring back a dangerous cargo to their base on the ocean floor with horrifying results...First of all, let me point out the amazing cast Peter Weller, Meg Foster, Daniel Stern, Ernie Hudson and others. Even if they just stood around and played canasta for two hours, this would probably be a good film because of the sheer amount of talent here.Second, I have to point out that special effects were done by Stan Winston. Now, the film is not always effects-heavy like it could be, but the effects we do see are quite good and Winston pulls all the stops. The mix of biological forms rivals anything done in a Cronenberg film and is second only to Rob Bottin's work on The Thing.For a film that is basically a space alien taking over a space ship (except underwater), which is not really anything new, the story plays out quite well and makes for a good time. The new (2014) Blu-ray from Shout! Factory looks amazing, and although it is not a collector's edition, there are still plenty of goodies for those who want to learn a bit more about behind the scenes. "},{"Title":"I semi-liked this movie...","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hmm... Leviathan. What to say about it? It has good acting, not outstanding nor horrible. The characters are all doing a nice job of creating the right atmosphere.Story An underwater mining team discover a sunken Russian submarine. When they investigate, they recover a large safe from the vessel. In it are some documents, a video tape of the captain's log and a bottle of vodka. (how appropriate). The documents and tape give more questions and answers. The real movie starts though once the vodka has been taken in...Music is good. Jerry Goldsmith delivers a good score, which is to be expected. You get a creepy feeling from watching this movie now and then.The effects are well enough. I wasn't really impressed, maybe because I have seen too many movies like this. I do have to say that the creature in this movie is very unique. I mean... a moray eel, squid, piranha, human combination? And the fact it can regenerate and absorb human tissue. Creative for sure.That brings me to the one, big complaint I have about this movie the camera angles. Dear god... once you get to about half into the movie (especially during the creature attack scenes) you will notice that the camera constantly shifts. I don't mind usually, but in this movie it is sometimes IMPOSSIBLE to tell what is going on. Some shots are too close as well. It's a shame, because everything else in this movie is enjoyable enough. This camera issue really ruined a lot of fun for me.You'll find elements of Alien and The Thing in this movie. So if you liked those movies, you will like this one. There's a decent amount of gore and scares in this movie too.In conclusion, I have to give Leviathan a 6 out of 10 stars. I'm sorry, but the camera problem really lowered the rating a lot for me. If it was less confusing after about halfway of the movie, I would have given it probably 2 or even 3 stars higher... "},{"Title":"My favorite of the underwater movies...which really is not saying much.","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yes, there was this movie, Deepstar Six, and The Abyss...all came out around the same time and this one is the one I enjoyed the most. Most will probably vote for The Abyss, and I don't blame them as it is a superior film in many ways. However, I found it kind of boring and this one is more horror oriented which is why I enjoyed watching this one more. It is shorter too. This movie has monsters in it, but unlike Deepstar Six where the monster is kind of a side story at times the creature featured in this one is the main attraction. What kind of monster is it you ask? Hard to say, I would most compare it to the thing in the movie The Thing by John Carpenter, granted this movie is not as good as that one. The cast is lead by Peter Weller, one of those actors who typically appear in this kind of film. Not quite an A film, but a bit to good to be a B film. You also get Richard Crenna and Ernie Hudson too. So in this film be prepared for lots of monster action and gore. Think Alien meets The Thing as it does seem to comprise a lot of situations and ideas of those films while being inferior to both still provides a somewhat good horror film. However, I do have a complaint that has to do with the story. I found the last death really unnecessary and I did not care for it at all as I was pulling for this one character to live. "},{"Title":"Groovy","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A mish-mash of Alien and the 1982 version of the Thing that delivers if you enjoyed either or both of those films. The effects are up to the job but as time moves on they are dating somewhat (unlike the Thing). Peter Weller gives his usual great performance with all the cast being believable in their roles. "},{"Title":"lazy film-making pops out gem","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Leviathan is a pleasing ripoff from Alien. There are so many bad movies trying to emulate the pathos of Alien but Leviathan tries really hard and succeeds in capturing at least the claustrophobic atmosphere and gut-wrenching fear it intended to. The less said about the acting the better although as this is a by-the-numbers pick 'em off movie some of the cast get to have fun at the genres expense. Peter Weller redeems himself for a man who chose career suicide by playing Robocop and would therefore be referred to as 'Him whose was Robocop' by playing quite a simpathetic character.The effects are very well handled the least impressive being the actual mutant monstery things, it does seem however that this was probably noticed by the editors and resulted in the said beasts being largely left off the screen. The slimy slug shaped monster that buries itself into the torso of one unlucky diver is a great scene of strong body horror and most of the other deaths are both very violent and memorable, a true pointer to an effective monster flick and all you need for a good Friday night movie. Ignore the shockingly bad editing and enjoy a supremely good horror movie that wears its Alien shirt with pride. "}{"Title":"At Times an Enjoyable Alien/Thing Ripoff","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie takes a couple good sci-fi horror concepts and tosses them into a different isolation scenario the bottom of the sea floor. I remember loving this film as a kid, but it hasn't aged well. The sets will look somewhat familiar, and I imagine they are reworked assets from Alien. The setup is pretty decent, though point for point straight from the Alien plot. The mid part of the movie is a kinda shoehorned homage to The Thing, though it never really finds it place and ultimately gets abandoned in the third act where it's a strict creature feature. The third act is really the worst part of the film. The editing is a mess. The 'creature' is alternately portrayed by several completely different animatronics/costumes. Exactly what is happening in the action sequences is unclear and the obvious differences between the 'creature' every cut reminds one of those old B&W movies where some director has cut in unused footage from an earlier movie to finish an existing one. It starts strong and gets weaker as it goes until the fuzzily end capped by the hero flimsily tossing a grenade in an open maw with an Open wide MF'er! as he dons his floaty. This movie is unabashedly a cash-in, but it works for the first 2/3s. It gets obnoxious in the final act.The primary barrier in the movie is that the crew are trapped on the sea floor. Implosion threat is mentioned several times. For a movie that features deep sea pressurization as a plot point, the filmmakers didn't really think through the escape in the third act. All those characters would have died messily from explosive decompression, or at the very least been in the throws of dying of the bends. This may seem like a minor complaint...but it is a major plot point in the film. "},{"Title":"Leviathan","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Leviathan is yet another genetic creature movie, with a unionized mining crew counting down the remaining three days left before they will be able to return topside after a long period inside a large underwater installation. When two of the crew encounter an old Russian vessel while working, one among them (Daniel Stern) brings an infection which causes a genetic alteration (essentially a flesh mutation) that starts to spread throughout the installation causing panic and bloodshed. Director George P Cosmatos (Cobra) assembled quite a cast with Peter Weller as a geologist in charge of a bunch of blue collar miners (which includes the lovely Amanda Pays, wisecracking Daniel Stern always causing mischief, Ernie Hudson, Michael Carmine, Lisa Eilbacher and Hector Elizondo) and Richard Crenna as the doctor who understands several languages, his Russian coming in very handy. The genetic mutations affecting certain crew members soon forms a large aquatic creature once they are dead, very similar to the alien lifeform in John Carpenter's The Thing. To be honest, Leviathan is just an assembly of clichés and ideas plucked from lots of other&#x97;and better&#x97;sci-fi horror films. The mining crew in Leviathan is ripped right from Ridley Scott's Alien, and many of the underwater installation's interiors are similar to the inside of the Nostromo. I think the reason many will always seek Leviathan out is because of the cast, but the characters aren't really that interesting, except maybe Stern who plays a clown and Ernie Hudson as the vocal miner who aggressively voices his opinion even when it isn't wanted. The various creatures (one cool scene has a severed appendage cocooning a worm-like monster with sharp teeth) are skin-crawlingly disgusting. I can see why this movie is often compared to Deep StarSix, directed by Sean Cunningham, as both deal with underwater facilities besieged by a giant creature dwindling the numbers of a crew preparing for departure. Some special effects are memorable such as a hand having formed a mouth with teeth and the aforementioned worm attacking a crew member, burrowing into his chest. Leviathan also features Meg Foster as the miners' boss who seems to be delaying their departure because of fears that they will bring up to the surface something that will cause the company to plummet in the stock market, with Weller and company plotting a different strategy to get out of their predicament. "},{"Title":"Freat 80's Aqua-Horror Flic","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Okay, okay it's been done before and will be done again but I think this film has a charm of it's own. They all have claustrophobic corridors and leaking seals and while Deep Star Six has the 'other guy' from RoboCop, this one has Peter 'RoboCop' Weller seemingly having a ball with this character. It was nice to see Amanda Pays pop up in a lead role and there's some great 80's quality one-liners to push it across the line. It does get a little silly towards the end but..c'mon... 80's!The shots of the ocean seen from inside the facility work really well and the miniature/model work was excellent for the day. "},{"Title":"Great 1980's cast saves this rehashed Alien Under Water story","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" More of a thriller or maybe a horror, but I think it could pass for an action film. Directed by George P. Cosmatos...or so it says; isn't he the guy that always was just the name on the screen, with Stallone actually directing Rambo First Blood 2 and Kurt Russell actually directing Tombstone? Anyways, this film is Alien under water. Everything you remember about the 1979 film Alien, place it on the bottom of the ocean, and you have Leviathan. There is the mysterious and eerie locale discovered by a mining ship, explored by the crew in special suits, and some unholy thing is brought back on board, and slowly transforms from a mysterious creature into an unstoppable killing machine. Hell this movie is even more like the 1989 Carcolco film Deep Star Six. OK let me say the hands down best thing about this movie is the cast, all star 1980's cast. You have Peter Weller of Robocop fame as the pragmatic Captain, you have Richard Crenna of Rambo fame as the pedantic Doctor, you have Ernie Hudson of Ghostbusters fame as the likable 'black guy', you have Daniel Stern of Home Alone/City Slickers fame as the goof ball *beep* up, and Stan Winston's company making the creature. So while the story has been done to death, it is worth watching this version of it for the great characters. There are a couple genuinely eerie parts in the film which was helped by Jerry Goldsmiths synth- classical score. I would recommend this to fans of action/adventure who don't normally go for a thriller/horror type movie. "},{"Title":"Not one original moment in this film","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" However, that is not to say that it isn't entertaining, because it is. The film is about a group of undersea miners who discover a Soviet wreck. The wreck contains a potion that of course, one of the crew members has to drink. The potion turns out to be a formula that turns people into reptile like monsters that will eventually spread their symptoms to everybody else on board.We have seen this all before. The Thing, the Alien series, The Deep, etc all have one idea or another that were thrown into this film. You have got the creature that takes over people's bodies(Alien, The Thing), the blood supply being depleted by the creature(The Thing), the remainder of the crew trying to escape the ship in a limited amount of time before it self destructs(Alien), and the scene where all of the guys are sitting around eating, talking about sex and other things(Alien).This movie could have been a lot better if they had thrown something original into it. Why not use more comic relief? That may have spiced up the film a bit. However, the film is not that bad and if you cannot find anymore decent sci-fi horror films to view, this one may just be up your alley. "},{"Title":"Soso but not bad really (posible spoilers)","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The movie made me think; The Abyss meets The Thing. Decent acting, somewhat decent story, and mostly good effects. so why did this movie whither? Some extremely predictable plot points and the monsters end.This movie could have gone without the monster having a distinguished face. It looked like an evil Koi Fish!! up until that point it was a creepy, unseen monster. Then it just died for me. Speaking of dying, if the monster can regenerate, why would the explosion kill it? I think they just ran out of plot and needed a deus et machina. oh well its in the past now. So for review, and to fill in some space; Good acting, almost good monster, but plot runs out too soon. "},{"Title":"It's Alien, The Thing, and The Abyss all in one movie. (spoilers)","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'Leviathan' is a science fiction story based on a flesh-feasting alien living on the ocean floor. It survives on blood, and still managed to live long after a ship full of Russian sailors killed themselves to keep it from finding more blood (because it could've gotten to the mainland). But, once a bunch of silver minors who have a huge base on the ocean floor that resembles the ship from The Abyss, the alien has managed to infest the crew, who wonder if they should sacrifice themselves, like the Russians, in order to avoid the possibility of this thing being able to live and getting to the surface.The story is similar to 'Alien' because even though the ship crew is being ravaged by this killer alien, the company that owns the ship wants nothing to do with them for fear that, if word got out about a disastorous mission, then their stock would plummet. You also have a similar alien-in-the-stomach gag. It's like The Abyss in that they're miners working on the ocean floor. And the alien itself has qualities like 'The Thing,' as it is able to mutate it's victims. And it seems like the only effective way of killing it is to torch it. If they only hack it to pieces, the pieces can still survive and mutate into new aliens. The movie isn't as exciting as the three classics cited above, and probalby doesn't have quite the same popularity because it is seen as a tired attempt to capitalize on the success of these movies ('The Abyss' was even released the same year and gave a different twist on the alien saga by making it a benevolent creature rather than a flesh-eating mutant). Despite having a pretty good cast which includes Hector Elizando, Ernie Hudson, Peter Weller, and Daniel Stern, the movie doesn't have much action to match it's sporadic special effects sequences (courtesy of Stan Winston's team), and the ending is pretty stupid and too far fetched to be enjoyed. Three of the crew members just happen to be able to float up all the way from the ocean floor to the surface (dropping their suits off at some length down) while still having enough oxygen (both in and out of the suits) to make it up to the top. Not to mention then being circled by a shark that attempts a few bites, and then once again coming face to face with the alien, doing a 'Jaws' ending by blowing up the growling nemesis. I think it's probably better to stick to the classics Alien, The Thing, and The Abyss, as it is very hard to match the great qualities that these movies produced. "},{"Title":"Good sci fi horror flick.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers ahead! This is the best of the underwater sci fi movies of the late eighties. Weller and Crenna do a great job in there roles along with the rest cast. The special effects were great and thankfully did not contain so much of the lame CGI effects that are in movies now. The movie deals with an underwater research center and its crew that comes across a wrecked Soviet ship. After investigating the ship one of the crew members (Stern) becomes infected with a virus of sorts developed by the Russians to make the ultimate underwater soldier, which turns him into part man part sealife, or the really nasty monster of the movie. After killing many of the crew members including Crenna, Weller and two others manage to make there way up to the surface, where they blow up the creature once and for all and are rescued. Not expecting much from the movie i was very impressed, Although it rips of Alien a bit its a great sci fi flick. 7 out of 10 I give it. "},{"Title":"credible workplace characters","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie, not for the plot or special effects which were just average. I loved it's realistic portrayals of the workplace. Think about it. Every workplace has a jerk nobody likes...Daniel 'six pack' Stern. It also has someone older and wiser than everybody else,..but not quite as wise as he thinks he is.. Hector 'Cobb' Elizondo. There's always the hottie who won't let any guy except for the boss to get close to her... Amanda'Williams' Pays. There's always the black guy who makes a lot of racial comments, most of which are harmless..Ernie 'Jones' Hudson. There's the well educated person who thinks his degree puts him above taking orders... Richard 'Doc' Crenna.  The boss who doesn't like being the boss..Peter 'Beck' Weller. The psuedo babe who's one of the guys..Lisa 'Bowman' Eilbacher. Finally there's the novice who's  just happy to be everyone's friend..Michael 'DeJesus' Carmine. "},{"Title":"As good as it gets...(for Alien rip-offs, anyhow)","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's no secret this is Aliens underwater, but that doesn't mean it ain't a whole lotta fun.  I mean, at least it's competent crap and we don't even get competent crap anymore these days.  Seriously.  Peter Weller remains cool in even the most ridiculous of situations, as always, bringing his trademark conviction to the lead role.  The FX are supercool, Ron Cobb's production design's terrific, the score is one of my faves and the underwater setting gives the whole thing a fun, dank, haunted house in the briny blue feel. Plus, it has Amanda Pays.  What more could you ask for?  A story, plot, characters, etc., you ask?  Hey it's entertainment, kids.  Not a rocket science convention... "}{"Title":"Rips off a bunch of movies, most notably Alien; despite a fine cast, its disappointing","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Steven (Peter Weller) is one of the employees of an underwater mining firm. Their headquarters is down deep in the ocean and the bosses are pretty interested in profits alone. One fateful day, as they say, the scuba diving crew stumbles across a sunken Soviet ship. During the investigation of the vessel, one of the divers almost dies when his equipment malfunctions. Our hero Steven saves him. But, soon after the workers leave the USSR boat, some begin to have strange symptoms. A lady is so overcome with pain and itching that she commits suicide. Another has a fever and so on. The firm's on-site physician, Doc (Richard Crenna) detects that the DNA of one of afflicted patients is changing. Sure enough, soon an Alien-type monster takes over his body and the whole company is fighting for their lives, as more folks experience the same thing, haha. Can Steven figure out how to rescue the remaining employees and, hopefully, kill the lethal Leviathan? As happens so often, Hollywood scores a hit, like Alien or The Abyss, and gets the idea that more of the same is what viewers want. Unfortunately, this film presents nothing new or exciting to the original works. It is basically ultra-lite James Cameron and, therefore, is very disappointing. Even the last line is a direct rip-off of the final exclamation from The Terminator flick! Its only redeeming quality is the fine cast. Weller is one handsome lad and makes a great hero. Crenna, Amanda Pays, Ernie Hudson, and all of the others do their best and deserve so much better. All right, the underwater shots are fairly nice, too. If you love cinematic science fiction, in a let's make fun of it way, a la Mystery Science Theater, you might look for this one at the usual outlets. Otherwise, any view will make you feel as bad as one of the monster's victims. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable...But I Have One Problem....","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I used to watch all of these low budget horror films that were cranked out during the eighties. My buddies and I would watch the  worst movies and make fun of them. This movie was one of three deep sea monster movies in 89,and i thought it was pretty good.However...****SPOILERS****....Ernie Hudson survives all the way to the end of the movie,(rare for a black man in horror film) he even makes it to the ocean surface along with Peter Weller and the female lead...the end credit music triumphantly swells....the rescue helicopter is directly above our heroes..AND THE MONSTER RESURFACES TO EAT THE BROTHER. Now maybe that was supposed to be funny? I remember we were busting up laughing at the time...but thinking back...that was kind of weird.This movie was very similar to Deep Star Six,( No..the Brother did not make it in that one either..)but this was a little better.6/10!!! "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Although this film rips off many classic movies which are much better, such as The Thing, Alien, The Abyss and even The Fly, it is still pretty enjoyable.  The effects were pretty good, the music was cool, and the cast is pretty good.  The first half is mostly just talk, but the second half makes up for it.  The acting was pretty good, especially Ernie Hudson(Ghostbusters, The Crow) as Jones, Weller and Crenna hold their own as well.  I would say if this movie were made now with a cast of popular actors, say Kevin Spacey, Ben Affleck, ect., it would be well recieved.  I doubt this film will stand up to repeated viewings though.  Overall it was pretty good entertainment.  *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"little suspence, good effects.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, this movie had great effects. They were created by Stan Winston. The script was bad, but the Acting was acceptable. I noticed that 1989 was the big sea monster movie year, and they all had similar stories, Great effects, and ok acting. I think this movie was ok, but could have been better. The ending of this movie was a HUGE rip-off of the ending for DEEP STAR SIX.  Two-and-a-half stars out of five. "},{"Title":"Actually one of the better Under-water Horror Sci-Fis !","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The special effects and the claustrofobic environment makes it to an Alien-abyss combination that actually works really good for the Sci-Fi people ! Peter weller does good and i must say that even if it doesn't come close to Alien i think the end is far better than that of the Abyss or Sphere fot that matter... "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Although this movie has a similar plot to the horrible Deepstar Six, Leviathan is a much better film. They have great sets, but Leviathan is better acted, written, photographed, and the monster in Leviathan is 50 times scarrier than Deepstar Six. Sure, the plot is a ripoff of Alien, but hey...it works. "},{"Title":"could've been a classic if it came out 10 years later","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  with all the alien rip off labeling this movie has...its a shame it didn't come out ten years later when the Alien saga is dwindling down.  This movie is GREAT!  The cast couldn't have been better, the effects are great, and the musics rocks.  I recommend this film and thankfully its now on DVD cause its worth watching it on DVD.  Give it a try today if you didn't ten years ago8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Leviathan is Great Fun!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Leviathan is lots fun, with great special effects and slick directing by George P. Cosmatos (Tombstone, Shadow Conspiracy). Its part Alien, part The Abyss. Its a fast-paced action-packed thriller with a great cast. Richard Crenna (First Blood, Wrongfully Accused)is especially good as the doctor with a cloded past. The movie came out in 1989 along with the similar Deepstar Six. I haven't seen Deepstar Six but it would have to be a classic to be better then this movie. Leviathan also stars Peter Weller (Robocop, Screamers) and Ernie Hudson (Ghostbusters, The Hand that Rocks the Cradle, Congo). I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Unwatchable.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The stupidity of this movie made me want to pull my hair out. I didn't have a problem with the man in a rubber monster suit, or the meaningless pseudo-scientific techno-babble, or even the preposterous plot. I could even overlook the nonsense about siting a bunch of nuclear missiles on the bottom of the sea. After all, that's the kind of stuff you expect in a sci-fi monster flick.What I can't stand is watching characters do things that are so stupid that they are simply not believable. Would anyone actually dispose of nearby nuclear weapons by detonating them? No one over 6 years old would ever think that this is a good idea, but that's just one of numerous scenes that had me shaking my head, thinking, no one would ever do that, not in a million years. It's like the mission to Mars, or whatever life or death deep-space expedition, supposedly entrusted to a crew of highly trained astronauts, half of whom invariably have personality disorders or behavioral problems that would disqualify them from getting a job at the Post Office. In a film which requires a willing suspension of disbelief, being continually reminded that you're watching a movie by having poorly directed actors thrash about chewing up the scenery makes it impossible to enjoy. Illogical and aggressive behavior doesn't make up for the lack of a plot. Having characters act in a totally irrational or moronic manner for the sake of dramatic tension , like fighting and arguing when facing imminent death and destruction is the mark of a mediocre director. It's a bad-movie cliché to have actors bitching and bickering while bullets are flying.This waste of time was released the same year as James Cameron's The Abyss, one of the best deep-sea sci-fi films ever made. While they are both based on premises that were speculative and extreme, The Abyss has some of the best dramatic scenes of any movie in the genre, demonstrating that it's possible to have both believable acting and an excellent hard-core sci-fi story. Leviathan really suffers in comparison. Bottom line don't waste your time. Check out The Abyss instead. "},{"Title":"Don't drink the vodka.....","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Robocop and Col. Trautman, take a few famous faces and one who isn't (due to tragic events) to the underwater and make a rip off of Alien, The Thing and The Abyss.For some reason, I've always wanted to see this film, ever since it was released back in 1990. So I jumped at the chance to see it in all it's glory.I wasn't expecting much. The fact that it pretty much sunk without a trace didn't bode well, but I like these sort of claustrophobic alien type movies, and will watch the majority of these movie (Supernova, Virus, etc).The film happens, and you can pretty much guess who is going to die and who is going to survive. Daniel Stern should have just wore a target, and Richard Crenna just had a smug look on his face as if to say 'i'm the best thing about this'.And he is, it's by the numbers stuff, we have a silly slug like creature roaming the halls, before the final beast revelation, and Weller punches out Meg Foster.Worth seeing the once. "}{"Title":"Hey it's only a movie","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" You can do worse.I'm sure there are better ways to open a review, but that about sums it up. There's no mistaking this is a direct Alien rip off underwater - and I mean direct rip off. Their heads should pop off at the end from ascending so fast - I know. But look, you get the great Ernie Hudson, Amanda Pays and Peter Weller. Richard Crenna and Hector Elizando round out the 80s regulars - Where's Roy Schieder in this party?!?!?!? Oh yeah they have Daniel Stern playing the Bill Paxton role of guy you laugh at but know will die a gooey one. But wait there's more. Alex Thompson's excellent cinematography guides competent direction and solid Stan Winston effects work. It's a Sunday night and nothing on? Find this on Netflix and sit back with a beer or two and bag of Dorritos. "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott should have sued the producers of this ripoff","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In space no one can hear you scream, and the same is apparently true at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean, where a voracious genetic mutation runs, crawls and slithers amok in a deep sea mining colony populated by the usual assortment of victims. The most obvious problem with this underwater plagiarism of Ridley Scott's 'Alien' (blatantly copied right down to the smallest plot twist) is that it takes too long setting up the scares and doesn't leave enough time to exploit them. At the point when tension ought to be nearing the screaming point the film rushes instead to an untidy conclusion, having exhausted its stock of (strictly formula) fright tactics. What's left is a lot of high-tech trappings and a little low-tech suspense, and things that go squish in the night. "},{"Title":"a mix between alien and the thing","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Let me say that Leviathan is worth watching. Some people really find it as bad as it could be but it entertained me. The story is very simple. The last days underwater a team of researchers goes into the deep again. This time it goes wrong but luckily they found a wreck of a Russian ship. So far so good wasn't it for the booze they found on that Russian ship. It contains an experiment so a creature wakes up. To come alive it doesn't burst out of your chest like in alien, here he feeds inside you, it goes into your stomach. But it only takes a while before things are happening. Stan Winston did the effects and they are really good. Slime galore when the creature comes alive. The comparison with The Thing is the fact that it takes the form of the life captured. It isn't gory or really bloody but some scene's were in fact cut out so be sure to catch the uncut edition. I found mine on a sell out for just 2 euro's full uncut with Dutch subs. I said it before, go visit sell outs of video stores or garage sales. Even as it has some famous names in it the movie flopped and went to VHS. Even then distribution was bad. Up till now it hasn't have a real proper release, I mean, digitally. But if you can catch a copy don't hesitate. "},{"Title":"Classic Sea Creature Flick","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Director George P.Cosmatos who also created other classic flicks, Tombstone 1993, Cobra 1986, Rambo First Blood 2 1985 and Of Unknown Origin 1983 has created another gem in Leviathan.Starring Peter Weller who has also been in other classic flicks, Screamers 1995, Naked Lunch 1991, RoboCop 2 1990, RoboCop 1987 and in George P.Cosmatos's Of Unknown Origin.Also starring Richard Crenna who has also been in other classic flicks, Marooned 1969, First Blood 1982 and George P.Cosmatos's Rambo First Blood 2.I enjoyed the set designs and the monster scenes.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic sea creature flicks, Alligator 1980, Black Water 2007, Dark Age 1987, Deep Blue Sea 1999, Deep Rising 1998, Frankenfish 2004, Humanoids from the Deep 1980, Jaws 1975, Open Water 2003, The Reef 2011, Piranha 3D 2010, Primeval 2007, Bait 2012 and Rogue 2007. "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen this before&#133; but in space and on ice?","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A deep sea mining team discover a sunken ship and they bring back some cargo from it- but after bringing it aboard one by one the crew becomes contaminated from some strange under-water organism.This film is nothing but an 'Alien', 'The Thing' and you can kind of add 'the Abyss' hybrid, ripping off the plot of 'alien' and the special effects and monster design from the 'the thing'- but this time its not set in space or on ice but actually under water. It was not the only under-water feature film to come out that year but also 'the abyss' and 'deepstar six'&#133; with it sharing more common ground with the latter.I'm not really a fan of under-water features; 'The Abyss' was pretentiously over blown and dull, 'Sphere' *Yawn*, 'The Deep' was sleep inducing and 'DeepStar Six' was *hmm* fair- but still irritable. Well though this was an under-water film and basically a rip-off of two great films, it actually isn't that bad- because of a pretty good cast involving Peter Weller, Ernie Hudson, Daniel Stern, Richard Crenna and Amanda Pays and the wonderfully realistic special effects truly pack a wallop and a pretty bizarre- but decent monster design from Stan Winston.It does have a very slow opening- but the characters themselves make up for it, though they might be cliché ridden, like the joker, cool headed leader, mischievousness doctor, token smart-ass black guy, the edgy and unstable guy, the young go-getter and the strong willed female- but at least they were likable and compelling and that's because of some good performances and a witty script, than that of the similar monster film 'DeepStar six'.The slow first half makes way for an adrenaline pack second half where the tensity mounts, there are some tense and very claustrophobic scenes that keep you on edge- but overall the film mostly lacks surprise and does become predictable, especially if you've seen 'Alien' and 'The Thing'.The monster itself looked quite astonishing... especially the change it goes through is truly mesmerising, even more then the finish product and a detail explanation of the monster's origin is a welcome change. The score is definitely one of the standouts by Jerry Goldsmith (who also did 'Alien'), who captures the alienation of the sea and the tension of the edgy situation that occurs. While the cinematography of the under-water mining base and the ocean floor is fairly eye-catching, as the look and setting of the film is vibrantly rich and engaging in detail.This film can only be appreciated as nothing more than an unoriginal- but amusing rip-off. I for one enjoyed it for what it was.3/5 "},{"Title":"Good story and Good Effects.","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is about an underwater mining company that encounters a sunken Russian ship. The result of their find is a disease that causes the human body to mutate with horrible results. Although this movie may not be very original it is a solid movie with good acting and great effects. "},{"Title":"good fx; predictable story","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you're in the mood for an Alien-type movie, you'll probably enjoy Leviathan. The effects are really spectacularly gruesome at times.  No surprises in the story itself--you'll probably have a good time predicting what happens next and who's about to get it.  If you haven't actually seen all the Alien movies, and John Carpenter's The Thing, rent those first, but if you've seen all those movies and just want to see something different in the genre, Leviathan might be just the ticket. "},{"Title":"Abhorrent in every way","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The concept was moronic, the writing was unbelievably inept. What about the acting? I would have welcomed it! Sadly, this show had no acting. Of course we can't blame the actors for the truly, truly awful dialogue. Perhaps their insuperably bad delivery was some kind of protest directed at the screenwriter. (I wish I could believe that.) The film tries to be The Abyss + Alien. At one moment near the end, it also tries to be Jaws.I would rather perform an abortion with a rusty, twisted hanger than watch that suppurating genital sore of a film.To avoid seeing that monstrosity again, I would gladly give birth......to a porcupine......that was on fire. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie the first time I saw it, when it was called Alien...","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Of all the derivative Alien movies that have come out since 1979, this one most strongly resembles the Ridley Scott classic. Here are the only differences 1) Instead of outer space, Leviathan takes place deep underwater, 2) Instead of having the Gorillas in the Mist lady as the lead character, Leviathan uses the dude from Robocop as the lead. 3) Instead of a monster that looks like a skeletal Velociraptor with a long head and mouth-inside-a-mouth, Leviathan has a monster that...well, you never really get a good look at the monster but as best as I can tell it looks like giant crab sort of thing with a nasty set of canine teeth and the faces and images of its victims embedded somewhere on its corpus. Other than that, it's the same movie as Alien, -- crew members are dispatched to look into a distressed ship, they stumble upon monster, crew can't get rescued because of corporate cover-up. The fact that it's so derivative of Alien isn't necessarily bad, since Alien was such a good movie. Leviathan is pretty scary but not quite as scary as Alien, and generally falls short of Alien in most categories. But a good movie to watch at night, or if you have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Dopesick (good)","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie, enhanced by the use of medicinal herbs, is an absolute blast. Peter Weller (It's me, Murphy!) is both comically delightful and physically titalating. The special effects are far superior to comparable movies at the time (alien, deep star six, the abyss), and even compared to special effects of today's movies. i found the monster absolutely terrifying. I woke up in a cold sweat the night after watching this movie! Ernie Hudson (Winston!) gets killed in the end, and unlike some previous posters, I thought it was a great addition to the movie (at least he made it through, unlike Sammy Jackson in Deep Blue Sea, another movie I highly recommend). All in all its got a great cast (could have used more dudes from Ghostbusters IMO), great special effects. All I can say is buckle your seltbelts (Hold onto your potatoes Dr Jones, we go for a ride) cause this is a knock-your-socks, white-knuckle, pedal to the metal, horror/thriller flick that is definitely worth a free rental from Blockbuster. "}{"Title":"Slime, slime and slime..","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've always wondered why aliens/monsters/etc have to be so slimy? Is there a reason for this? As you understand, otherwise I wouldn't be writing this, Leviathan is no exception. I just don't get it. Is that supposed to make them more frightening? Another feature that I never understood was the fact that all computers have different interfaces. No Microsoft rules the world here. No, no. According to the movie industry there are about 2 000 000 different OS developers out there. And I, personally, would love to have a OS that lets me write questions like Take a guess. And they all have a voice interface. Then that they spite this advanced technologies still used CGA graphics didn't seem to disturb any directors. This have become better. Like the interface in Johnny Mnemonic. But I guess we are all limited by our time. Very few of us can in a realistic way foresee what things will look like in 20 years. Remember the computer in Space 1999? Even Mr Kubrick, my favourite, couldn't see past the terrible fashion that ruled back in the late 60's in A Clockwork Orange. I wouldn't want to wake up with a hang over and be forced to go into that kitchen to make coffee.I guess most of the different aspects of this movie, Leviathan, has been covered here already. But I wanted to reflect over one actor that I've never really could deal with; Richard Crenna.The first time I saw Crenna was in First Blood. I think most of you know about his appearance in this movie, but for those who don't he is a Colonel in the Special Forces that is going to help the local police and national guard to catch Mr Rambo. And from this moment and forward, I just can't stand his acting. He is stereotype no matter what role he plays. Always the same one eye brow up face a little to the side look. And I find that unbearably annoying. I guess I'm not the only one, because he played mostly for TV and I guess that shows that he was not a top-notch actor. "},{"Title":"A solid sci-fi movie!","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I do not consider this movie a rip-off. The Thing and especially Alien are classics and therefore influenced many sci-fi films. It is unfair to compare Leviathan exclusively to those flicks. This movie had good characters and great (almost too convincing) special effects. The monster/mutation scenes are very grotesque and still send shivers up my spine. Peter Weller is totally cool w/ those cold eyes and deep voice of his. The scene of him practicing his lecture to the Doc in the mirror was funny and creative. I wish Lisa Eilbacher would have lasted longer in the movie, she is a total babe! Cool cast and special effects!....Better than Deep Star Six. "},{"Title":"Yet another predictable sci-fi/horror non-thriller","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Every second of this movie you can basically predict from the start.  All of the most basic uses of foreshadowing are utilized, making you do anything BUT sit on the edge of your seat.  The stock horror coming back for one final scare pretty much made me laugh my butt off, because the monster was a basic joke, and it also gave the writers a chance to kill off the last of the characters who weren't romantically involved--therefore leaving just the two lovers left so that there weren't any odd feelings of having a third wheel in the mix (too bad, I liked Ernie Hudson's character a little).I think that if you suffer from insomnia, this just might be the cure.  It will bore your brain into a coma. "},{"Title":"A mediocre underwater horror that owes a lot to Alien and The Abyss.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The crew of a deep-sea mining rig discovers a sunken Russian freighter that harbors a deadly secreta hideous monster that is the product of genetic experiment.With a storm raging on the surface of ocean and no hope for rescue,the captain played by Peter Weller and his team battle for survival against the creature.Leviathan is a pretty derivative underwater horror/science-fiction thriller that rips-off Alien and The Thing.Admittedly the acting is decent,the score by Jerry Goldsmith is excellent and the location sets are great,unfortunately the script is bad and the monster designed by a famous FX wizard Stan Winson is neither scary nor menacing.In conclusion,Leviathan is a decent,albeit utterly forgettable Alien clone that is perfect for rainy afternoon.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A monster is a monster, of course","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Crew of aqua explorers / government-issued underwater artifact collectors get into big trouble when they come across a bad bottle of vodka. The alcohol contains some sort of mutative drug or chemical that makes them sick, kills them, and uses each of their bodies as one part to a large mutant fish monster. As the crew dies and becomes part of this, the monster terrorizes what's left of the bunch.Packs a real punch in the conclusion, but the sloth-long build-up is barely worth it. Not to mention that the fact this so obviously rips-off Alien, John Carpenter's The Thing, and Jaws, is very annoying. Generally very poorly written and acted. The effects are not much of a saving grace, but remain impressive nonetheless. Also, great score by Jerry Goldsmith. Actor Peter Weller has got one cute tush. Elizondo moves on to Pretty Woman, and Foster (Meg, not Jody) moves on to Full Moon's Shrunken Heads.** out of **** "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That cast, that crew! What an utter and total disappointment! However, the special effects are very good. This time around, an under water sea crew discovers the crew members are dying and then turning into fish monsters after drinking vodka that was brought into their ship from an abandoned sub. The ships leader (Peter Weller) squares off against an executive (Meg Foster) who seems as though she could care less about the crew's dangerous situation.Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yet another hack rip-off of Alien and John Carpenter's The Thing. This one is gory and sickening, with unacceptable amounts of ripped-off material and terrible acting. Where there is a plot, it has been used since who-knows-when. Avoid this awful movie at all costs.Rating 0.5/10  "},{"Title":"Unapologetically rips off Aliens but still manages to be sort of fun","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am an 80's movie fanatic and love nothing more than a great sci-fi eighties flick. I knew nothing about Leviathan really and actually thought it was a monster movie which it really isn't. Its basically taking ingredients from a variety of 70's and 80's classic sci fi films and mixing them together and presenting us with a rip off to be honest and as many reviewers have pointed out. However, that doesn't make it less entertaining. There are certain aspects of the film that make this incredibly watchable. I love a film that can capture isolation and really use it to the utmost. Stephen King is a master of that in the literary world and a good horror movie can certainly use this element. Leviathan makes you feel claustrophobic, isolated, alone and scared. The film tries very hard to find its own footing despite having so many cloned elements of it. The film does everything decently. It never exceeds expectations and nothing is truly outstanding including the story or the characters. I will give it one exception and that is that the last fifteen minutes or so is so ridiculously 80's movie that I LOVED IT!! The amazingly perfect cheesy one liner by Peter Weller Say Ahh, mother %$#*&, Weller punching the woman at the end...it was truly awesome and stands alone as being terrific.Who knew Peter Weller did something other than Robocop? Alright I suspected that he did but I've never seen him in anything else that I can think of. Weller is...and I hate to say it and use the pun...but robotic. He is a little bland and monotone but at the same time he has that quintessential 80's hero feel to him. He does command a certain respect as leader of the team but I don't think his character gives him everything that it should have. Richard Crenna feels like the BIG name to the film. Or at least he thinks that he is. I enjoyed his character but much like Weller I felt like there should have been more. He also seemed like he was very impressed with himself the whole time (maybe that was the character?) He had good chemistry with the cast though. Daniel Stern was surprisingly good in a small role as an obnoxious womanizer who everyone still seems to like. Ernie Hudson is solid in his role and I would have liked to have seen more from him but he does a really good job with what they do give him. One of my favourite character actors Hector Elizondo gives one of the best performances in the cast as GP Cobb. I just felt like he was the most genuine (mentions his wife, shows weariness and excitement better.) I thought out of everyone he really showed the most in the film. Michael Carmine has a very small role but does decently in it. I'd like to say that either female actress in the film Amanda Pays or Meg Foster stand out but they don't. They are good, don't get me wrong but both are about the same in my books. They do an adequate job as does the entire cast.As much as the film tries to blatantly rip off the Alien franchise, it misses the mark on creating memorable characters like Ripley or Bishop. However, the film is completely entertaining! I enjoyed it very much. Any lover of sci-fi films or 80's movies can find a dozen things to truly enjoy about the movie. Is it mediocre? Yes perhaps but it is still well done. I think the film would have been a complete mess if not for the talent of director George Cosmatos who also directed First Blood Part 2...an epic 80's action flick, Cobra (under-appreciated in my book) and Tombstone. He knows how to tell a great action story, even if it is a little generic. Movies rip off other movies all the time...doesn't make them necessarily less enjoyable in my books. The underwater setting, the isolation of the mining expedition and some decent characters make this a fun, turn your brain off and enjoy flick. I certainly enjoyed it for what it was. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, well made Sci-Fi/B Movie monster flick.","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In a mining corporation Tri-Oceanic, the company hires civilians to work under the sea for 90 working days. The man in charge is Steven Beck (Peter Weller), who does his best handling his crew members (Amanda Pays, Ernie Hudson, Hector Elizondo, Michael Carmine, Lisa Eilbacher and Daniel Stern) and the doctor in staff (Richard Crenna). Like any other working day under the sea, two of the crew members has discovers an sinked Russian ship named Leviathan. When they looked around, one of them has discover an safe. All they found inside is a pictures, a vodka bottle, a video tape and a flask of vodka. Which the crew member found in the safe has taking it without his boss seeing it. When he starts drinking it, along another crew member drinking it secretly. Then they both gets sick, one of them died quietly and the other committed suicide. The doctor, who knows the Russian language well. Along with Beck, they watched the video and they discover the Russian crew are actually scientists and they were playing god. Now these two dead crew members are having generic alteration and slowly turning into the unknown. When the crew tries to get rid of these bodies and putting it out to sea. Parts of the creature got inside the vessel. Now starts killing the crew, one by one. While Beck's boss above the sea (Meg Foster) warms them, they can't escape. Since there's an major storm coming. Now the crew has to do anything to stay alive.Directed by George P. Cosmatos (RamboFirst Blood Part 2, Cobra, Tombstone) made an entertaining, familiar Sci-Fi/Adventure/Horror/Thriller. They were two Science Fictions films about under the sea back in 1989. One was Sean S. Cunningham's cheap looking but horrible Deep Star Six and James Cameron's underrated The Abyss. Since this feature and the two others were major box office disappointments. The premise isn't really nothing new but director Cosmatos has an good cast at work here, the production designs by Rob Cobb (Conan the Barbarian, The Last Starfighter), imaginative creature work by Stan Winston studios, good looking cinematography by Alex Thomson (Alien 3, Death Line, Legend) and fine music score by Jerry Goldsmith (Gremlins 1 & 2, The Omen, Total Recall).Levithan, it's far from a perfect movie. The screenplay by David Webb Peoples (Blade Runner, Twelve Monkeys, Unforgiven) and Jeb Staurt (Another 48 Hrs, Die Hard, The Fugitive) does have its problems at times but hardly matters. The picture does have an refreshing sense of humour at times and there's few memorable gory moments of suspense. This film sort of went on to be an cult favorite over nearly 20 years now. Fans of Science-Fiction/Horror Genre will certainly like this one. Joe Dunton Camera Widescreen (J-D-C Scope). (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Part Abyss, part Alien, part The Thing...*spoilers, I guess*","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" okay, I think I can sum this one up quite nicely by saying it was okay, but nothing great. I was really hoping for a giant angler fish type thing that they just found on the bottom of the ocean. Nope. The creature was taken RIGHT OUT of The Thing, with an angler fish head instead. Sadly, I feel that the ending cheapened the whole film. In the span of about 1 minute, we see the 3 remaining characters surface, have a half-assed final scare with SHARKS that lasts 20 seconds, followed by another final scare with the monster (which doesn't make much sense considering we just saw it's head get crushed back in the lab), with a horribly yeah! we'll have the only swear word in the movie be right as hes killing it! moment. I don't know...worth watching, I guess, if you're into water/space sci-fi. I think it would have been a lot better had The Thing not existed (way way better, if you're looking for this sort of movie), and maybe if the creature was better puppeted. "}{"Title":"Alien under water","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is effectively the Alien movies set underwater. An evil company sets a crew in a dangerous place and leaves them to fend for themselves when they encounter a monster that starts to pick off the cast,and you can tell how close you are to the end of the movie by how many actors you have left.There are some good actors here. Peter Weller (not his usual wooden delivery), Amanda Pays (She was really hot back in the day), Ernie Hudson, Richard Crenna. Meg Foster plays the evil Corporate Lady. The characters are all functional and that's about it.So most of the movie is the characters trying to escape the monsters. It moves very slowly and never seems to get near a point. "},{"Title":"Great 80's fun!","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Of all the underwater thrillers that came out in 1989, The Abyss might have had the biggest production value and DeepStar Six might have had the most gore scenes, but Leviathan was easily the most entertaining. The cast is a sight to behold. It's a get-together of countless familiar 80's faces you get RoboCop, Col. Trautman from the Rambo-movies, Winston from Ghost Busters, the nice hotel manager that helps Julia Roberts out in Pretty Woman, Evil-Lyn from Masters Of The Universe and The Reverend from C.H.U.D. (who you might also know as the funny tall burglar from Home Alone or just as Daniel Stern). Add to that the smokin' hot Amanda Pays (who I've never seen in any other movie before but whom I'd sure like to see more of) and you got yourself the crew of a lifetime.The basic premise doesn't alter much from The Abyss and DeepStar Six and borrows heavily from Alien and The Thing. A group of scientists are working on *something* deep under the surface of the ocean. Just three days before their mission is reaching its end they discover a sunk Russian ship that carries a deadly cargo. It doesn't take long until all hell breaks loose.Leviathan is hilariously cheesy, but that's okay. Even though the monsters look incredibly crappy and are so awkwardly intercut with the actors that we don't believe for a second the crew is actually fighting them, the movie is kinda thrilling from the get go until the very end. Most of all, the movie is a lot of fun and the one-liners hit home. Peter Weller's very final line is fried gold, as Nick Frost would say. They don't make them like that anymore. And when are computers finally going to work and talk like they do in this movie? "},{"Title":"Decent underwater Alien rip-off.","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Underwater deep-sea miners encounter a Soviet wreck and bring back a dangerous cargo to their base on the ocean floor with horrifying results. In a story owing a lot to _Alien_ and _The Thing_, the crew of the mining base must fight to survive against a genetic mutation that hunts them down one by one. I rather liked this film. The story isn't new, I'll admit that, but I found it more entertaining than some of the other 80's Terror-at-seas themed movies. The cast is good, and all give fine performances. George P. Cosmato's direction is a major downfall--the pace is fast enough but there's virtually no atmosphere, suspense, tension, or style. Shame. The special effects are excellent. Obviously inspired by The Thing (Carpenter's version) we get loads of nasty gore and goopy parasite business to keep smiles on our faces. What bothers me most about the film was the pedestrian feel the movie has to it.5/10. "},{"Title":"Okay as a B-movie","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" LEVIATHAN is one of a a lot of under water movies from the year 1989. And beside The Abyss, I think this is a cool movie. The first half of it is quite intense and exciting. The other half is all too cheep and panic-like; It more becomes a dumb monster movie the last half hour, and totally loses its feeling with the horror aspect... The story about human experiments is exciting enough, we don't need a monster too. The acting is good Peter Weller gives, as always, a strong performance as the leader, Richard Crenna as the sad Doc is also played good, and last but not at least, one of my favorite actors Daniel Stern gives it all the way as the prankster Sixpack serving jokes and insults with a cool attitude.LEVIATHAN is an OK film, if nothing else is on. "},{"Title":"PLEASE! No more sharks","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I believe it was a nice film, I remember seeing it back in the States whwn I was a kid, great cast but it's another one of them in your face B-movies so it would be predictable. But what's with the ending? There was a shark? Thatr was weird, it has nothing to do with the movie and then the chopper comes in rescues them and the monster rises up and takes Ernie and Weller blows his arse up. That was predictable, and not impressive, they could've at least let Hudson make it at the end but his fate was sealed. And I still think the sharks at the end made it look laughably awful. It looked like the ending of Deep Blue Sea, except the black guy survived, but I still don't get it. Overall a good movie, but filled with many stereotypes found in Sci-Fi/horror films, recommended for people into that genre.  "},{"Title":"Mutant waiting to be found.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My rating 0 (zero) stars out of ****Horrible sci-fi/horror film about a crew of a deep-sea laboratory that begin mutating into hideous mutants after injesting what they thought was wiskey. Terrible, with lots of gross monster effects, gruesome gore, and Peter Weller's HORRIBLE acting. We do get some cool F/X and Amanda Pays in her underwear and Bra (Twice! What goodies!), and the monster effects are wildly creative, but the alien rip-off settings, poor script, by-the-numbers plot, and predictable (but kind of fun) ending hammer it tremedously. "},{"Title":"Cool film!!!!!!!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a cool creature flick about a mutant sea monster that attacks a mining base on the ocean floor. The cast is good and Stan Winston's creature effects are amazing. the direction is also fare.  "},{"Title":"Pretty scary","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of those movies that reminds you of Alien and The Thing (not the original). The story is simple yet convincing and the special effects were good for its time. There is a little humor though not much. Most of the time it ranges from serious to dead serious. A group of underwater explorers uncover an old Russian submarine called appropriately enough Leviathan which translates from an ancient term meaning sea monster in the bible. They search the sub and find nothing of interest except a flask of vodka. However, one crew members becomes ill from drinking it and others join him. It appears that something has overtaken the unlucky Leviathan crew and they are next. It was all in all a clever film if not anti-climactic. Worth seeing surely. "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 1 one thing i cant understand is everyone crying about it being a rip off of alien or jaws.this movie deserves better then 5.0 it is one of the best under water movies ever made and the acting was quite good.even though Richard didn't do as good as we know he can do, he was still alright.and the cast good having Ron Cobb with design,jerry gold smith music,and Stan Winston and nick alder special effects.the effects were great and the music was great.and the design of the monster i thought was fantastic.overral this movie is great and a great story.this film is definitely one of my favorites and would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Much better than people give it credit for","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" What I don't understand is everyone says this movie is nothing but an Alien ripoff, and while in some cases that's true....the simple fact is its a good movie if you don't look at it that way. The plot to Alien was that a group of miners in outer space are woken up from hibernation after a long shift to respond to a stress signal but what they don't know is that they're really supposed to bring back an Alien. Leviathan is a group of miners 2 miles below the sea unknowingly stumble upon a sunk Russian boat and all the sailors dead from what turned out to be genetic mutation. I can understand the similarities where both movies the characters are miners and there was a cover up for the situation ready, but other than that its two entirely different stories. The crew of Alien was supposed to search out the aliens while the crew of Leviathan accidentally stumbled upon everything. Meg Foster's character tried to cover everything up in the end but at first I doubt she knew or had any intention of sending Peter Weller and company to certain death. So now that I've cleared that up, on with the review...I thought the cast was incredible. Peter Weller always was underrated and I say he shined better in this than in Robocop. Amanda Pays was GORGEOUS in this movie, just hearing her British accent makes her even more beautiful. Richard Crenna, Lisa Elibacher and Michael Carmine did their best to fill out the roster while Daniel Stern, Hector Elizondo and Ernie Hudson were their usual selves. Hell, Daniel Stern had the best lines in the movie, why'd they have to kill him off so fast? Meg Foster freaks me out, even in They Live she was freaky but this takes the cake, she scared me more than the Leviathan monsters.The only negatives I can think of were the opening scene where Doc (Crenna) took the day off and wasn't there when Dejesus (Carmine) almost imploded. Beck (Weller) then has to chastise Doc the next morning, for him not being there, which is where reality doesn't jive. They're 2 miles below sea level meaning he had to have been somewhere inside the mining shack, how can you convince the audience that someone can't be found in a closed environment like that? Not to mention how he can take a sick day if he himself was perfectly fine in the before mentioned closed environment? The positives are everywhere, the one liners, the thrill ride when the shyt hits the fan, the ending scene. I don't want to give away too much but needless to say if you liked Alien I'm pretty sure you'll like this movie. The highlight of the movie was when Doc starts getting excited about the idea of genetic mutation and how people could possibly live underwater so Beck scoffs and says Well what if we run out of airplanes, do we just grow a whole bunch of bird people?7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Leviathan comments","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie when I was 9, and I've never seen it again. For me, it was wonderful cause, although it was well made, it also was very funny (scene with the guy whose blood is sucked by the serpent and the other guy who's listening to music without caring of his friend).Moreover, the monster isn't as wonderful as the legendary one. That all makes a pitiful movie but so funny, that's why I put a 7/10... I know it's contradictory but pitiful movie make me laugh... And I still remember this movie...Also, the special effects are quite good... good enough, I mean, for this period. But I can't remember how often we can see the monster... We see it as a small serpent, as a big serpent and directly after as a dragon (that's what they call it)...Finally, it's good moment to watch this movie but if it has been made nowadays, it would be surely better, and more terrifying... Remember I was 9 but not afraid at all...To finish, I have to say those hoping to see a movie on the legendary monster will be unhappy to see how it has been done...Thanx and sorry for my English... "},{"Title":"Released right when The Abyss was made and during the failure of DeepStar Six in 1989.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Rating No stars out of 5 (Basicly a BOMB)Although this one had better special effects than DeepStar Six had, a similar movie in 1989. Leviathan was smiply just another rip-off fraud movie for The Abyss. These Italian filmmakers make such inept movies. The same plot monster trying to kill scientist and biologists in an under water crew station which leads Peter Weller to save them all. Amanada Pays, Hector Elizondo and Richard Crenna look properly embarrsed. This film not only makes DeepStar Six and The Abyss embarrising but makes itself embarrsed as well. Also starring Daniel Stern and Ernie Hudson. "},{"Title":"It's a THING kind of ALIEN under the sea.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Take Alien and John Carpenters The Thing splice them together then submerge in water and you have.......Leviathan! Had the two previously mentioned films never been made then this would be a unique sci-fi horror film. All in all it's not bad although some fine actors don't really get much of a chance to ply their trade due to the FX taking up a fair amount of time in the picture.    "},{"Title":"HAHA","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all.. what's his name, Peter Weller.. CANNOT ACT. HAHAHHA. GOD.. if he can, his role in thie movie was PATHETIC. Those HORRIBLE lines he got, I don't remember exactly, but something like, Six pack, if you don't behave, I'll pop your tops, all six of them. HAHAHA. And the way the camera focused on his eyes, sure, they're blue, does that mean we want to look at them all the time? hahaha. Now then.This movie was okay.. Not really bad.. Worth watching if you'r bored. DeJesus was kind of good. I guess they threw him in to keep people interested. The ending was gay, sure, when 'someone' got punched out, but all in all, it's... fine.  "},{"Title":"David Bowie Rocks!","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" DUDE, I JUST SAW THIS MOVIE, and I jus wanna say that David Bowie rocks and so do all of his little puppet friends! Every time I watch this trippy flick, I jus wanna grab a bong and HIT IT like Cheech & Chong. Oh, dude, whatever happened to them.... DUDE, LABYRINTH ROCKS! Wait... what the hell, David Bowie wasn't in this movie....Where am I?OH MY GOD, WHERE AM I?... Drug use is incorrect for the body, and I do not support those that think Hey, it's cool to smoke the marijuana.Are my 10 lines up yet? "}]