[{"Title":"Chevy Chase = Fletch","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" What a sad world it is when people can sit back and gripe about Fletch Lives. Tsk, tsk, tsk! First of all, how can anyone pick up a video with this sort of picture of Chevy Chase on the front and expect it to not be stupid--in the best possible sense! Indeed, I admit, the movie is stupid, but that is wholly what I love about it. Sure, if you want a more realistic mystery story, watch the first one. But for purely enjoying Chevy Chase's ridiculous antics, this one surpasses it. Though I can't imagine any other actor who could have pulled this script off and made it anything worthwhile! I generally end up watching this movie at least every few months and have yet to grow tired of it. And yet I have only recently added the first movie to my private collection.Chevy Chase is one of the best out-and-out comedy actors available in my opinion. And you can't expect him to be serious in a movie that was intended to be anything but.I think the best part about Chevy Chase as Fletch, is that he lives out those crazy ideas we sometimes get (such as convincing someone of invisible squealing bugs, simply telling someone their house is on fire, and marching into a corporation like you own the place), and he gets away with it when most of us don't dare in the first place. Perhaps the people who can't enjoy him simply don't get the same temptations, and therefore can't see why he appeals to those of us who have to repress the desire to introduce yourself as a famous sixteenth-century astrologer. "},{"Title":"Ed Harley, Harley Davidson Motorcycle","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Another classic Chevy Chase film. This film is only just better than the previous movie. There are plenty of wise-cracks and smart remarks to keep you laughing. A must see for Chevy Chase fans and comedy fans in general. This film is very similar to the original. Irwin Fletcher has inherited a mansion from his Aunt who has passed away. Soon enough Fletch finds that his land is worth more than he expected, around lets say $250,000. Remember this is back in 1989 and that was a hell of a lot of money back then! Soon enough Fletch discovers that whoever wants his land, will not hesitate to rid him as well. I don't want to give away too much information, it will be better for you to discover it for yourself. Pros - Entertaining Story, many hilarious jokes, Chevy Chase. Cons - Last Fletch film starring Chevy Chase, not quite a satisfying ending for the two films Overall a must see and a guaranteed laugh. Heres a tip, invite a few mates over your place, order some pizza and you are set for a night of entertainment. Movies don't get much better than this. "},{"Title":"One of Chevy Chase best !","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  When Gregory McDonald created the character I. M. Fletcher Fletch, he must have had Chevy Chase in mind.  Both Fletch Lives and Fletch are perfect vehicles for Chevy's brand of dry humor.  Snappy dialogue and amusing disguises by Chase make these two Fletch movies, his best film work.  If you like Chevy Chase you'll love Fletch Lives and Fletch.  "},{"Title":"'Fletch Lives'&#133; and he's better for it!","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Irwin Fletcher, or better known as 'Fletch' is a Los Angeles investigative reporter, who quits his job and heads to Belle Isle a vast 80-arce Louisiana plantation that he has inherited from his late aunt. But soon after meeting the lovely attorney and spending the night together, she is mysteriously dead the next morning. This is where the trouble comes along, with a local lawyer telling him to leave town, and a stunning real estate agent has come to make Fletch a healthy offer for his estate. Though Fletch thinks there's something fishy about all of this and he goes to hilarious lengths to figure the real truth about why someone wants his land.It never seems to amaze me, about how much I get out of this flick. Sure, there's nothing truly great about this feature and you can call it pointless and crude, but I never get tired of the shenanigans and Chevy's wittiness. You could say it's a guilty pleasure of mine that will always be a favourite, no matter what anyone else thinks. 'Fletch Lives' is basically more or less a vehicle for Chevy Chase's dry, smart-ass humour, and his prominently cunning persona. Really, that's about it. During this stage he was one of the funniest comedians in his prime. The others stars who appeared, in the likes of Hal Holbrook, R. Lee Ermey, Julianne Phillips and Richard Libertini basically play off Chase's character and fall under the mockery of his heavy-handed humour. But still, amongst their stupidity are fun performances from the support roles. The beautiful woman in the film seem to be there only for showpieces and to always fall under Fletch's charismatic appeal. Meaning they look nice, but really that's about it.I'll even go to say that this sequel truly outdoes the original. By containing far more laughs and gags that actually work than that of the original. I don't mind the original, I like it. If you think this sequel is going to be just like the 'Fletch', forget it. It's far from it actually. While the original film was more a mystery story that led into ingenious gags. The mystery in this one takes a back step, and that's a BIG one too. The thin story and Chase's narration isn't much to go by, so most of the elements (or better put, little episodes) provided in the flick are their to give Chase some ammo to pock fun at, while dressing up in his offbeat disguises. In doing so, it basically comes off as parodying that of some movies (look at the title) and the southern states, especially by ridiculing the KKK and Religious gatherings. Some of these scenarios are embarrassing and have no meaning but to pad out the film. But that being said the action and laughs barely let up, as you just roll on with the sharp humour and punch lines. Honestly, its inane drivel that's for sure, but everyone pulls it off well enough. The comical aspect is basically tongue-in-cheek, with a touch of dry remarks and underlying sexual perversion. For some it might be offensive and lowbrow, but I couldn't help myself from raising a smirk from time to time. Chevy Chase's cool-as-ice performance was great fun, and I just enjoyed his manic absurdity overall and Cleavon Little was delightful as Calculus Entropy the caretaker of Fletch's estate.Nothing will totally gobs-smack you about it, but it's just a sentimental favourite of mine, which I always find something joyous upon each viewing. "},{"Title":"Predictable mystery but fun for fans of Chevy","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" You had to a fan of Chevy Chase to fully enjoy the first installment but here you have to be a die hard devotee to get the most out of the sequel. The first one had a really good detective story that nearly got buried with wisecracks, but on subsequent viewings it really came alive and it ranks as one of the best movies Chevy Chase has been involved in.Fletch Lives has Fletch moving to the South where he has inherited a mansion from his aunt. Continuing interest in buying the nearly worthless land for a huge amount of money evokes suspicions and our favorite reporter goes snooping around.Fletch Lives is not nearly as well crafted or written as the first one, with a rather predictable mystery that doesn't seem to take itself seriously for one second. But it does have some fantastic comic sequences; such as Fletch impersonating a faith healer, Fletch encountering a mean biker gang, a memorable meeting with a fellow inmate and some one great one-liners delivered with style by the great comedian (as you might have guessed; I'm a big fan).Supporting actors like Hal Holbrook and R. Lee Ermey add to the enjoyment and Chase delivers but when all is said and done Fletch Lives is for fans only who can overlook the shallowness of the film as a whole. "},{"Title":"It stars Chevy Chase.  What else do you need to know?","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Chevy Chase returns as goofy reporter Irwin Fletcher. This time, he inherits a Louisiana mansion and decides to move there. On the way, he expects the mansion (and the South overall) to be a Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah world, but finds just the opposite when he arrives. To complicate matters, he finds himself involved in a murder plot, gets chased by the Ku Klux Klan, and various other mishaps.Oh come on! I shouldn't have to explain Fletch Lives to you! The very presence of Chevy Chase should identify that it's a hilariously wacky good time (remember, he was funny before his failed attempt at a TV show; and he did play a good role in Orange County). I don't care what anyone says; Chevy Chase is truly one of the funniest people in history. "},{"Title":"My fave film when I was a kid","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Peggy-Lee Zorba, Nostradamus, The Colonel, Victor Hugo, Billy-Jean King, Claude-Henry Smoot, Peter Lemonjello, Ed Harley, Elmer-Fudd Gantry and Bobby-Lee Schwartz II. Not to mention Fletch himself. Has Chevy Chase ever played so many people in one film? I love Fletch Lives, it is so damn funny and cackles with hilarious dialogue. It's a bloody shame that the critics were beastly, when it first came out. Chevy Chase, once again, nails the role of Fletch and only he can deliver the deadpan sarcasm in a way no other actor can.Fletch quits his job as an investigative reporter after he inherits a plantation mansion in Louisiana. But he stumbles upon another mystery and does his best to unravel it. Compared to the first the plot may be a little weak but it works fine. The focus seems to have shifted to Fletch's disguises and working set-pieces and gags around them rather than working on layers of mystery. And why the producers commissioned a brand new screenplay instead working from one of Gregory MacDonald's novels is beyond me.His disguises will, however, make you grin from ear to ear (Claude Henry Smoot steals the show) and they way he comes out with the most ridiculous of things when he's talking to people makes you wonder why they ever believe it. As Peter Lemonjello, Fletch tells a studio camera operator that his house is on fire. The guy believes him! I do wish that they had used more of the Bibleland sets as it seems so much for so little screen time but the presence of R. Lee Ermey as the eccentric TV Evangelist makes up for it.And to any of you who are puzzled why Mr. Underhill is credited in the cast of characters but not actually in the film, he IS. Look closely at the Zipedee Doo-Dah sequence and you can see him as one of the dancers.Had the producers treated Fletch like James Bond we might have a new Fletch mystery every two years since 1985 if they followed the order of MacDonald's books (not chronologically, of course, as they're all over the place). It could have turned into Chase's signature roll.There's been talk of a sequel for years and with various names attached as Chase seems to have been ejected from the role. Though he is the ONLY Fletch in my opinion. At the very least, if a sequel IS made, they cannot dispose of Harold Faltermeyer's brilliant score, which I found to be nothing short of awesome when I was a kid, and little has changed since then. "},{"Title":"Deserving sequel.","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Fletch is back and I LOVE his return! As sequels go, this one surpasses the original. This story line is excellent and the plot was a brilliant vehicle for Chevy. I really wish they would do another for him.This time, Fletch is so disgusted with his boss Frank, that when his hermetic Aunt Belle passes away and leaves him her mansion, Belle Isle in Louisiana, he quits his job and moves to the Bayou. But things on the Bayou are anything but serene.Aside from the expected clichéd stereotypical fare generated by the southern locale, this movie was more than enjoyable, and far superior to its predecessor in that the role has expanded and encompasses a far broader spectrum that did the original. While still a comedic venture, it has a more serious undertone than did the first. A far more enjoyable movie, in my opinion, with the same lovable comedic efforts by Chevy.My name...most of the time, is Irwin Fletcher. I write under the name Jane Doe. That's the kinda gal I am.It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"An Adequate Sequel and Nothing More","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Fletch (Chevy Chase) is a reporter for a Los Angeles newspaper, but he acts more like a detective. When an obscure relative leaves him a Louisiana mansion in his will, Fletch is naturally curious.The movie gained a mixed to negative reception, and I can understand why. While there is a certain level of fun with any classic Chevy Chase film, this one has almost none of what made the first one great. Much lighter on the antics, and much heavier on trying to play up southern stereotypes for cheap laughs.Hal Holbrook and R. Lee Ermey make for some good supporting cast members, but they just are not enough to save this one. Entertaining, yes, but not the sequel it should have been. "},{"Title":"Chase's disguises carry the second Fletch film","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Fletch Lives is a so-so comedy. It has a nice plot that keeps it somewhat interesting. But the humor is very spotty. The best of it comes in Chevy Chase's many disguises. His use of phony names &#x96; though of real people in history, was funny for one movie, but gets tiring and not too funny in this sequel. The script again has many wisecracks and cliché's &#x96; the latter are obviously intentional as a parody of other films and times. But, they just weren't all that funny. As with the first film, this one has some unnecessary profanity that is a put off for some viewers, and makes the film not suitable for families. What's disappointing to me is that it lacks punch in the humor. With a good enough plot, I think some writers &#x96; and Chase in impromptu, could have come up with some newer funnies. Instead, we get much of the same insipid quips for humor that just don't tickle the funny bone. "}{"Title":"Not quite the first... which is not to say that it doesn't make for a fine viewing","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Since I enjoyed the first, and this one also aired on TV, I gave it a chance, too. It defines itself very strongly as a sequel(in spite of not actually referencing the start of this series, at least as far as I could tell)... scenes and occurrences from the film it follows are redone with something of a step up... in intensity. It's perfectly clear from the start that this tries to outdo the other by making it all bigger. It doesn't all work, and on the whole I'd go for Fletch before this. The gross-out comedy for example did not need to go that far... nor did the sexual material. To be entirely honest, I didn't particularly care for all the jabs at the South, either. But it still is funny, and I was into this, as well. The dry wit returns. The plot isn't bad, if the ending is a bit much. Pacing is pretty good, and some of the stuff that is of a larger scale than last time around is worthwhile. The acting is fairly solid, and Ermey does a nice job(and Chase). Hartman had far too little to do, for how entertaining he could be(R.I.P.), though I suppose fully unleashing him would compromise the style of humor(not to mention overshadow Chevy). The music is great. The mystery is interesting, and the script isn't bad(though the man behind it doesn't seem to have worked since... hmmm...). I recommend this to fans of the character, the movie that came before this, and/or Chevy Chase(people who like what he does, not the... man himself). 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not as intelligent as the first one, but it makes up for it by being crazy.","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed this one as much as the first film, though the first is easily the better of the two films in terms of quality and story. This one makes up for the lack in those two areas by being crazier and in areas simply funnier. A relative of Fletch has died and left him their entire estate, a mansion in the south. Well Fletch thinks he has finally found an out to the hustle and bustle of Los Angelos and the annoyances of his ex wife's attorney. Well he arrives at this great place and quickly finds a dump. Not only that soon after he arrives he sleeps with a woman and wakes up to find her dead. So he is not off to an exactly rousing start in his new home. He is also getting pressured by the local televangelist to donate his land to some sort of bible themed amusement park. The film works thanks to the zany situations that Fletch must go through to get behind the truth of who is responsible for his many misfortunes. Some of the highlights in this one include a rather funny gathering of the Klu Klux Klan in front of Fletch's new home, two funny healing scenes in the televangelist church, and a rather humorous chase scene on some motorcycles. The other cast members are good in this one too as it is nice to see that guy who always play a drill sergeant do the role of the preacher. He actually does a rather nice job. Good movie to me that while it is not quite as realistic as the first or have the story, but it makes up for it by being more fun in places. "},{"Title":"funny than the original","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  FLETCH LIVES is funnier than the original. Less gritty than FLETCH, the sequel pits the P.I. against a PTL type fraud group which has it's hand in murder and crime. The sequel thrives on satire complete with a elaborate send up of tv evangelism and a song and dance scene which is a spoof on SONG OF THE SOUTH. Irreverent and clever FLETCH LIVES is one of the better vehicles that CHEVY CHASE was in during the 1980's. FLETCH LIVES sports a ensemble supporting cast and was something different instead of the usual hollywood canned sequel.  "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"     Being a fan of the first Fletch but having never seen this one, I went against most of the user comments on this website and rented it anyways. I found it hilarious, as intriguing as the first, yet with a faster pace and more comical additions. While the beginning was lame, the rest of the movie was quite interesting, and the ending was much better than the original Fletch.     Bottom line If you like the original Fletch, or if you like 80's comedy, give Fletch Lives a try, its a much better movie than its made out to be, and like someone mentioned, marked Chevy Chase's last good movie.  "},{"Title":"'Lives' up to the original","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  FLETCH LIVES is pretty much the same as the first FLETCH movie, but with viewer laughs. While the first FLETCH movie was a hardcore mystery, FLETCH LIVES is strictly a comedy filled with stupid lines and low-brow  slapstick junk in every scene. To be fair, it does have a few laughable scenes and Chevy Chase does do a better job as Fletch as he did in the first movie. He's still not very funny though. However, it is not worth spending $3.50 on for a rental. It's on TV a lot so I suggest you watch it then. It may be mildly entertaining, but it's not what I'd call a good movie. Kevin Smith will be working on a third Fletch movie after he finishes production on JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK due out August 10th. Ben Afleck might be playing the role of Fletch so it should be interesting. It won't take much to make it better than FLETCH LIVES with Kevin Smith as the writer/director. Unlike the director of FLETCH LIVES Michael Ritchie Kevin Smith knows how to direct a funny movie.  "},{"Title":"Fletch Lives","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  Same gags. Same jokes. Unfortunately, not the same results as the original hit. Chase does what he can, but even he cannot save the film from its poor story structure and weak plotline.  "},{"Title":"Chevy Chase = good times.","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" I liked the first movie a lot but hadn't heard much about this one, so I really had no idea what to expect. I was bracing myself for disappointment and was rewarded with a pretty fun movie. Even though the story isn't anywhere near as good, Fletch Lives is every bit as funny as the first movie. I've realized that Chevy Chase can make any movie work. If you're a Chevy Chase fan, this movie is worth checking out. My favorite part of these movies is actually the music, and Harold Faltermeyer does what might have been his last great synth score for this film. I just love that theme song. It really makes a huge difference to me, and in the end, it kinda made me sad that they didn't do more of these films. I'm a big fan of mystery/comedies, and the Fletch series is one that I think had a lot of potential that wasn't fully realized. Nevertheless, this one is enjoyable enough. "},{"Title":"Amusing, but not funny","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  This movie is amusing, but I can't believe someone would call this a laugh riot.  Yes, I can watch it more than once... at two o'clock in the morning after my fourth cup of moca late and I have nothing better to do.  Yes, this movie will keep you entertained, but in the end, it's what every movie historian fears the most,  typical eighties humor. "},{"Title":"Flesh Eating Termites Rule... EEEEEEEE!","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  Chevy Chase a master comedian.  Er, well maybe not.  But Fletch Lives has endeared itself too me because of its wild antics and crazy scenarios.While not as good as the original, you still wouldn't want to miss this for (POSSIBLE Spoilers)  Flesh eating termite scene, the uproarious scum, scum, scum go back to where your from scene, and so much more.  R. Lee Ermey steals every scene he is in as Rev. Farnsworth, oh be healed.  And never forget Randall Tex Cobb as a well just watch it.Big Fun, 7/10! "},{"Title":"Not good sequel","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  The original Fletch was kinda silly but fresh and different.  This is old, not original and - if possible in something this tired - offensive. Fletch goes South to family homestead only to get tangled in local shenanigans. Nothing special from the supporting cast, no memorable lines, no reason to watch, and no explanation for the horde of Imdb reviewers that actually praise this movie. "}{"Title":"Never saw the first movie","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  This is one of those movies where you think if you seen one you saw them all. Their good to watch on T.V. when you don't want to do anything else but watch T.V. and laugh. I'm not going to lay out the plot again that has been done. If you're a fan of Disney movies you have too watch the Zipdie-do-da cameo with the animated bird and dog. There's another Disney reference later in when Fletch is in the office spying at the maquete of the new 'theme' park.  "},{"Title":"Forced comedy","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  Forced, sometimes funny comedy. It contains more laughs than the original, but relies too much on the stupidity of the supporting characters to set up the jokes.I also found Chase's character too arrogant and often irritating. "},{"Title":"Totally awful sequel to Chevy Chase's best movie","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" The 1985 Fletch movie was a hit and a really good movie in style of Beverly Hills Cop . It had Chase at is best as fast-talking quick witted reporter . It was funny movie with a solid , realistic detective story which was a quite faithful adaptation of the first book in the Fletch series by Gregory McDonald. A hit book series produces an original hit movie and there is enough material to use for new movie so the decision to make sequel seems logical , right ? It can't go wrong , right ? WRONG. There were eight sequels and prequels written by Gregory McDonald that could have been used as the basis for the second Fletch movie at the time and yet Universal decided to write a completely new story. WHY ?! If something works ,don't fix it ! Thanks to this illogical decision Fletch lives sucks badly and in the end result it flopped. The Fletch series ended here, when Chase could easily have made a career starring in his own franchise for few next years. Oh , those stupid, arrogant Hollywood producers .They should have adapted another one of the books&#x85;The mystery here is lame , rather predictable and silly stuff that could easily appear in Scooby Doo cartoon. Fletch moves to South and meets hillbillies, racists, and religious zealots . The movie is really just a string of clichés with a loose plot thrown in. The story is VERY thin and the focus seems to have shifted to Fletch's disguises and gags rather than working on layers of mystery.The another big problem here is that the humor doesn't work at all. The gags come way faster and more frequently in the original. The jokes are stupid and very often of the lowest kind of vulgar humor. Fletch ends as an annoying character not charming one. I also don't know why, but somehow he is terribly egoistic here and doesn't seem to care or like anybody at all (which is completely against the character we came to like in the first movie &#x96; he had big ego, sure , be he liked and helped other people).Chevy Chase is still great with his usual cynical wit , comedic timing and the various disguises , but sadly he can't win against the poor screenplay . Same goes here for good character actors like R. Lee Ermey (Full metal jacket) and Randall Tex Cobb (Raising Arizona). The rest of the cast is just as bland and boring like the characters they play. The music by Harold Faltermeyer is still great with pretty cool new music theme that appears in the opening credits. It's probably the best thing in this movie.Avoid it at all cost , even if you liked the original. One of the crappiest sequels of all time. I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"campier and sillier than the first","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Irwin Fletcher (Chevy Chase) is an L.A. newspaper investigative reporter. He wants to go on vacation but his editor Frank Walker refuses. Lawyer Marvin Gillet is once again hounding him for alimony. His aunt Belle dies leaving him a Louisiana plantation. He quits and is surprised at the mansion's rundown state. It also comes with an old Cadillac that has no brakes. Calculus Entropy (Cleavon Little) is the handyman playing dumb. Fletch sleeps with lawyer Amanda Ray Ross but somebody kills her in his bed. He gets arrested and put in a cell with Ben Dover. Dover's lawyer Ham Johnson (Hal Holbrook) gets him released. The local KKK gathers outside his place. Realtor Becky Culpepper (Julianne Phillips) offers him $250k for the plantation. He continues to be harassed, the mansion burns down, almost killed by an assailant and discovers toxic wastes on his land. Money grubbing Televangelist Jimmy Lee Farnsworth (R. Lee Ermey) wants the land as part of his amusement park Bibleland. Then Walker tells him that Becky is actually Jimmy Lee's daughter.I compare 'Fletch' to a less funny 'Beverly Hills Cop'. The comparison for 'Fletch Lives' would be 'Beverly Hills Cop III'. This is sillier than Fletch and has an amusement park. Like BHC III, I find this movie just as badly written. Chevy Chase is playing up his wacky characters. The movie has lost the serious investigation of the first movie. That tends to happen when you add a bumbling KKK. Julianne Phillips is a stiff cardboard cut-out. Chevy is more annoying than funny in this movie. He is still funny at certain scenes but it's not nearly enough. Cleavon Little is not as funny as he thinks he is. "},{"Title":"Way, way better and funnier than the first part. You don't wanna miss this great sequel!","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" I don't know why all the negativity against this great and entertaining movie? It's much funnier than the first part or should I say much less boring! My only guess is that the people expect it to be bad like the majority off the sequels are or they raise bar very, very high because they probably loved the original and if you change one thing in the sequel it's suddenly a disaster! To be honest, I first saw this part many, many times before I saw the first, because in my country this part was very popular and many stations were broadcast and re run it. To tell you the truth, at that time and trough the many years I didn't even know that there is a first part! That's because I didn't have a internet and many other reasons.. But, I assure you, if all of them saw this part first, they would love it better then the first! Watch it! You will enjoy it, I guaranty you! ;) "},{"Title":"A Chevy Chase vehicle...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  Let me lay it out first that I'm a huge fan of the Fletch novels by Gregory McDonald.  All are well-written, witty, and full of great characterizations.Which leads me to my major complaint about this film in that the didn't use any of the other Fletch novels and wrote a completely new script based on the character from the first film and not from the books.  I'm currently working my way through the books again and am impressed with how great the dialogue is and how much fun they are to read.  Many, if not all, would translate great to the screen.  And the character of Fletch in the books is much younger, much more saavy, and a far more complicated character.But this is a commentary on the film, not the book.  In that, the movie is really a lot of fun.  I don't think it's as good as the first, but it still had a lot of great moments.  Seeing R. Lee Ermey in this after seeing him in Full Metal Jacket... quite a difference.  Cleavon Little is also great as Calculus Entropy.  A great comic actor that is missed.And, of course, the star is Chevy Chase.  I believe this film was made simply as an excuse to get Chase into some funny costumes for some cheap laughs.  Don't get me wrong, though  I love the movie.  Chase, though not my idea of who should have had the role, is funny and completely enjoyable.  More important, he takes the role and makes it his own.  Of all the characters he's done, I think he scored with Fletch most of all.  Look at it this way  he played Ty from Caddyshack twice (oh, I know you want to forget the sequel, but they made it and you saw at least parts of it... and yes, it was god awful) and look how unfunny that character was in the sequel.  Fletch, however, was great for him in both.Anyway, this film is definitely worth renting at the very least.  I'm hoping when Kevin Smith makes Fletch Won that this will get a DVD release and the original a special edition with commentary by Chase and/or McDonald (director Ritchie died in 2001.)  I also hope the books get back in print soon so they'll be easier to find... they really are great, so if you can find them in a used book store, pick one up and read it.  I can pretty much guarantee you'll try to find the rest. "},{"Title":"Not his best work, but still classic Chevy","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  Whoever rated this movie as a 5.3/10 needs to be shot!  I have to admit that it doesn't meet Chevy's standards set by Fletch I, Caddyshack, and Vacation, but, then again, what does.  The fact is that it is still a classic 80's Chevy Chase Comedy and has some hilarious scenes (i.e.  the bug man, the evangelist, etc. . .)  Fletch Lives deserves at least a 6.5 or 7/10. "},{"Title":"What can I do to you...for you","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  The summary of the movie tells it all, if you like bad jokes and Chevy Chase's style of humour then you will love this film.  Returning as I.M. Fletcher Chase has to investigate the strange goings on at his newly acquired plantation Bell Isle.  As Fletch starts snooping around he dons various disguises to get to the bottom of things, the best scene to look out for is when he acts as a pest controller from 'BUG Busters'.  A MUST SEE.  "},{"Title":"It Flounders and Flails At Times","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" In the sequel to the wild and funny 1985 Chevy Chase vehicle Fletch, the charismatic journalist Irwin Fletch Fletcher is back in thick of things. However, I can't say that he's improved or stepped up in this disjointed sequel. Fletch Lives sadly does not measure up to to it predecessor which was Chevy Chase at his absolute best. Which was too bad because I was expecting it not to be better than Fletch, but to at least be at an equal with Michael Ritchie returning as the director as well. Sadly this sequel was inferior to the first instalment up to the point that it would have been better if they just left well enough alone.After starring in one of his worst movies ever that which was Funny Farm, Chevy should have realized that the country life was not for him. Unfortunately, that was not the case because now Fletch has inherited a rich establishment in Louisiana which lead to him quitting his newspaper job and take residence in the Southwest. Whlie residing from the south, Fletch goes through the same formulaic clichés and routines that you've seen in most comedies that emanate from the South like the murder, the spiritual leader, the gorgeous girl, a heavy-set thug and the narrow-minded antagonist.Okay, Fletch Lives does succeed in providing some laughs to the viewers from time to time, but other times it just fizzles and doesn't have enough energy to keep it running. And that's not to say that Chevy Chase is to blame at all. In fact Chase carries the most laughs and gives it his all, but it's the pancake screenplay that's to blame for this poor sequel. Chevy utilizes his usual cynical wit and comedic timing like he did in the first Fletch movie and the various disguises he puts on are equally impressive and the impersonations are pure genius. The best disguise was when he was pretending to be a faith healer, in which you can't recognize him and that was one of the few scenes that offered a lot of humour.Sadly, Chase's ability to keep the storyline funny aren't enough mainly due to the poorly constructed script and the ultra-complex plot. And while the jokes and the gags were very uplifting, they also tend to fade out and fall to the lowest degree. In fact, Fletch Lives loses its audience by doing the most ungodly thing by resorting to hair-brained jokes. The plot I found to be overwhelming which did not seem to work this time around for Fletch to wear disguises and deliver his comical wit. I believe too much emphasis was on the complex plot that make the funny moments seem swallowed up and not very visible to keep one intrigued.I really don't think it is necessary to see this movie due largely to the uncaring characters, the awkward comical timing and the the overly complex script. "},{"Title":"They should have adapted another one of the books...","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" This movie for me epitomizes the arrogance of Hollywood. The first Fletch movie was a hit, thanks in large part to the fact that it was a fairly faithful adaptation of the first book in the Fletch series by Gregory MacDonald. The book was a tightly woven, well-plotted mystery in which a smart character solved the crime by buffaloing less clued-in types. However, when time came to make a sequel, the studio decided that none of the other dozen or so Fletch novels would be suitable and so put together a generic comedy mystery with a plot right out of Scooby-Doo. This is dumbed down generic 80s action junk of the worst sort, partially saved by Chevy Chase's deadpan use of the trademark Fletch trick of disguising himself and impersonating people to get information. The gimmick still works, but it's in service of much inferior story, and this simply shouldn't be. A hit book series produces an original hit movie, so why mess with something that works? Simply put, Hollywood studios are staffed by people who think they know better but don't. This movie for me was a disappointment, and since it flopped the Fletch series ended here, when Chase could easily have made a career out of starring as Fletch in adaptations of several books before Chase-as- Fletch wore out his welcome. "}{"Title":"Not As Good as the First; Not As Bad as the Rep","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Fletch Lives (1989)** 1/2 (out of 4) Chevy Chase returns as Irwin 'Fletch' Fletcher in this sequel to the 1985 flick. This time out Fletch inherits a Louisiana estate and on his first night there the woman who contacted him ends up dying. The reporter in Fletch comes and and he starts an investigation that leads him to a preacher (R. Lee Ermey) who might be hiding a few things. This movie seems to have been beaten to death when originally released and it's somewhat hard to find a positive review of it anywhere but I thought it was a lot better than its reputation. Sure, the movie isn't as smooth or as good as the first one but the most important thing is laughs and that's something I did quite a few times. The movie obviously cuts back on the various characters Chase plays as this is pretty much left to the final twenty-minutes but I didn't mind this too much. You could argue that the screenplay is lazy and just throwing him into a plot involving countless stereotypes but, again, I don't mind this because it made me laugh. The scenes with the KKK, the dumb cop with the termite in his ear and the raccoon hunt were full of stereotypes but they were all funny. Heck, we even get a spoof of SONG OF THE SOUTH. Chase isn't quite as great as in the original film but he's still good enough to keep everything moving and his various characters once again get plenty of laughs. Chase easily plays the role without any problems and even his narration can get some laughs. Ermey is good in his role as usual as is Hal Holbrook and Julianne Phillips. The one and only Randall 'Tex' Cobb does his usual tough character and gets some nice laughs. The film's actual mystery isn't all that interesting and the ending take a while to get to but I still feel this film manages to be a lot more entertaining than its rep would lead you to believe. "},{"Title":"Fletch strikes again!","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Irwin Fletch Fletcher(Chevy Chase) is at it again. This time, he goes to the Deep South not only to get an inheritance, also to find a big scoop down there. He gets this big plantation from his late aunt only to find the whole land isn't much of it's worth. He meets a lawyer whom he spends the night only to wake up and find her dead in the bed. The for the mystery is the people of a chemical plant elsewhere is dumping toxic waste on that and other lands in the area. Now Fletch also infiltrates other characters A biker group, The Ku Klux Klan, and other shady characters he could find. He remains close to a man named Calculus Entropy(Cleavon Little, 1940-92) who happened to be an Fed. He was able to give his ex-spouse the land since he won't have it. That's one payment he won't have to worry about. Nothing really changed much about the movie. It's still funny, and Chevy never lost his touch! 3.5 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Lovable in all it's Silliness","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Gotta love Fletch. I found 'Flech Lives' on a 'homemade' (kinda like burning a video, only it's VCR) video tape, and I really enjoyed the light-hearted comedy this is. I know the reasons NOT to like it, but it still shines with memorable scenes. I recommend at least seeing once! Arr! Fletch sure got a smart mouth, but hey, it's a movie, alright.High-lights; Fat man in the audience of Jimmy Lee Fansworth's TV-church flashing himself because he has to 'reveal his sin'. Fletch hiding out as a body in a locker, then scaring the hell out of the guard doing a routine check. And when he infiltrates the KKK and the Naszchte Nazists, just to flip them off in a humorous way. "},{"Title":"As good as the first, and the first is great","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Last night my dad noticed that the first 'Fletch' was on the movie channel and the whole family watched it. We had a great time and a ton of laughs and when it was finally over, it struck me that I was going to miss this new character who I'd just been introduced to a couple hours ago...Suddenly, the announcer comes on Coming up next, Fletch is back in the 1989 hit sequel 'Fletch Lives'!. None of new that there was a sequel, so we happily sat back and watched the whole thing.Lucky for us, it turned out to be just as funny as it's predecessor. The concept and setting were great, as were all the new characters, and Chevy Chase was in top-form once again. Seeing him play Fletch is so satisfying because he's like a much more competent version of Clark Griswold who actually gets to win 'em all.Thanks for a great evening, Chevy. ) "},{"Title":"Major disappointment. The typical inferior sequel which asks Why did they bother","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Fletch is at again. But this time the premise is extremely worn out and the wisecracks are very tired and sometimes downright stupid.It started so promising. When Fletch finds out that he has inherited an estate in the deep south from an aunt he hardly knew, we get a wicked satire of Song of the South, complete with animation and a singing Chevy. When the scenery changes from L.A. to Lousiana we get every southern stereotype known to man. The Klan is apparently back in action and tries to get Fletch to leave the estate which turns out to be not what it's cracked up to be. We also get southern beauties who present themselves with three names like Amanda Ray Ross and Becky Ann Culpepper and you just know that the first thing Fletch does is make a rather suggestive remark that the women find irresistible and they immediately jump in the sack with him. The Amanda Ray character is not so lively the next morning and looks sort of like she was in the deep freeze for the entire night. Can this be a comment on Fletch's abilities in the sack or is there foul play involved. If you think it is the second answer you are absolutely right.So next we meet a lawyer who seems to wanna help Fletch (do they do that?) and we also meet a ranch hand who serves as Fletch's only friend among hostile citizens. An amusing, but not quite funny bit involves a TV evangelist played by the great R. Lee Ermey but he doesn't seem sleazy enough to generate much suspicion towards him so the real culprit must be the most unlikely. Have I given too much away? Doesn't matter. The plot is not why we go to see this movie but the laughs are not there this time. A shame since I was looking forward to seeing this. You can only hope that there won't be another sequel. "},{"Title":"Political correctness lives.....","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Don't ya just love Hollywood? They know you will return for a sequel of a hugely popular movie and thus take the time to overload it with PC (see Porky's 2 and about a million others). Lets see here, we got the idiotic bikers who try and destroy everything but are so stupid they are easily swayed by anyone with half a brain. We get the KKK (wouldnt be pc without them making an appearance) and of course Fletch is way too smart for those folks. Well I do declare they got the whole South in this movie and they is just about as racist and ignorant as anyone you ever wish to meet....heaven forbid I feel like I must have a mint julep now. Ohhh yes, and we got the loud mouthed Evangelist (played by a real life honorable and good person). Wow, give it a break Hollywood. Just make a decent movie without all the over the top stereotypes to bring in the brain dead masses.If you didn't notice the agenda here.....you're stupid. "},{"Title":"As funny, if not funnier than the first film.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  Fletch Lives continues the ongoing saga of Irwin M. Fletcher, a newspaper reporter with an alias list far too long to list here. There may not be a great deal of newspaper reporting going on in Fletch Lives, but it makes up for that with a great deal of mystery solving.From Ed Harley to Claude Henry Smoot, Chevy Chase doesn't disappoint throughout the movie.  Fletch Lives also marks the last funny Chevy Chase movie, so it must have been made immediately before he was replaced by some sort of evil, unfunny robot. "},{"Title":"A string of Cliché's with no real plot","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" This is the sequel to the movie Fletch and is about a reporter, Irwin Fletcher (Chevy Chase), who is a master of disguise. He begins the movie by infiltrating a mafia hide out, dressed as a maid, and finishes this section with a number of guy in drag jokes; though most of the jokes are stock, some actually are more than a little crude.Fletch's Aunt has died and in her will he is given a huge property in Louisiana. Upon hearing this, he has dreams of a beautiful house and thus quits his job and flies straight to Louisiana to look at the property. Unfortunately a couple of bad things happen. The property needs a lot of work, the pink Cadillac has no breaks, and his attorney dies during the night this would be okay it is just that he was in bed with her at the time.Having just read the Ebert Review (and I don't particularly like many reviewers but I have come to the conclusion that Ebert actually puts a lot of thought into what he writes) I have a tendency to agree with him on the point that the movie is really just a string of clichés with a loose plot thrown in. The movie is a typical outsider coming into the traditional south were nobody particularly likes change. Fletch tries to be a romantic James Bond but really falls flat on his face, with the attractive real estate agent's, Betty Culpepper (Julianne Phillips), excuse I need to go to the toilet. Even the shower scene seems quite stupid.The movie is mildly amusing but no real laughs come from it (except the mildly hilarious Zippidy-doo-da song at the beginning). The amusement park Bible Land is supposed to be funny, but isn't, and the characters do not have those funny little traits that make movies interesting.Fletch Lives is supposed to be a mystery, but it doesn't come out as such. You realise that it involves dumping toxic waste when Fletch steps in some goo on a property when chasing a raccoon. Even before hand, somebody comments my garden is all dead and the suggestion that it is chemical waste being dumped. This completely eliminates the TV Evangelist, who is supposed to be the red herring, but when you hear that somebody is offering lots of money, one can assume that it is not Jimmy Lee Farnsworth who is behind it, especially since he uses his position to get it for nothing.Now, Jimmy Lee Farnsworth is worth a mention. He comes across as the typical, deceitful, TV evangelist. Basically we are being shown that they use modern technology to try and make people come to Christ. Just take a look around his complex and you will notice that Christ plays very little importance. The whole structure is based around him. Jimmy Lee does not build his church on Christ but rather on himself. He uses his charisma and modern technology to spread, what is essentially, a false gospel. When one comes to something like this, one should not write off Christianity because of people like these, but rather, one should return to the Bible to see what the true focus of the church, that is Christ, has to say. Christ is a solid foundation, Jimmy Lee is not. He cannot manage a family, as the movie states he has had two wives, and his daughter is easily seduced by Fletch into having an intimate relationship with him. And she is not resisting either.Finally, Frank the editor is strange. At the beginning, Fletch quits his job but later in the movie, he calls Frank and asks him to do some favours. Though this may be possible, I would expect that Frank would be less that hesitant to do these things for Fletch. Yet consider that Fletch is Frank's star reporter which means that he wants Fletch back. That is why Fletch gets a bigger office upon his return. "},{"Title":"A Damn Fine Sequel , If I Say So My Damn Self!!!!!!!!","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Chevy Chase, Is back as the wisecracking investigative reporter,Fletch, inherits a size-able inheritance from his deceased aunt. the inheritance in question is a large mansion in the deep south,Fletch, quits his job much to the deadpan chagrin of his boss Frank, (Richard Libertini) Fletch journey's down south and finds the mansion in near ruins! On the estate is Calculas, Cleavon 'Blazing Saddles'Little, Who becomes fletch's manservant, who knows all too well about the murderous goings on, Also featuring is genre mainstay, Randall 'Tex' Cobb,As a none too bright thug, And Full Metal Jacket's R Lee Emery, as a Evanglist And father of Chase's love interest, 'Fletch Lives pokes fun at the Obvious, southern drawl Religious evangelism Amusement parks( bible Land ) Fletch Lives is best enjoyed as back to back viewing with it's classic sequel, "},{"Title":"Fletch Lives---Unfortunately","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":"  Totally awful sequel to the original block-buster is just not good at all. Chevy Chase stars as the title character and gets into more trouble after he inherits a southern plantation and leaves his job at the Los Angeles newspaper. He becomes a suspect in a murder and must run from some comic book-styled bad guys. The film's action is poor, the comedy is non-existent, and the characters are all terrible and boring. Very poor all the way around. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).   "}{"Title":"Avoid at all cost, even if you liked the original","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" I absolutely love the original Fletch movie. Chevy is nonstop hilarious in it, and I like the hard boiled detective style.Fletch Lives sucks. Chevy seems tired and bored in it. Also the character feels different. He is less warm and caring towards others. His reactions to some of the bad stuff happening around him is weird. In the first film he wants to do good and help everyone.Nothing like his fast-talking quick witted character from the first movie. The gags come WAY faster and more frequently in the original. Something happened to Chevy from this movie onwards - he always seemed tired and less quick-fire from this movie onwards. The original Fletch and Vacation were Chevy at his utter peak! "},{"Title":"Bitter/Bad Sequel","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery, Crime","Review":" Fletch is back, and he's angry, irritable, and not funny. Too bad because the first FLETCH is Chevy Chase's best, and funniest, film.Unlike the previous plot-line, which had interesting villains connected to a nifty Film Noir plot, this takes place down South where Fletch takes on hillbillies, racists, and religious zealots all the same in Hollywood standards.His disguises range from a white haired cleaning lady to a televangelist all impossible to imagine anyone falling for.And before moving South (where his dead aunt left him a decapitated yet sought-after mansion), Fletch crosses paths with his ex-wife's lawyer (George Wyner) and newspaper editor (Richard Libertini); and this time around his glib indifference is bitter and downright aggressive.By far one of the crappiest sequels of all time. "}]