[{"Title":"John Woo is the master","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"70 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before seeing a genuine Hong-Kong produced John Woo movie, I thought I knew what action was, and what the action-movie genre was capable of. I was wrong. The Killer was the single most impressive, awe-inspiring, jaw-dropping action movie I had seen in years, and is now one of my favourite movies of any genre. It is #2 on my all-time list.Why? First of all, the well-known poetic violence of the super-charged action scenes make for a tremendously exciting film. These combine choreographed bloodshed (there is an almost constant stream of bullets) with raw emotion that puts even the best Hollywood actioners to shame. Look at Hollywood action movies today; almost all Hollywood action is inspired (not to mention plagiarised) from the heroic bloodshed films, the best of which is The Killer.Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez are only the most obvious examples of American directors to put Woo's trademark stylized violence to use, and neither handle it as well as Woo.But beyond this, the characters and the story are what drive this movie and what truly set it apart. The story of the relentless cop and the vicious killer is only the latest in a long line of detective stories, starting with Arthur Conan Doyle and Edgar Allan Poe in the 19th century, and continuing in every cop show on TV today. The hero and the villain are practically the same; they are only divided by an almost arbitrary line called the law. In The Killer, both Mickey Mouse and Dumbo are unrelenting, capable, though misunderstood, professionals. Their motivations differ, but they both have the killer instinct. The classic storyline of the interaction of the two characters who eventually realize their similarities and end up working together has been seen before, but never has it been used to such effect as in The Killer.Woo's familiar themes of brotherhood, betrayal and loyalty also reach their cinematic peak in this movie. The viewer not only wants to see the next pyrotechnic action scene, but is actually concerned with the lives of the characters, an element that is almost always lacking in typical Hollywood fare.Finally, the gun-battle scenes, when they come, are simply the most spectacular, mind-blowingly violent, yet strangely beautiful, action scenes ever imagined or filmed. And last but not least, is the unbelievably powerful screen presence of Chow Yun-Fat, as always cool incarnate. His effortless lead and the tension created by his playing off of co-star Danny Lee make The Killer as close as I have yet seen to the perfect action movie. I recommend it to any hard-core action fan and also suggest Hard-Boiled, though Woo's American efforts thus far have not been up to his Hong Kong works.Rating 10 "},{"Title":"One of Hong Kong's best films","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"59 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer is widely regarded as John Woo's best all round film, and makes an appearance on an extraordinary number of people's Top 10 lists. This may be because it was the first Hong Kong movie a lot of people saw, as it was one of the first to get any kind of widespread attention in the US. It doesn't feature in my own Top 10, but that's not because it isn't goodChow Yun Fat plays the titular killer, an assassin who begins to regret his life of violence after accidentally blinding singer Sally Yeh during an assassination. Danny Lee plays the cop on his case, who begins to find he can relate to the killer more than he can to many of his colleagues. Both men are shown to be men whose values of loyalty and honour are increasingly being forgotten by the society in which they live.THE KILLER pretty much defines the Heroic Bloodshed genre, taking the code of chivalry from the old swordplay films and bringing it into the world of guns and bullets. Woo basically started the whole genre with the seminal A BETTER TOMORROW, but THE KILLER is the most distilled vision of the concept he or anybody else in Hong Kong produced. It's a very romanticised film - even though the main characters earn their livings from violence, they're painted as very noble characters and starkly contrasted with the real villains (led by Shing Fui On in his best role ever) who kill without honour. There's a broad message of peace and restraint from violence there too, though it's somewhat conflicted with the romanticisation of some of the bloodshed.John Woo and Chow Yun Fat were serious box office gold when THE KILLER was made - apart from another Jackie/Sammo/Biao collaboration there was probably no more anticipated collaboration than this one. As such, THE KILLER was afforded a budget and shooting schedule that most Hong Kong productions could never dream of (though still no doubt miniscule compared to any Hollywood film of the time). This is evident in the quality of the production on pretty much ever level. The film has as high production values as any Hong Kong film ever made, and is surely one of the most technically accomplished. Credit for this must be shared between cinematographer Peter Pau, producer Tsui Hark and of course director John Woo.I've always suspected that the real talent behind the film was probably Tsui Hark - it's rumoured that Tsui & Woo fell out heavily because Tsui felt THE KILLER should be A Tsui Hark Film and not A John Woo film. Evidence for this is that Woo's earlier and later films have been largely lacking the substance and depth of THE KILLER (especially his Hollywood films, but everybody gets that in Hollywood). However, the interviews on the Hong Kong Legends DVD clearly show that Woo had a vision and pursuit of excellence that was the driving force in the project. He's spoken of very highly by his cast and DOP, who give him the full credit for the film's success. I'd like to hear Tsui Hark's side of the story thoughThe attention to detail in the film is most obvious in the cinematography. This was Peter Pau's first big film, and the one that established him as one of Hong Kong's top cinematographers. He gives Woo most of the credit for the film's visual style though, describing how much thought Woo would give to the way the camera should be positioned and move to bring out the emotional quality of the scene. I don't have the knowledge/education to be able to perceive how the camerawork in the film does contribute to the emotional depth, but I can acknowledge that it's effective.Woo is often regarded by Western film makers as the best director of action in the world. I think Tsui Hark probably deserves that credit more, but Woo certainly redefined the way gunplay was choreographed and filmed. HARD BOILED is his finest work in this respect, but THE KILLER certainly comes second. The action was choreographed by Ching Siu Tung, who was evidently a little uncomfortable with choreographing gunplay when he worked on A BETTER TOMORROW 2 (sorry, but most of the shoot outs in that are just people running round randomly waving their guns at stuntmen). He'd obviously improved his skills a *lot* by the time of THE KILLER though, as the action scenes are exciting and violently beautiful. The grand finale in a church is surely one of the best gunplay sequences ever filmed, topped only by the finale of HARD BOILED.Some Western audiences find THE KILLER too melodramatic, and for an audience not raised on the swordplay and kung fu films that influenced Woo the romanticised notions of loyalty, honour and integrity may seem rather alien and strange. It's a theme that has long been found in Hong Kong Cinema though, so perhaps it reflects a more Chinese set of values than the average American or European is used to experiencing. It would be especially rare to find such emotional scenes in a Hollywood action movie, where the action genre is usually considered to be wholly distinct from drama. Perhaps it's this that makes THE KILLER such a wide hit whenever it is screened in the US.So, although I won't put THE KILLER in my Top 10 list, I definitely won't dispute the fact that it's one of the best realised films Hong Kong has produced. John Woo is unlikely to produce a film of this calibre again, and unfortunately it's unlikely Chow Yun Fat will do either. As for Danny Lee, this was undoubtedly the highlight of his career - Psychadelic Cop anyone? Sally Yeh also gives her most memorable performance, and a surprisingly convincing blind character for somebody that had no real acting training. Shing Fui On and Kenneth Tsang have never looked better either. In fact, for almost everybody involved this was probably the high point of their career.9/10  "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"52 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first watched the killer on recommendation i thought i would hate it...how wrong i was.It was obvious i was watching a classic from the opening credits with a lingering shot of hong kong and a somewhat sad tune playing in the background. The story starts with ah jong an assassin hired to pull off a hit job at a nightclub during the assassination he accidentally blinds a piano singer-jenny.Feeling guilty for what he has done he decides the only way to redeem himself is too help her get a cornea transplant and the rest...you will have to find out yourself.John woo is known for directing heart pounding action sequences and these are as heart pounding as they get the final shoot out in the church is tense and exciting.The cinematography is excellent and often beautiful th camera works wonders and extreme close ups of faces are used effectively SPOILERS AHEAD.The ending of the killer is possibly the most downbeat in the history of cinema and nearly brought me too tears(ah jong's eyes explode after being shot several times).The killer is something you do not see in modern day movies...a film with a true meaning this story is of ethics honour and redemption and thats what makes it a classic. "},{"Title":"No Competition","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"63 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I am disgusted by some of these reviews.  Modern action has been overrun by special effects and stuntmen with death wishes (not that I'm complaining), but one must consider the time and the place.  It's not the world of the Matrix or the Human-Cyborg War (or whatever it's called) in the Terminator, it's Hong Kong in the 1980's with counterfeiting, hostile Chinese syndicates.  It doesn't have to be a big budget feature to be great. Clerks by Kevin Smith had a minute budget, but it made Smith famous.I digress.  Woo creates a sensitive and emotionally complex... assassin. To make him reconsider his job as a professional killing machine Jeffrey, the killer, blinds a lounge singer, Jenny.  He swears to himself that he will end his career after one last job.  Woo introduces us to the concept, like you see in A Better Tomorrow, that you can never leave a Triad even if you try your hardest.  With an hour of attempting, Jeff realizes the horrible truth.  Rarely does Woo bring in this feeling of absolute futility in his work.  After losing his best friend, Jeff has crossed the Rubicon in his attempts and must end his ties to it by ending his everyone's but his own, excluding Jenny and Inspector Lee.  Some people dislike the final shootout, but the doves and the Christian symbology adds a touch that drives religious and heroic bloodshed to the minds of the audience.  On a personal note, I love it.  The last few seconds depict a man, perhaps Lee, playing a harmonica in front of the church for reasons I don't know. "},{"Title":"Just about the coolest movie in the planet!","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning for an action-film lovers after John Woo's totally brilliant ultra-violent masterpiece Die xue shuang xiong /The Killer, American action movie is not worth one penny. It's so great and extraordinary words can't simply describe it! I watched it twice on a movie theater. Regretfully I didn't get a chance to see it a third time on cinema but subsequently I've watched it over and over again on VHS and it still kicks ass - harder and harder every time I see it!This is the reason why I'm slightly against Woo's current career in Hollywood. He could never stretch himself to do anything like this in America! All the actors are too fantastic to be true Danny Lee (as Lee), Sally Yeh (as Jennie), Chu Kong (as Sydney) and especially charismatic Chow Yun-Fat in the leading role as the killer Jeffrey (I always save the last bullet - either for myself, or my enemy). When he draws his guns and starts to use 'em we know who's the unconditional king of action!Intelligent and profound story is hard and unsparing but somehow truly beautiful. Score is delightful lovely and engaging and a bit sad. Charming song as performed by Jennie captivates in an unimaginable way. Bottomless, thrilling and balletic action just gets wilder and wilder and the stupendous end sequence in the church is definitely the craziest shoot-out in the history of movies and it's so cool I almost cry when I see it in an emotional moment. That's the magic of Woo. The Killer is a spectacular masterpiece! It's just perfect as hell and above any American film ever. John Woo's Bullet in the head (1990) is the only motion picture I know that gets higher than this in my book. "},{"Title":"Woo's Best; An Amalgamation of Drama and Action","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo's The Killer shows a master at the height of his powers. Woo, today working in the United States, gained fame in Hong Kong through the two Better Tomorrow films. He became popular and used his success to go to greater things. In fact, much of Woo's HK work is similar, including the work he did in the early 90's like Bullet in the Head and Hard Boiled. But The Killer shows John Woo as a perfectionist, the top director of action films who can perfectly blend in over-the-top violence with emotional drama. The Killer follows John (Jeff in other versions of the film), who's played to utter perfection by Chow Yun Fat. John is a hit-man planning retirement. On one job, however, he accidentally shoots a singer (Jenny) near her eyes. She survives, but her vision is blurry. John saves her from a gang of rapist thieves, and the two ultimately fall in love with each other, despite Jenny never having seen John's face. On John's case, however, is Inspector Li, hard at work, who is intent on always getting his man. Much of the movie involves John and the results of his final job which ultimately pits him up against the entire mob, who want him dead for overexposing his identity. And the rest of the film follows John catering to Jenny's needs and helping her at every moment, all the while evading Li, who's getting closer and closer to stopping him.To make the movie the memorable film that it is, Woo perfectly orchestrates some of the best shoot-outs ever seen on film. Much of what Woo did here, he was never able to follow up. Hard Boiled was interesting, but its final shoot-out, over 20 minutes in length, just couldn't keep up. It got boring by the end. What Woo does in The Killer is give you a sample of his powers and then leave you begging for more. And that what you'll be literally doing begging for just a glimpse of the next dude victim to Fat's two beautiful handguns.It's only sad to see that, not so much Woo doesn't do these films anymore, but that Woo rarely does good films now.(Period) He's too busy, working on ego with top stars and killer budgets. His two films that came as far as making an impact with me from his U.S. catalog will probably include Broken Arrow and Face/Off, both primarily due to just how much I like Travolta (though the former was also an early film of mine that I really remember liking, since it was different from all the Disney and kid stuff I was used to). But Woo, intent on fulfilling his dreams of making a musical and captivating audiences with his powerful style, can just show the people a screening of this film. It's quoted as being Violence as poetry, and that's exactly what it is. With the beautiful music adding feeling and depth to the characters and the great writing and direction, this is easily Woo's tour-de-force.9.5/10 (****/****)  "},{"Title":"Easy to pick up, hard to put down.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun Fat and John Woo strike again.  The Killer is not your run of the mill action flick.  It features characters you care about, jaw-dropping action sequences, and , best of all, Chow Yun Fat.  He's always supercool.  Chow and co-star Danny Lee play very similar characters but are on opposite sides of the law.  It makes the film work very well.  The heroes can relate to one another because they have both injured the innocent while doing their jobs.  Another great actor in the film is Kong Chu in the role of Sydney, the one handed hitman.  Being in the middle of the fray, he makes for an interesting character.  There is a great scene involving Sydney's betrayal.  Chow is so amazing with his emotions in this scene.  He's not just an international action superstar, he's an underrated and incredible actor as well.  That's what makes The Killer more than just another action movie.  Woo's direction always helps too.  The Killer boasts one of the best and most epic shootouts in film history.  Woo's older films are as stylistic as they get, I mean stylistic as hell.  Chow Yun Fat and John Woo make an incredible duo.  Nicholas Cage is no replacement, it's high time they work together again. "},{"Title":"The Master of Action shows why action IS art!","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is no doubt in mind that The Killer is easily the MOST ARTISTIC ACTION FLICK in the world. Not only that, it's also the BEST ACTION-DRAMA film around!Directed by John Woo (now at his popular peak with MI-2 as his vehicle), The Killer tells the story of a professional killer (Chow Yun-Fat), a cop and a lady caught in crossfire. Chow Yun-Fat's act for his character is very solid, and at the same time he perfectly fits the action sequences.Also written by John Woo, you can clearly see many of The Master's trademarks like slow-motion action, stunts, deep characterization, drama, doves, two-fisted gunplay, and missing from his Hollywood flick...gore! This movie is full of blood and gore, and from my point of view it does not make the film dirty but rather more realistic and expressive.About the action, the level of violence is very high like that of the gore. Since this is a Hong Kong-made movie, Woo had all the freedom he wants and it clearly shows why this is considered by his millions of fans as their favorite Woo flick.Two-fisted gunplay is very well presented here. Seen Tom Cruise (MI-2), Nicolas Cage (Face/Off), Christian Slater (Broken Arrow), Dolph Lundgren (Blackjack) and John Travolta (Face/Off) all fire with 2 guns each? Well, for newcomers here, two-fisted gunplay has gotten of to a great start even before Woo directed the above-mentioned Hollywood stars. Chow Yun-Fat's 2-gun firing is simply perfect and it shows! Chow is NO MARTIAL ARTIST or STUNTMAN like Jackie Chan, but his use of guns and acting makes him exceed with quality.Chow Yun-Fat was not even a popular action star before teaming with Woo. But Woo made the difference for him and Chow's image has gotten better since.John Woo's directing is really perfect. As mentioned above, he had all the creative freedom he wanted with this movie...something missing from his Hollywood films. The Killer is considered to be his biggest teamup with Chow. Woo is known to make non-action stars look great in action...Tom Cruise is a perfect example of this when he made MI-2.Contrary to popular belief among newcomers, The Killer is an ART FILM. Those newcomers who've seen MI-2 might think that this classic is another blockbuster or brainless-action film. Anyone who understands the link between action and art will easily recognize the greatness Woo made here. Eventually, YOU'LL CARE ABOUT THE CHARACTERS AS THE STORY MOVES ON.That said, the story is not about violence and money. The story presents CHARACTER, EMOTION, SORRY and HONOR. As a viewer, you should not just look at the action scenes, but you should concentrate on the story and characters within.My conclusion The Killer is a PURE QUALITY MOVIE THAT NEEDS TO BE SEEN BY EVERYONE. Whether you're a casual movie fan, quality viewer, blockbuster lover or whatever type of viewer you are, The Killer is film excellence as long as the viewer understands it.Want the most artistic of action? REMEMBER THE KILLER! "},{"Title":"This is like no other action film!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all John Woo's bullet-ridden action movies, this is his greatest.  You see many of Mr. Woo's trademarks (flying doves, reflections in mirrors, very strong Catholic symbolism)  that appear in his inferior American directed films (save Face Off) first in this Hong Kong cinema classic. Sure the violence is over the top, the plot only adequate, the sentimentalism a little thick.  The actions scenes are filmed with such, I dare say beauty, that no Hollywood 'by the numbers' action film can possibly compete.  While this film is not for the squeamish or those offended by excessive and rather graphic violence, if you are in any way a fan of action films - you mush see this movie (and many other John Woo directed films during his Hong Kong days, i.e. Hardboiled, A Better Tomorrow, etc). "},{"Title":"Among Revenge and Forgiveness, Among Bullets and Faithfulness","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chow Yun Fat and John Woo teams up together with strong commitment to this highly melodramatic action film. The Killer was so ahead of its time especially with its signature shootout scenes and fast paced action sequences in its time of production in Hong-Kong. Without any special, visual or sound effects; it's a high achievement on both sound and vision. It's high on thematic values, but low on production values. Woo benefited a lot from a team of action-coordinators as part of the production crew he assigned with. 20 years from its screen release, today still there are not many action films in which the sequences are coordinated as good as in The Killer. The rest of the production was standing by its plot, which becomes unbearable due to extremely melodramatic events. Woo tries to hurt our feelings as much as he can by killing and injuring innocents so ruthlessly Passengers on a train, children on a beach, singers at a night club etc.Lowell Lo's heart-wrenching theme and background music was one of the finest of the thematic values. Story development is also very effective that everything seems going fine at the beginning of Jong(the hit-man)'s last mission, then for he wasn't paid for his successful assassination he decides to show up back from underground with his alias Jeffrey. When he did, a stage singer ends up losing her sight and becomes blind from shot blasting. Jong helps her get well; she falls in love with him. He introduces himself as Jeffrey to her. No matter what romance they share together, no matter how close they are to each other; there is absolutely no accordance no chemistry between Sally Yeh and Chow Yun-Fat. Sally Yeh acts so poorly, especially while she keeps screaming needlessly every other scene.For whoever likes this film, I strongly advise Léon to them. The same idea also works in Luc Besson's film, too In a hit-man's life; there is no certain way to go, there is nobody to trust, there is no repentance. In Luc Besson's film of 1994, Jean Reno and Natalie Portman builds up a better harmony using emotions but not melodrama.Additionally in John Woo's film, even though Chow Yun-Fat is not fast enough he just stands by the bullets by running, or guards himself with armchairs and seats of the cathedral which are vulnerable to bullets with the gaps between backrests. So many bullets are used... Were they shot by children or blind hitmans? How could you explain not getting shot while 4 hitmans are aiming at you running inside the cathedral and running on the beach? On the other hand, every single bullet that's used in Léon, hurts one person or another; or leaves marks, tracks and holes on walls, and in the texture of the floor. It's not an acquirement to waste 10 thousand bullets in a movie; but it's really an achievement when you configure a sub-production plan just to preview and review the bullets in both pre-production and production. "}{"Title":"Amazingly fantastic action movie filled with substance.","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wish more action movies would be like this! I didn't expect to love this movie as much as I did. The more the movie progressed, the simply better it got.The movie was made before John Woo's coming to Hollywood but this movie already gained him some cult status in the States. It's a typical Woo movie, which shows once more that he is a real master in making action movies. His action directing in this movie is really flawless.The movie is basically non-stop action, with a lot of gun fights, explosion and fights. But it's not just a mindless action-flick, it also pays lots of attention to its story and development and interesting character building. The emotions within this movie are also really truly powerful, especially toward the ending.The characters are really strong within this movie. Yun-Fat Chow plays a great and intriguing 'good' hit-man, who is being chased by cop Danny Lee. The whole game and chase and the eventual teaming up between those two is done great. They are like each other and also fall for the same woman (at least that was the original concept) but are on the different side of the law. They have a certain respect for each other, which makes it all the more meaningful and interesting to follow. You also really start to care about those characters. The movie is also filled with plenty of other interesting and backstabbing characters, cops, gangsters and fellow hit-men. It's not hard to see why John Woo in his early days was often called the Asian Martin Scorsese. But it's of course mostly the action that makes this movie such an amazing one to watch. There is plenty of Woo-ism present, so expect lots of slow-motion and stylish action, including Mexican stand-offs, running, car chases, boat chases, flying doves. Yes, this movie has got it truly all. There are a couple of sequences toward the end that really stand out and are among the best the genre has to offer. Yeah, it's a real testosterone driven guy flick, with also typical important guy themes such as loyalty, bravery and friendship in it, with added to that a whole load of bullets and killings. The body count of this movie is 120, all being committed by about 3 guys, that should really say something about this movie.It's a movie with a great style. The movie is Asian, so the editing and such might seem off to you if you're not accustomed to it but it's all part of the Asian film-making style.The violence and graphic is quite explicit. Definitely different from his Hollywood movies, where he obviously has to hold back with the blood. The blood is literally flying around in this movie and people get shot through the head at close range. Even small children can't escape the violence.Truly an incredible movie within its genre!10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Those Blood Stains Don't Wash On White","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heroic bloodshed and gun fu were sub-genres coined by John Woo during the mid-80s, starting with A Better Tomorrow. This was a film that marked Woo as a rising artist within Hong Kong cinema of the modern age. After making a sequel to A Better Tomorrow, Woo went and directed The Killer, followed by Bullet in the Head and Hard-Boiled, these films proved his talent as a director who was able to illustrate ultra-violence, through what closely resembled ballet (a.k.a. in this sense, a dance of death). These outrageously stylised methods of film-making hastily became noted by Hollywood producers and Woo &#150;via a mistake on his behalf- decided to make his move to the place where financing was merely an accessory. Ever since this move, Woo has crafted numerous well-known works of commercial success, but critical failure (unlike his earlier pictures), including the likes of Broken Arrow, Face/Off, Mission Impossible 2 and Windtalkers. Shame, considering these lacked everything that his trademark works created, but can be expected with the restrictions Hollywood producers commonly put in place. Fortunately, his '80s legacy lives on and still has an acute influence on many mainstream directors of today.The Killer propelled Woo's career, as well as that of Chow Yun-Fat, who took the title role of Ah Jong. Although, he plays an assassin, he is the kind who is out to get the bad guys, and follows a strict code of honour and ethics. Compassionate, sympathetic and remorseful of the way in which he leads his life, Ah Jong begins to become more cynical of the brutality he savours. After accidentally blinding an innocent singer (who he later falls in love with) during a gunfight, Ah Jong's remorse overwhelms him to such a degree that he becomes determined to get a vital donor that could potentially save her eyesight. In order to finance this, Ah Jong settles a final hit, which soon spirals out of control. Law enforcement inevitably becomes aware of the destruction wreaking its way throughout Hong Kong because of the triads. Nonetheless, the cop on the case happens to be understanding of Ah Jong, and as both relate to each other they start to unexpectedly develop an unexpected partnership.In 1992, Quentin Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs was released; now, it should be noted that the white suits used in The Killer admittedly inspired those now-infamous black suits. I bring this up because I wish to present one of the main techniques utilised in Woo's 1989, action classic. Such a procedure is contrasting the lashings of blood (shown during the countless fight scenes) against the calm, white clothing. Waving a white cloth, for example, is a sign of retreat, or peace and placing blood on white is an opposing confliction. Transcending everything that most action films can only dream of, The Killer combines a compulsory fusion of intelligence and entertainment. Then there is the paradox (as such) of both the cop and the killer using guns, but for differing reasons. Essentially, both are committing the same acts, through similar methods, but for different reasons. The two men have a certain confidence and an explicit willingness to seek fulfilment and justice, which enables a parable to be crafted between the two individuals.Edited with a glaring visual stance, filmed through bright colour filters and following bare-knuckled narrative management, The Killer packs a well-placed gut-punch. Engaging the viewer through ultra-cool protagonists and beautifully choreographed fight scenes, this grand, wry take on the idealistic assumption of decency within the world of organised crime remains a work of bloodshed which holds artistic significance. Even with the overly dramatised screenplay (echoing a consistent waft of unsuited, moralistic sentimentality) and the dated '80s soundtrack, the piece is an extravagant and exciting take on a temperamental genre. Containing metaphors (the doves extinguishing the flames on a collection of candles) and the use of a church for a set-piece, the film is vastly unique for what is adrenaline-based action. Saying that, most directors would opt for endless cuts as a means of groping the viewer's attention, Woo on-the-other-hand avoids such an amateurish technique, choosing a cultivated approach. The finished result is a concoction of mind-boggling stand-offs and humanistic undertones, enabling it to become a motivating take on a seemingly predictable genre and an ode to the classic westerns (who said The Wild Bunch?). Remember, Chow Yun-Fat is for action, what John Wayne was for the western. "},{"Title":"Incredible action thriller","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some films focus on action to draw their thrills, others put the emphasis on drama and character interaction to draw theirs; The Killer manages to do both, seemingly effortlessly. You would think that in a pure action movie, the drama would come off as a little forced and out of place, but in The Killer it doesn't; John Woo fuses the two together magnificently.The story of the movie is most certainly secondary to the amazing visuals and the adrenaline fueled shootouts, which is, of course, no bad thing. The movie, however does have a plot which strings the gunfights together, and it follows the story of Jeffrey, an assassin that, while on a job, accidentally blinds a young singer, Jennie. However, this assassin is different from most assassins in that he has a heart; and he decides to fix his mistake by doing one last job in order to earn the money needed for a cornea transplant. However, things are never that easy as after his last job, his employer refuses to pay and, because he revealed his identity on the job, he also has a cop, Inspector Li, on his tail who is played by Danny Lee.The character of Jeffrey is brought to the screen by Chow Jun Fat, a man that has a great screen presence. Fat portrays his character with great emotion, which makes his character different to the usual, cold image that is normally upheld when we think of a assassin. This is epitomized by one point in the movie in which the policeman tells Fat that he is not the usual assassin, and he isn't. The other central character in the movie that of Inspector Li is also portrayed by a good actor in Danny Lee. The two create a good chemistry on screen as we see their developing relationship, which is born as a result of a mutual admiration and the men's respective professions, which has similarities which are touched upon in the movie, despite them being on opposite ends of the law Throughout the film, John Woo is able to deliver incredibly crisp visuals that are made more beautiful by his use of music and bright colours. This gives the movie a very vibrant feel, and that's a feel that works incredibly with John Woo's brilliant action sequences. John Woo indulges in all kinds of trickery with the camera and the editing suite; slow motion, fast editing and music all feature greatly in this movie, and unlike a lot of movies that experiment with such things; it works every time here. Nobody can deny the thrills and excitement that ensue where Woo fast edits, or the way the music blends with the slow motion to create a haunting atmosphere to the overly action filled gun sequences. John Woo is a master behind the camera, and it is clearly shown in this film. There is also an amount of strange humour in the film, shown best by the standoff between the assassin and the police while the doctor's work to save a young girl that has been injured in one of the earlier gun battles. This sense of humour would later be instilled in other Woo films such as Hard-Boiled (with it's hospital ending)After Woo has taken us on an adrenaline fueled action roller coaster ride, he obviously knew it was going to take something special to end the movie effectively, and the movie certainly does end effectively. The last gunfight is, simply, perfect. The action is choreographed to perfection and not a single move is out of place; it's also very thrilling and will be sure to get anyone's heart pumping. This end action sequence has never been topped in the 15 years since The Killer was released, and it is unlikely to ever be bettered. Woo also manages to end on a poetic note that the film has been building up to throughout. In an action movie you don't expect a tear-inducing finale, but here John Woo delivers one, and best of all; it works.Overall, if action is your thing, then The Killer is your movie. The perfect blend of adrenaline and emotion is given to the audience in this film and with it John Woo has proved that action is more than just gunfights and cool characters; this film is art. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At the time movies were punching bags such as the films Arnold put out. The killer revolutionized the merging of Kung Fu with action films. The cuts and special edits made American cinema look like a piece of trash. John Woo's career started with this movie and ended with Hard Boiled. It is unfortunate to see Hollywood eat up another creative talent. In fact, Robert Rodriguez has said in a documentary in Desperado that he had modeled his movie after Woo. He wanted to make an American action movie that displayed wit and terrific gun battle scenes. We'll see how American cinema can cope with this revolution in the future. The movie stars Chow Yun Fat (before he became famous) in one of the best roles of his career. He is a hit-man and ends up messing up really badly. He deafens a girl who ends up becoming his lover later on in the film. All in all, the cuts are spectacular, the stunts are incredibly well done, and the acting is good. "},{"Title":"As Influential as any cinema...","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was 18 when I first saw this film. I'll admit it.. I was not sure about it because it wasn't in English. I was working at Blockbuster at the time and I had a set number of movies that I could rent for free. My manager knew I had enjoyed Face-Off, which had been released just a few weeks earlier. He recommended that I check out the imported films of Woo. I'm glad I did.I credit The Killer with a lot of things. It introduced me to a new style of cinema, a new genre and it showed me that films could be done as Opera and still be engaging. If you haven't ever checked this movie out, I sincerely recommend it. Not only is it an intense action film, but it's also an amazing human and emotional story. I'm now a young film maker. And I look back at a number of movies before I begin any project. This movie is always very high on that list.So - if you still haven't seen it... go out and rent it now. And please, steer clear of the dubbed version. Get the true experience with the subtitles. "},{"Title":"Heroic in manner....","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One Vicious Hit-man. One Fierce Cop. Ten Thousand Bullets. The tagline says it all, that is exactly what you are going to get. The movie is about an assassin, Ah Jong (played by Chow), who injures the nightclub singer , Jennie, in the process of a hit. He feels great pity for his actions, and makes it his mission to redeem himself by helping her. Danny Lee plays a cop who is hellbent on arresting Ah Jong aka Jeffrey for his crimes. From this point on, nothing is taken for granted. With that said, I thought the film was executed quite well. John Woo throw in some very cinematic moments, including freeze frames, long shots, flashbacks, etc. As for the plot of the movie, you must take it for what it is. The storyline is far from deep or exceptional, but that is made up for with copious violence. The killings in the movie are often gratuitous (in one shootout, at least 50 henchmen must die) but quite fun to watch.On a final note, reminded me very much of the last scene of Scarface. For those that have seen Scarface, recall the last scene of the movie where Al Pacino takes down a whole army before going down himself, while dark, yet strangely melodic piano music plays in the background. Very similar to The Killer. (the movie also had a scene akin to Rambo III, but I wont give that away)With that in mind, if you are looking for a well made 2 hr movie with abundant killings, then The Killer will certainly live up to its name. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Unbelievably overrated on IMDb","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have just finished watching this film and the viewing experience was akin to someone taking a crap in my TV, my god that was awful, it had all the ingredients to make a car crash of a movie, the unbelievably poor dialogue which was riddled with enough sentimentality to fill a hallmark card factory, the token pain in the ass helpless bleating woman amplified by the fact she is visually impaired and rendered even more powerless, the total mental vacation from reality, the gratuitous mindlessly repetitive shootings, John Woo managing to ensure for the duration of the film at no point the viewer ever gives a toss about any of the main characters and I'm not buying the line I started out just to kill bad guys but it's not that simple (not the actual quote), how about just not becoming an assassin in the first place, I mean are we supposed to feel sympathy for this guy after he's shot an innocent women in the face, personally I think you're a bit of an ass and maybe it's just me but an apology is just not going to cut it.I know it's a movie and obviously artistic license is part and parcel of the genre but this picture resembles a pool of vomit by the kerbside. I actually resorted to watching it on semi fast forward when my brain had finally succumbed to being fully anaesthetised which does work with a subtitled movie, I was still able to follow the plot whilst managing to avoid sitting through the torturously stretched out scenes or subjecting my ears to that god awful pseudo tear jerker of a song. If you haven't seen this film and are considering giving it a shot make sure you're in good mood before viewing that way you'll just be upset at the end, however if you're in the wrong frame of mind to start with you'll be damn near suicide at it's conclusion. "},{"Title":"To John Woo, Thanks For Everything","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A disillusioned assassin (Chow Yun-fat) accepts one last hit in hopes of using his earnings to restore vision to a singer (Sally Yeh) he accidentally blinded, only to be double-crossed by his boss.Director John Woo has said this film is a tribute to directors Jean-Pierre Melville and Martin Scorsese, specifically Le Samourai and Mean Streets. The influence is definitely there, but it seems that Woo ended up influencing another generation even more than he himself was influenced.We see a strong influence on many directors, including Quentin Tarantino, Robert Rodriguez and Johnnie To. Film scholars have noted the similarities between Woo's style and The Killer with the films Nikita (1990) and Léon (1994), directed by French director Luc Besson. The Tarantino connection is obvious, and indeed there could be a parallel for Besson. Can it be we owe much of our 90s action film style to 1980s Hong Kong? "},{"Title":"Killing is my business,and business is good.","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After having been told by a friend for months about film director John Woo and a movie sub-genre called Heroic Bloodshed,I decided that due to a poll being held on IMDb's Classic Film board for the best titles of 1989,that I would finally discover how heroic the bloodshed could really be.The plotSitting in a church,a Triad hit-man called Ah Jong is given details by a fellow Triad, (and close friend) called Fung Sei over an assassination that he has been ordered to do,the target of which is going to be visiting a night club later that night.Entering the club,Ah finds himself feeling an unexpectedly strong connection with the vocal delivery of the singer at the club,called Jennie.Getting the sudden urge to keep Jennie safe,Jong carries out the assassination on the target,and then pushes Jennie on the ground,so that she is out of harms way.Sadly Ah's plan is ruined when one of the target's bodyguards begins shooting at him,which leads to Jong firing a shot which accidentally scratches Jennie's eyes,and causes serious damage to her sight.6 Months laterFinding the image of Jennie losing her sight to be an image that's unable to leave his mind,Ah starts visiting the club and sitting in the back,so that he can hear the hauntingly beautiful voice of Jennie, (who along with not being able to spot Jong due to her blindness,has also been told by DR's that there is a long waiting list for the operation that save her sight)perform.Walking back from the club one night,Ah suddenly spots 2 thugs attempting to attack Jennie.Beating them up into a bloody pulp,Jong tells Jennie that he will walk her the rest of the way home.Being invited in to the flat by Jennie,thanks to saving her from being attacked by the thugs,Jong is sicken to see the full extent that his mistake has had on Jennie's life.Talking to Jennie,Ah finds out that whilst there is a long waiting list for her operation in Hong Kong,that there is a much shorter waiting list for the same operation in other countries.Desperate to make up for his fatal mistake,Jong tells Fung that he is going to do 'one last job' for a high price,which will allow him to use the cash to send Jennie abroad for her operation.Expecting this killing to be his final task,Ah Jong soon discovers to his horror that the killer may be about to become,the killed.View on the filmOpening with a blistering assassination,writer/director John Woo reveals a startling eye for stylisation,with Woo keeping away from delivery the bloodshed action in short,sharp shots by slowing every bullet shot down to a tenth of its actually speed,which along with showing to the viewer the full impact that each shoot-out has on the character's,also allows Woo to give the action (which Woo claims was not storyboarded,but in fact made up on the day of filming!)an unexpected poetic quality,as each of Ah Long's target's fall down in a ballet like manner.Along with slowing the pace of the action down,Woo also uses tightly coiled close up's to reveal the fear and adrenaline rush that the violence feeds into the character's.Making sure to keep away from making the non-violent moments in the title 'filler',Woo displays a real skill in showing both sides of Ah Jongs conflicting personality,with Woo making a brightly lit,dove filled, (a motif that would become one of the director's trademarks) church Jong's unofficial home,as Woo shows Long to find a sense of peace and healing in the building,which inadvertently leads to Long experiencing a harsh twist of fate,as the shadow of the high church covers him.Despite the post-production period of the title being a complete nightmare thanks to John Woo and producer Hark Tsui, (who along with wanting to completely change the plot so that Ah Long would become a supporting character,decided to celebrate the movies hit opening weekend,by allegedly chucking his furniture out of the office window!) never being able to get on,Woo builds a strikingly intense atmosphere by combining the grim atmosphere of the Film Noir and Italian Crime genres,with a burning passion that gives the Heroic Bloodshed genre a distinctive soulful side.Showing Ah Jongs relationship with Jennie to be something that desperately makes him want to leave their dark world behind,Woo show's Ah Jongs 'Heroic' Bloodsheeding morals to be ones that are getting burnt up from the world he inhabits,thanks to Woo filling his primary colour- draining world with gangsters,thugs and corrupt politicians who have made a decaying city where any sense of morals are to be shot dead.Taking on the title role,Chow Yun-Fat gives an excellent performance as Ah Jong,with Yun-Fat avoiding the easy option of making Jong a heartless thug,by showing the pain that Jong experience's from the effects that his 'job' has on his few friends and Jennie,whose singing haunts Jong to remember what he almost destroyed.Giving the movie a shot of glamour,real life Pop star Sally Yeh gives an excellent performance as Jennie,with Yeh giving the title some strong operatic vibes from the pain that Jong accidentally inflicts on her,to showing Jennie developing a warming heart towards Jong.Joining Yun-Fat and Yeh,Danny Lee gives a brilliant performance as Insp.Li Ying,as Lee show Ying struggling with the very real idea that he might be the other side of the coin to Jong's assassin,whilst Kong Chu gives an amazing performance as the warn down gangster Wong Hoi,who discovers,that despite wanting to leave this life behind,that in this city,killing is everybody's business,and that business is good. "},{"Title":"Wu Yusen does not make them like he used to...","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After the arrival of John Woo in Hollywood, he has made a tremendous impact on Asian influenced Americanized films. But the truth of his work remains in Hong Kong still. John Woo showed us the realistic side of a hitman, rather than giving us the typical glamorous and heroic view, the humane and conscience was shown of him. Most film hitman are either bad or good not in between, as he was bad due to his profession he was good due to his nature. Even though the killer had a dark theme you have to understand that it would be the most realistic was to display a hitman with a conscience, I mean how happy can he be? The Killer weighed loyalty amongst friends at a high level, he was responsible for what he did, and he didnt kill because he was crazy but because he respected it as a job and a job only. As other films would show many killings and the played out line its nothing personal, this film allows us to get inside the mind as see the life of a hitman. There is more I can say but this thing limits me to 1000 words so if you want to know email. But my message is, even though John Woo has many great films out in America which I enjoyed, I really miss the passionate aspect of his filmmaking where it is obvious he put his heart, sweat and blood into. The current studios he works for limits him so much that I only see his technical trademarks but not his technical anymore.  "}{"Title":"So Much Better then Woo's American made movies","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you ever plan on seeing a film from John Woo don't get Face/off or Broken Arrow.  Although they were both good films this one is so much better.  Sure the budget was lower but the movie still makes up for it with wonderful gunfights.  John Woo is able to make the shootouts look very artistic but it still has an extremely exciting edge to it and is wonderfully choreographed.I found the ending was also way different than what I was expecting I sat there watching the credits thinking `Oh no, it shouldn't end like that.'   "},{"Title":"The Killer combines near-operatic violence with a poetic love story in a way no one else can","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite a few obvious points of influence (Peckinpah and Jean-Pierre Melville coming immediately to mind), The Killer was a wholly fresh film when initially released. Ever since than, Hollywood directors from the MTV school have been shamelessly ripping him off. None of them will ever top Woo. The Killer, his best film, combines near-operatic violence with a poetic love story in a way no one else can. No other action director since Peckinpah has had characters this complex and fascinating. And like Peckinpah, Woo explores the themes of loyalty and friendship. Hollywood can copy his style all they want but they often forget to include the complex characters, which is ultimately what makes The Killer a classic film as opposed to just an action classic. There's much more to this film than just gun play.Chow Yun Fat became an international star as a result of his performance as John, the assassin with a code of ethics and a heart. The sheer emotion of the portrayal makes him one of the most fascinating protagonists ever. This isn't a Rambo style hero, but a realistic and flawed human being. Almost as good are Danny Lee, Kong Chu, and pop singer Sally Yeh. John Woo's direction is flawless. No one can fashion an action scene like him. The heights of bloodshed in the climax are an all-time high for cinema, but they also have a poetic resonance. The ending is tragic and likely to induce tears in the audience. The Killer is quite possibly the greatest action film of all time. (9/10) "},{"Title":"The Killer","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Once upon a time lived a director who made action graceful and artful. He moved to the US and there he became just another guy. Thankfully we have Hard Boiled,A Better Tomorrow and of course The Killer.A man, smooth and cool, with a white scarf enters a restaurant. There he kills a few guys and does it so beautifully, you think he has done something good. But in the process he coincidently by-shoots a girl in her eyes. She is left blind. As the story moves The Killer wants to make up for the bad he has done to her and helps her out, of course she doesn't know it's really him. Another man becomes interested in her. A cop, who is also chasing The Killer. Te story goes from interesting to very interesting and makes u fell for the characters.Here we have a very untypical story for an action. First of all it has a more sentimental story, it doesn't just really on it's action. And by making us care for the characters it makes the action tense.The cast is led by a legend of HK cinema. Chow Yun-Fat. Here he shows his abilities to preform great in a sentimental role but keeping his coolness as an assassin. Helped by Danny Lee who also gives a fine performance. Sally Yeh, the girl they love is a sweet person and u feel sorry for her.Of course this would not be a John Woo film without some amazing action. And here, I think the best action ever caught on camera can be seen. It was not the time of wires and CGI, it was a time when John Woo was The King of action. He moves the camera like no one and makes action and art form. It's not just shooting and killing it's like a ballet where u can admire the way people move and solve any problems with a single move. If there is anyone who says there is not enough action in a film like this is crazy. I felt the action was non stop, but at the same time I felt it developed the characters. Thrully wonderful film-making.So I guess The Killer is the best action film ever. A great story unbelievable direction, action at it's finest and a great cast make this a film for the ages and every hard-core action fan should see it. 4/4 "},{"Title":"Emotional and spectacular action miracle by Asian maestro John Woo","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contains Spoiler The Killer (Hong Kong, 1989) is considered by many to be the greatest piece of not only its writer and director John Woo, but also the history of Hong Kong (action) cinema. Rarely has silver screen seen such a combination of incredibly violent action scenes and choreography, strong characters and their relations' deep interpretations and aspects. The Killer, like the other Hong Kong made films by Woo, comes straightly from the deepest places of his heart and is thus so mind blowingly personal and loyal to its touching themes.Chow Yun Fat plays Jeff, an assassin that kills for money as he (first) thinks the ones he kills deserve to die. He gets his jobs by Fung (Paul Chu Kong, the villain from Johnnie To's ultra infernal bloodshed thriller The Big Heat, made one year previously in 1988 and also produced by Tsui Hark), a man he is friends with but also a man whose character developes the most during the ride and thus reminds me of Leslie Cheung's character Kit in Woo's breakthrough A Better Tomorrow (1986). A ruthless triad boss Wong (Shing Fui On, a veteran actor from various films from different genres like Taylor Wong's Tragic Hero (1987), Herman Yau's The Untold Story (1993), Nam Lai Choi's Her Vengeance (1988) among many others) is actually the man arranging the killings and, once Jeff starts to live with and take care of the girl (Sally Yeh) he accidentally blinds during a job that was supposed to be his last, decides that it is time to kill Jeff, too. Also a determined police inspector Li (Danny Lee, the familiar police character player of Hong Kong cinema) is after Jeff as he wants to get him but also is interested in the way how Jeff saved a little girl's life during one violent gun fight. The killer is an unusual one, the cop is an unusual one, the film is very unusual one and among the most perfect examples to show what makes John Woo's films so unique as well as Hong Kong cinema in general.The themes of loyalty, betrayal, guilt and friendship among men are very carefully constructed and thus emotionally very powerful. In Woo's films, criminals and policemen, good and evil, both have two sides and no one can be considered as thoroughly good and pure or evil and bad. The dualism of human nature is one of Woo's themes, and he is especially interested in the codes of honour and loyalty between men that are usually considered bad, the criminals, robbers and killers for example. Jeff kills people for money but also realizes it is wrong, but unfortunately it comes too late. He must pay for his sins but he will definitely do everything he can to make at least one last good deed in his life, to save the sight of the singer he blinds by using his hitmoney for her operation. Li and Jeff soon realize they share many similar things in their nature and both have the same kind of ideals and thoughts on loyalty and righteousness, despite both being on the different sides of the law.Fung's character is very powerful and important here as he is the one the experiences the greatest development during the very melancholic and sad film. He changes from a betraying evil man into a man who's willing to sacrifice himself in order to do what he owes to Jeff. The scene in which Fung just tries to do the worst thing possible and betray his friend is among the film's best and shows also the great acting abilities of Chow as well as Kong himself. What happens after that near the ending, is very important as Fung realizes what he has done and what he owes. He can die in peace knowing that there is at least one person that will remember him and his changing into a better human being forever.The film's themes are universal and concern everyone on earth. Woo depicts men and the ways how humans should live in order to avoid violence and terror that's everywhere in our world. Woo knows the world is full of violence and our nature is very willing and able to use it against each other, and he shows this mercilessly (and thus often shockingly) by brutal violence and incredible ultra violent action scenes that are never gratuitous, just honest and real. Violence rips, hurts and kills the good as well as the bad, it is all about who uses it and why. Who is brave enough to stop the circle of violence and destroy the thoughts of revenge and selfishness. It seems it is not possible with our nature as if it was, films like these would not be made. Now the fight just must go on.The Killer is shot by Peter Pau, the wonderful Hong Kong cinematographer behind many visually interesting films like Ronnie Yu's The Bride With White Hair (1993), Clarence Fok's The Iceman Cometh (1989), Ching Siu Tung's A Terra-Cotta Warrior (1989) among others. His cinematography in The Killer is at times stunning in its neo light reflected asphalts (that remind me of Alfred Cheung's dark noir On the Run from 1988, starring Yuen Biao) and blue filtered exteriors to make it all as magical as possible without turning into surreal. I don't think the visual sides of The Killer are gratuitous or without reason (like sometimes in HK films), they are used restrainedly and to depict what's going on inside the film's world and the minds of the characters. When compared to the other John Woo films, I think The Killer is among the most visually interesting ones.The incredible soundtrack and music is by another master of Hong Kong cinema, Lowell Lo, whose impressive list of films he's made the soundtracks for include titles like Ringo Lam's hyper harrowing and violent School on Fire (1988), Clarence Fok's trash classic Naked Killer (1992), David Lam's impressive fact based cop(s) 'n gangsters film The First Shot (1993) among others. The theme song is very beautiful and sad and the soundtrack in general is very effective, too. It has some wonderfully low and wavy sounds to depict the forthcoming bursts of violence and wickedness and it tells very much about the feelings inside the film and behind the camera.The action choreography is nothing short of incredible, by one of the most talented makers of the field, Ching Siu Tung, whose credits as a director or action director include The Chinese Ghost Story trilogy (1987-1991), the classical swordsman film Duel to the Death (1983), Swordsman 2 (1992), John Woo's A Better Tomorrow 2 and its incredible surreal over-the-top finale, Raymond Lee's Dragon Inn (1992) among many other more or less interesting and spectacular titles. His action choreography is fast and furious no matter if we're in the bullet ballet genre or the swordsplay genre. In The Killer it is as fantastic as can be expected by Woo and is on the same level with his other films, including the incredible 40 minute gun fight finale of Hard-Boiled (1992). The action is also very violent but as mentioned above, never gratuitously or exploitively so. The choreography and speed is something that is totally lacking from the most efforts of the West. It will leave the viewer gasping for breath, especially when seen on big screen.There are some flaws in The Killer that don't quite make it Woo's masterpiece in my opinion. The film's only female character is sadly very weak thus giving us an impression that this is Woo's opinion on female sex in general. Her blindness makes her even weaker and more dependent on Jeff, a man, but fortunately females are depicted more realistically and with equality in his other films, like the mentioned A Better Tomorrow classics. The worst example I can think of of females being depicted as nothing but helpless nuisances is the horrible exploitation action film The Blacksheep Affair (1998) by Lam Wai Lun (action choreography also by Ching Siu Tung, but don't bother) where the only female character seems to be able to do nothing but scream annoyingly and act savagely and brutely while the men do the work and the Japanese are naturally the bad. This kind of incorrect exploitation gives a bad name to Hong Kong cinema, and Woo's female character (and his depiction of foreigners) is still pretty far away from this.Another thing I find a little negative is some of the dialogue that is a little too underlining and thus not so convincing. Especially at the tragic end in which Fung tells about his emotional pain to Jeff and compares himself to a dog. His thoughts in that final scene would work better if they were written a little more aesthetically and not so straight. It becomes a little unintentionally comical and unbelievable even though the idea behind that kind of comparison is very valid considered the human nature and how dogs sometimes really are superior to it.The Killer is classical Woo and from the heart of this sensitive man who hates violence, wickedness and evil minds that fill our world. His films are not only spectacular and mind blowing action pieces, they are much more and always have this interesting and strong philosophy behind them, his Hollywood efforts mostly excluded. The Killer is perhaps his saddest film and full of melancholy. It is almost his masterpiece, which now in my opinion is the harrowing depiction of hell on earth, Bullet in the Head (1990). The Killer is still one of the essential films of Hong Kong cinema, its history and development. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Woo Does Shakespeare (SPOILERS!)","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Or that is one, albeit perverted, way of wording it. Just about every John Woo movie ends with the good guys blasting the tobacco juice out of the bad guys and more guts line the floor than there is in a blood bank. Best example of that would be the ridiculously hilarious amount of carnage at the finale of A Better Tomorrow II. With 'THE KILLER', John goes to a different approach to the epic battles. Unlike Hard-Boiled, they never get gratuitous and laughable in length while plenty of mooks still get riddled with bullets. Even so, 'THE KILLER' retains an atmosphere all throughout that this, unlike any other action movie, is a tragedy and the ending, no matter how heroic, will be for naught. Chow-Yun Fat, the Woo regular, has a charismatic approach that has a lonesome, aged feeling of inevitable doom that Tequila and the Li brothers miss.  Danny Lee has the charm and mood to his character than Tony Leung in Hard-Boiled, he also looks more natural handling an AK-47.  My kudos to third-time in a row villan Fui-On Shing, he always maintains that look of cruelty and complete hatred that boils over at the end to his horribly brutal demise by a VERY mad cop.  No other villan in a John Woo movie--not even Castor Troy--can equal the amount of evil portrayed.  Probably the biggest credit to this movie deserves to go to Lowell Lo for creating the haunting, tear-inducing theme that so eloquently fits this tragedy when it is played at the end.  The use of The Messiah in the church gunfight is almost sacrilegious, yet increases its artistic appeal. With the death of Peckinpah in the 1980s, the legacy of cathartic violence now continues in the form of the Hong Kong filmmaker. Hopefully, though, he won't try to remake 'The Wild Bunch'. "},{"Title":"One of John Woo's finest moments!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not John Woo's best film - I reserve that place for my two personal favourites Hard Boiled and Last Hurrah For Chivalry.However, that said, it's still a first-rate John Woo film, and a first-rate John Woo film is guaranteed to be one of the best damn action films you've seen!Woo's Hollywood films have never quite reached the plateau of his HK films, and this is no exception to the rule. Hard-hitting and fast-paced action scenes, mixed in with strong performances by Danny Lee and especially Chow Yun-Fat. And above the violence and bloodshed, of which there is plenty for the bloodthirsty, one thing that puts Woo's films higher than the ordinary action film is that it's steeped with emotion and symbolism. This film has its full share of doves and candles, priests and Mexican standoffs (two people each with a gun pointed at each other), not to mention the culminating church battle and mandatory boat chase.But this is Woo's tragi-hero Epic. The film of destiny as enemies become brothers and put aside their own struggles to struggle together to overcome evil. Chow Yun-Fat is a hired assassin, but he's not a bad person. Danny Lee is a cop trying to find and arrest Chow, but he's not a vigilante. When Chow is double-crossed and Lee is dragged into it, Lee realizes Chow's position, and sees the good qualities in him - including his feeling that he must make things right by helping to cure the blindness he caused in a lounge singer.This film is about compassion and valour, it's about right above wrong, it's about not judging a book by its cover. It's too easy to dismiss this film as another mindless  and violent action film, one must look further and read the symbolism, see the epic hidden under the spray of bullets. Definitely a John Woo HK masterpiece! 8/10. "},{"Title":"The ultimate action film","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is an action movie, but it is also more than an action movie. John Woo's other classic, Hard Boiled, blows this one out of the water in terms of gun-fights, bloodshed, and violence, but this movie has a heart that is nearly lacking in the other.At the shallowest level, it's a straight up action thriller. However, if you dig a little deeper, you'll see that this movie is not only about the action, and that is why it's a superior film to Hard Boiled.The Killer is really the tale of two men's friendship, one a cop (Danny Li), the other a killer (Chow Yun-Fat) trying to get out of the business.  Over the course of the movie, you watch as the two men discover that even as they stand on the opposite sides of the law, they have much in common.  The most dramatic scenes consist of face-offs between these two men, as they begin to understand exactly what makes the other tick.Wedged between these scenes of growing friendship are some of the greatest action scenes ever filmed.  The final shoot-out in a church is pure poetry in motion.  What some people don't seem to grasp is that the body count doesn't matter.  Neither does the fact that the heroes seem to have a near inexhaustible source of ammo (Though not as inexhaustible as in HB).  The violence is taken to an extreme to show the dedication these men have to their beliefs.One needs only look at the shootout at Jeffrey's hideout to understand his disgust with the business of killing.  Watching Jeffrey's face as he dispatches thug after thug, you see the growing hate for the endless death. When he finally pulls the last bullet out of the gun after threatening his friend, you see that while killing may be his occupation, it is not in his soul.Admittedly, this movie is not Citizen Kane.  The plot is well done, but the violence may be a bit much for those who do not like action films. However if you are becoming bored with American action movies, and want something more substantial with the action, rent this movie NOW.  It's well-worth it, and it stands as my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Jaw-Droppingly Fast-Paced And Stunningly Directed Hong Kong Action Classic Of An Assassin With A Heart","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A Hong Kong contract killer who is going soft accidentally blinds a young woman during a hit. Traumatised by her case, he befriends her without revealing his identity, and they fall in love. But as both the cops and his criminal background close in on him, can he escape and keep his new-found happiness ?One of Woo's very best films, this is surely one of the most influential crime thrillers of the last twenty years (along with, say, Manhunter and The Usual Suspects). The basic plot is pretty familiar, but the intense visual style, super-bang action scenes, total bullet festival pyrotechnics and moody characterisation are all unmissable thrills. The movie is filled with iconic shots; the part where Chow and Lee first meet and instantly point their guns at each others' throats must be the most copied moment in all cinema since, but then it turns into a brilliantly played little comedy tension scene. Woo makes no apologies - he's the modern-day Sam Peckinpah, filling his film with endlessly stylish visual motifs like the white doves, the explicit juxtaposition of cop/killer, Jennie's blindness, the tragic moment when our blinded heroes crawl past each other in the dust, many others. But he also imbues his characters with more than comic-book minds as they struggle with their destinies and consciences. Chow is terrific in the lead, but for my money the best player is Lee as Eagle the cop - he uses his eyes and his unsettling smirk to express a whirlwind of conflicting thoughts and it's the transformation of his character from disgruntled cop to amused political tool to partner-in-crime keeps the film focused and exciting. Check him out in Lung Fu Fong Wan / City On Fire too. The action sequences - particularly the final shootout in the church - are some of the best and most frenetic gunfights ever committed to celluloid, perhaps only bettered by Woo's subsequent masterpiece, Lat Sau San Taam / Hard Boiled. A fantastic action-packed crime thriller, produced by the great Cantonese filmmaker Tsui Hark. English title - The Killer. "},{"Title":"The Killer","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Killer, The (1989) **** (out of 4) John Woo's action classic is a film I have wanted to see for many years but just finally got around to it and I'm kicking myself for not watching it earlier. I'm not sure what else I could add that hasn't been said but I found the movie perfect on almost every level. This was also my first time seeing Chow Yun Fat and he was perfect in the title role as were Danny Lee and Sally Yeh. There are many things that separates this from your casual American film and the performances are one thing. In most American action films the hero is just there to deliver funny one liners and they're never given the chance for more dramatic moments but this film here is full of them. The drama and interactions of the characters is what really pushes this film over the top for me. I've read a few reviews where the film was called corny and that the ending was too sentimental but I disagree with both of those comments. I thought the relationship between the killer, the cop, his old friend and the blind girl worked perfectly well and the ending was very emotional in how it plays out. I'm not sure if downbeat is the correct word but again, this certainly wouldn't show up in an American film. We could talk pages about the action but I'm sure everything that could be said has already been said but that church sequence is certainly one of the greatest looking shootouts I've ever seen. Having only known Woo's work from his American films I never really got all the type. After seeing this one I'll certainly go back and watch some of his older work. "},{"Title":"Would you rather see me dead or set free? Neither, if fate spares us.","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo's The Killer, I thought, would make for a cool Saturday midnight viewing, so I popped it in thinking I'd see some solid violence here and there, and with an atmosphere that mimics (to a certain degree) the one created in Jean-Pierre Melville's Le Samourai. By the time the credits rolled I felt floored. Not only had I been drawn into the action immensely - I got drawn more and more into the story Woo was weaving, and with these people in the gang-land underworld of Hong Kong. The lines between good and evil get stretched to a point of pure theatricality, and somehow the strengths of the characters pull through as strong as do the gun-play scenes. And perhaps most impressive besides that is Woo takes from Melville's world of cold gangsters and makes it into his own personal work.Chow-Yun Fat makes for a blazing lead- smart, ruthless, and somehow compassionate. He plays Jeffrey, a contract killer for underworld boss Johnny Weng (Fui-On Shing). He's been killing for far too long - he's being plagued psychologically by his past and by a girl, Jennie (Sally Yeh, totally convincing), who was blinded during one of his jobs. But never-the-less, he gets one last assignment (that old chestnut of a story gimmick) to assassinate a public figure. However afterwords, he finds that he's being cornered by two forces in the midst of helping Jennie- an inspector (Danny Lee, very good as well) who vows to catch him despite the Killer's elusive nature, and Weng himself, who decides this time the money he owes isn't going anywhere. This sets up the third act, and I'm not sure if calling it intense does it justice.For the action film connoisseur, in particular for Asian crime thrillers, The Killer is a must to see, if only once - there's even more to the film than just bloodshed and interesting characters. Woo, with DPs Peter Pau and Wing-Hung Wong, editor Kung Wing Fan, and set decorator Chung-Ching Tai, fashions his sequences to maximum effect. Once or twice there's so much gun-play a scene with two guys pointing guns at each other almost becomes surreal (or perhaps it's meant for comic relief, I couldn't tell). But overall, this film finds its technique for every scene, violent or not, and there's no doubt that Woo is one of the most competent directors that's come out of Hong Kong cinema. Even the musical interludes he places in feel appropriate (there's some beautiful singing thrown in too).So, if you're in the mood for a lot of high-octane excitement, as well as a great cops & killers story loaded with a kind of class that doesn't come in most action films, check it out. And, remember to check it out on DVD- the VHS transfer shows its age pretty fast- and don't feel worried about the subtitles if you're not a subtitles kind of movie-goer (everything essential comes across in the execution of the material). One of the most visceral, influential shoot-em-up thrillers ever conceived. "}{"Title":"Blazing action feast","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Probably one of the best solo films you should watch if you're interested in finding out what John Woo is all about. The Killer is one of the best known and most highly regarded Hong Kong action films and helped to put John Woo on the map, as well as working as an inspiration for film makers such as Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez. And you can definitely see how they have drawn influences from its stylistic carnage, cool under pressure characters and just from its general modern day as inhabited by people larger than life setting.The story goes that Ah Jong (once again played by Chow Yun-fat) is an assassin, who during his supposed last job permanently injures a beautiful singer (Sally Yeh), rendering her almost completely blind. Wrecked by guilt, he appoints himself her protector, but things get complicated when his former boss wants him permanently dealt with and he also has to do one more job to get enough money to get her eyes fixed.The story is not overly complicated, but it has enough substance that we get a few good character scenes and dialogues from it. But what really makes this film worth watching is its action scenes. John Woo is a fantastic action director and his gun battles are some of the best in cinema history. You feel each bullet hit, the sounds the guns make are fantastic and the scenes are choreographed beautifully. Definitely a feast for your eyes, if heavy fatality massacre is your thing.And that's about all that can be said about the film. Could the story have been better? Yes, definitely, but that still makes the film merely good instead of great. Perhaps you won't remember any of the characters all that clearly after some time, but you will definitely remember the action scenes and all the creative ways people get shot and slaughtered. And sometimes that's enough. "},{"Title":"John Woo's masterpiece one of his best HK classics action films ever!","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take A John Woo's best HK classic action masterpiece, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.The Killer (1989) is in my opinion John Woo's masterpiece and one of the best classic action films from Hong Kong I have ever seen. This film has everything, it has even a sad ending, which neither one action movie has that kind of ending. Chow Yun-Fat gave us one of his best performances ever, Danny Lee was outstanding as Hong Kong Police officer. The action, the gore, the violence, the gun play everything is in this movie. The final showdown in the church was one the best action scenes ever made in a film. It is my fifth favorite John Woo film! The first four will be Hard Target (1993), Broken Arrow (1996), Hard Boiled (1992) and Paycheck (2003) this is the fifth John Woo favorite action film of mine that I love to death. Chow Yun-Fat's character Ah Jong was well written and well done, but it isn't close as is his character Insp. 'Tequila' Yuen from Hard Boiled. This is was the first film with John Woo as I have saw when I was 10. years old, I think I was 12 or 13 when I first time saw Hard Boiled, but still I had no Idea both of the movies are from same director with the same actor. I love this movie to death and it is one of my favorite action movies.Plot Chow Yun-Fat stars as an expert assassin who finds himself conflicted with his work in his one last hit in hopes of using his earnings to restore vision to a singer he accidentally blinded, only to be double-crossed by his boss. Danny Lee co-stars as the Hong Kong Police Force inspector determined to catch the assassin and take down the organization that employs him. These two guys from the opposite worlds end up becoming friends and working together to bring down their bigger enemy.The Killer gained numerous international accolades for Woo and its influence can be seen in countless action films in the following decades including in the movies directed by Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez. The action is, as always with a John Woo movie, spectacular but the characters are well developed and the story is very engaging. It's not quite as big in scale as Hard Boiled but it's still very well paced with plenty of great action. What is it about Hit men in movies that they are always so damn cool? Like Hard Boiled, the music is pretty cheap and forgettable sounding but it doesn't detract from the action. We get the doves, the slow-mo and the religious imagery aplenty in this film and as with Hard Boiled there is little to find fault with.I still love Hard Boiled better than The Killer because Hard Boiled has happy ending and The Killer has not a happy ending, but still I love this movie and it is an action Classic and John Woo directing this movie did the best job ever as been the director and a writer the same time. This man John Woo is outstanding and the actors are just amazing, the characters are well written and the chemistry between Chow Yun-fat and Danny Lee is well written and are making a great due as the opposite team. You know Sylvester Stallone, Sung Kang and Walter Hill should all take a school of action movies from John Woo's The Killer, because those three American guys sucked at making an action film in 2012 Bullet to the Head failed and it sucked ass. Sylvester Stallone and Sung Kang as a hired hit-man and a police detective had no written chemistry working together and they both suck! Chow Yun-Fat and Danny Lee are the real team as hired professional hit-man and a Hong Kong police officer. Those two guys are the real team, I will rather watch this movie than Walter Hill's Bullet to the Head! This movie it is a perfect 10, it takes the vision of one of the most creative intelligent action directors in HK cinema eve! The film is filled the most explosive showdowns in cinematic history. It is loaded with some with the most outrageously choreographed action sequences ever committed to film and an absolute hailstorm of bullets. It is fast paced, better more choreographed stylized action. The Killer is a perfect action film as one could ask for.Overall I think The Killer is on par with Hard Boiled but there's maybe a little more focus on the story than action....but the action in that delivers too. A pair with Hard Boiled is a it's truly bad ass. My favorite action movie with Hard Boiled and Hard Target! I love them to death it get's a perfect 10! The Killer (traditional Chinese 喋血雙雄; simplified Chinese 喋血双雄; pinyin Diéxuè shuāngxióng Jyutping Dip huet seung hung)&#x86; is a 1989 Hong Kong action film written and directed by John Woo, and starring Chow Yun-fat, Danny Lee and Sally Yeh.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Film Workshop Media Asia, Golden Princess Film Production Limited, Long Shong Pictures Starring Chow Yun-fat, Danny Lee, Sally Yeh, Chu Kong, Kenneth Tsang, Shing Fui-On Director John Woo Producer Tsui Hark Screenplay John Woo Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 51 Mins. Budget $4.500.000 Box Office HKD $18,255,083 (Hong Kong) "},{"Title":"The 400 bullets","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At times John Woo's The Killer has segments that seem directly lifted from those Chinese karaoke videos that my parents and their friends used to crowd around. They share the same dreamlike qualities - random flutterings of doves meant to be symbolically relevant, a hazy background that seems perfect for the haunting vibraphone score, slow motion for the most emotionally tense moments and so on. It is problematic because throughout the film Woo piles on these elements, combined with the shoot-outs upon shoot-outs that seem to last an eternity, and it is difficult to know whether to laugh or not. When Detective Li Ying storms up towards Ah Jong's hideout in fury after the death of his partner, he cocks his gun and right before climbing over the wall, does a forward roll for seemingly no reason. Later, two of the white suited goons of Frank's hire execute a similar manoeuvre as they drive up to assault the house. There are good characters, and there are terrible characters. The latter is firstly Frank, who Woo seems to think can be made menacing merely by suiting him up and placing Ray Bans on his head. This does not make for the deadly assassin that he is stated to be. It is funnier yet when his apparently deadly methods include sending endless hordes of gunmen at the target and in reality just providing fodder for yet another shoot-out. There is also the object of Ah Jong's desire, Jennie, who falls in love with him pretty easily. Their initial encounters evoke a rather neo-noir aesthetic with the grimy neon signs of the karaoke bar, and the glistening asphalt in the back alley. Magical and slightly surreal, but her character itself is bland, displaying no distinct qualities apart from being the voice of innocence which shouts out (okay well she's quite meek really) plot points and warnings. Why is the room so dark, she inquires, right before the dark dramatic shoot-out which will end with her lover's death. There is one moment of saving grace, where she fires a gun then immediately collapses into tears at what she thinks she has done, which highlights exactly how the average civilian might react to such events. Both Ah Jong and Li Ying are portrayed quite well, and manage to create real emotion from the rather oddly paced script. You can almost believe the tears of rage at the end as Li Ying succumbs to his anger and murders the triad boss, renouncing his former morals. Maybe they aren't so different after all. The best character however has to be Fung Sei, Ah Jong's close friend who encounters and struggles with several dilemmas involving friendship, honour and betrayal. Here is a man who has long given up the assassin life but who still has vestiges of pride and commitment to long term friendship left in him. Woo builds up his heroic escape, and then makes him misfire literally by miscounting the number of bullets in his gun, a great moment of characterisation using a dialogue callback.But it still remains impossibly hard to root for these characters when Woo seems to prefer the endless shoot-outs and their dramatic role. They are used to build character and resilience, but very early on they blur and become all too repetitive, and trivial, because although our main characters take hits, they seem to be fine moments later. The first infiltration by Ah Jong is quite well choreographed and edited, but after that point The Killer seems to descend into repeated massacres. I can acknowledge the gun-fu influence on similar Hollywood type action scenes (The Matrix, Tarantino, Rodriguez), but even so The Killer's action sequences are horribly disjointed and chaotic. Hordes of nameless and faceless goons seem to stumble and teleport into the frame, their lifeless bodies spasming onto the ground before we are even aware of what has occurred. Do not fret however, for the most gory and vital bits always seem to be emphasised via this self-important slow motion. This does not build tension, but sentimentality. Sometimes, like when the Triad boss shoots Ah Jong from outside the church and around the door, the action will not make logical sense. Other times, the action is put on pause altogether for moments of melodrama; after Fung Sei is shot within an inch of his life, the goons suddenly stop storming the church to allow our dear friends to say goodbye. Woo seems to lean onto these elongated action sequences as if they are the most important moments for the main characters. After the trio escape from yet another ambush, there is a chance to reflect or simply bask in the reluctant alliance they have been forcibly pushed into. But Woo cuts to that dramatic confrontation where they both refuse to kill each other, and then cuts again rapidly to them tending to each others wounds. Where is the meat? My favourite little tidbit is when Li Ying infiltrates Ah Jong's apartment, sits in his chair and slides over to the doorway, imitating the same shooting action as Ah Jong when forced to defend his home. A bit of subtlety in visualising how they are not so different from each other, both armed guns shaped by larger, uncontrollable forces. It's all very sad of course, but Woo cannot wrap it up. The end of the film has perhaps the most karaoke-like scene of them all, a wistful Chow Yun Fat solemnly playing the harmonica beside the window. Surely we are not meant to take this seriously? "},{"Title":"best action movie there is","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i seen so many action movies, this is the best action movie i have ever seen, it has everything u would ever want in a action movie, its so good, please go and see it, and if you have not already go and watch it, and if you did watch it again, and after 25 years it still holds up very well, i wish i have seen it in the movie theaters when it came out, its a movie that will blow you away, bullets flying, car chases people jumping backwards on their backs shooting loads of bullets, handguns, shotguns, assault rifles, even grenade launchers, people after people getting shot and killed police officers, killers, assassins, currupt business workers, have a lot of fun watching this movie because i know i did "},{"Title":"Possibly the Saddest Action Flick Ever Made","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I will not spoil anything in this review, but I have to warn sensitive audiences to stay away! Not only is there violent, gory action sequences throughout, this possibly has the saddest ending to an action movie I've ever seen, and that includes the ending to Terminator 2, another great film.That being said, John Woo's The Killer is an absolute masterpiece of action cinema! The action sequences are well-shot and well-choreographed, and the story and characters are amazingly well-done. Tis brilliant crime drama doesn't only provide the audience with tons of great action, but with powerful themes of friendship, love, and loss! "},{"Title":"Beautiful and stylish action film.","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" *** Minor spoiler here.This is one of John Woo's best film that brought him international attention. The acting and action grips you from start to finish with intensity. Many original work on display here and have been borrowed and used by other directors. The creativity of some of the action and non action scenes are to be admired, its nothing but a master piece.The scene where the detective investigates a crime scene in a flat, while sitting in an arm chair, he contemplates what could have happened flickers between himself and the person he is pursuing (who was also sitting in the same chair in the same room the day before)to convey the detective's thoughts was an exquisite work of art. I've not seen anything that have come close to that in terms of artistry in film making. "},{"Title":"The Killer (1989)","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Killer is the ultimate Heroic bloodshed film (the original title even translates to Bloodshed of Two Heroes), a bombastic shoot-em-up with Chow Yun-fat. Director John Woo often makes it a point to demonstrate his utter mastery of complete environmental annihilation, and this movie certainly doesn't disappoint with its action. With a body count of over 120, excessive use of slow-motions and flashbacks, not to mention real guns being used on-set, this movie has no questions about what it wants to be - a dramatic blood opera which plays around with the ideas on how to make people firing guns look as artsy and fetishized as possible.The movie has plenty of themes closely related to the Heroic bloodshed genre - questions of ethics, honor and friendship in midst of complete chaos relating to gang wars, Triads and backstabbing. The ending of the film is completely nihilistic; both the hero and the villain are dead, the girl is blinded, and the other good guy is arrested. Basically, everything in the film amounts to absolutely nothing, which makes it interesting when compared to 95% of other action films which follow a traditional happy end. But even though the action scenes in The Killer kick mass amounts of ass, that isn't to say that there aren't some cheesy moments, and I don't know how the hell did the cop not know Ah Jong's name after hearing Jenny scream it about a million times throughout the film. "},{"Title":"The best example of Hong Kong Action Cinema I have seen to date.","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Asian action movies. I am a fan of stuff like Hero, Hard Boiled and Seven Samurai (if you can count that) So when I found this in a shop that packages rare DVD's I thought Okay, it's Chow Yun Fat and directed by John Woo so I'll get it and I liked it. It basically has all the clichés of Heroes who don't play by the rules Villains who are petty, no development or any kind of arc and at the end... I enjoyed it.The plot is that a hit-man who has a strong moral code (well... for a contract killer) accidentally blinds a woman on his latest contract. Feeling guilty he decides to get close to her and help her out in any way possible. While this is going on a cop who doesn't play by the rules is asked to be a bodyguard to a prominent figure - who is the hit-man's next target, after a chase between cop and hit-man the hit-man finds out he's been set up by the Triads because his identity was blown. The cop eventually finds out about him but they must team up together to kill all the triads.Basically my biggest problem with the movie is that the Triad boss's motivation is because he wants to clean up the whole He's blown his cover but he begins taking care of it as he's returning home. This would mean that he would prematurely know this is going on or someone found out about it, told him and he sent people after him and they got there in under 5 minutes, this is not because I missed a subtitle, in the action scene in the beginning of the movie the only survivor could not tell people what the assassin looked like.Aside from that it basically encompasses all to expect from this genre of film. The action as typical of John Woo is actually really good. The cinematography is also something to admire from this movie. Not the best but it is worth mentioning and I also think think to some extent the acting is... okay, I mean it's over the top in places - yes but that's the genre.So all of whether you'll like this movie or not boils down to if you like these types of movies. Because when you get down to it this movie is probably the best example of Hong Kong Action cinema I have seen and if you don't really like the clichés then you won't like this movie. I personally think it's half good movie half guilty pleasure (... if that makes sense) but if someone wants to see a solid enough action movie of the 80's then this is certainly going to satisfy your expectations. "},{"Title":"Woo Unbound","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One vicious hit-man. One fierce cop. Ten thousand bullets.- from a promotional ad for THE KILLER. There are two exaggerations in that teaser slogan for THE KILLER. The hit-man played by Chow Yun Fat is actually a suave, rather sentimental anti-hero who is looking to bail out of his deadly-force-for-hire profession. Yes, he's a murderer. But he doesn't enjoy his work. As for the fierce cop, Danny Lee portrays him as more of a dogged, enthusiastic peace officer than as an maniacal enforcer of the law. But what about those ten thousand bullets? I'll put it to you this way at quite a few points in the film you may find yourself sitting there with your mouth agape and your eyes bulging from their sockets. Keep the remote handy also for you may be doing extensive replaying of scenes. The action sequences are mind-boggling in the cleverness of their staging and intensity of their execution. John Woo's best film carries his signature motif of entangling alliances between good guy/bad guy/evil guy(s), spinning around in a hypertensive milieu of criminality where exhaustive foot chases, unbelievable physical dexterity, and claustrophobic showdowns are the norm. And all of this unfolds beneath a firestorm of discharged ammunition. What has always set Woo's Hong Kong films apart are the exquisitely balletic movements of his actor/characters while under semi-automatic duress (surpassing Peckinpah's earlier but static slo-mo style by leaps and bounds). Working in Hollywood, Woo has been hard pressed to live up to his earlier films. HARD TARGET, BROKEN ARROW, FACE/OFF, MISSION IMPOSSIBLE II, et al. are cartoonish popcorn flicks missing the all important complexity and richness of character and story of the Hong Kong films. Hollywood sunders another original talent. But watch THE KILLER, get involved in the story, and look out for those flying bullets. One day, hopefully, Woo will recapture his earlier form. "},{"Title":"Nothing witty here... this one is just great","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From the plot outline and the film's immediate aesthetics, you could be forgiven for thinking The Killer is just another 80s cop thriller. But there's something about the film that both perfects and transcends that genre -- while it hits all the beats of a thriller, there's a kind of mournful and contemplative tone that makes it impossible to really be thrilled by the violence that explodes across the screen. Instead of taking pains to guide the viewer through the plot, Woo lets most of the details and character motivations take place unnoticed in the background, creating a sense of unmoored and directionless violence enveloping the world. This is especially true of the daring and unforgettable opening scene. The heroes, if they can be called that, are full of remorse and regret, but are unable to do anything but stumble forward bleary-eyed into another shootout.And yet it's also impossible not to be thrilled by the action. I've always been somewhat bored by gunfights in movies, especially when compared to the bodily performance of a martial arts showdown or the spectacle of a sci-fi battle. But Woo's gunplay is just as kinetic and brilliant as it's famous for, playing fast and loose with probability and physics in order to create a breathtaking ballet of violence. He also shows a hand for comedy at unexpected moments. So The Killer has its aesthetic pleasures, which are necessarily guilty ones.This is the tension that most action films struggle through -- our reluctance to endorse violence and our inner desire to see it play out. Usually you just get mass carnage tacked onto a superficial anti- violence message, or incoherent speeches about fighting for peace. But Woo presents the problem for us in full -- the beauty of violence, the horror, and the inescapability. It's ultimately a pessimistic message, and not one I entirely agree with, but in the world Woo sketches it's more undeniable than gravity. "}{"Title":"John Woos masterpiece","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film not only has balls to the wall action and gun fights but it also has a very emotional driven story which is something that you don't see with action films that often. The story follows the story of a hit man with no directly given name that on accident shot an innocent girl blind to get enough money to pay for her surgery to restore her sight he has to take one last job to do so.From here on out there is an amazing film with as I already mentioned some of the greatest gunfights every put on screen and a very emotional touching story. I recommend this film to pretty much anybody that enjoys action films and cinema in general this film is a classic that should not be overlooked. "},{"Title":"A killer film.","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Honourable assassin Ah Jong (Chow Yun Fat) accidentally blinds pretty club singer Jenny (Sally Yeh) while carrying out a hit, but tries to make amends by taking one last job to pay for a cornea transplant for the injured girl. After Ah Jong is double crossed by Hoi, the triad boss who hired him, he finds himself forging an unlikely friendship with Li Ying (Danny Lee), the reckless cop who has been pursuing him.During the late '80s/early '90s, I attended several round-the-clock horror movie events at The Scala Cinema in King's Cross, London. One year, between movies, they screened an excerpt from a Hong Kong action flick that was so insanely violent that the usually rowdy crowd of gore-hounds fell silent in awe. The clip was from John Woo's The Killer, and it was my introduction to the glorious world of heroic bloodshed, where the line between hero and villain becomes seriously blurred, friendship, honour and redemption are common themes, and every bullet hit results in a bright red gout of blood!Featuring standout performances from Chow Yun Fat and Danny Lee, and superb direction from Woo, whose handling of his movie's emotional drama is as assured as his hyper-stylised hi-octane action scenes, The Killer remains one of the undisputed highlights of the entire bloodshed genre. The gun-play might be preposterous but it is brilliantly choreographed, with the frantic finale inside a church, which sees Ah Jong and Li Ying shooting it out against countless bad guys, bringing together all of Woo's trademarks religious icons, balletic ballistic action, white doves, slow motion, and lots and lots of dead bodies.The film ends on a surprisingly downbeat note, which makes it an all the more powerful experience overall, one that would get full marks from me, if only I could understand how Ah Jong loses both his eyes in the final gunfight tragically poetic it might be, but it doesn't make a whole lot of sense (if he was shot in both of his eyes, wouldn't the bullets have taken off the back of his skull?).9/10 (until someone can adequately explain Ah Jong's ocular trauma). "},{"Title":"Great for John Woo action fans","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ah Jong (Chow Yun-Fat) is an assassin. Jenny is a lounge singer who gets caught in the crossfire and is partly blinded by Jong. He feels responsible and rescues her from muggers. He takes another job to kill the head of a drug cartel Wong Dung-Yu. It's an intra-family assassination and the younger Wong wants to kill Jong after the job is done to clean his hands of the killing. Li Ying is a risk taking police inspector. Li and his partner Tsang Yeh (Kenneth Tsang) is tasked to protect Wong Dung-Yu. After the assassination, Jong is in the cross-hairs but he escapes the gangsters and the police detectives. Inspector Li is hot on his trails zeroing in on Jenny.There is a lot of John Woo action going on in this one. If one likes his style, this is a must see. It's a lot of gun blood splattering stylized violence. Back then, it is more unusual but it's not anything special now. He's still one of the few directors to have the dueling gun pointing scene which I'm not a great fan of. The best John Woo action is still the more realistic action. The dueling gun pointing just speaks to a fakeness to his violence. However it's his style and one must accept it. This is one of the best HK gangster movie of the time and gave John Woo his first launching point. "},{"Title":"The kings of the bullets","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" a professional murderer , a detective , a criminal organization , and nightclub singer , are the ingredients of this spectacular action film John Woo, the film offers shootings , explosions, chases , beatings , deaths and thousands scenes , what more striking , with subtle music , blessed with refined narrative john Woo , also with a frenetic editing ; achieved explore a world of murderers , police, mobsters, where everyone moves through hatred and violence.All characters are loners , lead very sad and empty life ; when Ah Jong and Jennie are known comes the romance, establishing an illusion , making the lives of the two characters makes sense , this film touches on the theme of friendship in a very profound way , some male characters have integrity , Ah Jong and Li Ying are men of honor, these two characters defend the honor, and are also relentless in imposing his righteousness .This film production is high quality , tough and courageous entertainment. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Masterpiece","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo has certainly proved in Hollywood now that he has what it takes to be a top rate international action film director. The Killer is an early example that shows the maestro of mayhem and action at his very best. I really liked this film and I think it's one of John Woo's best films along with Hard Boiled. You get to see a vulnerable side to Chow Yun Fat's character as the hit-man Jeff who accidentally blinds a nightclub singer. What I liked was the way in which Woo showed that hit men are tortured souls doing a job that they don't always like doing and that there are so many emotions that they have to deal within in carrying out their job. I found it touching the way the central character Jeff is racked with guilt over blinding the nightclub singer Jenny and that he is willing to risk his life for her so that he can raise the money for an operation that may save Jenny's life. A superb action thriller and one of the finest ever made. Woo's hit men have soul and depth unlike the vicious killing machines that we see in most Hollywood action/thriller films. "},{"Title":"Iconic","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now going into The Killer I expected a good movie considering it's a movie with Chow Yun-Fat movie directed by John Woo. Like any other Chow Yun-Fat and John Woo collaboration, the movie ended up being great.A disillusioned assassin (Chow Yun-Fat) accepts one last hit in hopes of using his earnings to restore vision to a singer he accidentally blinded, only to be double-crossed by his boss. I found the story to be well paced, but some will probably complain how it's not evenly spaced out between action and drama, but they won't mind it once the movie shift into full gear and delivers the goods on it story. The story is masterfully told in my opinion and doesn't suffer from having to much action either. Even though I saw the dubbed version, I can tell you the movie still had some great lines. I got more into the story when it showed that our killer was sympathetic and caring giving him depth instead of just making him look like a cold heartless killer like other movies.The action is nothing short of spectacular as you would expect with any movie directed by John Woo. It's beautiful to watch, it's intense, it's enjoyable, and has a purpose with the story. I have to praise to Woo for his good camera work in this movie and writing what I consider to be one of the best action movie ever made. Beside the acting, I want praise the music in the movie, while it may pass viewers as they get entertain by what they see, I want to say that adds to the greatness and entertainment value for this movie.The Killer is amazing experience I would recommend for anyone. It's a great action movie that delivers the goods on the story with some of the best action sequences ever filmed. The Killer is by far one of the greatest action movie i've ever seen. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An explosive and heart-pounding action classic. An unforgettable and killer action movie masterpiece. A full-throttle action-packed extravaganza that pushes the limit. A spectacular action flick that delivers some of the best action sequences and gun-battles in Hong Kong action cinema. The gun-fights snap and crackle of pure awesomeness. Director, John Woo is one of the true kings of action movie-making. This film stand with his best like Face/Off, Hard-Boiled and A Better Tomorrow. Chow Yun-Fat is at his best. Danny Lee is sensational. Lee and Yun-fat are fantastic together, they square off with one another nicely in scenes that include tension and great character development. A great film that has a great sense of characters. range, emotional depth and story as well as fire-power. One of the best action movies I have ever seen. It's a perfect action film "},{"Title":"What can i say Amazing","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" if it wasn't for John woos the killer there would not be any reservoir dogs and certainly not any of the el mariachi films due to the fact Rodrigo Rodriguez was heavily inspired by woos films especially the squid blood effects.John Woo's bloody and brilliant action film stars the master of Hong Kong heroic bloodshed films, Chow Yun Fat, as the title assassin, who falls in love with the singer Sally Yeh. After he injures her in one of his hits and feels responsible, her sight begins to deteriorate to the point where she will become blind. Taking his weapons he agrees to one more hit to get the money to fund an eye operation for her.That, along with his tracking down by a Hong Kong cop is the basis of the film. A simple storyline and a basic few themes of love, honour and friendship are slung together against a film dominated by bullets and blood. But the action is what moves the character arcs and more important themes along.Although Woo fills his film with violence and action, a bodycount of 120 being recorded, it is not portrayed as honourable or acceptable. The themes of honourable killing versus dishonourable killing are explored in great detail, and the killings are displayed as morally wrong.The action sequences themselves are incredible. Stylised beyond belief, in an explosion of brilliantly executed fighting, which only makes you sit back and shake your head, in an amazed and overpowered fashion. Scattered throughout the film, these sequences, keeping you breathing heavily, climaxing in a final church battle which will wind any Hollywood action film, especially 'Die Hard'. As well as these massive shootouts, there are also quieter affairs, such a scene with a quiet standoff between the killer and the cop in Sally Yeh's apartment.It's completely over the top and unrealistic, but never overwhelming as the tone keeps itself in check, balancing humour as well as real tear creating pure emotion.A great amount of wonderfully directed sequences, brought together under a film whose themes and overall meaning are not shoved in your face, like so many American action films today, gives 'The Killer' the grand title of one of the greatest films ever made "},{"Title":"Defining action film....recommended for all fans of cinema","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a character study. Steeped in a moral code from a time past the two main individuals in this story find themselves bonding in the mist of which is a combination of serious camp and bloddy gunplay.145 deaths. Let's get that point out the way. The final scene also is a 20 minute shoot-out. Now that this points have been established let it also be established that the dialogue, score, acting, directing and cinematography is top notch.Chow Yun-Fat (A Better Tommorow, Crounching Tiger Hidden Dragon, Hard Boiled, Anna and the King) plays a hired assain who views loyalty and honour as highly as completing the hit. We find his character in a church, contemplating his moral fabric at the beginging of the film, (it is also Chow's pinacle, needing no lines to memorise a room) before performing a hit. Relishing his chance to dispose of his caged energy he enters the hit energentically, finding killing an art form to perform beautiful ballet to, (ignore the Hollywood films this is where John Woo won his reputation). The hit leaves Jenny (Sally Yeh), a innocent singer injured with both her eyes shot out and in desperate need of a cardaric operation to prevent total blindness. In is here that The Killer's moral quest for redemption sets in as he befriends Jenny and ultimatley falls in love with her, (camp sensationly stylised). The character of Jenny is underwritten compared to others, but doesn't falter as a one dimensional exsistance, but rather has some screen time of her own to develop her character, (dispite Sally Yeh's unprofessionalism). On the oppisite side of the fence is Inspector Li (Danny Lee), a cop with a passion for justice increasingly confused and frustrated by the people around him in the police force.When Sydney Fung (played with a glow of warmth by Kong Chu) is sent to offer one more hit to John, The Killer, John accepts due to his want to fund Jenny's operation. Inspector Lee is sent to protect the target and their paths cross.For reasons of spoling the beautifully timed film, I'd rather not mention what occurs next although other might. What does however occur is a film about friendship, mostly male bonding, in a sea of betrayl and bullets. Sounds like another dumb action film? Think again! This film unfolds in multifacited layers.The film to some does play out to a homoerotic tone, (which I don't think it does) but that shouldn't matter, (homophobes beware). The ending is brilliant and the emotions play out to an over the top action sence. Yes the action probably is better in other Chow Yun-Fat films on face surface. But what makes it so good is the plot which carries the action. The emotional depth of the characters is reached through the bullet ballet.Visually Peter Pau (Crounching Tiger Hidden Dragon) acts as cinematographer creating what may well be the described as the coolest film ever made. Lowell Lo creates a great atmospheric score, enrich with a beautfull main theme which plays out in the final 20 minute shootout.Nothing much more I can say about this film. Too smart for mainstream viewers. Go hire XXX. Too different culutrally for many westerns. Go hire Hard Boiled. Too daring in it's reach for some. For those who turn their brain off for any action film, this is not for you, most probably you will end up writing a review saying how Woo can't direct non-action scenes. But for lovers of great cinema highly recommended, even if your never liked an action film before.5 stars out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"one of the best action fims ever!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this film is brilliant the action the acting all about it is brilliant john woos the killer got peoples attention all over the world better then all of his hollywoods movies put together chow yun fat is john who he plays brilliant in it the actoin is mint 120 people die in this movie deserves to be in the top 250 films 10/10 "}{"Title":"Defines the genre.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The films starts with two men in a church, a photo and some money change hands, a hit has been ordered.  A typical start for a movie called 'The Killer' you might say.  Well yes, but that is the only typical thing about this movie.  After this scene a melancholic song sets in which I thought was out of place at first.  But this song proved to be an original and fast way of telling about the sentiments of our killer and introduces you to the female lead, as she happens to sing this song in the restaurant our killer enters to do business. A door opens and the mayhem begins, our killer found his victim and quickly moves his way through the victim's henchmen to put a bullet between the eyes of the man he was paid to kill. The scene ends with our killer getting more than he bargained for a bullet in his back while protecting the singer who he blinds by firing a gun -to protect himself and her- to near to her face.When treated in the hospital she is diagnosed with temporary blindness and is unable, or unwilling, to help the police catch the killer. Because of this incident the killer feels responsible for her and watches out for her and decides to get to know the singer better.  The singer is unaware of the fact that her protector is the man who blinded her.A second storyline develops as an undercover cop is caught up in a handover over illegal substances.  To save his life he needs to fight his way out the situations and ends up killing the mob boss killing in an overcrowded.He gets a new assignment protect a corrupt businessman, who was just designated as the killer's next victim, this will also be his last hit. Our killer gets his prey but his puts the two men head to head The killer is ambushed once he finished the job by other hit men who can not allow one of there own to 'retire'.  The killer can escape the ordeal, but a girl gets shot in the process.  He gets the girl to a hospital with the the policeman, who saw the shoot out and the killer taking the girl, behind him.This proves that there is no pure good or pure evil.  The killer kills people he is paid to kill, but goes out of his way helping innocent people who get caught up in the action.  The cop is not that different as he is unscrupulous in getting the job done.  A degree of respect is created between the two and this proves to be a hard nut to crack when they finally meet up.This is a high paced action movie shot in the now over recognized John Woo style slow motion, blurred or over emphasized sounds and well choreographed action sequences..  The story unwinds at a steady pace and is definitely an essential view if you like this genre.  "},{"Title":"Top 10 Masterpiece","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a top 10 definite and chow and woo are now part of what i like to call the 'Elite'.  I notice a few other reviews say this movie is over rated, this is utter trash and could not be further from the truth.  This is an absolute masterpiece without dispute.  I would also like to recommend, as well as the killer, those other classic john woo titles such as 'A better Tomorrow' and 'Hard Boiled' for its not until you have witnessed the full scope of woo and chows genius that you can really appreciate them in all their glory. although its pretty evident in 'the killer'.  The Killer sports some awesome shootouts, without doubt the best ever on par with 'Hard Boiled' and 'Equilibrium', with some parts being especially pleasing when he empties an entire clip into someone or disarms that guy in the kitchen and stabs him with the kitchen knife.  One more thing that got to me about the review on the front page was the the comparison to Jackie Chan(another member of the Elite) films.  Woos films and JCs films are totally different and should never be compared, they are both impressive but in different ways.  To sum up, The Killer is a Masterpiece, anyone who says otherwise is weak and should seek sanctuary and forgiveness in a small cave somewhere in Pakistan. "},{"Title":"Must be seen to be believed","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first watched this movie in dubbed English format, and I thought it wasn't anywhere near as good as all the hype. Then, I watched it in its original Chinese (which I understand), and I finally realized why this film is considered one of the greatest of all time. The original language is nearly poetic in style, and there is at least one set of subtitles out there (yellow in color) that come close to matching the nuances of the original.Clearly, most if not all of the bad reviews you see here (many call it overrated) are from people who either watched a dubbed or poorly subtitled version. True, many of the scenes are unrealistic, but a case must be made here for style over substance. The insane 30-on-2 gunfights are so finely orchestrated as to be almost beautiful. If you want to watch unrealistic action that's ugly and comparably unentertaining, pick up any American movie from Rambo to Universal Soldier.If you thought the action in The Matrix was cool and amazing, The Killer's gunfights will blow you away without any special effects. "},{"Title":"This film made me want to learn Cantonese!!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film many years ago when at University in Boston and it was in a video store. I was hard-pressed for a movie to watch and having only seen one other subtitled film that I thoroughly enjoyed (Das Boot) I was somewhat reticent to hire it.... .....thank god I did!Not only was this the first John Woo film I saw but it was the first Chow Yun Fat and it is an incredible work of cinematic art!Everything about it is breathtaking.....the camera work...the views of the wonderful country.....the acting and of course the action!Not only is it a great action movie but it is a touching tale of a man's desire to change for the better and right a wrong he unwittingly committed. A truly touching tale expertly handled by John Woo's excellent directing and the actors/actresses impressive acting abilities that never fail to amaze!The film is available in dubbed but not only is all the emotion lost with this but so is most of the excellent script (for which John Woo should have got an award!).The film really has prompted me to learn the Cantonese language so I can watch the film in it's original format with no subtitles!All who love a film that has action, beautiful scenery and the best acting the human race has to offer....watch Die xue shuang xiong....you wont regret it! "},{"Title":"Best action ever","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is so good, so there is no chance to comment it. You have to see it yourself.I recommend. From the bottom of my heart.Killer and police and one victim. The result will be enormous. "},{"Title":"John Woo's masterpiece","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the greatest movies ever made.  Granted it may be a little on the violent side but the shear emotional content of the movie is unsurpassed.  The story is so moving and tragic that it could almost be a classic ballet or opera, with the singing/dancing replaced by the characters participating in hyper-violent gun battles with a never-ending supply of ammo.  It is little wonder that Chow Yun Fat is the biggest star in China when he can supply performances such as this.  John Woo seems to have got the best from every member of the cast and from the crew - the cinematography, editing and soundtrack are all impressive - a lesson to Hollywood on how to make movies.If you haven't seen The Killer I strongly suggest that you rush out and get the movie.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A must-see","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although it was filmed 13 years ago The Killer is still a fashioned movie. You'll see John Woo's influence over occidental movies, scenes that have been sampled by the greatest directors such as Quentin Tarantino. The story is good and John Woo too in filming violence to make it epic, Chow Yun-Fat is a great talented actor and you won't be disappointed by the others. "},{"Title":"hailing bullets","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie simply isn't missing anythingNot only is this movie pumped with exchange of bullets and beautifully directed by John Woo, but the performance given by the actors is astonishing.  If you thought you knew what action consisted of (by the glance of hollywood movies...) then reconsider right now by watching the killer.along with the flying bullets there's a great story behind it and it all leads up to an incredible climax.  I don't want to give away anything because it's worth watching this.  Don't watch this movie dubbed, get it with english subtitles if you aren't familiar with chinese.  The translation is not 100% accurate but it helps and you will get a grasp of the theme/setting.  The plot is quite simple, it's about morality and friendship, and nonetheless a little love theme to it as well.if you haven't heard of john woo or chow yun fat (which i find quite impossible) then start off by watching this movie and i guarantee you'll be addicted to more of their future coworking movies. "},{"Title":"Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck...the unlikely duo...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bloodshed of Two Heroes/The Killer is the unlikely friendship between the most likely foes - a straight-arrow cop and a ruthless assassin (who spares all women and children in his jobs.) Their commonality attributes the mob, who is after Chow (the assassin) - and Lee (the cop) is after them. They both have equal speed with the trigger, so when Lee is trying to ambush Chow, neither hand is a second faster or slower than the other. Often this occurs in the most hilarious of circumstances (esp. involving the woman who Chow accidentally blinded) even if the movie's graphic violence will provide no humour. For its time John Woo's film has the best chase/adrenaline scenes for either an American or Hong Kong action movie. You will remember well that the church scenes featuring the Virgin Mary were duplicated in Woo's decade later (and weaker) film, Face/Off - whether this was an in-joke or  attempt for Hollywood to duplicate such cinematic ingenuity will remain a mystery.In regards to the versions, The subtitled version does justice for the movie in giving the characters their actual dialogue thus making it more realistic. Unfortunately, this drives sight away from what's going on. The dubbed version is of OK quality and may seem silly if you try to look carefully, but the strength of the plot will help you adjust to it.   "},{"Title":"Flawless masterpiece","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some say Hardboiled is Mr. Woos best movie, and they are partially right, one of his best. The action-scenes are beautifully done always, but this movie even has a story-line that touches the heart.It´s a story about friendship, trust and about doing the right thing. To never forget to try to be a good person in the end. A good action-movie is hard to make... trust me, I have seen a lot of movies an few have succeeded to touch me. But this movie is flawless, the plot is great, the acting too, the action spectacular and the story-line original which is hard in this sort of genre. 2 thumbs up and Mr. Woo, I salute you. =)One disappointment though... it is incredible that this movie is so unknown. Hardboiled is heard of more but not this movie, and I am baffled. How can a masterpiece go unnoticed? Showbusiness is a strange territory. =/ "}{"Title":"The best action movie ever!!!!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I discovered The Killer several years back through a friend who had recommended John Woo's Hard Boiled.  I watched Hard Boiled and was instantly hooked on John Woo and Chow Yun Fat.  A few weeks later I saw The Killer in the video store and decided to watch it.  I was literally blown away by this movie and rate it as my favorite movie of all time.  There is such a terrific blend of violence and story and you cannot help but care for the characters.  You want everything to work out for these characters and the tragedy that takes place in the film really bothers you.  I cannot recall another action movie that satisfies your need for action and also affects you emotionally.  The movie is a masterpiece and was the film that opened my eyes to the marvels of Honk Kong cinema.  Chow Yun Fat is incredible and unforgettable in this film.  If you watch it, you will become an instant fan of the genre. "},{"Title":"One of the most Beautiful films ever made","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *The Killer*By far one of the most cinematic films of all time!  Besides having non-stop action, incredible acting, and one of the most beautiful scores ever this movie was shot in an amazing and beautiful way.  It's the film that launched a new kind of action movie (where would Resevior Dogs be w/o it?  Where would Tarintino be w/o it!?).  I think this is my favorite John Woo film, which is a good thing considering he makes such entertaining and wonderful films.  Even if you don't like those kind of movies it's not hard to just sit and marvel at the beauty.  The harmonica playing at the very end is so beautiful it makes you want to break down.  I didn't turn it off after it was all done just so I could hear that beautiful song at the end.*9/10* "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Best Action Movie Ever Made.Actually, it is a bit of a toss up between this and John Woo's follow up Hard Boiled, but The Killer wins it every time. Hard Boiled has (unbelievably) even more killings and an even faster pace but what swings me towards this one is that it is an incredibly emotive film. The strong senses of honour, friendship and love that run through the film are all the more stark as they are juxtaposed with so much killing. No-one expects to care about the characters in action films, rarely is the emphasis on them enough for them to become much more than bullet absorbers, but writer/director Woo brings a warmth and humanity to the proceedings, and i defy anyone to not be affected by the final scene.A lot of credit must be given to Chow Yun-Fat, who stars as the titular assassin. He has been called the De Niro to Woo's Scorsesee and neither of these comparisons are unwarrented - he exudes a coolness, a charm as well as a dangerous streak that makes him a more than your average hero.A masterpiece, and my favourite film of all time.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The best action film ever.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many Hollywood movies imitated the Hong Kong heroic bloodshed action films, but the one that brought the genre to America is still the best. The Killer is, in my opinion, not just the greatest of the genre but also the greatest action movie that was ever made.The direction in this movie is flawless. John Woo did a great job of using slow downs to make action scenes more poignant. Shoot-out scenes are also beautifully choreographed to a point where it become poetic and those scenes are almost always present, so the blood pumping adrenaline and bullet-ballet never stop. The music, which is opera like classical music, highly contrast with the violence on-screen, but this come as a good thing, making everything more high-octane. The story is not perfect and has its share of flaws. Telling the story of the kind-hearted killer and the rebellious cop come kinda as a cliche, but the story of friendship that unite them make the rest quickly forgotten. There is a little note I'd like to add about the little monologues and dialogues that come only as tiresome and unessesary. It's frustrating to hear Inspector Li explain that Jeff is not like other killers and that he has a conscience when we had already figured it out.The acting range from very good to low. Chow Yun-Fat does a fantastic job as the killer and he make us believe in the passion of his character. Danny Lee, who play Inspector Li, does an okay job, not much more. Sally Yeh may seem like she is overacting, but it fits perfectly the role of Jennie. Meanwhile, most of the minor role are way overacted. I saw this film in French, and while the dubbing is right, some of the words seems a little out of place. I don't know if the same English version has the same problem, but I could bet it has.If you like action and you have not seen this movie yet, I urge you to go rent, borrow or steal a copy of it. John Woo is the master of action and you'll see why with this movie. It's sad that we lost him to the dreaded wasteland know as Hollywood. "},{"Title":"a very gut-wrenching film","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That is the best way to describe this film. Yes, it is violent but you really get involved with all the characters and their relationships with each other. This movie has one of the most tragic scenes I have ever experienced in a film, with two people blindly groping to find one another. You'll have to see the movie to find out what I mean. I had a bonus, I rented the DVD and it has commentary by John Woo which was very fascinating. I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Watch this film and see how bad Mission Impossible 2 really is!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo, Chinese grandmaster of breathtaking Eastern flicks, does not only direct the greatest gunfights ever brought onto the big screen, he shows that action is much more than senseless incessant shootings or car chases the stories are always well developed and constructed, the characters in his films often have to struggle with inner conflicts and suffer from broken personalities, the brilliant photography catches the moment in elegant and stylish pictures what makes the movies of John Woo almost being a piece of art. The Killer not only a powerful action-grenade, it´s a beautiful film about love and friendship that shines with intelligent dialogues and the great performances of Chow Yun Fat, Danny Lee and Sally Yeh. All those who think John Woo´s Hollywood-flicks are great films should check out his Hong Kong-works to see how brilliant action really should be made! A masterpiece!!! "},{"Title":"John Woo is da freakin' master!!!!!!!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was my first Hong Kong movie, which has been directed by John Woo.I must say,the movie impressed me very much!!!Hardcore violence,stylish shooutouts,big bodycount and a quite good story,that are the contents which make a fantastic movie.I give the movie 10/10.God save John Woo,the godfather of action. "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo directs another action masterpiece, only a notch below 'Hard Boiled'. This is what action films should be, with a little ultra violence thrown in. This has all the Woo classics , long gun fights, Chow Yun-Fat, two guys with guns aimed at each other, slow motion action scenes, witty dialog, invulnerable heroes/villains,hundreds of dead minions, killers with conscience, sad ending, etc...After this, you must see 'Hard Boiled', and all of Woo's Hollywood films. 'Hard Target', 'Broken Arrow', 'Face-Off' are great also. "},{"Title":"Something different","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's face it, in America our staple of 'action' films are things like Rambo, Die Hard, and Lethal Weapon. Then it's a pity when Hollywood won't import something like The Killer that's better than what they Hollywood has to offer. Granted there's Mad Max and the Matrix, but those were primarily Australian films. This is where John Woo comes in. After making big hits with the first two 'Better Tomorrow' flicks, he plunged into this fascinating and exciting film. The Killer is a story of sacrifice, humility, romance, and how many bullets you can blast a maximum amount of guys with in a minimum of time. In between the lighthearted--nearly humorous--bouts of character development comes the slow-mo shoot-'em-ups that Western screens have rarely seen as intense. Not even the Wild Bunch's ending has a higher bodycount than this one's. 101/100  "},{"Title":"Chow & guns, guns, guns","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After discovering Chow Yun-Fat in Anna & The King I had to find more of his films and this one is just amazing.  As an older woman, I did not think I could like so much shooting, but the story of a killer with heart had me entranced.  After the terrible accidental blinding of the singer at the bar and his coming to her aid during a run-in with hoodlums, their quiet love story is very effectively realized.  Also, the bonding of the policeman and the Killer who dubbed themselves Micky Mouse and Dumbo, for the girls benefit, during a standoff pointing guns at each other (which or course she can't see) is a terrific plot device.All in all, I can see why many call this a Masterpiece.  A most satisfying gangsters and guns film.  And Chow is simply the most watchable actor in films today, in my opinion. "}{"Title":"quite possibly one of the greatest action films ever!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember renting this one night and falling in love with it. The plot was very well done and the characters were fleshed out nicely.  It's one of those films that you really care what is going to happen to them next. Other than that, the action scenes were just incredible. They will take your breath away, honest.  This is highly recommended to everyone!  See this instead of any of the copycat films made after it.   "},{"Title":"Gee whiz Jeffrey. Think you killed enough people?","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer is a heart-pounding cult classic, and it's easy to see why. Off hand, the film contains the most electrifying action scenes in the history of motion picture. Not as good as The Professional in terms of how an assassin's mind works, it beats it heavily with action. The shootout in the church is better than that of the Government Lobby scene in The Matrix. John Woo has made a symbolic masterpiece out of gun-slinging, that appears more of a ballet than pure chaos (which it is). Like most of Woo's films, you must sacrifice story and acting and even realism to capture the true entertainment value. But who cares? The action scenes are worth the full admission price. Don't think while watching. It doesn't require much thought anyhow. The movie is entertainment, not one that will yak your ear off with talking. I know this review is hostile and at the same time defensive. Don't get me wrong, I love this movie but it has flaws. I don't care though, because if I want character development or whatever, I'll rent a Martin Scorsese movie. Violence runs amok as does the hugely unnecessary body count. It appears that the sole purpose of Woo making this movie was to simply kill people. I am still puzzled however, where the heck did the crime syndicate find that many gangsters to try and knock off ol' Jeffrey? "},{"Title":"Perhaps the finest action film ever made...","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer is, perhaps, the finest action film ever made.  Not only does it contain action scenes to make any other action film cringe with shame, but it also contains solid characters, excellent acting, and a camera style all its own.The story is, at its core, not about killing, or a cop's relentless pursuit of a killer, but about two men on opposite sides of the law, seeing that they have more in common with each other than they'd care to think.This film is a landmark of Hong Kong cinema, a film of rare craftsmanship.  Chow Yun Fat delivers a performance second only to that in A Better Tomorrow, and Woo's direction creates a film with a unique feel, a film in which the plight of the characters commands as much attention as the incredibly staged gunfights.The only quibble one can have with the film is the relative weakness of the character of the crime boss, but since the film isn't really about him at all, this can be overlooked.  He's more of a plot device, a reason to bring together the two main characters, than a character in his own right.The film operates on so many different levels, an example of Woo's talents as a director.  Be sure to avoid dubbed versions, however, as the dialogue loses much of its power.If you have not seen this film, and you have any kind of respect for the action film, you do yourself a great disservice. "},{"Title":"The best action film of all time","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I recently found my old copy of this film. I popped it in the VCR and my eyes were in total shock. If I would have remembered it was that good, I would have looked alittle harder.    John Woo is the absolute king of action films. He has so many immitaters. But they all fail to capture his beautiful eye for action sequences. His only actual competition is Robert Rodriquez. The way he filmed his action scenes in Desperado were very similar in style to Woo's. Plus, on the Desperado commentary, Rodriquez says is biggest influence is John Woo.     I wish John Woo would get together with Chow Yun Fat. They both have come over to the states now and it would be cool to see them team up again. I would like to be a minority and say that I enjoy all of Woo's American films (not Hard Target, though). But he was awesome when he was doing his Hong Kong films.     The acting is great and very believable. But when I made my step-father watch it, we both agreed the character Jenny was to much of a damsil in distress character. She pretty much just cried the whole movie and screammed out JEFF, she wasn't very simpathetic.     The action scenes were flawless. All of them, especially the church at the end. ButI think the hospital scenes in Hard Boiled were better.     Overall, the film is totally awesome. It is my favorite action film next to The Road Warrior. 9.5/10  "},{"Title":"We need more movies like this!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching John Woo's The Killer, and I am very impressed.  The direction is flawless and original, but what else would you expect from John Woo?Chow Yun-Fat is the man.  There' a scene in the movie where he's slouched in a chair wearing a gray silk suit with a gun in one hand and a cigarette in the other.  All I could think to myself was, Why can't we have more movies like this?  Damn FCC.Anyway, this review probably makes no sense as I have enough adrenaline in my veins to have doubled my heart rate.  I had better go watch the movie again.-Amanda, apologizing for the poor writing. "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'The Killer' is an incredible film.  There are many comments praising the action, which are well-deserved indeed.  But the story, as cliched as it may first appear (assassin turns philosopher, discovers virtue of life, befriends forces of good) is laid out more effectively than I've ever seen.I, like many people, I presume, am intimidated by subtitles.  So many movies these days can be 'casually' watched -- press play and read a magazine at the same time.  Subtitles, however, require the viewer's undivided attention, which is a seemingly daunting proposition.  Not 'The Killer' though.  I was quickly absorbed in the characters, the visuals, the dialogue, and the plot.'The Killer' should be the benchmark for its genre.I rated it a '9' only because I am reluctant to rate any film a '10'. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece.......","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I prefer the two 'Better Tomorrow' films, I believe this is Woo's best. I love the friendship between The Killer and The Cop. Also, Jeff's friendship with the older man. The killer is a awesome action flick and one of the best films of the eighties.I love the music. The music is different and the lyric's are very meaningful and add to the narrative.The Killer is like poetry, violence with a point. After viewing a great film like this, it is hard for one to sit through an American action movie. Action movies are fun but when done poorly, can be unbearable and totally unwatchable. This film should be shown to all film students.4 **** Out Of 4 "},{"Title":"One word - WOW!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I almost never liked American-made action films for a long time, they always have a cliche or bad one-liners, the likes of Arnie, Stallone, Seagal and so on had their moments, but they rarely gave second thought to the plot, the characters, the script or in some cases the action.This is when I turned to Hong Kong action movies, Jackie Chan, Jet Li, Donnie Yen, Chow Yun Fat - all heroes in my book.  They show what action is really meant to be.This film, in my view is the best single action film I have seen for the past ten or twelve years.  It tops Die Hard, easily, the balletic bullet shoot outs outstrip the sfx ladened Matrix or John Woo's unsatisfying and flat MI-2.What makes this film so different, and indeed stand out from the crowd, is the credible acting, storyline and pace.  The story wraps ultra-violence around honor, betrayal, loyalty, sacrifice, redemption, vengeance.  This makes it what it is.  An action classic.The direction is fantastic, only a few scenes seems wasted, everything counts in this film.There is nothing really I can add to this review that hasn't already been said.  I am glad I got this film, it shows what John Woo used to be.  Its a shame his American films (bar Face/Off) were never THIS good.Unfortuently for us fans, the old hong kong styled films of the 80s and early 90s have long since gone.  As movie go-ers we can only cry out our voices asking for the style of those films to return.My Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Memorable moments make this film what it is...","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer, is a masterpiece of Hong Kong film making. The north American audience may or may not have really understood Woo's rather driven storytelling.... (there is a flashback within the first twenty minutes of film), but the tale is very focused on getting the audience to sympathize with a contract killer, so Woo is obviously intent on making that very difficult shift occur early in his audience.The moments that make the film for me are all of the standoff sequences. Especially in Jenny's apartment, the hero and anti-hero are trying to respect, and threaten one another at the same time, while protecting the innocent. The relationship that grows out of their interaction is fascinating for its inherent tension. The way characters try to deny their natural tendencies and venture to trust one another is a wonderful interplay. The adrenaline brought into the scenes by the presence of loaded weapons makes it all that much more intriuging.The only downfall of the American version of the film is the way the dubbing hurts an emotionally charged script. The Hong Kong flavour, and the immediacy of the violence are hard to get used to in a Hollywood dominated industry. Still, it very much re-defines the cops and robbers genre, and comes right off the screen at it most tense moments.  "},{"Title":"THE action film","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer, what can you say about a perfect film?  It has managed to influence virtually every action film that has followed.  The themes of brotherhood and honor have been used in movies before but none quite as perfectly as John Woo's masterpiece has. Chow Yun-Fat's presence in undeniable, he carries this movie with ease and Danny Lee follows with stoic support.  But the real winner is us the public who get to witness over and over great filmmaking and imagery that will never be reproduced.  I just hope that nobody gets the sick notion to remake this film.10/10 "}{"Title":"A perfect action movie","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow! This movie was great. I loved every second of it. Some people told me it was a bit disappointing because it was not as action packed as Hard-Boiled. I was a bit worried when I went to go rent it, but the movie turned out to be an action movie lovers dream. It had everything! This is one of the few action movies I have seen with some passion in it. I would recommend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"An Action Masterpiece","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What more can I say than what it says above. Truly a masterpiece and a landmark in the history of action films. I saw this film for the first time a couple of years ago, but it was the crudely dubbed version in full frame on video. Overall I was impressed by it, but I was comparing it to another John Woo film that I had seen prior to this, Hard Boiled. On the violence and mayhem level, Hard Boiled cannot be beaten by anything put onto film, but when I got to see The Killer in widescreen in the original language with subtitles, how my opinion changed. I was drawn deeper into the emotional side of the storyline and characters. Although it was only an 11.85 ratio, I still felt that your saw a lot more on screen when viewed in all its widescreen glory, and not on the standard full frame version.Without going into too much detail and without spoiling the film, it tells the tale of a professional hitman (Chow Yun-Fat) who accidently blinds an innocent nightclub singer during a violent hit on a mobster. He decides to take care of her and forms a relationship with the singer, unbeknown to her that the man she is falling in love with is the man who took her eye sight. Meanwhile, a cop (Danny Lee) who is hated by his superiors, is on the trail of Yun-Fat after he takes his final hit on a Politician. During the film, the two men form a unlikely friendship and relise that they are both alike in many ways, and both decide to take care of the singer and join together to face the mobsters who are after Yun-Fat.The story may not seem like anything original or eye catching, but it is the emotional heart of the film that made me fall in love with it and with that combined with incredible action sequences, particulary a huge massacre at the end in an abandoned church, it has easily placed itself inside my top ten films of all time.Being made at the end of the 80's aswell, it set a bench mark in the way action films were to made in the 90's. Although John Woo created the 'Heroic Bloodshed' genre with A Better Tomorrow in the mid 80's, this film takes it one step further from the stylish to the down right ballistic.I strongly recommend that anyone who likes their action films with an intelligent and emotional story combined with lots and lots of very loud violence should see this. I won't say go and rent it, I would say just go out there and buy a copy, because I guarantee that you won't be disappointed and it would be money well spent.With The Matrix aside (which was easily influenced by this film), this is the best action movie I have ever seen. I also suggest Hard Boiled which I commented on earlier. ALthough not as gripping as The Killer, you won't see as much bloodshed and mayhem in one film as you will in this. To some it up, JOHN WOO THE WORLDS GREATEST ACTION DIRECTOR. Roll on Mission Impossible 2. "},{"Title":"Simply the best!!!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just the very best action film I have ever seen. John Woo is truly an artist. The gun battles are ballet-like in their grace. This is just a heart-stopping action genre film with art house film touches. One of a handful of movies in my collection that I watch several times a year. The screen presence of Chow Yun Fat is mesmerizing. Mel Gibson, Arnold Schwarzenegger ,and Jean Claude Vandamme could really learn something from this movie. A definite must see, must have flick. "},{"Title":"Staggeringly influential","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer stands apart as one of the most staggeringly influential action films of all times.  The Matrix wouldn't exist without John Woo. Everything about this film, from the outrageous gun battles to the melancholy score to the amazing photography, is classic.  And that's without getting into tremendous characterization and the mere presence of Chow Yun Fat.  A must-see for any serious filmwatcher.  Action changed here. "},{"Title":"The Killer.......starring Chow Yun Fat....did I mention Chow Yun Fat was in this film????????SPOILERS","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer is a hard movie to categorize. On one hand it has a ample amount of camp, lots of action, a stylish art house look, and it told a convincing human story. THE KILLER is the tale of a hired gunman who is a man of honor, yet is in a business where there is no honor. He is being pursued by a Hong Kong Police detective who trys to get inside his head....to understand how he thinks. The cop gets so much into his head the two form a unlikely friendship! CHOW YUN FAT spends much of the film trying to pay penance for accidentally blinding a woman (via the powder burns from the muzzle flash of his gun) during a shoot out. Fat's character is trying to collect money from a crime organization who stiffed him after a job...he's going to use this money to help this young woman regain her sight via a operation. During the course of the film he is pursued by the cop who respects him and evil mobsters...by the end of the film the two team up. This is a great film. Only John Woo could have pulled this off. The film has many layers and more action than 3 american action movies rolled into one. John Woo's films are usually ballet's with guns in the sense they are so highly stylish they are almost a work of art. In the end Fat's character gets a similar wound to the one he accidentally gave the woman (Jenny) earlier in the film. The two are seen trying to find each other, crawling on the ground, blinded....this is symbolic of the two missing a love that could never be, sort of like two ships passing in the night and never finding each other. That's they irony in the end...it's also symetrical. The concept of the cop who likes the guy he has to bust has been done before but never so well. The scenes where the cop is sitting in his office trying to envision what fat's character would do...or going to a crime scene and doing the same thing are genius. I am in awe of john Woo. This man crafted a ultra violent action picture crammed with human commentary and sensibility....this is what gives THE KILLER it's contrasts, irony, and it's special place in movie history as a over the top action epic that became so much more. One can do anything in films...so long as one suspends the disbelief! Woo did this oh, so well. "},{"Title":"Lachrymose fun.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What is it about hard men and their big guns that makes them go soft at the knees?  Hey, I'm not complaining, the soupy emotiveness is liberatingly homoerotic, the 'balletic' cliche is amply earned in a Nureyev kind of way. Melvillean elements are used to non-Melville effect - bodies, blood, emotions, consequences are emphasised, not seeped out.  The set-pieces are superior Bond with even weirder morals - Woo's characteristic doubling games are rather bogged down in explication.  Some wonderful black comedy, though. "},{"Title":"Woo's Best Film So Far.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The one that brought Woo to the attention of America, and rightfully so. A good story, excellent acting from all, a haunting and memorable score, a blazing pace, and proably the best shootouts ever put on film. All of these things combined make this film a masterpiece. I feel that no perfect movie exists, but this one comes  close.  "},{"Title":"Woo's finest hour","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of people don't know about 'The Killer' primarily because it's got subtitles. I've tried on several occasion to get my sister to watch, but like many all I hear is 'I don't like subtitles.' Well, this is a shame, because John Woo is without a shadow of a doubt the best action director in the world. I remember seeing this movie in a theatre several years ago.As an introduction to Hong Kong cinema it's as good as it gets.Although the story is fairly simple, the pacing is spot-on, the acting (even with subtitles) above-average, but the best thing about this is the action pieces - they put most hollywood action fare to shame. If you wan't to see a top notch action movie with some emotion, rent this (widescreen if possible). You won't be disappointed.9/10. "},{"Title":"Valetic Bloodbath","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film really surprised me with its mix of hyper action and slices of human affection (as in Jenny.)  John Woo leaves his patented trademark of two hand action, shotguns and chases - which beat Face/Off and Bullet In The Head easily.  I must say that I was more immune to the violence in The Killer more than A Bullet In The Head because its more of a bloodbath than a thought-provoacure.  However, this film will 'blow you away.'  Try, Hard Target if you liked this. "},{"Title":"John Woo's 'Killer' rules","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun-fat (The Replacement Killers, The Corruptor) has the titled role as the supercool assassin who wants out of the business and with very good reason.  He has such a deep admiration for a lounge singer, whom he accidently blinded.  Danny Lee is a detective hot on the killer's trail. John Woo's camera is obviously the biggest star of this movie, among others (Face/Off, Broken Arrow, Hard Boiled) and the action is fast and furious.  My evaluation ***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"One vicious hitman, one fierce cop, 10,000 bullets....","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo has been a leading action director in Hong Kong for some time and is becoming more and more recognized in America with movies like Face Off and Broken Arrow and if you liked them you definitely want to see this legendary film that established his reputation.  The Killer is a great mix of Action,thriller and drama and is one of John Woo's finest films.In this bloody tale of loyalty and friendship, Chow Yun-Fat is Jeffrey, an assassin who wishes to leave the business so he can take care of Jennie, the beautiful lounge singer who he inadvertently blinded during a previous assignment. Danny Lee is the determined cop who will stop at nothing to bring him in, only he realizes that Jeffrey is no ordinary assassin, and wishes to help him in his quest. Only problem is that Jeffrey's employers refuse to pay him for his last job, money which is needed to restore Jennie's eyesight.John Woo's action sequences are mythical in proportion lout,fast,bloody and almost over the top in style, they are fascinating, almost exhilarating, to watch. No one falls with one bullet in this movie...round after round are pumped furiously into each victim. Over all, excellent action movie... Sure beat the hell outta most American 'shoot'em up' movies.  "},{"Title":"A professional hitman's conscience overpowers him  in this ballistic crime actioner from John Woo.","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is a loud, ferocious, hyperkinetic thriller. It also happens to be  one of the best action dramas ever made. John Woo brings a humane eloquence  to the film that most American productions never measure up to. Chow Yun-Fat epitomizes coolness; with his fancy suits and gunplay aerobatics, he emits a gangster chic with a debonair touch. In short, this is a film not to be missed.  Pay no mind to the recent, mediocre Woo-produced,  less-filling productions such as Replacement Killers and The Big Hit;  look for this instead. "},{"Title":"manly tears","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Killer is perhaps the most melodramatic of John Woo's blood operas, but there's an inexplicable charm to his work that never lets it come off as manipulative or cloying. Partly because Woo seems to be an incredibly thoughtful, merciful man who gives his scripts a great deal of poetic irony, and partly because it's very obviously a modern take on an entire culture of chivalry & swordplay stories; unlike most sentimentalism, it's not empty. There's a bit of a camp appeal to Chow Yun-Fat mowing down 50 guys in a clip considering the movie's all about mercy and Christian pacifism, but it's so sincere and lovable. Woo branches out a little here and in effect sorta comes in to his own. There's a gaudy French new wave vibe to the visuals that perfectly matches the unrealistic, Romantic heights of the drama, and the violence takes the sliiiiightly over-the-top action of A Better Tomorrow to such an absurdly ballistic extent that it looks more like some fireworks+martial arts combination than gunplay. Yet, stuff like The Matrix remains a bad caricature of this movie; there's still a grit and old-fashioned physicality to Woo's action you don't see in Hollywood. Performances are perfectly broad. There's one notable exchange with no dialogue, just facial expressions, and although the actors do mug the camera a bit, it's perfect--they're screaming at each other without words.The pyrotechnics of the gun battles are obviously glamourized, yet Woo does his best to give it all a certain moral weight. It's an interesting juxtaposition; when the protagonist flips a guy over a counter and stabs him right in the spine with a butcher knife, it seems so much worse than the guys catching bullets in their skulls by the truckload, and that says volumes about the movie's intentions as well as our own expectations when it comes to this kind of violence. There's a kind of inevitable hypocrisy to such an uneasy negotiation between excessive pulp and romantic chivalry, but nothing feels cheap. "},{"Title":"Definitely John Woo's best film, as well as his most beautiful.","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Killer is praised as being one of the best, if not the best action film of all time. This statement is not overrating the film in any way. John Woo in hand is the most acclaimed action director ever, and The Killer is the apex of career. Here, every one of his trademarks are used to absolute perfection. Melodramatic, emotional characters. Two leads who are different, yet the same. Graceful, balletic, over the top action. And Chow Yun-Fat. It's all here. The story follows Ah Johng, played by Chow Yun-Fat, an assassin who hates his job, and throughout the movie tries to put it all behind him. But the criminals he works for aren't so kind, and they try to kill him throughout the movie. None of it's made any easier due to the fact that Ah Johng has a no nonsense cop hot on his trail, who effectively is Ah Johngs reflection in the mirror. Oh yeah, and he's trying to protect a nightclub singer who he accidentally made blind. Okay, so the story isn't wholly original, and it doesn't come up with a whole lot of new ideas. But it's the stunning perfection in which it's executed that makes it great. John Woo easily takes the normally clichéd, normally cheesy, and makes it beautiful and unique. Everything about The Killer is over the top. From the script, to the characters, to the action. This may some people off, but it is all just part of the movies effect on you. Not many movies make me as emotional as John Woo movies do, let me tell you. I got more sad at the end of this than I did Titanic! But no spoilers. The characters are all memorable and charming in their own ways. Chow Yun-Fat is the standout, the super cool assassin. Danny Lee hands in an admirable performance also, along with Sally Yeh. I'll also give praise to whoever played the character of Sidney, the undying loyal friend, but as The Killer shows, even the best of us make mistakes. The action is what John Woo is known for, and The Killer has it in spades. The choreography here is certainly the most beautiful in any John Woo film, the church shootout at the end is so incredibly emotional and beautiful. This also marks the first time Woo has used doves in his movies. The action is balanced just right with the story, as it always accents what is going on with the plot. If you're looking for Hard Boiled style thrills (another amazing movie) the action here isn't as hardcore and insane, but much, much more beautiful and balletic. If The Killer has one downfall, it's that sometimes it can get... just a little... too cheesy. Most of it I'll say is great, and makes The Killer what it is. But sometimes it does go a little far. All in all, no movie is perfect, as an action fan The Killer is my favorite movie, and those who want more substance to go with their action will enjoy this. The best John Woo movie ever. "},{"Title":"A killer or a victim?","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I watched 'The Killer' was about 6 years ago and after hearing the tittle I didn't expect anything special.I like every action movie so it was one more time to enjoy special effects, martial arts and some good soundtrack maybe. With John Woo's movie it was absolutely different.It isn't just a story.So deep and powerful sense is put in.In the end I cried...Friends were laughing out loud telling me I am so emotional. The main character is a murder and doesn't deserve any tear.But is it really true?Yeah, he is a killer and no one knows how many lives had he cut but he is also a prey.Everyone deserves to get one more chance.No matter how many bad things have we done.John Woo showed us a special atmosphere which lets us decide ourselves how to treat Geoffrey Chow. He is cruel,but as Chow Yun-Fat told us in his interview 'It is only his job, not a personality'.He couldn't see his real nature, his kind-heart just because everything he faced with every single day was violence and blood.He had no friends because one friend followed him-the gun.Tragic accident has changed his life.He got both true friend and true love.Geoffrey was a victim of some facts we don't know about (like how he started killer's job) and the victim of the bandits in the end.After everything he had done for Jenny..can we blame him?I think no.He gave his life for love, for something much more higher than just killing people as he used to. Thanks a lot for an awesome movie, great actors.It is really an amazing film and no matter how often I see it, an effect is the same always. "},{"Title":"It's The Killer","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's THE KILLER to all the other action movies.When I first watched this movie about ten years ago, it blew me away.It's hard to explain Woo's style and Chow's coolness. I understand why some people don't find The Killer (& Hard Boiled) as one of the best action movies ever. Of course some of the shots are cheesy and the storyline is weak. But what makes it truly special is the mixture of the raw action sequences and style only Woo can imagine and only Chow can perform. It is so rare and fresh you just can't get enough of it. I am not going to argue with someone who doesn't think The Killer is the best action movie ever or at least one of the best. Why??? Because they will never get it.It would be nice to remake The Killer in Hollywood with Woo and Chow working together once again. And put me in the movie, it will be my heaven. "},{"Title":"Killer","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is called so, but I also use the word to describe the movie It's a killer of a movie! Chow Yun Fat has made his best movies with John Woo and one can only hope that they will work again (which they attend to do this year).Before I begin my praise for this movie, I have to admit, to my shame, that when I watched it, it was one of my first HK action movies (after being a regular to the Hollywood Fast Food Action restaurant and only having seen many Shaw Brothers Martial Arts movies) I saw. At the beginning I was really confused, although it's even hard for me to believe it now, but I couldn't differentiate Chow Yun Fat from Danny Lee ... and they don't even look alike! But I was confused in a few scenes (for example there is a scene, where they are cut together, doing almost the same thing, at the same place, a match cut master lesson if you will) ... I'm still a little bit ashamed of that fact, but it's true.So aside from this (little known fact to human society, up until now), I was amazed after watching this movie. I was numb in a good way, you could say. I was paralysed, I knew I saw an extraordinary movie. In my eyes this was now the new standard to action movies. I'm not talking about the action per se, but also about character development, values (I've written them down in my Hard Boiled review), story and acting!! Yes for some western audience members, it was/is too much of a stretch. They might even struggle more than me, with the identification of the actors. But most just want to be entertained the dumb way. And it's OK, I need a dumb movie every so often, it's relaxing. There are other things, that can be difficult, as the theatricals (be it the use of slow motion, as also seen in Sam Peckinpah movies or the use of music, which some might call cheesy, myself excluded).I hope my review was helpful, in your decision making ... if you've already watched the movie, than I don't expect everyone to think as I do, but you know what? That is a good thing! It would be bad, if everyone would only love/hate one movie! o) "},{"Title":"Brilliant John Woo movie!!!","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a big fan of John Woo and Chow Yan Fat I have to recommend this movie to people who haven't seen this already! The Killer' together with Hard Boiled and Better tomorrow 1 en 2 are John Woo's best movies! It shows you action without the use of CGI and still manages to surprise you! There are lot of HK action movies who are compared and categorized in the same genre as The Killer This genre is called heroic Bloodshed But to be honest a lot of these titles aren't in the same league as The Killer The action, (the most beautiful slowmo shootouts) in combination with the drama make this a classic of superior quality! The story isn't that interesting! The reason that this doesn't matter is Chow Yan Fat! He manages to carry this movie all by himself! His pain is our pain! He will get you involved in such a way that you really care about his character without any effort! His charisma is overwhelming! It is just a joy to see this man in action! Like Hardboiled this is a roller-coaster ride! People who really love action movies have to have seen this movie at least once! "},{"Title":"A dark masterpiece","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love John Woo, I love John Woo films (he's gone a bit off since moving to Hollywood, although I still think there's life in him, but I digress).This film was no exception, in my opinion this is not only his best film, but also my favourite action movie. Everything about it is stylish and well executed, the directing, the acting, the script, the music (even though it sounds a little dodgy it does almost add a nightmarish feel to it). The whole film feels like a Shakespearian tragedy.The gunfights, don't get me started on the gun fights! From the opening scene to the awesome end shootout which features the two heroes standing off against a near endless army of triad gunmen in a church, John Woo's The Killer does not fail to disappoint... "},{"Title":"The Killing Man...","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chow Yun Fat stars as a professional killer who accidentally blinds a woman in a shootout, he ends up taking care of her and starts a relationship while also teaming up with hard boiled cop (Played well by Danny Lee) in taking on a group of triads in this outstanding masterpiece. The Killer is in my opinion the ultimate John Woo movie. Everything here is a prime example why John Woo was considered the greatest director of action. His movies from Hong Kong all have depth and characters that aren't living cartoons but actually intelligent and human. Plus he writes with a cynical edge so we don't know if the movie will end happily or on a tragic note. John Woo before he came to the US was not one to wuss out and provided movies that never pulled punches and delivered intensity not seen since the 1970s. The Killer is laced with symbolism and film noir style that went out of style in the 50's for some reason. In other words this is one of the best movies made in the genre and I don't think any filmmaker has come close to building an action sequence so intense. (Although Walter Hill and James Cameron have come close.) * * * * out of 4-(Excellent.A Must see!) "}{"Title":"Melancholic, Violent And Beautiful","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not only is Dip Hyut Shueng Hung aka.The Killer a stunning action flick, but it's also a very melancholic and moving drama. I usually prefer Hong Kong action movies to Hollywood action movies, and this one easily ranks among the greatest action dramas of the 80s . John Woo managed to create an atmosphere both dark and beautiful at the same time. The main character, a cleaner and lone city wolf, is a killing machine with strong personal moral values, scenes full of action and violence are accompanied by beautiful melancholic songs. A professional assassin named Ah Jong/Jeffrey (Chow Yun-Fat) wishes to retire from his job. But then he accidentally blinds a young bar singer on his last hit. In order to earn money for an operation to get her eyesight back, he accepts one final job. In the meantime he takes good care of the now almost blind young woman who still sings at a bar to earn her living...The movie's impressive cinematography and its cuts make its violent action scenes very aesthetic, the love and softness between the cleaner and the blinded young woman make the whole movie moving and beautiful. The character of the assassin is quite complex for an action movie, on the one hand he does his job with cold blooded perfection, on the other hand he doesn't want anybody from outside of the criminal underworld he works in to get involved and he always tries to make up for mistakes. John Woo's Hong Kong films have to be regarded as some of the most brilliant action films of the 80s. The Killer is arguably the deepest and best and definitely my favorite John Woo movie. Violent, stylish, melancholic and moving, The Killer is a great and beautiful movie and an absolute must-see for fans of Hong-Kong cinema or Action in general! "},{"Title":"The God of action films","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo makes the most deliciously brilliant and beautiful display of friendship and gun-play that has ever been put on film with The Killer. There aren't really words to describe it, it's amazingly sentimental and and yet people are getting slaughtered left and right by the protagonists - it has the highest on-screen death count to date (~120). I love it, I love most of John Woo's HK films - he really knows how to hit the nail straight into the heart and this is by no means an exception, but rather, I think, one of the greatest examples. Two enemies who don't even know each others names...and yet... The ending renders you speechless - if there was one movie that a human should watch it most definitely is this. "},{"Title":"Woo's best film to date has more than meets the eye...","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having watched this film on terrestrial TV for the umpteenth time last night, it still surprises me what a superb piece of cinematography this film is. This is not just another gangster movie, nor is it simply about a love relationship between Chow Yun-Fat and Sally Yeh. For me, this film is about the intense friendships and chivalry as demonstrated by the four male leads. The bonds between the two cops, the two killers, and between Chow Yun-Fat and Danny Lee have often been mistaken by critics to be more than Woo intended - homoeroticism is a word too easily bandied about - when instead these bonds are founded on codes of honour and loyalty that only a few left in the Hong Kong world of police and criminals still adhere to. But enough of the themes of this film. Why should you watch it? This film has everything. The violence, typical of John Woo, is both expertly choreographed and well shot - making maximum use of colour and camera positioning to bring you amazing shoot-out scenes (with Woo's trademark church scenes and protagonists shooting from guns in each hand). The plot is easily followed despite the number of characters involved, and although I have mentioned this ISN'T a love film, the romance between the killer and the singer is the driving force for Chow's actions that lead the plot ultimately to its moving ending (which I shan't divulge, but never ceases to stir my emotions). It even has comedy, in the form of the Mickey Mouse - Dumbo confrontation... What more could you want? "},{"Title":"A ballet of death","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is quite a rush. A very intense rush at that. From the opening shootout the closing one, John Woo helms one of the most violent and poetic films ever made.Chow Yun-Fat plays and assassin who wants out, but agrees to one last hit to help pay for surgery of a woman he accidentally blinded. His employers are much less honorable and want him dead after he finishes the job. The resulting film is literally mind-blowing as explosive shoot-outs and chases burst on-screen. I recommend seeing it on DVD, if available, or a good VHS copy so you can appreciate the truly good quality of the action. But don't let an aged tape stop you, because this should be on every action fans watch list, even if you dislike John Woo or Chow Yun-Fat or both.Also, it isn't just the unrelenting carnage as constant visual poetry dominates the film and there is great character development between the Killer and the Cop chasing him. Camera tricks are even in scenes of reflection and calm and that is virtually non-existent is American action films. With that in mind, this isn't just an action film, it is also a story of honor and friendship and that gives it a warm and life-like quality that makes it an all-around good film. However, in the end, it is the action scenes make this film the legend, and it will be remembered as an action-film. 8/10Rated R intense strong violence "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Prepare for what the tag line tells you for you will be blown away. You will be blown away with how amazing and deep this action film really is. Without wanting to give out too many plot structures, this may in fact be the definitive Hong Kong action-drama. Chow Yun Fat does an excellent job as a torn assassin for a Triad gang, who is looking to become straight and take care of the woman he loves and took sight away from. Because of his choice to leave the Triads plot his death in case he ever decides to talk down the road, a man who can't get out. At the same time, Fat is being investigated by a detective who finds out who he is and grows to respect him for the humanity and compassion he has within him, despite the face he is a killer. The images, such as Chow Yun Fat praying to the Virgin Mary, to the emotion of him losing his best friend to the enemy, to the drama a good heartedness of him and the detective repecting each other and helping each other, down to the intense, stylish action sequences that are far superior to most of those in American action films, the killer is amazing. "},{"Title":"cinematic ally perfect!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i saw this film when i was first starting to get into john woo and hong Kong 'heroic bloodshed' movies and i heard about this, saw it on DVD and thought it was not only one of the best Hong Kong movies ever made but just one of the coolest movies ever made! everything about it is incredible, chow Yun- Fat in one of the greatest performances he will ever do, john woo's masterful directing and choreographs gun play scenes and just the extremeness of it all make it far superior to 'a better tomorrow' trilogy 'tragic hero' and 'just heroes'. It's just so perfect and represents what a genius combo it is when these two stars are put together. Now whether the title sounds bad or not it does not matter to me I WANT THE KILLER 2 I WANT THE KILER 2 I WANT THE KILER 2! "},{"Title":"Very rarely are action movies as touching and well acted!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Possibly the greatest action film ever made! The story is fairly simple, as is the case of Woo's best action films, but what it does is give the story very intriguing characters and relationships. The themes of honour and friendship are once again strongly evident in this film, and the action is some of the best you will ever see in terms of gunplay, while Chow Yun Fat puts in a performance that is simply mesmerising. Danny Lee plays second fiddle to Chows excellent acting but he is still very, very good too. This is an undoubted classic. John Woo has not done anything as good since and probably never will do, particularly working in Hollywood. The fact that there is genuine depth and dramatic punch in this is something that elevates it above 99.9% of the genre it is made in. Any action lover will love this. It can be watched simply for the high octane performance but no-one should ignore the dramatic side and Chow Yun-Fats amazing performance. ***** "},{"Title":"Classic John Woo with a great Chow Yun-Fat performance.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An excellent movie that pulls together many of the wonderful qualities of John Woo, showing the roots of the style and energy shown throughout his films. Chow Yun Fat performs wonderfully as the guilt ridden hitman. Filled with the beautiful action pieces that now just seem inferior as more money pours into them. The growing relationship between the killer and his adversary cop is well crafted and is just one of the many interesting facets that is revisited in the lesser Hollywood films. An excellent action filled film, full of classic Woo and Fat fun. "},{"Title":"A great film, but Hard-Boiled is slightly better","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you watch this film today, there is not much of a difference when compared to a Hollywood run-of-the-mill action film.  However, The Killer was one of defining films of the action genre.  To have experienced its impact, you had to have been there, back then.  The film oozed style; who cares about the fact that theres cheesy melodrama, who cares that they rarely reload their clips.  This film was enjoyable, scene for scene; to scrutinize it even further is pointless.  9/10 "},{"Title":"A terrific action film, and a terrific tearjerker as well.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Truth be told, the celebrated, extended action sequences, while often astounding, are not likely to impress anyone who has seen Hard Target or Face/Off; the movie may even appear to be a little too rough around the edges for American audiences. It's the complex story, the rich characterizations, the great performances that make this film stand out. There are some surprisingly moving moments, to the point of bringing mist to your eyes (SPOILERS...especially the demise of the older cop and the reconciliation scene between the killer and his friend...). This may be the only action film that can affect you emotionally.....without neglecting to have an amazingly high body count.     (***) "}{"Title":"Thank You Mr Woo!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not only the best John Woo film to date. This is the greatest film of all time. Now I know this may only be opinion, but The Killer is hands-down the best film I ever had the honor to experience. Now I could go on for days about this glorious achievement from John Woo, but I won't bore you with the details. This movie is truly an experience that I recommend that all lovers of The Cinema (mainstream and arthouse) should have. This movie contains the trademark restless camera of John Woo and a twisted diabolical plot too complex to put in words. I admit that upon viewing this film for the first time I still enjoyed hard-boiled more for the cutthroat action and sheer balls of the movie. After the first viewing I found myself watching this movie over and over again. I came to realize that it wasn't because of the action, but because of the incredible story and beautifully framed shots. This is obviously the most personal work yet from John Woo (he also wrote the screenplay) and it shows. I can only hope to create half the magic that this film has created. For me this feat seems like an impossibility, but if I can accomplish just that then I can die a happy man. Thank you John Woo for giving the world The Killer. "},{"Title":"Definitely my kind of movie.","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo's The Killer is a slam bang in your face shoot'em up action epic that deserves all the attention it gets.Chow Yun Fat is superb as the hitman who develops a concience and couldn't be any better.The Killer roars like a lion and rips right through the screen.Extremely violent but enjoyable only for John Woo fans. "},{"Title":"This movie kicks (or should I say blows away) ass!!!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer is one long shootout, and it's an excellent one. The best shootout is at the beginning, in the restaurant. The one on the beach was great, too. It's also got great performances, especially from Yun-Fat.  Sure, it's over-the-top, but that makes it a billion times better than all US movies. John Woo should stop making American movies. Beware of poorly dubbed versions, particularly Australian ones.PLOT 8 DIRECTION 10 ACTING 8 SCRIPT 7 SHOOTOUTS 10+++OVERALL 9  "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Masterpiece!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every time I watch John Woo's The Killer, it get's better everytime. I have seen the film countless times, in many varied forms. If you do not watch the subtitled, widescreen and uncut version, than you are not seeing the true beauty of this modern art. The sheer intensity of the violence used by Woo, is to express the hero's acts against an unjust world, and when John (Jeff, Numb-Nuts, Chow Yun Fat) accepts his fate, he is merily redeeming his life of violence.I am often sad that this film has been placed into the action genre, as it is more than just an action film But Poetry in action. John Woo has been down here in Sydney, Aust filming Mission Impossible 2, and I wish I could have had the chance to  kneel before him, as he is truly the master of modern cinema.As one user said earlier, the film does have its flaws, however, the films strengths do surpass them. Just be amazed by the graceful ballet of bullets in the final church shoot-out, that took 60 days to shoot (10th Anniversery info), and almost blinded Chow Yun Fat. This is the kind of dedication Woo has to his art. This is a film that has you heart racing through the energetic action scenes, but also brings a warmth to your heart, as a beautiful character study of four lives intertwined with violence. It is a film of guilt, betrayal, honour, love and redemption, played out in the most outrageous, yet beautiful style ever.John Woo has created a masterpiece that has become my number 1 film. Hard-Boiled equals and maybe surpasses it in the action department, but, it does not come across as beautifully. Don't let the subtitles and violence put you off, and appreciate every scene of this film.  "},{"Title":"John Woo=The God Of Action","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo is the man behind this masterpiece. I thought that when I had seen Hard Boiled(10/10), I had seen the best of Hong-Kong.  However, The Killer managed to surpass even my highest expectations. Chow Yun-Fat(Hard Boiled, Full Contact, The Corruptor) plays Jeff, an assassin with a heart of gold. At the beginning, Jeff takes out a bunch of gangsters at a nightclub, and he accidently made a young girl, who got caught in the cross-fire blind.Jeff is haunted by a guilty conscience because of this, and he wants to pay the girl`s operation. Jeff hasn`t got any money to pay for the operation, so he needs to do another job. Jeff is given to mission to kill Tong Weng, by Mr. Wengs nephew.  Jeff kills Tong Weng(in a very brutal way), but Mr. Wengs nephew had no intention to let Jeff survive the assassination. Jeff is persecuted by the police and gangsters, the bodycount risis....... The Killer is an extremely good movie, that everybody must see sometime. It is one of the most violent movies ever made, and the action-scenes have been created with outrageous effect by John Woo. This movie is worth a 10/10 score, and I would also recommend the following movies for fans of Hong-Kong action Hard Boiled(10/10), A Better Tomorrow 2(9/10), Full Contact(9/10), God Of Gamblers(8/10).  "},{"Title":" If there is a god of all gods in the action-genre;his name is John Woo","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have a dream.I have a dream that I will find a new world.A world full of people who saw and feel this movie the same way I did. The greatest heroic bloodshed movie ever made.Thanks Tsui Hark, Danny Lee,Chow - natural born cool - Yun Fat and Mister Immortal himself John Woo..(for a few minutes a found no words)Tsui for believing in the qualities of mr.Woo and that he could create The Killer the way he did.Danny Lee for playing the rough but sensible cop,the right counterpart to Jeffrey.The killer played by the best asian actor,Chow Yun Fat.Nobody contains this cool presence and acting like this man.Even when he walks he's much smarter than the most Hollywood-pimps( I'm the King of the world!...and so on)From the beginning I was on your site Chow.And last but of course not least the one ,the only John Woo.God of my favorite ballistic fireworks in Hongkong movies.Thanks for directing one of my favorite movies ever..Action-sequences created like ballets,romantic,poetry,friendship astonished me  totally. "},{"Title":"If I could take one film to a desert island...","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Then The Killer is it.After A Better Tomorrow it seemed impossible to beat it. It wasn't. Again the dream team of Tsui Hark, John Woo and Chow Yun Fat combines to create sheer brilliance. Thats not to forget Danny Lee, of course. He perfectly counterpoints Chow's guilt ridden assassin with his hard-boiled cop.It is impossible to put into words simply how good this film is. It just is. Without this film, then the action genre would have been over-ran with overly musculed Austrians. Praise the Lord for John Woo. "},{"Title":"The ultimate, quintessential dramatic masterpiece.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hong Kong action director John Woo has created a perfect mixture of high octane action and intense atmospheric melodrama that defined the Far East's cinema at its paramount. DIE XUE SHUANG XIONG (better known as THE KILLER) is perhaps John Woo's landmark film; it has helped launch his career into first class, respectable territory and this particular film has made him into a world renowned director who's specialty included spectacular action flicks with a fine touch of elegance.A highly lauded crowd-pleaser with the accent focused on character development, emotions, and a surreal environmental mood as well. Strong, graphic violence is bound in DIE XUE SHUANG XIONG evidently, but Woo's over-the-top thrills, stunts, and aggressive action choreography helped project this exemplary motion picture into a sublime motif as well.Chow Yun-Fat displays plenty of his urbane charisma as the Number One Jeffrey Chow assassin who's been given one last job.  Jeffrey Chow has been obliged with tackling one last assignment, to expunge a wealthy business and surreptious drug kingpin.Unfortunately for Chow, even after completing his supposedly last assignment, a vengeful gangster has marked him for termination.  Johnny Weng (Shing Fui-On), Chow's once trusted former employer is now playing the cards here and making the deals. He has hired various hitman to silence Chow once and for all, but Chow keeps grabbing the upper hand...Inspector Lee (Danny Lee) is now  on  a mission to  follow and capture this wanted fugitive who has made so many successful hits.  However, as Inspector Lee gets closer to finding out the truth behind Chow, no longer does he see this assassin as a threat, but rather, the two start sharing a deviant and powerful bond. These two, who were once adversaries, now connect with one another through a poignant friendship that will last despite all troubles they have both experienced.Meanwhile, Chow must also protect a beautiful and innocent lounge singer, Jennie (Sally Yeh), whose life is endangered thanks to her contact with this perplexing soul. She herself was also accidentally blinded by one of Chow's own bullets.As Chow and Lee  both  try to comprehend the nature   of   their violent attitudes, they must try to cope with accepting themselves as who they are, bellicose, gun slinging tough guys. However, Chow's home is a symbolic Catholic Church that insinuates redemption, peace, and forgiveness. Chow and Lee decide that it's time to start a new life, begin all over with a clean image, and leaving their belligerent former selves behind in the past... Chow also feels that he must help Jennie find a new proper set of corneas for her to be able to see again.  However, salvation will not be easy for as Chow and Lee talk about their behaviors in the past life...Johnny Weng's hitmen are not far behind...A gun-blazing battle  of  intensive  proportions ensue  between the sentimential heroes and the ruthless bad guys...DIE XUE SHUANG XIONG (aka THE KILLER) is simply awesome, cinematic effort. The action is unbelievably lightning fast, and the plot is surprisingly effective. The chemistry between the two main heroes, Chow and Lee shows a very unusual relationship that sometimes, two completely opposite lives can mysteriously parallel with one another. A cop and a criminal working together is very eccentric for a buddy-buddy concept, but John Woo deserves acclaim for striking out a theme that sometimes, the thin line between good and evil will always be distorted as characters change their ways.DIE XUE SHUANG XIONG is ultraviolent as well.  The body count in this motion picture is innumerable, cars crash and burn everywhere, and the heroes fight fire with fire in nonstop moments of total carnage.  DIE XUW SHUANG XIONG is edgy, taunt, and exhaustive. The characters in this film show many different angles, and unlike most modern day Hollywood big-budget action movies, DIE XUE SHUANG XIONG never ignores but it focuses on the meaningful relationships between best friends and worst enemies.Lowell Lo(we)'s haunting theme music in The Killer is also another highlight, not to mention the terrific acting and performances from the leading stars Chow, Lee, and Yeh.  Again, DIE XUE SHUANG XIONG blows away its competition with maximum heat, excitement, excellent cinematography and violence to the extreme.  Still, The Killer is a film that never forgets to paint a gothic, melodramatic portrait of a hardboiled lifestyle of both a cop, a criminal, and how two different worlds have learned to bare with each other.  A must see action film.RATING **** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Best movie ever made!","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer is the best movie ever.  It`s without doubt John Woo`s best film. The action is ultraviolent and heavily overdone, which is very good.  The Killer has more action and extreme violence than Woo`s american movies (Hard Target, Broken Arrow, Face/Off, Blackjack) a thousand times over.  Get it in! Definitely a 10 out of 10 score!  "},{"Title":"Unparalleled","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My favourite movie. The Killer features the most sensational action-scenes in movie history. The mise-en-scene and the montage of the set-pieces in this film are unmatched and unparalleled. But it's not only these scenes. The mixture between a sentimentality which even Disney wouldn't dare to do and these hyper-kinetic, unbelievable, breath-taking and eye-popping action-scenes makes this film so outstanding. It is just wonderful to see a film where everything fits in so nicely. One word about Chow Yun Fat In future encyclopedias you will find a picture of him besides the term coolness. If you care about coolness and you don't know Chow, check him out. He also gives the film a grandeur which is simply stunning. Thank you, Mr. Woo, for giving the world this picture.  It's a pity that the Hollywood studio system won't allow him to do such films anymore. Compared to The Killer, Face/Off or Broken Arrow feel like My Dinner with Andre, believe me. They do. I finish my review with a quote from a German film critic who put his experience of this movie into the following words I envy every one who sees this film for the first time. I couldn't agree more. Review by Oliver Naujoks, Marburg/Germany  "}{"Title":"The Killer is one of the high points of 1980s Hong Kong action cinema.","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having blinded a nightclub singer (Sally Yeh) during a shootout, a contract killer (Chow Yun-Fat) takes one last job to pay for the young woman's cornea transplant, only to attract the attentions of a cop (Danny Lee).The Killer is a landmark action film that introduced Western viewers to the distinctive sensibility of director John Woo, who is as central to his genre as John Ford was to the Western or Stanley Donen to the musical between virtuoso set-pieces and balletic shootouts, it somehow manages to be genuinely, unexpectedly touching, and graceful in both sense of the word.On its release The Killer was not a commercial success in Hong Kong, but a great critical success both overseas and in Hong Kong where it won Best Director and Best Editing at the 9th Hong Kong Film Awards. The film was highly praised on its American release, and is hailed as one of the most critically acclaimed action films ever. "},{"Title":"I always leave one bullet, either for myself or for my enemy.","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A John Woo (Face/Off, Broken Arrow) classic starring Yun-Fat Chow (Bulletproof Monk, Curse of the Golden Flower, Pirates of the Caribbean At World's End).This is an action film with a capital A. Just imagine the last 20 minutes of Commando with Arnold and you will get a taste of the entire movie. The action only stops for some fantastic singing by Sally Yeh, who plays the girl he blinded in the process of one of his kills.Of course, it is over the top, as he never has to reload and he often empties two clips into each kill. They never stop coming! I could not imagine how they got so many targets into three cars.If you like Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez, then you will love John Woo. He is the master of stylized violence. This is pure violence with no special effects.It is also a movie about friendship. It is so interesting to see how the cop and the killer become one and even trade places at the end. Beautiful! Just a beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Woo's action flick does give a kick!","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Of course the main plus point here is Woo's fantastic direction. The screenplay is gripping yet very subtle at places. The love story is shown in a sweet sort of way. However the friendship between Jong and Ying seems a bit unreal or rushed through. I guess Woo was pressured to keep it within a time limit because there is no growth shown in the relationships between the characters. The only relationship that I thought was shown well was that of Jong and Sei. Cinematography is excellent. Special effects could have been better. Background score suits the mood and the songs are pleasant to the ear. Fat, Yeh, Ying and Set do a great job (especially the latter two). This is all in all an enjoyable action flick with an ambiguous ending that leaves you wondering. "},{"Title":"explosive beauty","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is just about the most stylish film I have ever seen. It is not driven by plot or even by the action, but by a moral aesthetic. The leading character reflects the director's overall vision in microcosm. The assassin is such a beautiful man, both sensually and spiritually. He projects an amazing stillness into explosive action that he seems to orchestrate whenever he is in it, bringing the qualities of the artist as hero to a stock role. We don't need the Catholic sets to know that this man is religious. He doesn't believe in God, but he sits in the chapel for the quiet. There no doubt he reflects on his life quest, for the freedom to be both human and himself, learning to embrace universal morality (truth, love, faith and friendship), while doing his job superbly well. No wonder everyone loves him -- the singer he blinded, the cop who wants to catch him, the friend who betrayed him, John Woo who wrote and directed him, the camera of course and the rest of us who are spellbound by his charisma. Chow Yun Fat achieves here a graceful power that evokes Maggie Cheung, the compelling star of In The Mood For Love.How could so much gratuitous violence be beautiful, even morally uplifting? I had a clue to the answer by accident. The last time I watched the video, I cut back to the main TV for the rewind and dropped into the climax of a spaghetti western with Eastwood and Van Cleef (I am not sure which one). There the villain is taken out with one bullet delivered by a sleight of hand too fast to see and with invisible, but mortal bodily effects. Woo's film has dozens of killings in it, often in substantial batches. Here most of the victims take multiple bullets with gruesome consequences and some of them carry on fighting after that. The violence is brilliantly choreographed, but it is also brutally realistic in ways that few westerns are. Our killer confronts a vicious society on its terms in a way that enhances, rather than detracts from his own humanity.The achievement of The Killer is to reveal human possibility in the most degraded of social settings. The message is that goodness can be found in unlikely people and places. Goodness is also beautiful. "},{"Title":"So Romantic... So Sad and so Depressing....","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man where do i begin. This movie is just so dramatic and sad. What everybody said about the movie is right, The Killer is soo Dramatic but also keeps good action very well. Now i know why peopls say this is one of the best movies ever.EVEN WITHOUT THE COOL ACTION the emotional depth of the charachters are very well done and still could be a good movie without the cool action.10/10MASTERPIECE, A TRUE MASTERPIECE "},{"Title":"This is how it should be done...","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off let me just say that this movie is the BEST damn action film EVER EVER EVER made. Anywhere. Period. I mean, yeah, you have your Matrixes and your Equilibriums and your Die Hards and Lethal Weapons. But what makes The Killer superior to every single one and every single actioner made is this-it has a heart and strong characters to back it up. Its not about the killing and the coolness and crap, but about the motivations behind what they do and the realities of who they are and the fates that await them. They are driven by both emotion and a sense of duty to what they have become and what they have to do. They aren't simply cliches or caricatures as some clueless idiots on this board pointed out. They're human beings. Not simply bad or good. People who critizise The Killer for being to over the top or melodramatic just aren't simply used to having characters with real emotional depth and a story that revolves around more than just a couple of fast shootouts, fancy kung-fu, explosions, car chases, nude stick shaped blondes and coolguy posturing. And after seeing a film like this, it really puts the action film genre into a very stark perspective. Today's so called heroes motivations are hollow and useless cause they lack any real heart, humanity, depth and conviction. Saving the human race from the machines? Stopping some foreign terrorist from blowing up some big city? Pointless. We do not believe these characters are fighting for anything more than the money in our wallets. These characters are what a million John McClaine's, Arnold Schwartzenegger's and Neo's could never be-real. This movie forces you to focus on what is really important and that makes the ending far more tragic and heartwrenching. The ending is SUPPOSED to be an emotional climax where logic and so called realism are given way to a truly bombastic show of emotional bonding and the full realization of their destinies. These two men, these two kindred spirits were destined to die, together locked in battle against a society that has lost its sense of loyalty and honour. What Woo and Co. have done is created the most triumphant ode to male bonding, loyalty, and honour ever committed to celluloid. And despite its age, the message within the film is still as strong as ever. Who cares about the slickness of the action scenes? Who cares about the so called lack of realism? Understand the message, and not the carnage and you will rewarded with a more than beautiful and soulfully remarkable experience. Otherwise, you just missed the point. A 10/10 "},{"Title":"If pure action is what you like this is your film, if not beware.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read all the IMDb reviews and comments, and I was expecting a classic film experience.  My response to the film is like the cliche about Chinese food...great but you're hungry for more in a half hour.I'm torn about this film....teens in the family (16 and 19) loved it...adults just found it ok.Great visuals, lots of action, interesting (but not exotic) characters...not much of plot, not like a Jackie Brown or Maltese Falcon, double, triple-cross, but just sufficient to provide structure to what is actually 110 minutes of gun fights.If that's what you like, this is your film, if not beware.  "},{"Title":"it has hardly aged","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In some sense it's hard to review this movie if you dissect it in terms of realism and story. Many Woo fans will be offended by that statement, but it's true. The film's story is contrived, hilariously cliched, fraught with awkward dialogue, and just generally ridiculous. But it is, admirably so, complex, stylish and very involving. So, if you can accept some of the awkwardness of the film and its incredibly forward sentimentality as part of its style (not attempt at realism), then we're off to a good start. Because John Woo's The Killer, even though it was made over a decade ago, stands up to the action movies made nowadays. It's bloody (in a Desperado type way), it's stylish (in a way that Woo has not repeated in his American films), and it grows on you. It is, in some sense, an action masterpiece. Towards the end, even if the main characters' relationships the product of strange, if not implausible plot-twists, you don't want to part with them. Maybe even want them to stick around on screen so they can brutally murder a few dozen more bad guys in ways that get your adrenaline going. Maybe. Needless to say, I really liked The Killer, and I must say that aside from some of the cars that appear in the film, it has aged really well (meaning hardly at all). It's slaughter done in good taste. "},{"Title":"Not for the soft-core movie-goer","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo's The Killer is basically Chaplin's City Lights gone bloodthirsty and insane. While the Tramp sought out money for a blind girl's operation in a series of humorous misadventures, Chow Yun Fat's method seems to consist of running up a body count in the quadruple digits. Not that that's a bad thing.To be blunt, John Woo's time as an artist seems to be over. His last few Hollywood credits have been Mission- Impossible II, Windtalkers and Paycheck. These projects have no doubt been good for his wallet, but they have cost him the title of World's Greatest Action Director.One need only watch The Killer, however, to see why that title was once indisputably his. This movie gets the testosterone pumping like none other likely ever has or will. It's a textbook example of how a genuine mastery of the medium of film can produce phenomenal effect with the least of visual flourishes. The Killer is not the best action movie ever because its editing is the most frenetic, its gore the most copious, or its arsenal the most varied and large-scale. This movie is simply dead on regarding camera placement, editing, and choreography. All these are fairly simple, and not showing off any remarkable budget. It's a classic film where everything is right, and no money need be wasted compensating for mistakes.As for the aforementioned arsenal -- The Killer is the embodiment of the John Woo legend. Chow Yun Fat goes through almost every action scene blazing away mercilessly with a handgun in each hand. Save the odd shotgun or machine pistol, nothing else is used. Nothing else is needed. This film is a world unto itself, where it's patently obvious that the faceless bad guys are impossibly numerous, and the handguns clips seem to hold infinite ammunition. But all is excused once the shooting starts. You just have no energy left to think about it.A word of warning, though. There exists out in this world a butcher-job edited version of this film, with the most graphic moments excised. Apart from disrupting the plot on numerous occasions, this version destroys the impact of much of Woo's finest action ever. To any true lover of film, it's a sacreligious act. Avoid this version like the plague. "},{"Title":"An Action Movie with Soul","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Killer is one of the few action movies in the 80's that not only had spectacular action but also a lot of heart, soul, and emotion. It's also one of if not the most influential action films of all time, up there with Die Hard, Lethal Weapon, and The Terminator. But why is that, let's find out!First of all, The Killer is extremely stylized. It's action sequences aren't just typical Hollywood shootouts with explosions, machine guns, and one-liners. There's a lot of visual poetry going on here with white doves flying around and a lot of slow-motion being used. The action isn't the only thing that's stylized about this film, it's drama is also very stylized. John Woo's movies have a recurring theme of men bonding and becoming like brothers and it's very present here. In Hollywood, this might not happen because it's  too gay  but Woo seems to love men bonding becoming like brothers so all of the friendships in his films feel very genuine and real. The dramatic scenes in this film can come off melodramatic to some people but I think it's very powerful because of how believable their relationships are.Secondly, it actually has a good, dramatic story with complex characters and genuine emotions. Face it, most action movies are just simple escapist entertainment with a nice happy ending to put a smile on your face at the end. But The Killer is a little different. While it has all the action you want in an action movie, the script focuses more on developing our protagonist, Jeffrey(Chow-yun Fat) who is an assassin who accidentally blinds a singer with a muzzle flash in his gun during one of his assassination missions so he accepts one last job, hoping to use the money to help her recover her eyesight but he ends up getting betrayed by his Triad boss who now wants him dead. What's fascinating about his character is that he doesn't seem to be a bad man who just wants a new path but he seems to be a man with a good heart but made some bad choices due to his own questionable morality. He said to Jenny(the girl he blinded) he once thought that they deserved it but now he thinks differently. Perhaps he started his career not because of money but because he thinks he's doing something right but throughout this film, he learns that violence brings nothing but bloodshed. Almost every shootout in this film, something goes wrong for him. And by the end of the movie, he says he can't do this anymore and it's making him sick. In contrast, we have the cop learning an opposite lesson, that of you can't always follow the rules to solve things in the world. He starts out on a quest to take down Jeffrey but he slowly learns that he isn't just another assassin who kills for money but also a man with heart. So he breaks the rules by helping him on his mission to protect and recover Jenny's eyesight. The message of this movie is that ultimately the world isn't black and white and it's impressive how well- written this film is considering Woo was writing it as he was going along. Lastly, this movie is very brave with its ending. Most Hollywood flicks wouldn't go with this ending but since the Hong Kong film industry is more accepting of unhappy endings, this is what happens at the end. After a massive shootout in the church, Jeffrey gets shot and killed by the Triad boss but the cop ends up avenging Jeffrey even though the man surrendered thus getting arrested. This ending left me a little sad after watching this movie but I think the point of this ending was that Jeffrey ultimately realizes his sins too late and thus gets punished in the worst way possible in the end. The cop makes the sacrifice he does because he realizes that him getting arrested wasn't good enough and sometimes you gotta break the rules to make the world a better place.The Killer is stylish, exciting, thoughtful, intelligent, and wonderfully well-nuanced and because of that, I am gonna give it a 9/10. "}{"Title":"High Compression and Compassion","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An Asian Superstar Director and Actor, John Woo and Chow Yun Fat, were burning up screens and thrilling Movie Goers before coming to America. Their reputations precede them. Their reception here was nothing less than phenomenal. Critics and Audiences wallowed in the over the top accentuation of Violence coated with maudlin Melodrama.As History would have it, American Movies were never the same. This unabashed Director was supremely influential and his Films, both Hong Kong and American have a distinct Style that cannot be dismissed or overlooked. He delivers Movies infused with adrenaline and patched with Pathos. They all have an unreal feel and thus are set apart from the Genre they inhabit.The Killer and some of his other Hong Kong Films are rough and raw Woo, lacking the Hollywood budgets but never lacking Entertainment Value or interest. This one could be considered his best Non-American Movie but that takes nothing away from the others. They are all stamped with a saturation of take-notice Expressionistic Art and all magnetically draw one into its World of exaggeration and excess.There is much to admire in this Film with its constant ping-pong of outrageous gun battles and deep emotional compassion. There is an over abundance of everything and that makes this a very different experience than the average Action/Crime Flick. John Woo applies his Artistic strokes with a powerful high compression air-brush and never uses a single-hair stroke. It can be overwhelming at times, but that is the appeal. "},{"Title":"Classic Crime Drama directed by John Woo!","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Killer was a classic crime drama about a hit-man named Ah Jong (played by Chow Yun Fat) who decides he's had enough and wants to leave the life of an assassin for good unfortunately during the hit something unexpected occurs. A young singer named Jenny (played by Sally Yeh) is there at the wrong place at the wrong time and Ah Jong accidentally injures her eyes.This prompts Ah Jong to hold off his retirement to take one more job to pay for Jenny's operation to get her vision back to normal.This was a classic crime/action drama and I thought there really was chemistry between Chow Yun Fat and Sally Yeh along with the great performances of many of the cast at least including Danny Lee who is on par with Chow Yun Fat and Sally Yeh with his performance of Inspector Li Ying of the Hong Kong Police! "},{"Title":"A Review from Today's Perspective","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Many people that view this movie today will probably think of it as cheesy and overrated, especially now with all the slick CGI action films out left and right. At the time that the film came out, it was pretty revolutionary. It put John Woo on the map for his cinematic style that would influence many films to come and to this date, it's clear his influence hasn't left.In my opinion, this movie is a classic in the action genre. John Woo made A Better Tomorrow Parts 1 & 2 prior to The Killer, and they were definitely good, but The Killer reached perfection when compared. His slick camera moves and seamless action were polished.When viewed today, the action is still seamless and amazing, but thanks to today's action films being more realistic, you may encounter that there is hardly reloading in this film. That tends to throw people off a bit from the film. I have to also admit that some of the drama in the film is dated. This can turn off some viewers and can be seen as corny, especially with the music. It's still enjoyable don't get me wrong, but it feels dated, but the action almost instantly makes you forget that this movie is about 24 years old.To watch this film, you have to just forget about all the crap you've watched recently and just sit back, relax, and don't think too hard when you watch this film. The story is easy to follow and enjoyable. Sometimes the hype of a film can end up turning people off once they start watching it since it may not be what they expected. So when you watch this film, forget about what people might have told you and just watch it.Many people are very critical of this film today but if they look at it through the context of when it came out, it tends to be better appreciated. I'd rather that Hollywood went back to this old style action with rich color rather than the pale color filtered movies that are coming out today. I consider this to be John Woo's best with emotional moments and signature action. Now, if you're really looking for when John Woo completely polished his action, I recommend HARD BOILED. As for his Hollywood films, I really don't consider them in the same league as his original films.What happened to the days when there were actual stunts and real explosions??? "},{"Title":"Honour among assassins","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A hit-man (Yun Fat) blinds a young woman during a violent assassination in a piano bar, and remorseful of his actions, seeks to atone for his crime by helping her to regain her sight. During the process he discovers he's no longer cut-out for his line of work, but before he can retire to the country, he must out-manoeuvre a relentless rogue detective (Lee) and contest the double-crossing mobster hell-bent on establishing his dominance.Yun Fat gives his character a moral fibre that is not especially unique to the hit-man's code, though does venture further than the usual brand of perverse professionalism, to the extent that guilt erodes his self-confidence and ability to execute his assignments. Go-between and friend Chu Kong tries in vain to persuade him to remain loyal to the code, and the long standing partnership subsequently frays and re-galvanises out of sheer necessity as the pair (joined by the rogue detective) attempt to withstand some of the most fierce gun battles ever staged. Cleverly orchestrated plot enables a rich and vivid tale to emerge, expressed through characters who exude a strong sense of dignity but who struggle with the weight of guilt.Danny Lee is at times hilariously over-bearing, though how much of that is attributable to the banal dubbing is debatable. There's more than a little homosexual undertone present in the camaraderie between Yun Fat and his co-stars, and it's an element that exposes their human frailties, making the characters more accessible to the audience. The characters are smooth, sophisticated and eloquent and Woo's choreographed plot is highly stylised and intricate in visual detail, so much so that the gun battles look like classical ballets. Probably doesn't translate to most Western audiences, but it's a ground-breaker in its reach nonetheless and if you can withstand the occasionally corny dubbing (Dumbo and Mickey Mouse nicknames for example, which can be a comical distraction), then you should enjoy the experience. "},{"Title":"Another John Woo classic bullet-opera.","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo is a sensitive new age guy who is probably busting to make a period drama filled with romance, lush backdrops, glorious costumes and electrifying dialogue.It just so happens that his primary skill is choreographing hugely elaborate gunfights with insanely high bodycounts and much bloodletting.Such is the case with The Killer, the film opens with peaceful music, an opulent candelit backdrop &#x96; replete with the requisite white doves &#x96; and a handsome guy giving a friendly smile at the nice lady in the club who is singing beautifully for the appreciative patrons.Then with a start action-Woo takes over, perhaps realising that a mortgage payment is due and that doves, smiles and pan-pipes don't pay the bills. The smiling guy is Jeff (Chow Yun Fat), a contract assassin in the club on business. He sets about his tasks and 73 spurting squib-assisted deaths later he can knock off for the day&#x85; Unfortunately in the hail of bullets and cacophony of death cries and splintering shrapnel Jeff managed to inadvertently blind the nice singing lady named Jenny with the powder blast from one of his many death dealing shots. Being the nice guy that he is he takes pity on Jenny and in the weeks that follow her release from hospital spends much time helping her readjust to her new sightless existence, and of course the two gradually fall in love &#x96; with Jenny never realising that her beau is in fact the very man who rendered her likely to fall over her own furniture&#x85; As with every John Woo film the hero needs a counterpart, because without one there can be no Mexican standoff later in the film &#x96; and yes this film has more than one &#x96; the foil to Chow's killer is Inspector Lee, though they end up calling each other Mickey Mouse and Dumbo in much of the lamentable dialogue that permeates the 'waiting time' between shoot outs.Jeff and Lee see similarities in each other despite standing on opposite sides of the law, another staple of Woo films, the bad guys aren't really that bad and the cops always seem to readily sympathise and even befriend them. But that said both men shoot often, shoot straight, and things (and people) tend to explode and be propelled upwards when they shoot them.And they each have numerous chances to shoot at things in glorious intricately designed lengthy sequences of carnage and explosions. (I had a joke about China needing a one-child policy because Chow Yun Fat killed all of the males in John Woo films, but even I dubbed it borderline racist.) I can't say that Jeff takes out hundreds of armed assailants single-handedly in this film, because even though he does take out that many he often utilises both hands, each gripping the pistol tightly as he flies all over the place taking out thugs and punks.The plot is merely a frame to hang some of the best shootouts in cinema history on, and the undeniable truth is that some of the non-shooty scenes are frankly pretty amateurish. But this is an action film, and when scrutinised as an action film is stands head and shoulders above many modern day pretenders. Jeff and Lee ultimately end up in a breathtaking showdown vs a never-ending horde of blindly (no pun intended) charging assailants who storm their church hideout about 6 at a time Left 4 Dead style. As they repel these invaders in stylish fashion they share an ongoing dialogue about how much they mean to each other and such, pausing only to grit their teeth and pick off still more would-be assassins.Even in near death situations John Woo still wants people to share their feelings...There is an ongoing argument over whether this and its companion piece Hard Boiled are truly classics or simply well choreographed bullet-operas. I'll just say that where action is concerned no-one stages a bloody shootout as well as Woo. I'd much rather watch this or Hard Boiled than any of the last 17 generic action flicks churned out by Hollywood.If I had to choose, I would rate the hospital shootout in Hard Boiled as better than anything in The Killer, but the church finale here does take a lot of beating also.Ultimately though you can't really go wrong with either.Final Rating &#x96; 8.5 / 10. John Woo films are like the contestants for Miss Universe pageants &#x96; breathtaking to look at, but it's always slightly disappointing when they talk&#x85; "},{"Title":"Operatic, unforgettable and mind-blowing.","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo (HARD BOILED, FACE/OFF) directs Chow Yun-Fat as a hit man with a code of honor who agrees to do one last job before retirement. However, he soon becomes double-crossed by his Triad employers after trying to protect a songstress (Sally Yeh). Teaming with an undercover cop (Danny Lee), the two leads get themselves involved in one of the most exciting showdowns in action cinema.What can I say? Woo is a filmmaker who knows how to balance the action scenes and the emotional moments within the operatic grand scale of THE KILLER. Chow Yun-Fat delivers his charismatic performance with the combination of Eastwood's THE MAN WITH NO NAME, Jean Reno's quiet, lone hit man in LEON THE PROFESSIONAL and Steve McQueen's untouchable COOLER KING in THE GREAT ESCAPE.THE KILLER is an operatic, unforgettable and mind-blowing masterpiece of Hong Kong cinema. "},{"Title":"wham bam, thank you mam, John Woo's Delirious ride with a Killer with a conscience","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A hired hit man (Ah Jong-Chow Yun Fat) on a routine job accidentally blinds a club singer Jennie (Sally Yeh) in a bar. Feeling full of guilt and remorse, he decides to quit his profession but only after taking on one last job to help Jennie fund cornea surgery to restore her sight. Unfortunately, with his last job, his employers take it upon themselves to double cross him and not pay him for his services and decide to get rid of him altogether. Along with the criminals who are after our hero, a cop (Insp Li Ying-Danny Lee) is also on his tail for his handy work and will stop at nothing to capture his guy.A film full of exhilarating set pieces accumulating in a body count in the near 100s where the themes of honour and betrayal are explored with such hyperbolic sequences and a dazzling array of stunts and squibs. John Woo's films always portray his good guys as a no nonsense, morally righteous man who upholds a code of honour. A hit man with a conscience and kills only those he sees as deserving of a quick death.When I first saw this marvel, I was astounded by it's flair, fluidity and camera-work. Full of style and unflinching graphic violence. Never have I seen a film where the hero is so cool, composed and controlled . Chow Yun Fat brings a certain gravitas with his on screen character learning to carry the burden of guilt but also acting on his immense talent with guns.With themes that Woo would return to, never has a hit man appeared more noble and chivalrous as our title character. A hit man that uses a church as a meeting point for assignments and recuperation, doves flying through the air (in slow-mo!), religious symbolism and of course gun-play with bullets that come flying thorough the screen right to your retinas.One thing that viewers may spot is the breaking of the 180 degree rule for the shot reserve shot when Chow's character is talking to Lee's Inspector on the side of the lake. Most films convey a conversation with a switch back and forth and many times characters are shown either to the left of the screen and then switches to the other character to the right of the screen. Woo cleverly places both characters on the same side. It's a bit jarring at first but the point to all of this is to show that both characters are alike and are in fact a mirror image of each other.Within the film there is so much one can pick out as an extraordinary piece of action cinema. The opening shoot out in the club with it's numerous multi-angle, slow-mo and fast paced editing creates a dazzling dance of bullets and bodies. In fact many of the films set pieces are heart pounding, jaw dropping and an amazing feat in stunt work and a clear indication of John Woo's talent behind the camera. A film he has never bettered and a film that people will look back on and wonder why Hollywood never gave him a chance to show the world what he can do. A sad waste and a crying shame. "},{"Title":"Two hour gunfight from John Woo","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. The plot was paper thin with a basic character set-up but it functions perfectly fine within the context of this film. The draw here is not an intricate plot it is the almost unbelievably awesome action sequences. I think John Woo has used more bullets and guns than were used in the Warsaw Uprising or Stalingrad. Forget Die Hard or Commando or any of those other American action films films like The Killer set the bar for what an action film can be.If you are looking for gun battles, explosions, blood, Chinese people with unintentionally hilarious dubbing, and of course doves flying around a church then this is the film you want to watch. If you like action films you will love The Killer without question. It will probably provoke you to seek out other Hong Kong action films which is a good thing because The Killer is not the only one. City of Fire and A Better Tomorrow immediately come to mind as other great HK films. "},{"Title":"A John Woo Hong Kong classic","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of John Woo's first movies and the quote on the video casing says the biggest bodycount in film history. In a way this is true because most of the movie it is one or two people gunning down hundreds of thugs that are trying to kill them. This movie is not a martial arts extravaganza, but rather it is just an awful lot of gunfighting in numerous locations.This does not mean that the movie does not have a plot. John Woo seems to know how to weave cool action sequences into a rather interesting plot. An assassin, Jeff, is ordered to kill some guy in a nightclub but he accidentally blinds a night club singer there. Later he his hired to kill a rich drug-lord and is paid a lot of money to do it, but when he does it the only thing he gets is a lot of people after him. A tough cop, Lee, who doesn't follow the rules, is intuitively able to follow Jeff and attempt to catch him, only to become embroiled in this plot to kill him.Woo is also able to weave other ideas into his movies as well. Some may not think so but I highly disagree. One of the major themes of the Killer is that we are responsible for our actions. Jeff, who accidentally blinds the singer, takes her burden upon his shoulders and seeks to pay for a cornea transplant. He also sees one of the gangsters kill a little girl, and risks his life to take her to hospital. He sees that her life is his responsibility as it was his presence that results in her being seriously injured.It is also interesting how Woo uses doves in this movie. He has a church scene where Jeff goes because it is peaceful, and it this church there is a lot of light and a lot of doves. Jeff says at the beginning of the movie, I just come here for the peace, and this is what the doves represent. Yet the church is not a place of sanctuary as the gangsters storm the building and a huge gunfight begins. The church's presence is not to represent some holy ground where the killer cannot be touched, but as a sign to point to Christ. The layout of the church is also important for the cross in the window stands in the centre while the statue of Mary sits to the side. Later in the movie this statue is destroyed, reflecting on the mortalness of Mary.Blindness also plays a role in this movie. At the end, two people are blinded and crawl past each other, hearing each other but not being able to see each other. There seems to be the idea of the blind leading the blind, for Jeff is spiritually blind while the singer is physically blind. The only way see can see is if there is light, and by the end of the movie this light is gone. The light of Christ is the only way to remove our spiritual blindness, and to take that away leaves us only with darkness. It is interesting to note who she responds to the light being turned off. It is something that she responds to as the only thing she can see is taken away.The blindness shows how we can be taken advantage off. The singer is mugged and almost raped and is helpless to stop it, and it is only the intervention of Jeff that she escapes. But Jeff is able to conceal his identity from her due to her blindness. She follows him but only to the point where she finds herself in the middle of a gun battle and is injured herself. "},{"Title":"Super Cool","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" taken from my blog at www.gorehose.blogspot.com The Killer follows a professional hit-man, Ah Jong, with a code of honor. During the opening moments of the film Ah Jong engages in a gunfight inside a crowded night club, that results in the club's performer, Jennie, loosing her eye sight from Ah Jong's muzzle flash. He does his best too wrap her eye's in his wife scarf before the police arrive, and the killer slips into the darkness to mend his wounds at a church undergoing renovations.Across town undercover hard boiled police officer, Li Ying, is intercepting an illegal weapons shipment. Things turn to bloodshed as a patrol officer happens across the men, one of the criminals kills the officer; Li Ying and his partner kill several of the gun runners but one slips away. They give chase through the streets of China and the pursuit ends on a bus. The criminals takes a hostage and Inspector Ying takes a shot. The gunrunner goes down, but the women he's holding suffers a heart attack (we later learn she has a bad heart) and she dies. This puts Ying at odds with his department, as it's bad for P.R., and Ying offers up his badge. He's allowed to continue on the case, but they let him know that there watching him carefully.Most of the film follows Ah Jong's betrayal by a powerful Triad leader, his strained friendship with Fung Sei his Triad manager. The police man-hunt put out for him; led by Li Yang and his partner Sgt. Tsang. Ah Jong plays a cat and mouse game with both of sides, while trying too build a relationship with Jenny and the guilt he feels due to the disability he caused her. The relation ships between the characters are complex, and given enough time to develop fully.The Killer uses these characters with and against each other very effectively, and they keep a strong amount of tension throughout it, but they wouldn't be nearly as effective without the powerful performances throughout the movie. Chow Yun Fat and Kenneth Tsang especially give the movie very strong performances, together there's an natural bond, and an overbearing tension. Chow Yun Fat struts through the film with enough grace, bravado, and attitude too match Clint Eastwood, or Toshiro Mifune.While he's a bad ass his character also gets drug through a lot of pain, and bad luck; he's easy too relate to due to his strict morale code, that puts the audience right in his corner. Chow Yun Fat takes all aspects of the character to the absolute limit, and an intensity that no one could duplicate.Kenneth Tsang perhaps gives the movies strongest supporting performance, as a man challenged by upholding his position in the Triad or the dishonor of betraying his oldest friend. Kenneth Tsang and Chow Yun Fat really drive this movie from the opening scene so there friend ship and emotions are a very major part of what makes this an enjoyable film; almost equally as important is Fat's relationship with Danny Lee's character Officer Ying, in many ways Ying feels a kind of kinship with Fat's character. Both certainly have there similarities Jong's trouble with the Triad, has under tones of Ying's trouble inside the police force; both live by there weapons, and a strict cold of honor that clashes with there superiors.As a character Ah Jong has one primary driving force, Jenny. More so then the money the Triad's owe him, the bounty they have on his head, or his trouble with the police. Ah Jong repeatedly risks his life to visit her, or just to speak to her on the phone. He's unquestioningly loyal, and full of genuine regret at the pain he's brought into her life. This can lead too some of the film's lighter moment's, although in a film like the killer these tender moments never hold so long that they take away from the three way struggle Ah Jon is in the middle of.There are many shoot outs in the killer, and certainly many people are killed; but the violence isn't gratuitous, although it comes often enough to rack up a kill cont of over 100 characters. There's no unnecessary bits of brains or gore tossed in and it's shot so much style and skill that it's a pleasure to watch while keeping the bullet wounds and bloods realistic enough so it servers more so as a de-glorification of murder. It's filled with stunning visuals from the spectacular shoot outs, to breath taking urban vistas; and John Woo brings his own artistic flourishes, with creative lighting, use of color, and tons of symbolism.The Killer is a very entertaining, and without it's great performances it would just be an exercise in style. The performances, and John Woo's artistic vision really help make this movie special. Definitely worth a watch for action movie fans, or fans of cinema in general. "}{"Title":"the redemption of a killer..","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The killer is a visual,dramatic and tense great story directed by the genuine John WOO...from the beginning you can feel that are ready to see something great. All about The Killer is a story about friendship,love and redemption and how sometimes our acts can hurt other people..Chow Yun Fat performance is brilliant, since the very beginning you can feel that he don t enjoy killing, when he met the singer he finds a reason to live and a good reason to die, the Danny lee character is able to see this side of of chow yun fat's character..both join to follow a path with no return..John Woo is a great director, one of the greatest, he is able to make a great show without forget the development of the story and the characters and that is what cinema should be about...A modern classic "},{"Title":"a story of a hit-man betrayed  and tyring to help woman the hit-man wounded","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As soon as i saw this film it blew my mind and made me a fan of john woo Fat was better than Bruce Willis in Die hard john woo is god of action films. I think woo should do another film like this with fat and lee and this time include Tony Leung. shore it is isn't hard boiled a classic from woo but still This film has every thing blood,destruction(not as much as hard boiled),no reloads,a good story and cast and a body count of 82 and a car chase (short but still good)and a surprising ending .Any fan of woo must see this if you have not seen it already (also look up john woo classic hard boiled)I must add the last shoot out in the church is one of the best shootouts ever made . "},{"Title":"The Killer","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From director John Woo (Broken Arrow, Face/Off), it is really good to see Chow Yun Fat looking younger and before Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon in a great violent action thriller. He plays Jeffrey Chow/Ah Jong aka Mickey Mouse, an assassin wanting to leave the business to take care of the woman he accidentally blinded during an assignment, Jennie (Sally Yeh). Insp. Li Ying/Little Eagle aka Dumbo (Danny Lee) is the cop determined to bring him in. Chow's employers are refusing to pay him for the last job, which he will use to pay for Jennie's eye operation to restore her eyesight. Of course his employers, the Triads, are also the ones who are hunting Chow and soon new friend Ying down, and it all comes to a head in a final shoot-out, where Ying is shot dead. Also starring Kong Chu as Fung Sei, Die Another Day's Kenneth Tsang as Sgt. Tsang Yeh, Fui-On Shing as Wong Hoi, Wing-Cho Yip as Wong Dung-Yu, Fan Wei Yee as Paul Yau, Barry Wong as Chief Insp. Dou/Tu and Parkman Wong as Insp. Chan Bok. Chow is a great lead as the killer with a conscience, and with dubbing included, the swearing and violent action sequences make for great viewing. Very good! "},{"Title":"One of the best action films I have ever seen","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Killer and Hard Boiled are two of John Woo's best action films, as well as some of the best action films of all time.I cannot decide which films is better.The Killer mixes action and drama fairly well, just like Better Tomorrow did.The movie is about an hit-man with a heart.After accidentally blinding a singer during a hit, he takes her and starts caring for her.He balances being a hit-man and caring for this woman, meanwhile there is a cop on his trail.The Killer is a very good movie, though it is hard to find on DVD now, hopefully they will re-release this along with other John Woo classics such as Bullet In The Head. "},{"Title":"Wooooooooooooooooooooooo!","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Year 1986, John Woo turned, then dramatic actor, Chow Yun Fat into Action man. A better tomorrow spawned a bunch of heroic bloodshed movies to come out, heck the movie was the influence for the Hollywood violent action movie pulp fiction.3 years later....Who can use double guns better than Fat? Jet li, Jackie chan, Donnie yen, Sammo Hung show art with their fists, and feet, Fat shows art with guns, and it's freaking awesome.Put it like this we got ourselves a lot of hero playing, and woman being paid to only cry, but we got a guy here who is also being paid to show us some hardcore gun-play, and that is why this movie is truly worth seeing.Fat is an assassin, that has been recently sent to club to get assassinate his next victim, he succeeds, but along the way he accidentally blinds a singer(Sally yeh). Regretting so much, and feeling pity for her, he then get's close with her, and later is going to make one final hit to get enough money to pay for her surgery to recover her vision, what stands in the way is a cop out for justice(Danny lee), and of course the bad guy.Seeing this being in the late 80's, you can't expect a innovative plot, but you can expect a simple story, which is bad guy versus good guy, with a big showdown in the end between both sides. Add Fat into the showdown, countless amount of guns, dual pistols, blood,art, and hundreds of dead body, and what you get is bone crunching entertainment.Character's is the biggest flaw in this movie, they are very underdeveloped, they are paid just to have one kind of personality. Fat a guy that really cares for his best friend, and the girl he accidentally blinds. Danny lee is just a cop with fat being his number one priority in taking out. Sally yeh, although she is a beauty, she came out very disappointing, all she did in the whole movie is cry. The director used her just for the emotional parts of this movie, and there was too much hero playing in the movie, such as the ending. In the end Who the hell cares about the characters, we want gun clicking, blazing, action! Overall if you are a fan of Hk movies, and you have not seen a better tomorrow, the killer, bullet in the head, and of course hardboiled, then you are not truly a hk movie fan, cause you are missing the experience and feel of these movies. The Killer should be watched just for entertainment, so just take in all the cliché, hero playing, and manipulative melodrama from the girls, sit back and relax, and scream wooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo! During gun-play. "},{"Title":"Redemption with bullets","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Remember Jack Horner (Burt Renyolds) in Boogie Nights? He wanted to make a porno back in the early 70's that an audience would stay around for after they got their satisfaction. He wanted art from what would be sleaze.Recently, I saw a IFC documentary called Chop Socky Cinema Hong Kong in which Woo himself describes his beautifully choreographed gun play style to that of traditional swordplay Hong Kong films that Woo grew up on. And he's right, when we see his violence, its not just to count bodies (well, maybe). But there's a helluva lot of difference between most shoot the character for fun, and forget about him. Chow Yun-Fat's character of Jef or John (depends upon the translation you get of the film) is the ultimate in modern cool, just like Melville's under seen and always watchable hit-man Jef Costello in Woo's favorite film (or one of them, at least) Le Samouari (a must-see, by the way, even Tarnatino listed it as an influence on his Reservior Dogs DVD) Like Costello, Chow's Jef dresses well, is handsome, confident and damn good at killing people. (When the film was released in Hong Kong, scores of men wanted to dress like him.) So far, so commonplace in every film. Line the victims up, and let Woo do the fancy gun play and you would get ... just an adrenaline high. A man who shoots unbelievably well, and that's it.A good Woo film never settles for an empty thrill, or a visual stroke. It's about why he kills, and the choices he made in making a mistake that make us care, that make us want to stay after the guns. The key to a good John Woo film is honor among thieves -- something like this doesn't exist in every world but in a romanticized world of John Woo it's the only thing that makes worth living for a man like Jeff.(Note how he cares about an accidentally shot girl on a beach and consoles her as he drives her to the hospital; Tarantino might have used something like that scene for Reservior Dogs.)Woo grew up on streets as mean or meaner than Martin Scorese, but like Scorsese he was also raised Catholic. So like Scorsese, violence is a factor in the people he portrays, but in the heroes, so is compassion. That woman whom he shot becomes Jeff's salvation. His unrequited love is Platonic; he is a killing machine but also compassionate towards mankind. If this was a Western-cowboy genre, Yun-Fat would have a black hat in the beginning, and then, to save the girl, a white hat. In order to bring his own redemption to the violence he creates, he teams with Inspector Ling (Danny Lee) to fight the requisite bad guys in a church with the now standard Woo doves flying out of the church signifying a final war is about to begin for one man's soul. (The church is an excellent choice, because the film is about the brotherhood of man Jef's now dead mentor was a father to him, Ling's dead partner was a friend; and Sally, who both men try to save from blindness and death, is a holy innocent.The body count is immense. But there is a purpose this time a killer's soul. There is action, but ism spirituality among the characters. They are, granted, almost too one-dimensional at times by Western standards, but they define themselves by actions and little word play. This is the type of film that pleases both our violent natures .., and supplies a little chicken soup for the idea of redemption too (covered in guns, bullets, and blood.) "},{"Title":"the killer","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" its amazing it has really good fighting scenes and full of bloody action!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! its a one to watch for john woo fans ! ! ! ! the fact that to understand it u have to watch it dubbed but you have to put up with that to appreciate the film. its a Asian masterpiece. its similar to a film called hard boiled which is cool too. u no u no no Enter Comment for Die Xe Chang Zions (1989)By submitting this comment you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your comments will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Comments that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph.marmite "},{"Title":"A bloody, over-the-top, all out testosterone flick with extraordinary action sequences, a powerful story, and good characters.","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" * * * ½ In the midst of a gunfight, a hit-man (Chow-Yun Fat) with a code of honor accidentally blinds a club singer (Sally Yeh). Guilt-ridden, his life changes, and he does all he can to try and save her vision and her. Unfortunately, not only does he have a cop (Danny Lee) following him, but a whole horde of bad guys who have been paid to take him down. This movie absolutely rocks. I can't say it much better than that. Director John Woo seriously knows how to set up action sequences; these are stylish and spectacular. These scenes are absolute knockouts; they make normal action films look pathetic. On $2,000,000 bucks, Woo accomplished more than most directors do today on twenty times that. But that's not what makes this film great. It's the characters and story that make this a classic. It's not believable, of course, but the characters are complex individuals and the story is genuinely powerful. Yeah, it's melodramatic, but it works. And Woo moves it along at an unbelievably fast pace. Now, I saw it on an old, poorly subtitled, chopped-up videocassette, and I still loved it. Unfortunately, it was obvious an American studio had gotten hold of it and messed with it, because there were times when a shot or two was clearly cut out. But it was still a dang cool flick. A warning it's a bloody, over-the-top, all-out testosterone flick with a body count higher than most war movies. As far as that goes, this is about as good as it gets extraordinary action sequences, a powerful story, and good characters. But it is a guy's movie in every sense of the word. Of course, being an 18-year-old guy, I absolutely loved it, and so does pretty much every guy looking for a seriously awesome action flick, because this movie delivers. Just don't watch it if you don't want to see hoards of bad guys mowed down bloodily. "},{"Title":"excellent shoot 'em up","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie is great. there's not much of a story here, but that's OK. i wouldn't imagine someone watching a movie called the killer for a deep story line that challenges the viewers mind, man. nah, this is just a story of a hit-man who accidentally blinds a singer on a hit in a bar and feels bad about it. then he wants out of the life and agrees to one last job that will retire him and repair the eyes of the singer he blinded. there's like 20 minutes of the i am falling in love with you crap but the shoot-outs make you quickly forget about it. i have the unrated version which is 1hr. 54min., i think. and about 1hr. 30min of it is straight up violence!!! not like the guy shoots twice and someone falls down...but chow yin fat dumps a whole clip in one person. ruthless. if you love shoot em ups then definitely get this!!! other good ones are a better tomorrow 1 & 2 hard boiled and i think thats all I've seen of the john woo / chow yin fat team-up.(john woo produced the American movie replacement killers starring chow yin fat which was great) i refuse to watch the rated versions of these films. i hate the way America censors stuff. DBI / LowRent "},{"Title":"One hell of a thriller!","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This would have to be one of the greatest John Woo movies that I have ever seen. Chow Yun Fat is brilliant along with the rest of the cast and John Woo is magnificent. I first saw this movie on SBS sometime around 1999 and was almost crying at the end of it. John Woo mixes action and emotion in this tale of loyalty and betrayal about an assassin who accidentally injures a singer during as gun fight. Jeffrey helps Jenny and tries to find a place where she can get cornea transplants. Jeffrey chooses to take one final assignment but is later at war with the triads after his identity was revealed by Inspector Lee who eventually joins Jeffrey in the final epic battle sequence. The action sequences are magnificent and this is a must see thriller for all John Woo fans and action lovers. "}{"Title":"Easily the Best John Woo film!","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I found this move to be the best John Woo film I have ever seen. That is to say I liked it and hate virtually every other Woo film available. Well, at least his Hollywood attempts have been dreadful but his Hong Kong cinema is nice. What I enjoyed about this film is it's dated tendencies. The action and plot is cliché and standard now but the film just has a flair about it that when it was made the producers didn't have a load of cash to invest in high tech special effects and such but they really didn't care. And the final fight scene is probably one of the most impressive gunfights I have ever seen. Only complaint I can muster is in regards to the DVD. The copy I purchased is very bad and the audio track is almost a full second off the mark of the film. It annoys me to no end when a gun fires three times before you hear the first gunshot. Other than that it's a classic film and a must have for any Asian cinema collector. "},{"Title":"Poetry in motion!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In India, very few people actually watch Hongkong movies but I was introduced to its charms by my (action movie aficionado) brother. I saw A Better Tomorrow first and then its sequel and then The Killer. I got hooked onto CYF.....that man was born cool! His good looks definitely helps and I have never seen such suavely dressed men of action before. No wonder that both the films, A Better Tomorrow and The Killer were made into Hindi/Indian films but couldn't hold a candle to the originals.I loved the sharp editing and crisp story telling of the film while the cinematography added to the fast pace of the film. I am squeamish about action scenes and generally try to fast forward the action scenes but in this film, I found myself replaying the action sequences over and over. The action choreography was sheer poetry.....synchronised to perfection, even if, over the top in magnitude.I was quite astounded to find similar ethos and strains in the story telling of Hong Kong movies and Hindi films....love, betrayal, friendship, bonding, righteousness and a larger than life hero.Someday I wish to see CYF in a Hindi film! I have just one grudge, he dies at the end, in all the good movies. Doesn't he deserve a happily ever after? I think he does....and he rocks! His Hollywood movies don't do him enough justice, except may be Anna and the King. He should choose his Hollywood movies more carefully to avoid being typecast.I raise a toast to CYF......Here's to looking at you kid....keep it coming! "},{"Title":"An excellent portrait of love brotherhood and honour","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of my favourite movies of all time. Chow Yun Fat is truly amazing in his role as the killer as is Danny Lee. The whole film superbly blends action with heart felt drama, this is without a comparison the greatest heroic bloodshed movie to ever grace the face of motion picture. John Woo did a masterful job of making this movie and the editing is nothing short of astounding. I would highly recommend the movie to any one and it is an essential to any DVD collection. The most advisable DVD copy to purchase would be the region 2 Hong Kong legends version as the have done an excellent job of remastering the print and subtitles, also the Ben Logun commentary is pretty decent. There only one or two flaws to note, But i would give this movie 10/10 "},{"Title":"Brutally Entertaining","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie some ten years ago and even today, I feel the same way when I see it. The Killer is not a movie that will please the masses. The extreme violence will recall the finale of Woo's A Better Tomorro II, the plot is a hybrid of numerous movies, most obvious of which is Melville's Le Samourai. The style is all Woo. I love The Killer because it is nothing a filmmaker except John Woo would pull out. It's not just the violence, or the style, or the homage. It is all of these mixed precisely to John Woo's specification. This is a movie filled with campy violence mixed with melodrama upped to the Nth degree, and then a few degrees more. Yun-Fat is masterful as the hit man. It is amazing how well he can balance the cool factor of his persona and some genuine humanity. Woo's visual prowess is equally masterful. The camera moves and brisk story telling are marks of a director that knows how to use the tools at his disposal. For me, this remains the high point of the Yun-Fat/Woo collection. Sure there are a few notable films beside this, Hard Boiled is a fantastic cop/robber yarn. But they all lack the execution of The Killer. No matter how many times I see it, I still feel giddy after seeing Yun-Fat sliding backwards in the church running through ammunition. This film is a masterwork. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The killer is one of the best gun movies out of Hong Kong. There are newer, more flamboyant titles to see now, but for all out gun toting action, this is it. Hard Boiled offers more Chow bullet slinging, but this film is the best. I'm sure if you've read the review above you've already got the hang of the plot. It just leaves me to say that the interaction between the killer and the cop is outlandishly camp, but at the same time a vital part of the film's greatness. Sure its melodramatic, overly involved and very camp, but thats what you come to expect from a director who makes films for Hong Kong Audiences. Once you get over this, you can sit back and properly enjoy it!As with most of Woo's films, there is the overly used idea of good and bad, and bad being good and cops understanding killers and killers tolerating cops. We've seen it before, but in this piece it just works so damn well. The scene in the church when Chow and Danny Lee are blowing away everything that enters the building, and doing it whilst lovingly smiling at each other is a joy to behold! From the overly cheesy use of slow motion, to Chow playing a harmonica in his flat, this film oozes originality of style. If you like Chow Yun Fat, gun films and extreme Hong Kong cinema, you have to watch this movie!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies in the history of HK action movies. John Woo's originality and stylistic Gun Battles always amaze me and make my spine tingle. This is definately the movie to watch if your into Glamourized SUPER COOL Gun Battles with many originality and moves seen in games like Max Payne and Rise To Honor the story is very well done not really super in depth and story driven but not horribly done. The Killers story is more dramatic then story driven. And the Gun Battles make this movie shine like no other.It dissapoints me that John Woo doesn't make movies like this anymore when he went to hollywood.And this is one of the movies that SET good standards in the HK movie industry. I reccomend this to anybody who doesn't mind subtitles and it open minded to new things and loves action movies10/10 "},{"Title":"One of John Woo's best film","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is outstanding. This has to be John Woo's greatest work. Chow Yun Fat is great in this movie. I like the way John Woo used different angles to show the gun shots in the movie. The storyline tells a story about a killer name Jeff (Chow Yun Fat) who is hired to kill but also show some emotions about each killing. In one of his jobs he was hired to kill someone and he did but he also by accident shot a singer (Sally Yep) and blinded her. Through out the movie you can sense that Jeff's character felt guilty and regrets what he did. But when he told his boss that he has done his his last job, the boss hired his people to kill him. When Jeff finds out that his boss wants to kill him he has no choice but to try to kill his boss. There was a few scenes when the gun fire was awesome. In the end the gun fire scene was outstanding. In my opinion, the ending is like a tragic love story ending. It could have been a better ending but I like it the way it is.  "},{"Title":"Best of John Woo","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is about as good as Hong Kong cinema gets, in all it's blood-soaked glory.  The over-sentimentalization, the wrought dialogue, and heavy-handed religious imagery (plus the sheer bodycount) takes everything that people love about John Woo movies and pushes them to the limits.  "},{"Title":"A very engrossing and awesome film a must see!!!","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of my faveorites of all time. It is a very good film. An excellent story and plot dubbed with excellent acting and directing. I think this was Chow Yun Fats action film debut. The actors were great in the film. Chow and John Woo proved their ability to act and direct a good action film. Truely amazing!!! "},{"Title":"bullet city","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one hell of an action movie.  They don't even let up a second in this. This is relentless of all action movies combined.  China are so much better at making action movies. America has to cut and censor their stuff that it's dull and boring. But China doesn't give a s%^t.  This movie isn't for the weak hearted. "}{"Title":"DON'T RENT IT, BUY IT, U WON'T BE DISSAPOINTED...","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie encompasses all the elements to make a CLASSIC. An excellent storyline, talented actors, action, this movie kept me totally engrossed within it's story, never once a dull moment. By far my favorite Chow Yun Fat movie ever.  "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS A MUST-SEE","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why people don't like this film. The Killer makes American action movies look tame. But this film isn't just pure action, it has a good plot about loyalty, betrayal, honour and friendship. Don't be put off by the subtitles, the action in this film is so good that it better than Die Hard 100 times over. The shootouts and gunplay are breath- taking and just get better as the films goes on. Chow Yun-Fat is perfect for his role and I don't know why he hasn't been recognised as well in Hollywood. Last of all, if you want to watch a film with a group of friends then watch The Killer trust me won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time.  The action is amazing, but that's not the reason it's my favorite.  What separates this movie from something like The Matrix is the motivation and emotion from the characters.  This movie had heart, something lacking in almost every action movie.  Don't get me wrong, I liked the first Matrix - but I never really felt a connection between any of the characters like I did in The Killer.  Some people's reviews said the acting was terrible... I happened to think it was great. Chow Yun Fat's performance made you actually feel as he did.  Others said the action was unrealistic.  Many people think that two men couldn't possibly kill all those people, so they give it a bad rating.  That's why it's a movie.  If you want realism, go over to the Middle East and watch.The people who didn't enjoy this movie most likely aren't used to emotion blended into an action movie.  This is getting a 10/10. "},{"Title":"DoubleU Ohh DoubleU","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie simply blew me away.. I mean the crazy shootouts are some of the best I have ever seen in my life...together with the shootouts from Hard-Boiled and the final shootout in Scarface.  The story was moving, too. No doubt one of the best action movies ever 10/10 "},{"Title":"One great John Woo movie!","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I consider myself a very big John Woo fan, but i have only seen the Hollywood movies he has done, e.g. Hard Target, Broken Arrow, Face/Off, Mission Impossible 2 and Windtalkers.  I like them all, especially the awesome Face/Off with both John Travolta and Nic Cage starring.  But i thought that to really understand what John Woo was trying to do in his movies i would have to see some of his early Hong Kong movies, so when i got the chance to his acclaimed masterpiece The Killer, i jumped at the opportunity.Although the USA version is all in subs, which does mean you have to read the subs quickly as they go quickly and there is sometimes action going on at the same time, it is one incredible movie.  Put all the complaining about the subs aside, and you have a compelling story about the anti-hero played by Chow Yun-Fat, a blind female singer, a remorsefull cop, the triads on a killing spree plus loads (and i mean LOADS) of guns and bullets flying about the place.  The angles in which John Woo gets of the characters holding the guns is astonishing, his sense for good action is enhanced within this film.But the film isn't without some light-hearted scenes, one including Runt (the cop) and Shrimp Head (Chow Yun-Fat).  To conclude, if you like blood, guns and good old fasioned great action, then John Woos 1989 masterpiece, The Killer is right up your alley.No director does dual handguns better than John Woo!  Check this movie out for sure, possibly the film with most guns fired ever! Classic! "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever!!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a classic. This along with Hard Boiled are two of the best action movies you will ever see. John Woo is the master at action filmmaking. Chow Yun-Fat is asia's version of Robert DeNiro. The scene at the end in the church is just badass. 10/10 coz it rocks!! "},{"Title":"Welcome to the new era","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I own many of John Woo's flicks but consider this the best. (Granted the bullet count like say 'Hard Boiled' is beyond magazine/revolver count at least he puts a couple of reloads in there. The others we assume are done at lightning speed off camera.) However the key to this movie is Chow Yun-fat performance, one of his best roles. From the slick beginning to the tragic end he becomes the icon of hired killers embracing both ninja like cunning and human individualism together. Yes the gun play is of course outstanding - and the birds still fly at the right moment - but this movie stands apart as a Flag ship for John Woo due to it's simplicity as a tale about honor, trust and loyalty and what separates men from dogs. "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The killer definetly is a better movie than most of Woo`s Hollywood productions. Still, I didn`t find this movie a true classic.There are few really stupid moments in this movie, (like the one where is the boat race, it really isn`t possible to lose sight of a boat or the waves which the boat creates when racing in the sea), which spoil the sharpest edge of the movie. Another detail which disturbed me, was the subtitles. Sometimes there is a long sentence which just flashes on the screen so you really don`t have enough time to read it. When this happens occassionally it becomes annoying. The action is pretty good, altough it is lame when compared to hard boiled.Don`t get me wrong, this definetly isn`t a bad movie I just expected more from it and I even paid 50e to buy this DVD which includes the normal version and 30minutes longer version. I have only seen the longer version because the normal only has french subtitles/dubbing.  "},{"Title":"Good action film?  Yes.  A cinematic masterpiece?  Hardly, unless you are a 100% action afficionado.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun Fat is very cool, no doubt. The outrageous gun battles are positively kick-ass. But to call this movie a masterpiece is an overstatement. Is The Killer regarded so highly because John Woo's action style became so influencial? The plot here is boring and uninvolving. The humane sensibilities (the blind girl, the brotherly bond between Yun Fat and Danny Lee, and those Dumbo and Mickey Mouse gags) thrown in amids all the blood and violence are cute but ultimately fail to become really touching, especially with that cheesy background music and silly religious allusions.  All in all, this is an above average action film. If you are an action fan, and, hence, interested first and foremost in action sequences, definitely see it and enjoy what John Woo does best. If you are looking for something more, you may want to think twice before seeing it.  "},{"Title":"There is no other film like it on this planet...","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely nothing I have ever watched could prepare me for The Killer. The first shootout grabbed me by the throat and didn't let go for the rest of the film. I'd never seen so much blood spilled onscreen; it never occurs to you that bullet wounds are a lot messier than most Hollywood action films would have you believe. To me, it helped drive home a point that such violence is truly horrible in every sense of the word and it's to Woo's credit that he never flinchs from portraying the realistic effects of violence on those it's been inflicted on, physically or psychologically.That's really the film is all about the vicious, seemingly inescapable cycle of violence. Once you're within the circle of blood, you're in for life. No way out, no exits. The ending drives that point home with the force of a .44 Magnum slug. How many action films can claim that? "}{"Title":"THE BEST ACTION MOVIE EVER MADE","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the best ever made action movie from the master of action JOHN WOO (mission impossible 2). Chow Yun-Fat and Danny Lee play sensationell. If you want to see a great action masterpiece run to the next videoshop and buy this mega movie. "},{"Title":"This is one of my top-ten favorites","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love every part of this movie.  Chow Yun Fat is hopelessly cute, the action is awesome, and the beautiful visual details make this movie a delight to watch.  John Woo's signature doves in slow motion flight are gorgeous and a great counterpoint to all the gunfire.  I strongly prefer the subtitled version to any dubbed versions I've seen. "},{"Title":"classic of the action genre","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the film that put John Woo on the map.  It rivals Luc Besson's Leon as being my favorite film about a hitman, I'd have a hard time choosing one over the other though.  Much like Leon, it's a very unique film in the action/crime genre.  Also much like Leon, it stands out from other films in it's category.  I've seen several Hong Kong action films, some are good, a lot are pretty forgettable.  The film not only draws upon Hong Kong's rich kung fu tradition, but also from the American, European, and Japanese gangster films Woo is a devotee of (Ken Takakura and Alain Delon are big influences on Chow Yun Fat's performance, Jean-Pierre Melville's Le Samourai is frequently cited as an influence I've seen Le Samourai, contrary some people, The Killer is not a straight remake of Le Samourai, it does borrow from it to be sure, but is a completely different film.  Rather baffling is the claim that Chow Yun-Fat using a gun in each hand is derived from Melville's film, as I've read in one book on Hong Kong films, which will remain nameless), Samuel Peckinpah, Martin Scorsese,and Akira Kurosawa (all of whom are admired by Woo).The film is beautifully shot by Woo and cinematographer Wong Wing Hang, and the action is excellently coreographed by Ching Siu-Tung, director of A Chinese Ghost Story and other films.  The shootout at the church at the end is one of the most incredible action sequences ever commited to film.  Anyone the least bit interested in action films owes it to themselves to see this film.  I would include this film, along with A Better Tomorrow I&II, A Bullet in the Head, Hard-Boiled, and Face/Off on a required viewing list for anyone planning to direct an action film.A lot of things, like the slightly sappy love story, the none-too-subtle Christian imagery, and the over-the-top melodramatics create a slightly campy feel, but I think it's appropriate, and creates a sense of not taking things too seriously.  I think a good action film should be a bit over-the-top, this one certainly qualifies. "},{"Title":"The Killer-poetry in motion","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The KillerIf you've never seen a John Woo film, then nothing you read, nothing short of seeing one of his films, can really convey the unique, completely over-the-top style that is his signature.  He consistently manages to simultaneously convey sheer frenzy and the absolute, even dance-like grace of his heroes in the midst of the frequent shoot-outs that populate his films.  He takes archetypal characters that might appear flat and cliched in most action films-the renegade cop, the ruthless crime lord-and establishes them as representations of good and evil on a mythic scale.  The Killer is one of the best examples of Woo's virtuosic talent.  If you think you know everything that action films can be but have never seen a Woo film, guess what?  You don't.  If you think action films can't be elevated to the level of art, you need to see one of Woo's masterpieces (as opposed to his lesser films like, in my opinion, Broken Arrow.)  The Killer is one of those masterpieces.There isn't really all that much one can say about a film like The Killer since so much of the experience of watching it is just the pleasure of watching the meticulously choreographed firefights and other action sequences.  In Hong Kong, henchmen must be cheap because the bad guy in The Killer is able to hire an entire soccer team worth of expendable guys in white uniforms to storm the killer's house and still has enough money left to hire a small army for the climactic church sequence.  However, Woo also has a talent for establishing themes and motifs and exploring real issues. The Killer stars Chow Yun-Fat, for my money the most charismatic and compelling action star in the world today, as the title character, a killer for hire, and Danny Lee as Inspector Li, the cop obsessed with catching the killer.  The theme of redemption surfaces repeatedly in the film.  The killer repeatedly attempts to help those he has mistakenly injured.  The killer's friend betrays him and then attempts to redeem himself.  Woo also explores issues of duality, as the cop discovers that the criminal he's so obsessed with bringing to justice is a lot like himself.  True, these are the same issues that any number of totally disposable mainstream cop films deal with, but the cinematic poetry Woo brings to them makes them seem fresh and meaningful.Other great films by John Woo Face/Off, Face/Off, Hard-Boiled, and Face/Off  "},{"Title":"Best action film ever made","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't be disturbed by the subtitles. This film includes action scenes which have been copied by Hollywood in various forms. John Woo is indeed the master of modern action cinema. He has combined this action with a good plot, which makes this film so valuable. "},{"Title":"A brilliant masterpiece","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really like this movie. In my opinion its one of the two best movies John Woo ever made (the other one is Hard Boiled). It has excellent choreographed and breathtaking shootouts, a very cool hero (Chow Yun-Fat at his best), a good story (although I think that most of the European and American audiences do not really understand the Honor-plot) and it is brilliant photographed. What more can I say ? A brilliant masterpiece ! "},{"Title":"John Woo's best.  No questions asked.","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killer may not be the best movie ever made, but without a doubt, it IS action master John Woo's best movie.  Chow Yun-Fat as tortured hitman Jeff, Danny Li as, well, Inspector Li, and frightening Fui-On Shing as bad guy Johnny Weng means awesome cast.  Gunfights galore, with Chow Yun-Fat's trademark two-gun style of battle leaving many a bad guy looking like Swiss cheese.  There's even a couple punches thrown, and a single, rather quick-but-grisly thing with a French chef's knife.  If you can't stomach the violence, don't watch the movie, because that's basically what makes this what it is.  If you love John Woo and Chow Yun-Fat movies, see this now if you haven't.  If you have, hell, watch it again!  It's that good, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"WOW! AMAZING!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow! I could not believe this movie. I couldn't believe the comments I heard about this movie and I saw stuff like Violent piece of garbage Trash. Well obviously these people have no taste in movies. This was, yes, extremely violent, but it had an excellent story to it and explosive and amazing action! Action-packed all the way, it will probably even make you cry! It is just so amazing - this is the movie that made me the Hong Kong action fan that I am today! I LOVE THIS MOVIE! Check for other user comments if you want the story spoiled for you, why don't you just rent it! I guarantee after you will want to own it like me! "},{"Title":"Don't miss this movie.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun-Fat plays a killer named Jeffrey Chow. He is hired to kill someone at a club. In the shooting that ensues (a beautifully filmed sequence) he tries to save a singer, Jenny (Sally Yeh). Accidentally, his gun goes off near her eyes- and Jenny almost loses her sight. Chow feels so guilty that he tries to raise money for an operation. So, he accepts one last job, to kill a gangster. But, he is spotted by the police. Now, the person who hired him wants to kill him. The policeman tracking him, Inspector Lee (Danny Lee), realises that Chow is no ordinary killer. See the movie to find out what happens. The action scenes in this film are stunning. It contains extreme violence. Like John Woo's A Better Tomorrow, this is very well acted, and will make you cry at times. The Killer is much better than Hard Target and Broken Arrow. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Comment of The Killer","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the best film that John Woo has ever produced. Firstly, John Woo express his Chinese people brave spirit into the film. Meanwhile, the story would be demonstrated all his hardworking life & professional spirit in HK movie industry. Secondly, Chow Yun Fat & Danny Li are also suitable actors for playing the characters of killer & cop in the film. The last fighting part in church is also produced with high standard.When we compare this film with other HK films in nowadays, we will discover that recent HK film producers & actors have already lost their professional idea & spirit. As a HK movie supporter, I hope that there would be more HK film producers who would get the same professional spirit & knowledge just like John Woo.Then, HK movie industry would get a better tomorrow.  "}{"Title":"Just see it","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'The Killer' by master action director John Woo is one of his masterpieces. We all know Woo has an enormous reputation and deservedly so. Together with his heroic bloodshed films 'A Better Tomorrow' and 'Bullet in the Head' this is one of his best movies.  Forget the American movies he made because they aren't the real Woo (not even 'Face/Off'). When you see 'The Killer' you'll know what his reputation is about. He wrote, directed and co-edited the film. If Hollywood is smart they let him do the same. Fortunately Woo didn't want to make an American remake of the movie which was supposed to star Richard Gere (Blahhh..). So watch 'The Killer' and you see the man who made the best action movies in the world in top form. You might even cry at the end. Maybe then you can imagine why Sam Raimi laughed his a** off when he was asked to check on Woo when he was shooting 'Hard Target'. Don't you just love those ignorant film companies!  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie and I've seen quite a few","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that I'm something of a Killer fanatic.  I've seen this movie over 30 times, subtitled and dubbed.It will remain forever the greatest action-gunfighting movie of all time. If this movie had been an American film or in fact released in a period in which the Mafia and action movies had not already become dated it would be far more well known.Chow Yun Fat is nothing less than 100% believable as a hitman trying to get out of the game.  The supporting cast such as Danny Lee as Inspector Li is generally good.  And Chu Kong who plays Sidney is top notch.  Unlike most action movies the acting does not actually detract from movie.But this movie will live forever for one major reason  the gunplay over the course of several scenes is so majestic that you forget that there is only one karate kick in the whole movie.  Underrated is the ability of a movie to present violence with style that reaches balletic properties.  Choreographed with the precision of an Olympic figure skating routine, Woo takes a tired concept and makes it seem new.Does this movie have problems? Sure.  Realism, not here.  Bad acting? Jennie's character is painful to watch.  Lines?  There are some awfully bad ones.  Any reloading?  No time for that.  But like any great movie the flaws are dwarfed by the film's strength.But there are so many great moments and reciting them would ruin it for someone else.  Go watch this movie and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Appraisal","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very possibly the best film ever made.  It features several amazing gunfights, and a great plot. A true classic.  "},{"Title":"A deeply touching story, marred only by excessive violence","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I started to watch this movie, I was in doubts about its quality, but within fifteen minutes I understood that I was watching a masterpiece of cinema, with some innovativecamera techniques and lots of melodrama and action. However, even though the violence is essential to the story, at some points it becomes tedious, which was the only disappointment. Otherwise, the finale was excellent and will remain with me for a long time. "},{"Title":"the incomparable masterpiece by John woo","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the best action drama ever made. I would call it a masterpiece by Master John woo. "},{"Title":"Number one on my short list.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Please don't dismiss this film as another Face/Off, Big Hit, Replacement Killer mindless action farce.  Or even Woo's Chineese classics such as A better tomorrow or Hard boiled.  This film from character development, to story developement, to imagery is one finest examples of film making I have ever seen.  A tragic hero trying to find redemption from his crimes by committing more crimes, This is one of the finest films I have had the pleasure of seeing.   "},{"Title":"WITHOUT DOUBT THE GREATEST FILM EVER MADE... JOHN WOO AT HIS VERY BEST...","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is the best film ever made believe me.John Woo with this film proves he is the greatest the film director ever forget Speilberg, Scorese, Coppola, Capra, De Milne and Wells.This film is as close you can get to the perfect film.I will not tell you a thing about this film because I cannot do it real justice but what I will say is find it at all costs, preferably in sub-titles and watch a film to remember and believe me after watching it you will feel the same...A MASTERPIECE... JOHN WOO IS A MASTER...   "},{"Title":"John Woo's best film!!!","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is John Woo's greatest achievement in film.  This movie has everything, action, romance, action, character development, and most of all action!. Chow Yun-Fat is great as Jeffery, and Danny gives an unbelievable performance as Inspector Li.  I must have seen this film about twenty times, and it just keeps getting better with each viewing. "},{"Title":"Woo's best","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For many THE KILLER was the film that put Woo on the map and helped Americans discover Hong Kong films.It's a Peckinpah inspired masterpiece with some incredible set pieces which are choreographed in a manner that resembles a Gene Kelly type production number.  Macho but with grace and style.  In this case loud, controlled chaos that goes over the top, but in an acceptable, outrageous manner.The Killer is sometimes very corny, touching, cliche'd, stylized, and brilliant.  I love the fact that Chow Yun Fat is called Mickey Mouse and his friend/nemesis is called Dumbo.Woo followed this one with his not as successful version of Die Hard called Hard Boiled.  The finale of the Killer was partially re-created for Woo's best American film (so far) Face Off.Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Dare we say the perfect movie experience","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  truly an amazing film experience.  this is the first movie that ever made me cry.  And an action movie no less!  The acting is painfully believeable, every shot is taken for maximum emotional impact, the cinematograph slick, the action unparalleled.  this is an action movie to take your date to. "}{"Title":"If there is a perfect action film; this is it.","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this first several years ago on television and thought it was brilliant so when I saw it for sale on DVD I snapped it up and enjoyed watching it as much as I did the first time. If there is such a thing as a perfect action film them this is probably it. John Woo is clearly a master of the genre and this is the best of his films that I've seen.Chow Yun-Fat plays Ah Jong, the eponymous killer who wants to do one last job in order to pay for an operation to help restore the eyesight of Jenny, a singer he accidentally blinded in a shoot out. On his trail is Insp. Li Ying, who grows to respect his quarry as the film progresses. After his final job Ah Jong finds that he also has the Triads after him as they decide they would rather kill him than pay him.As one would expect from an action film there are lots of exciting shoot outs all of which are excellently choreographed; expect to see his trademark doves and characters standing so close to each other that their arms cross as they point pistols at each other. The mood is lightened by some nice comic scenes, although it never resorts to the comic one liners one might expect in Hollywood action films of the time. Of course being an action film there is a certain lack of realism; guns don't run out of ammunition unless it is time to trade up to another gun and a good guy with a pistol can get the better of a dozen men with automatic weapons. This doesn't detract from the film however it is just something that goes with the genre.The main actors were all good and made me care about the characters, as stated before the direction and Choreography were top notch. As well as his direction John Woo must be congratulated for writing such a good story. If you like action films you really need to see this, it warrants a place in the DVD collection of any such fan.These comments are based on watching the film in Cantonese with English subtitles although an English dub is available on the DVD I bought. "},{"Title":"Hasn't anyone ever heard of Sam Peckinpah??","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There was nothing in this film that I haven't seen in a Peckinpah movie in terms of its use of violence and action sequences.  Not one original shot or cut or piece of action choreography.   What it unfortunately does not steal from (or should I more kindly say was not influenced by) Peckinpah, are some interesting characters and an involving story. Or action sequences that are unique and are not repetitive from one sequence to the next.I realize that this film is for hardcore action fans, in fact hardcore is the perfect word.  For this film is basically the same as a porn flick.  It's only purpose is to set up scenarios in which one can see lots of hot action.  I've no problem with that but, where porn flicks at least give one some sexual stimulation, this film offers not even that.  I mean, COME ON!!  How many times can one sit through endless scenes of guys running at each other with both barrels blasting and falling backwards in slow motion???  If quantity is all one is after (and Woo proudly advertised the movie guaranteed 10,000 bullets!) then here is your ticket.  But if quality has any meaning to you, get ready for major disappointment.  The only thing different from one scene to the next are the sets and the wardrobe. Every scene is choreographed the same way, and shot and edited the same way.  What is really pathetic to me is that Woo shows some promise in setting up some of his scenarios, but instead of making a movie out of them he just bores the audience with a two-hour exhibition.  Sorry, but bore is the word.  I felt like I was watching the same reel over and over again, one scene blended into another. That is not quality.  I can only hope that Woo will take a look at some of the other aspects of Peckinpah's films and get influenced by some of them! "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Action Film","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	John Woo holds the distinction, not only of being the top director of actions films, probably in the history of the cinema, but of having made the quintessential movie of the genre.  `The Killer,' made in 1989, is quite simply, the perfect action film.  Featuring an outstanding performance by star Yun-fat Chow, as Jeff, the killer of the title, it is a showcase of the specific action sequences by which the standard for the entire industry has since been formulated.  But what makes it truly remarkable, is that the story lives up to the action, as well.  Chow is a professional killer who accidentally blinds a young singer, named Jennie (Sally Yeh), during the fulfillment of a contract.  Filled with remorse over the incident, he befriends her, and ultimately begins to care deeply for her.  Up to this point in his life, he has killed people he believed deserving of their fate, but now he's changed; he's beginning to comprehend the sanctity of life.  There is one more contract he must fulfill, however, for which he is to be paid one-and-a-half million dollars, after which he will retire from the life and see to it that Jennie gets the cornea transplant that will restore her vision.  Further conflict arises, though, when the man who hired Jeff decides to have him killed as well, thereby saving him some money, and tying up what he considers to be some loose ends in the bargain. 	Never before, or since, has such extreme violence been so well integrated into the story, in any film; and Woo's sense of measure is impeccable.  The violence is only as graphic as necessary, in order to be effective in any given scene, and the gunfights are choreographed with such precision and timing that it's like a kind of visual poetry.  Woo, in fact, has given a lyrical, almost wistful feel, overall, to the film, which accentuates the contrast between the romance and the violence even more.  His deft use of slow motion in the action sequences, and imagery (especially in the scenes which take place in a church), are further examples of the artistry and detail that make this such a great movie.  The care taken with the story itself is a rare thing for a film of this genre; not to say that action films, in general, are typically wanting in plot or characterization, but in most cases, more often than not the story does defer to the action.  But not in this one.  Jeff's epiphany, for instance, and his feelings for Jennie, are played without the least bit of misplaced sentiment or pretentiousness, for which credit must be given to Woo and his stars; in the hands of lesser talent, it could all have easily played out as maudlin and sappy, and been used as nothing more than a framework upon which to build the action. 	The supporting cast includes Kenneth Tsang, Chu Kong, and Danny Lee, who gives an especially impressive performance as Lieutenant Li.  `The Killer,' is simply nothing less than the definitive film of it's genre, the `Citizen Kane,' if you will, of action films.  Even given the subjective nature of cinema, this film is so well done, and Woo has obviously made such an impact in his field, that it must be considered as one among the all-time great movies in the history of film.  This is a must-have for any serious video collection.                  "},{"Title":"Best John Woo film ever!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Loud, violent explosive Woo film about a killer who wants to do one last job to restore the eyesight of a woman he accidentally blinded.  Naturally, everything goes wrong.  Film has superb action sequences, and some very quiet efficient ones as well.  The acting is OK, but Fat and Lee are excellent as opponents.  Their bonding scenes, while periously close to gay love scenes (I'm not kidding), work!  Again, as with most Woo films, reality takes a back seat numerous times, women are little more than victims and some of the dialogue scenes are laughable (I think on purpose).  Also the plot was old in the 1930s.  But the action sequences more than make up for that.  Eventually it seems like nothing more than men playing with their toys to see who has the biggest gun (hint, hint), and ther male honor stuff is a bit much.  Also, we didn't need to see a little girl get hit by a stray bullet.  Other than those (small complaints) this movie is superb!  See it!!! "},{"Title":"An unmitigated bloodbath and little else","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This piece of filth had absolutely no redeeming qualities whatsoever, save some good cinematography. The body count in this movie makes Natural Born Killers look like Sesame Street material. How many times do we need to see bullets whizzing through people in nearly frame-by-frame slow motion? While I recognize the value of exaggeration for artistic effect, the gunfight scenes in this movie--all 3,827 of them--are so unrealistic as to cross the line into self-parody. And don't insult my intelligence by trying to have me sympathize with an assassin. A dirtbag is a dirtbag, no matter how tender he might be to his girlfriend. "},{"Title":"Overhyped yet very good","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must admit that I'm a little bit perplexed with all this best film ever comments. The Killer IS a film worth seeing, but a master-piece bar none it ain't. All those droolings about wonderful characters and great melodramatic moments are a little bit over the top. What you get with The Killer is entertainment at its best. What makes this film great are NOT melodramatic moments, but Woo's ability to make them work in a fast paced action flick without getting pathetic. And if you're looking for character development, go and see some other film. Characters in The Killer are straight out of Japanese samurai films. Faceless bad guys, and 2 honourable heroes looking for justice in modern Hong Kong. What makes them interesting is that they defy Hollywood hero stereotypes. So don't get misguided by all those over-reacted comments, and just see the film. It's very good and different from western point of view, but it's not quite the best film ever.. "},{"Title":"Hardcore male macho action...","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE KILLERAny red-blooded hetro male would breath heavy watching Chow Yun-Fat, hyper cool with deep inner feelings, shoot the eyes and brains out of 100's of bad guys while saving the innocent little girl playing on the beach and running to blind and vulnerable Sally Yeh's womanly warm loving arms as she sings so sexily Face to Face.No other motion picture comes as close to PURE TESTOSTERONE. "},{"Title":"Horrible! I _do not_ understand people's obsession with this movie","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I'll admit that MI 2 had some really, really great action sequence. I'd heard a little about John Woo and I loved what he had to offer in that movie, so I consulted IMDB to come up with his seminal work - the best he has to offer. This, apparently, I'm sad to say, is it.But one word comes to mind when describing this movie ass. Pure, cinematic, ass. The music is of the twangy, sythesized variety that makes me glad the eighties are way behind us. The acting - horrible. The special effects? My god... abysmal - i.e. at one point in the movie they actually use a bona-fide /human voice/ to make the sound effects for a meowing cat. It's hard to keep a straight face when the movie does things like that to you.I read other people's comments about this movie and I almost wonder if I actually watched the same thing. This movie was _horrible_. Not even Ishtar or Waterworld horrible - more along the lines of Manos, the Hands of Fate, get me out of the goddamn theater, I'd rather watch paint dry, horrible.I could _almost_ forgive the acting. Woo isn't known for that. People don't typically see his movies for the acting. But they do see them for the action. Not surprisingly, here, too, this movie fails miserably. Watching Yun-Fat mow through small armies of baddies as they explode into gratuituous mists of ketchup was fun for the first, oh, seven minutes. Wait, not even. Maybe four. Then it's all downhill from there as you realize that what I have just described will occur ad nauseum for the next 110 minutes with not much variation. Somewhere in there Woo spins a yarn about a blind pianist and a hitman with a conscience (/that's/ never been done before), but, to be honest, I fell asleep around the 70 minute mark and never did find out what happened with that part of the story. Trust me, the impressions I got up to that point tell me that it wouldn't have been very important anyways.Rather, this film is concerned pretty much entirely with gunbattles. Gunbattle after gunbattle. After gunbattle. After gunbattle. And so on. Hey, I like a good gunfight as much as the next guy. But they are not exceptionally well choreographed - the least of which I would have expected from Woo. They all go something like this - several hundred armed thugs come tear-assing through a miniscule chokepoint such as, oh, say, a doggie door, only to be trepanned but Yun-Fat's dual Beretta's. Rinse, wash and repeat. There. That's it. I've just told you the whole movie. Now kindly spend your $2.99 at Blockbuster on something else. /Anything/ else.What is the magic of this movie? What in the hell were people smoking when they commented on it? I for one am at a total loss. Unless you have a real, real hard-on for action (we're talking like, the size of a Buick here), I would highly recommend against this movie.Rating 3/101 for killing more people that any other movie I've seen before. 2 bonus points for having the balls to actually use human meowing in the movie instead of unadulterated cat meowing (what, was the cat union or something?). "},{"Title":"Good but not as good as I'd heard...","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'd been told a long time ago that I needed to watch this film because it is some of John Woo's best work.  However while I thought it was excellent in some ways I found it falling extremely short in other areas.The film was done very well from a stylistic point of view.  It had good pacing and the characters made you care about them.  The overall story was pretty good too.The gunplay scenes however I just found to be really so over the top as to be a detraction.   Not since episodes of The A-Team have I seen such an endless flow of bullets and bad guys.  The hero rarely reloads his gun, especially in the early part of the film.  Also there are numerous careless continuity and accuracy  errors.  (A trunk-full of weapons that is apparently untouched after a grenade is blows the trunk of the car up....a supposedly  experienced hitman who doesn't know that unloaded automatics lock into open position...Inspector Li not knowing The Killer's name even though the girl has been shouting it all through the previous scenes.)I'd like to see more of John Woo's work but I hope that he took more care in his other productions. "},{"Title":"The Killer fails to engage","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I came to John Woo's The Killer, a Hong Kong production, after having seen much of his American work including the sublime Face/Off--a film I love not in spite of it's insanity, but because of it--and the regrettable sci-fi action drudgery of Paycheck. In my mind, Face/Off was the perfection of the Woo aesthetic--bullet ballet, good/evil versus evil/good, maudlin sentimentality, gun battles on the beach, gun battles in church, and doves. Lots of doves. Those films that came before it were warm-ups and those after were tired retreads.But no proper consideration of Woo can be made without seeking out his most critically acclaimed works The Killer. Those critics who came to The Killer in 1989 unfamiliar with the director's work were no doubt impressed by his unique action sensibility that lovingly frames bullet wound upon bullet wound as injured bodies fly through the air and through conveniently placed panes of glass. Surrounding the violence is a story that is unapologetically melodramatic acted out by classic types the renegade cop, the hit man with a conscience and the wilting chanteuse who loves him. In The Killer, she is blind, but is the only one who sees the good in him.By 2009, Woo's style has been heavily imitated, parodied, and fully integrated into the American action movie aesthetic. The Matrix being a prime example. Watching The Killer now is not nearly as invigorating as it must have been to its initial audience. We can't help but see it in part as an artifact. Just as watching Psycho won't have today's seen-it-all jaded horror fan fainting in the theater, The Killer won't substantially impact those raised on Woo imitators. Woo has done himself no favors by endlessly recycling the same visual tricks in so many of his later films. The ill-placed doves in the climactic moments of Paycheck invited derisive howls.The Killer is an exercise in style and as a result fails to engage on a basic human level. The endless parade of canon fodder who continue to fall in lovingly rendered scenes of carnage make no connection with the viewer. They are a means to a bloody end. They arrive in wave after wave never providing a substantial challenge to conscientious killer Ah Jong (Chow Yun-Fat) and arch-rival Inspector Li-Ying (Danny Lee). Jennie is forever helpless, always getting in Ah Jong's way, but providing him with the desire to go straight, a desire which proves problematic.Ah Jong and Li-Ying are super human taking down wave after wave of machine gun-toting baddies and are only really challenged in the climax when the screenplay demands it. Is such a hero even interesting? When the hero is seemingly invulnerable what's to keep the audience worried and therefore invested in the film. John Woo does spend a fair amount of screen time exploring the fact that good and evil live in everyone and that a hero or villain can be both a good guy or bad guy, but the conversations that spell out this ideas are blunt, repetitive, and uninteresting.The film does have a dynamite sequence, however, involving a political assassination that is tense and that concludes with a stand-off in a hospital emergency room where a little girl's life hangs in the balance. It's the film's high point and shows Woo at the height of his powers. There's greater economy in these moments. The action is tighter and there is no heavy handed dialogue to weigh it all down. "}{"Title":"Delivers on action and on emotional depth","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jeff is a professional killer.  During a hit in a night-club, he accidentally blinds a beautiful singer, Jenny.  Guilt stricken Jeff becomes her guardian and falls in love with her, Jenny not knowing his past.  Jeff takes one last job in order to get enough money to pay for a sight restoration operation &#150; the killing of triad boss Tong Weng.  After the job Johnny Weng (who sanctioned the job) decides to kill Jeff rather than pay him, however Jeff escapes.  Meanwhile rouge cop Lee is put on the case with his partner.  The closer the two men get they find they have much in common despite being on opposite sides of the law, leading to the two finding a common enemy.With Bullet Proof Monk out in a few weeks I was preparing myself for it by re-watching some of Chow Yun Fat's back catalogue.  I had only seen the Killer once and always preferred the flat out action of Hard Boiled as my choice of Woo/Chow films.  However the repeat watch helped me uncover elements of the film that I'd forgotten over the years.  Although there are several big action scenes, it is not start to finish action, instead it is quite touching and thoughtful.  The `cop and killer who respect each other' has been done a lot and it does feel a little worn, but this film sill carries it off.  The scenes between Lee and Jeff are well done and the common ground they find is more suggested than rammed down our throats.The action scenes seem a little old when you see that every action movie now tries to imitate this style &#150; but this was the 1980's!  And having said that it still is exciting and well directed.  The climax to the film is soul destroying and I always thing it means that violence only leads to destruction, no matter what side you are on.Chow Yun Fat is a little less expressive in this film than others and it bothered me for a bit.  However later in the film his range is more evident &#150; the man really is a movie star (and hopefully Bullet Proof Monk will use him well).  Danny Lee is OK but not as good, only towards the end does his character start to develop, plus he didn't have the screen presence of Chow.  Earlier in the day I had watched Longhu Fengyun with them both in it and had thought the same thing &#150; maybe I was carrying over my feelings from that film, but there you go.Overall this is the perfect remedy for things like Cradle 2 The Grave or Romeo Must Die or all these other films that try to copy the HK style without success.  Here Woo not only delivers on the action but also has a story and characters that have emotional depth that involves the audience.  Almost 15 years old and still great by modern standards. "},{"Title":"The most honest and object review you'll get","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I understand that the budget for this movie was extremely low when compared to that of the typical Hollywood blockbuster, but that is irrelevant when considering how poorly John Woo handled the film.The good1. The 4 male leads (the assassin/his friend + cop/his friend) did a very good job of portraying their characters, their emotions and their physical pain. 2. The male leads all have really realistic/memorable lines. 3. There are several ideas introduced along with the action including, the assassin's change of heart regarding his profession, the way he and the cop come to realize they aren't really as different as they wanted to think they were, and the idea of being passed up by changing times (the old-school triads versus the new street-punk mafia wannabe's).The bad1. The female lead is annoying at best. Moreover, why does her character stay around through all the mayhem???2. Magic bullet-growing guns that occasionally need reloading3. Every action scene is the same the good guys are sitting/standing around and literally HUNDREDS of dudes come charging in through the front door in order to get mowed down by a hailstorm of bullets. Then, MORE guys rush in (sometimes through windows). Most of the baddies don't even bother shooting when they rush in and the ones that do shoot would apparently lose in a duel with a stormtrooper.4. The extras/stuntmen all flip about when they get shot like in some James Bond film. Some guys got thrown 20 feet or so by getting shot!5. The trained assassin apparently feels the need to empty 15-20 shots into each dude and all the baddies wait in line for their turn rather than firing while the main character goes agro on one dude.6. The assassin and the cop survive through several shootouts, killing hundreds of guys while not getting hurt. 7. None of the events have any semblance of rational behind them. Why does the Triad boss want the assassin dead? Who knows? Why does he keep trying after losing literally hundreds of henchmen? Who knows? Why does the chick stay with the assassin after she finds out who he is? Who knows? Why does the leader of the triads TAKE PART in the shootout alongside all of his minions????? The worst part is that these are all easily fixed problems and yet John Woo never thought it necessary. 8. No one can get 3 perfect shots off from hundreds of yards away while standing on a bobbing boat! Moreover, after the assassination, WHY does he attract attention to himself by jetting off in the boat in front of everyone??? Why doesn't he just dump the gun, put on a wetsuit and swim away underwater?? 9. Even after things go south and everyone wants him dead, the assassin STILL RISKS going back to his own apartment and his girlfriend's apartment several times!! 10. Why are the triads (especially the boss) riding around in old, cheap cars with no protection?? On that note, couldn't the most powerful crime syndicate in Asia afford more than pistols and a few uzis for its members?? Surely they would have thought of some different tactics after the first few shootouts?? Maybe a rocket or a carbomb or poison or something else??? "},{"Title":"If this is art, then what is Hero?, if this is action, then what is Hard Boiled?","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had expected a stylish action packed film by John Woo as usual, but the movie unfortunately was too slow paced, so I waited, waited, waited, but it never came till the final part which I will mention later. If this is not an action movie, then why it is sold as an action or why a lot of people call it an action movie, one of the best action movies ever etc.? If this is an action, then what is Hard Boiled, Hard Target, Face Off etc.? How many action scenes does The Killer have? Well very few for sure! However, lack of action is not the only flaw of this movie. The movie is not stylish and artistic, despite this is a John Woo movie. It was one of the cheapest movies I have ever seen, I am sorry. The cinematography, direction were cheap except a two or three scenes, for example the restaurant scene at the beginnings. In some scenes, honestly, it was like a third class TV movie. Therefore, there is a huge gap between The Killer and Hard Boiled on all counts. When that long action sequence starts, I was overjoyed, but even I was disappointed, because it was not that long, it was not that big and it was not that great as the hype claims. For example the street gunfight in Hard Target is one billion times better than the whole movie! It is written that hundreds of bullets were spent. Even if this is true, I couldn't feel it. May be I am wrong, I should not have seen this movie, expecting a fast paced real action like Hard Boiled. And some people call this as art. if this is art, if this is artistic, then what are Zhang Yimou movies such as Hero or House of Flying Daggers? I was not impressed or entertained by the movie personally and see it as one of the weakest John Woo movies. And there is a comparison which probably the most painful comparison I have ever come across According to some people, The Killer recalls Le Samourai and it is as great as that. I won't make a comment on this. "},{"Title":"Stupid, cheap, and boring","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so badly done, it is hard to believe. It is just a complete mess. On top of the countless continuity problems, what is really annoying is the totally ludicrous and simple-minded plot. The terrible acting also contributes to the overall cheapness of this movie (especially the blind girl and the stereotypical gangsters come to mind).2/10 "},{"Title":"A Mind-numbingly Repetitive Violence","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do not understand the cult following of this John Woo film.  John Woo, according to his own admission, was influenced by the dime-a-dozen Japanese gangster movies of the 1960's and 1970's.  Killers is just an imitation of those cheap Japanese gangster movies.   Just like many of those picayunish Japanese movies, the plot of Killers is cheaply melodramatic and sentimental.  (A guilt-ridden professional assassin tries to help a young woman, who went blind after being accidentally shot by him.  While trying to arrest him, a hard-boiled police detective becomes friendly with this good-guy assassin.  The good-guy assassin's criminal buddy follows the thieves' honor code to the letter and dies for him.  The good-guy killer asks the detective to use his cornea to cure the blind woman, but both his eyes are blown away during the climatic gun battle.  Oh, please.  How much more sentimental and melodramatic can this be?)  Most of the villains in `Killers' are dressed in black or charcoal gray suit and tie, a cliché of those cheap Japanese gangster movies.  Also, the movie uses cheap popular songs as its background music, another cliche of those cheap Japanese gangster movies.  The only difference between this film and those cheap Japanese movies is in the amount of gratuitous violence.  Killers has an outrageous amount of unnecessary carnage.  What some John Woo fans call poetry of violence is just an accumulation of mind-numbingly repetitive, totally unrealistic carnage.   Even though I do not think everything in a movie has to be totally realistic, this movie is so far removed from reality that it is an insult to our intelligence.  In this movie the villains repeatedly hurl themselves at Chow Yun-fat's guns for the sole purpose of getting shot.  During the climatic gun battle, even though there are dozens of bad guys, they repeatedly hurl themselves at the good-guy killer and his police detective buddy one or two at a time so the heroes can conveniently shoot and kill them.  Oh, please!  How stupid can the villains be?  Are all Chinese gangsters totally mentally retarded or simply suicidal?  Any human being with even a pea brain will try to take cover when the opponent is shooting at him.  Moreover, if there are dozens of bad guys, why didn't they attack all at once?  I badly miss those old movies in which the villains had some brain!    Moreover, after seeing all those Chinese gangsters get blown to kingdom come repeatedly and monotonously, I got totally bored and even sleepy.  Only the loud sounds of gunshots kept me awake.  The bloodbath became so silly that it reminded me of a scene from the Charlie Sheen comedy  Hot Shots Part Deux in which the Iraqui soldiers, who were shot by Charlie Sheen, fall into a swimming pool in an style parodying the 1940's and 1950's aqua musicals.  Now, that's a new idea for John Woo!  A John Woo aqua musical with diving and swimming Chinese gangsters.  If Chow Yun-fat can sing, John Woo has a perfect aqua musical star.  (Even an aqua musical with swimming Chinese gangsters would be less monotonous and nonsensical than this stinker!) I don't understand why some American movie buffs practically worship this silly film.  Late Sam Peckinpah made much better films than this total nonsense.  Killers is just a B movie with a nauseating amount of gratuitous and mind-numbingly repetitive violence and nothing more.  "},{"Title":"This movie it totally overrated...top 250?  No way.","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm surprised at all of the positive reviews of this movie. I recently purchased this DVD as part of a two-movie box set which heralds the pair as 'The John Woo Collection'. My wife and I watched 'The Killer' last night and we were both thoroughly disappointed. I can't even remember the name of the other disc in this box set, and after watching 'The Killer', I have no intention of watching it.For starters, the story line is completely un-plausible. Professional hit-man/vigilante (Chow Yun Fat) somehow earns the respect and friendship of Police detective (Danny Lee), and the two pair up to blow away dozens of bad guys in the final scene. I'm sorry, but it just doesn't play.The Action. John Woo has achieved something of a reputation for decent action movies, with Mission Impossible I & II, Paycheck, etc. This movie shares nothing in common with Woo's most recent offerings with regard to the action, and the level of realism is&#133;non-existent. Time after time Chow Yun Fat's character finds himself as the lone gunman pitted against numerous armed assailants. Rounds of fire seem to pour limitlessly from Fat's weapon. 'Bad Guys' offer themselves up almost willingly for slaughter, while Fat amazingly escapes hundreds (thousands?) of bullets. Even when Fat does get hit, it seems to do amazingly little damage. Following the initial gunfight of the movie, Fat retreats to a church where two slugs are extracted from his back with a pair of needle-nose pliers. I'm sorry&#133;nobody takes two bullets to the back at near pointblank range and escapes to his church retreat for makeshift bullet extraction. And frankly, this is just one example of many. The level of non-realism in this movie is ridiculous&#133;laughably so.  From the opening frames of this film, it's apparent that this is a low-budget, 'B' movie. Nothing that transpires throughout the remainder serves to convince this viewer that this film is anything more than that. Franky, it's hard to believe that this movie was filmed in 1989. It seems even more dated than that. Don't waste your money on this rubbish.  "},{"Title":"Good movie but far from John woo's best","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   This movie has some very good action especially at the house and in the church at the end and chow yun fat is also good, however this is in no way John woo's best movie.  many parts of this movie are downright boring.  The heavy action and the boring elements make this movie almost even out.  The action alone makes me want to give this an 8 out of ten but the boring parts take that down to a 6 out of 10.  The problem is not the action, john woo is the master of action but he needs to learn to direct the parts of the movie that don't have action.  Hard-boiled has action all the way and is very good because of this.  The point is that John woo should either make action or drama and not try to mix them.  When he does we get this mess of a movie that despite all the hype almost makes you fall asleep. "},{"Title":"A bit overrated by JW and CYF enthusiasts yet","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  is a nice action movie of the time. It made John Woo and Chow Yu Fat what they are today.Compared to what movie biz was making those days in action Die xue shuang xiong contains many novel things despite evidently low budget.And Chow really made an unusual Killer character - amusing to see.Deserves to be seen despite its age. "},{"Title":"i was disappointed, seems this is very overrated","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i was excited to finally be watching this movie that i'd heard so many great things about.  i'd heard it was a classic of action films, that John Woo was a brilliant master, that great directors such as Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino had borrowed from this movie.  Plus i was already a fan of Chow Yun Fat.After watching it though, i don't know why this much hype has been generated.  It's really not that good of a movie.  Quite a bit of it was actually boring.  It lacked the depth of character of El Mariachi, the stylistic imagery of Pulp Fiction, the wit and humor of a Jackie Chan movie, the intense drama and action of Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, and the good natured buddy feeling of Lethal Weapon, to give a few examples.Overall it was pretty flat.  However the version i saw was overdubbed in english, which i think always hurts a film by robbing us of the original tones of the actors.  And i still think Chow Yun Fat gave a commendable performance.  Nonetheless i wouldn't recommend anyone go out of their way to see it.  It looks like an average shoot-em-up that you might catch on cable on a saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Obsessed reviewers fill in the holes that Woo and script don't","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My opinion here my upset people that have become absolutely identified with this film (not to say that I am not with others) but this one I can see clearly.  The melodrama that they speak of is cheap, feels like something you would throw together for a film rather than something you would really say.  I will give the movie credit for is stunning action, but that honestly carries the film only so far.  Towards the end I even got bored with the action, and cared less who did because the story was so weak.  I think I do not relate to this film because of where it comes from, Hong Kong.  They view life, culture, and human emotion differently and although Woo tries to convey these feelings- its forced and contrived- he fails.Chow Yun Fat is the one superb thing about this film.  He grabs the viewer with his character, his acting is flawless as always.  I think he may even be the reason for the overrated status because it is so easy to become infatuated with such an amazing actor and as many of his colleagues say, a special person.  He executes his action sequences with excellent grace, even with some poor dialogue(not his fault) he makes me think I guess its not that bad.  But no one else could do it but him.  This film is much, much better than Hard Boiled as Woo at least has some conscience to maintain a certain sense of reality (Hard Boiled is so unrealistic that it might as well be a fantasy film).To finish, don't be fooled by the hype surrounding this film.  Fat is splendid as always and see it for him, but heed my warning- expectations ruined my experience.  The moral ranting is commendable but out of place and violates a key rule of storytelling show don't tell.  The action is better than many films but the picture as a whole does not exist without obvious flaws.  Be aware of the and take it for what its worth, a Hong Kong action flick with a missing link. "}{"Title":"John Woo's best film, and the best film of all time","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Killler is the best movie that John Woo, ever made. And in my list this is the best film of all time. based on the technology of 1989 of Hong Kong, John Woo made this movie like a Hollywood movie. The music of the film was fabulous. This film was as entertaining as it was dramatic. most people would look at the killer as a action film for teenagers but it is not, this movie is for grown up too. The best action film of all time, and it will remain the same if you perfectly understand the movie. A work of beauty and violence in a movie that never fit together before. Like Terminator 2 has violence but not beauty of each and every shots. This movie, I think should be classic for the next century. This is the movie that made me a fan of action flick. John Woo did a terrific job in The Killer. John Woo made a classic movie for action fan when he made that movie. Just like when he first reinvented two gun action in A Better Tomorrow, from the 40s, 50s western film. Chow Yun-Fat gave his best performance in that film. Although he gave brilliant performance in The Corruptor, A Better Tomorrow and Hard Boiled, he was the best in The Killer. In shortcut it is a 10+ movie, ***** (highest rating) film, and an A+ film. "},{"Title":"Yes, Chow Yun Fat is a complete badass","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Directed by the great John Woo, `The Killer' is about a hit man (Jeffrey, played by Chow Yun Fat) who, during one of his routine jobs, accidentally causes the blinding of an innocent bystander (Jenny), a female singer at the club where the hit went down.  Afterward, he looks after her from afar until he finally ends up meeting her face to face, and they fall in love.  He decides to do one last hit to earn the money to restore her vision, but after he is betrayed by his employers, he ends up forming an unlikely and skewed alliance with one of the detectives who has been pursuing him.Personally, I had mixed feelings about this film.  The story was a decent one, but the movie is REALLY dated &#150; it is a late 1980's film, and it really looks it.  Also, I felt that the romance between Jeffrey and Jenny was more corny than `romantic' with the cheesy music that would play during some of their scenes together.  One thing that Woo does well is his treatment of action scenes, and they were brilliant in this film.  The ever-present `doves flying in slow motion' trademark he employs was there, and the blocking of the scenes was quite good.  The one deterrent in these scenes however was Jenny. After awhile, her character just kind of became more dead weight than anything, and I started to get pretty tired of just watching her scream and stumble around.  My opinion that Chow Yun Fat is, for lack of a better term, a `badass' was further cemented by his role in this film, however.  I really enjoyed him as the cold, yet complex hit man. I walked away from this film thinking that it was good, but somewhat flawed.  I do support its position on the IMDB top 250, though, because I think it is a decent representation of Woo's work and of its particular genre.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"must be a guy thing","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The main female character is child-like, blind, and none-too-bright; the men are merely incomprehensible.  The ghost of a plot and many painful minutes of seriously flawed moral ramblings apparently exist only so that there is something to tie the action sequences together.  The up side is that everything involving guns is basically gorgeous - I had to pause the DVD just to savor the moment where three gunmen (in classic John Woo standoff) and four medical personnel surrounded a dead child waiting to see if she would start to breath again.  However, it had too many flaws for me to consider it a good movie; I gave it a five, which on my scale puts it at the forefront of movies I kinda wish I'd never seen. "},{"Title":"John Woo is just another action director. Better than most Americans, but he's still just an action director","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  C'mon, people! This film is not that great. 10/10? Give me a break! Yes, it has many really exciting moments. Chow-Yun Fat is actually a good actor. His character here was somewhat complex. But after that, all the formulae and cliches fall right into place. And those songs Jennie sang were uber-terrible! Plus, John Woo obviously gets off on putting young children in danger. And what's with the gratuitous placements of the  Christian symbology and the doves constantly in the last half hour? Jeeze, I got the point the first 20 times!The worst part of this movie has to be the ending. Okay, I can accept that it might be depressing. I'm completely fine with that. What I can't accept is that there is absolutely no closure. All we see is Dumbo playing a harmonica in prison. Who cares? His character only appeared about halfway through the film. I cared very little about him, especially since his whole character and role in the film was entirely formulaic and cliche. What I wanted, nay, needed to see was what became of Jennie. She and Jeff (Chow-Yun Fat)provided the emotional pull of the film. To leave us with what happened to that stupid cop completely pops the entire structure of the script. Because of the action, though, I'd still give it a 7/10. It's just a decently entertaining action flick. If you think it's more, pal, you're full of it, up to the eyeballs. Jackie Chan's films provide more structure and originality than Killer. "},{"Title":"another goofy Hong Kong potboiler","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Film critics like to scoff at anything too blatantly commercial, unless, of course, it has subtitles; witness the ongoing fascination with Hong Kong action 'cinema'. The latest example, from one of Hong Kong's top moneymaking directors, is yet another outrageous, energetic, shamelessly derivative thriller, but it looks as if this time the formula has been repeated once too often. Asian superstar Chow Yun Fat, veteran of other John Woo shootouts, plays the title character, one of those fashionable killers with a conscience, who agrees to one last assassination to finance the eye surgery for a young singer he inadvertently blinded during an earlier hit (hardly surprising, given the astronomical body count). Like other Hong Kong action epics the film is a visual glossary of macho attitudes and male bonding rituals, with a brooding pathos added to the impressive arsenal of firearms. The exaggerated self-pity is laughable, which may not be what Woo had in mind, but it proves to be a saving grace, giving the film a certain camp appeal lacking in its Hollywood role models. "},{"Title":"Mindless action, dog-eared dialog","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If we are to believe a horde of posters, The Killer is one of the best flicks of all-time. Certainly one of the best action movies.Not for me. Not by a long shot.Woo discovers the exploding bullet blood spray and proceeds to weave a story around some 200 such explosions. For some unexplained reason, our protagonist values the lives of children and women, but not adult males. What happens to the children who grow up to be adult males?His characters are resolute, one dimensional clichés who come up with some of the most trite dialog existent outside of Ed Wood films.Two relationships, with his work procurer and the cop who's after him, turn into loudly proclaimed best friend exchanges. Each willing to sacrifice their body to help the other, because they admire the protagonist and because they are men of their word.Huh?The aerial ballet of trigger-happy opponents foreshadows Yimou Zhang and Ang Lee, but lacks any of their graceful touches. It's just bodies launched for no explainable reason.The most telling factoid about The Killer 120 deaths, by count. It wouldn't have been the same if only 107 had died.Sure it's escapist folderol, but there are so many better ways to spend movie time. I would also object to the inclusion by many of Leon The Professional as a comparable film. Leon is so superior to this claptrap as to belong in a different medium.The overly loud score may be the best aspect of The Killer. If there is a best aspect. "},{"Title":"Well-shot gunfights, but highly over-rated by other reviewers !!","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just felt I had to comment after seeing other reviewers praise this film so highly (which is why I went and saw it)Firstly, it has to be said that the action sequences (i.e. gunfights), which take up most of the film, are very well-crafted in terms of choreography and camera-work, and they really do feel intense. In fact it is clear that many of the more stylized sequences heavily influenced Tarantino and Rodriguez (especially in Desperado). For this the film deserves much credit.However, the gunfight sequences in Desperado, although inspired by The Killer, are superior and look much more slick. I am all for giving credit for originality and influence, but that still doesn't mean that the original is better. Although the scenes are intense, they pale in comparison to some of the gun-fight sequences in The Matrix even. In short, the gunfights in The Killer are good, but not that good, and they have certainly been superceded by later films in terms of intensity, choreography and direction.The script / story has flashes of sophistication (certainly more so than many action pics), but it also has woefully poor scenes and lines. The killer's later telephone call with the girlfriend is cringe-worthy it's so weak, and it sounds like the script was written by a teenager.Given all the rave reviews above, I have to warn - it really is not that good. It's not bad, but it's a million miles away from the best action film of all time ! "},{"Title":"Not that good after all.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't figure out what's so cool about that movie. It's just a bunch of Woo's annoying cliches. When the cop and the killer stuck guns in each other's sad faces for the third time I turned my VCR off. Could Woo have less imagination? I think not. "},{"Title":"Woo the Master!?!  Hardly...","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to waste too much time on this movie; it sucked. I have no idea why everyone is so enamored of John Woo. His filmmaking is cliched and pretentious. If you feel that Mexican standoffs and slow-motion shots of birds are seriously underrepresented in cinema today then Woo is your man.  But if it's a decent plot, interesting characters or well-written dialogue you're after you'll have to look elsewhere. I honestly could not believe it when Chow Yun Fat told the detective to have the doctors save his corneas for Jenny if he was killed! How embarrassingly corny was that!?! Chow Yun Fat is a much better actor than he shows here, though that's probably attributed to Woo more than anything.  Roger Ebert, in his review of Le Samourai (the French film that supposedly inspired Woo to write and direct The Killer), says Better to wait for a whole movie for something to happen (assuming we really care whether it happens) than to sit through a film where things we don't care about are happening constantly.  I can't think of a more fitting condemnation of The Killer than that. "},{"Title":"Overrated?","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the type of movie where 10 bad guys are shooting automatics aimed for a single person with a pistol. Whats so entertaining about that? Although its just a movie, its just plain unrealistic, if it were a real situation Chow Yun would of got clapped in less then 5 seconds, despite how good his skills are... To all the people who have yet to see the movie, think about it? Isn't it farfetched to a point where you say to your self like W.T.F. How is a man who has no cover, going to dodge simultaneously incoming bullets by the hundred?  Now some may like that type of action. Then you my friend is one confused person...Also the movie is filled with cliches. Although Killer may have invented some of them, they are still corny and cheesy. This has to be the most over rated movie in IMDB as far as the votes go. This movie deserves around 6.5.  "}{"Title":"Not bad, but Desperado does the stylish gunplay better","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to say i was a little disappointed with this movie, having expected big things from it. There are some great moments - a few tense standoffs and of course plenty of trademark catching-guns-in-mid-air moments, but all too often they're drowned out by repetitive (and dare i say it, slightly tedious) scenes of innumerable baddies pouring into rooms and being mowed down before they can get a shot off.A John Woo film is always going to be style-over-substance, and this is no exception - the plot encompasses just about every cliché in the genre. However, Chow Yun Fat delivers a superb performance, creating a character with real emotions under the suave exterior. Sadly, the other leads are not given much room to express themselves.I did enjoy this film, but i don't think it will do anything to convert non-HK-action junkies to the cause. "},{"Title":"I CAN'T BELIEVE IS ON THE TOP 250!!!!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess I have start by saying that this movie should have being categorized as a sci-fi movie since I can't believe that a person can take so many bullets and still be standing and shooting back.  I mean, I saw this in Scarface but even then the guy was really messed up on cocaine.  The movie was so badly done that I can't believe it made it to the top 250.  The acting was way over done, and the ending just made me laugh.  I shouldn't have laugh but I wasn't emotionally connected to the movie.  Stupid things happen when you are full of rage.  Also, the film was so over played that I didn't get the meaning of the ending, and just left me with more questions that what I would expect of a film like this.  I usually have a few conclusions after endings like this but I can't think of any for this film.  The direction of the film was really well done; well I think is the only think well done in the movie.  If you like gun shooting with bullets that don't really affect anybody (well just the bad guys) then this movie is definitely for you.    **SPOILERS**They had to shoot his freaking eyes to stop him**END OF SPOILERS**Well, I guess I've said enough&#133;.I can't believe this film is in the rank!!!!  "},{"Title":"Violence for violence sake","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How do you know a Hong Kong movie, blindly praised by Western critics, is actually a trash? Just turn off its sound volume and read the English subtitle. You'll find out that The Killer is really a big trash!Superficial character relationships; killer dressed the way that everyone would recognize them; tedious slow-motion action scenes (plus pigeons from nowhere). Countless guns and bullets killing a bunch of gangsters in the last 30 minutes of the movie, yet you don't see any body lying on the ground in long shots, and the cops never show up to stop this long and noisy gunfight in the church. If Hong Kong were like this, there would be no tourist long ago! "},{"Title":"Bbbbbbbuuuuuuullllllllsssssssshhhhhhhiiiiiiiittttttt!","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As an avid film buff and a guy who has seen over 4000 movies, I can only say that this illogical, ridiculously plotted, written, acted, shot and directed steamy piece of crap was one of the only movies that I watched out of curiosity and fast-forwarded from half to the stupid and bloody ending. The acting is soooooooooooooooooo abysmal and the central character who's supposed to be a super-macho dude is so gay that I thought I wish I had eaten 10 pounds of lard than watching this ludicrous garbage of a movie. Rather than an homage - which is what it's reputed to be - to Melville's Le Samouraï, it's an insult to that landmark masterpiece. Please avoid this at any price! Simply, One of the worst movies of my life. "},{"Title":"Another Compassionate Killer","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most of the foreign films in my collection are slow-moving leisurely tales. This one is the total opposite, one of the most violent movies I've ever seen. No wonder subsequent films like Kill Bill are made. This film definitely has the most people shot by guns, an unbelievable amount.Being a James Woo written and directed film, I guess it's no surprise. He can't get enough violence. It's also Rambo mentality at it's highest the good guys out-kill the bad guys about 100 to one! It's almost laughable. Yet, the story is still pretty good and generally fun to watch.However, I don't think it's a good message - nor an accurate one - to show the good guy, a professional killer (Chow Yun Fat) as the compassionate one and the guy to root for (see Leon The Professional for another example of this), but this certainly is another case of that. I am sorry, but men who make a living killing people are NOT compassionate people - they can't afford to be. That's only in the make-believe world of films.By the end of the film, with yet another long shootout, anyone with any sensibilities will be tired of it all by then. "},{"Title":"I'd rather watch attack of the killer tomatoes","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The killer is a horrible movie.  Don't be fooled by the title, it should be called The Loser. Oh yeah Chow Yun Fat might very well have killed off 300 people, yet director John Woo pays no attention to details in this movie. Furthermore Woo does not develop the characters. A 3-year old could have made this movie while learning to use the bathroom. I suggest staying clear from this movie! "},{"Title":"ultra-violence and nothing more","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand all the people who praise this disgusting piece of blood-thirsty action-firework! Okay, it is good photographed and breath-taking cutted but it is really ridiculous if anyone argues this film has a deep humane touch. In fact it's the contrary, it is almost fascistic in its distinct shown blood-spout brutality! If you have a sensitive mind, beware this scum! "},{"Title":"You've got to be kidding.","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm a 21 year old male. My father had a DVD of this on the shelf, and having never heard of it, I looked it up on IMDb... 7.9 eh? I'll give it a try.Being from 1989, I didn't expect much, but nothing this bad. The audio is atrocious. Guns sound fake, the punch noises are terrible, bad guys are apparently blind, and virtually none of the characters decisions make sense. The only reason I recommend watching this is to appreciate how far modern cinema has come (or how crappy foreign cinema was).Maybe if you're older than I am, it's fun to reminisce about when you saw this movie ages ago, but this is complete trash compared to any decent action film of the past 15 years. 1 star for 2013.Please, learn from my mistake and don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Not as good as FACE/OFF","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A huge dissapointment - this film is pretty poor - there are many better action films out there and this one isn't even as good as Woo's best Hollywood movie FACE/OFF. Shame. I was expecting big things from this movie. "},{"Title":"A bad imitation of Miami Vice","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard to believe the ratings and the positive comments on this movie, except if we account for sarcasm. Of the few people who stayed in the theater, yesterday, most of them were there to laugh at the movie rather than enjoy it. So, it is hard to believe in the (tiny) subplot about loyalty and friendship when the story is about killing 145 people to find a pair of cornea for a lousy cabaret singer. (A great feminine role, by the way makes you think that feminists might have a cause after all.)The main problem is that someone should have tell them that an important ingredient of a movie is a screenplay. But the producers appear to have decided to invest, instead, in some special effects (gun sparks and gore) that make you regret the average episode of Miami Vice. Which was a tv series, should I remind you; not a full feature movie.  "}]