[{"Title":"Utterly underrated","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is my firm conviction that DeepStar Six will one day be regarded as a good movie. The current 3.9 rating at IMDb is, to my mind, ludicrous and flat-out wrong. It may not be an incredible, immortal masterpiece - I do have to admit it is second to The Abyss - but this is definitely a good movie in virtually every way. For the last fifteen years I've owned a VHS tape of it recorded from a laser-disc version, and seen it loads of times. Today I got the Region 2 Widescreen DVD, and I was once again confirmed in my opinion that this is a fine movie. It is underwater sci-fi horror, and one of several such movies from the era, but except that it doesn't have the clout, effects wizardry and budget of a James Cameron attached to it, it manages to be an extremely well-crafted production none the less.The actors are great. Every one of them have absolutely unique and realistic character traits and the dynamism between the crew is superbly entertaining. Nancy Everhard as a soft-spoken female navy seal is played with humble sincerity and feminine sensitivity, making for a very realistic package. Nia Peeples is the sexiest thing you ever saw, and the one whose intuition foresees the whole thing. Miguel Ferrer is even more obnoxious here than in Twin Peaks, yet also profoundly pitiable. Everybody gives an amazingly human and believable performance, and the action and production values are overall perfectly adequate and effective, succeeding entirely in suspending the viewer's disbelief.To the day I die, I will maintain that this is a good movie. And posterity will prove me right. One day...9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"USO's Unidentified Swimming Objects","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The name Sean S. Cunningham will automatically always be attached to 'Friday the 13th'&#133;his notorious teen-slasher that messed up the genre for good. Yet, Mr. Cunningham did do a few slightly more ambitious projects. This DeepStar Six is a semi-successful undersea-monster mash with surprisingly good acting, decent special effects and a couple of good old-fashioned scary moments. The film deserves a reasonable rating, slightly higher than all other lame and laughable Ridley Scott and James Cameron wannabes. The plot involves an 11-headed crew that is about to finish up a 6-month research at the bottom of the ocean. When exploring the ocean floor, they accidentally stumble upon a hideous and relentless monster. Like it usually is the case in this type of films, it takes a little while before you actually get to see the monster. By that time, human stupidity already exterminated half of the cast&#133;. Granted, the monster itself is one ugly critter and not at all badly put together by the special effects department. But&#133;let's not praise this film too much, because it simply remains a rather anonymous 80's monster movie like we've seen them so many times before already. Not one action presented here isn't inspired by or similar to the ones featuring in other films and every character is a flawless stereotype. The performances given by the entire cast actually outshine the roles they're playing. Highlight of them all is Miguel Ferrer who portrays the typical, cowardly crewmember. Constantly complaining and arguing at first and when the monster shows up&#133;he flees to and leaves his colleagues to their own device. Every monster flick stars a bastard like that, you know. As well as the super-intelligent and over-ambitious female scientist and the heroic captain who sacrifices himself in order to save his crew. If you ignore these inevitable weaknesses, you'll certainly have fun. You get what you expect, and that doesn't necessarily have to sound like a bad comment.  "},{"Title":"A good time-waster","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't see why people keep on trashing this movie which has no more shortcomings or implausability than most blockbusters.Maybe because, as everybody seems to think, everything that has no big stars and isn't the latest multi-billion brainless  disaster can't be good ? This one is more disaster movie than  monster movie, since the giant crab is only one amongst many problems the survivors has to face. Nothing great, nothing to lose sleep over, just cheesy B fun. So why all this hate when  Leviathan was a bigger-budgeted but even more stupid and derivative heap of ....  "},{"Title":"good effects, good cast, good film","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deep in the ocean some foolish marine biologists accidently disturb an ancient prehistoric creature from its slumber. The creature is understandably a little cheesed off and proceeds to cause the death of many of said biologists. With your brain safely checked in with the cloakroom attendant this film is undemanding and fun. The creature is particularly impressive and credit must go to the the special effects guys. The cast is eclectic and low budget with Miguel Ferrer giving the best performance as Snyder, the only member of crew realizing the gravity of their situation and slowly going stir crazy. This film is better than many other watery efforts and this includes bigger budget efforts like Leviathan and Sphere. "},{"Title":"a B movie  with underwritten story and characters","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" the first 30 minutes of this movie are fairly boring,with not much happening.the film begins to pick up after that.it's basically Alien underwater,though nowhere near as good as that movie.the characters are not as complex,nor is the storyline.it's a B movie,in every respect.when the creature is finally revealed,it's a disappointment.at least i thought it was.unlike Alien,where you get to know the characters,here you really don't,so there's nothing invested in their fates.when they died,the only reaction i could come up with was a yawn.they're all underwritten.the movie is also predictable from the get go.still,it's not the worst movie of the genre,so i give DeepStar Six a 5/10 "},{"Title":"In the underwater movielympics, Deepstar Six takes the Silver","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three major underwater movies came out in 1989, Deepstar Six, the Abyss and Laviathan. Now first place will have to go to the Abyss. It's great but more about that when I review the Abyss. But as for Deepstar Six, it has some minor character issues and it is your stereo typical monster movie situation. Monster found in cave, starts eating everyone. The cast does a great job with what was given to them. The effects are good for your standard animatronic monster movie. Nothing special. Nothing bad either. Now what gets my goat is that they never say that the monster is an alien, and how it got there in the first place. That's my only major complaint so in the under water monster movielympic race, the winner is THE ABYSS, but coming in a close second is DEEPSTAR SIX who takes the silver. "},{"Title":"Modest at best.","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A secret underwater team are exploring the possibilities of underwater colonisation with the financial backing from the US Navy and in return for that they blow up an underwater carven so they can construct a deep-sea missile silo, though in doing so they release some sort of prehistoric sea monster that picks off the team one by one- but that's only one of their many problems.This is a very formulaic- but reasonably fun Horror-Sci-Fi film by director Sean. S Cunningham (Friday the 13th), which came out the same time as the overblown- but dull 'The Abyss' and for me the best of the three 'Leviathan'.Fairly routine stuff, but still it has it's moments of sheer excitement. The setting of the film is good, from the set details of the 'DeepStar six' laboratory base, where most of the action occurs too the alienation of the calm ocean floor.The characters are your stereotypical types, but the performances are well-delivered with Miguel Ferrer as the very edgy and hysterical Snyder who steals the show and Matt McCoy as the wise cracking Richardson adds some life too. The script had its tedious spots of state the bloody obvious comments- but it's mostly bearable, with some added wit provided by McCoy's character.The direction by Cunningham is solid, with some nice touches of suspense created and not forgetting a couple of gory moments that truly standout. While the plot is reasonable- it still follows your usual monster on the loose formula, though the idea of the creature's origin was interesting- but it definitely could have been explored in to more. Though other than a sea-monster causing trouble for the underwater crew they also face human foolishness and a leaking laboratory base, with some of the crew falling victims to themselves than the monster.The pace can be slow at times, though that does help add tension and it definitely picks up in the last 40mins when the monster actually fully appears. While the special effects and the monster itself is fair and it does look a bit like the monsters from 'Tremors' and add a bit of crab too- but it does look more ridiculous and very rubbery when the whole design appears on screen&#x85; I was hoping that they would keep it mostly hidden e.g. 'Jaws'- but overall it's not too distracting.Well, have I gone soft, as this discreet sea-monster film has definitely improved on my second viewing? "},{"Title":"At the Ocean's floor, there are no bras","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film plays like the little brother of THE ABYSS with a twist of ALIEN thrown in the mix. Fortunately, it doesn't bog itself down like THE ABYSS by incorporating a tedious, needless social statement in the final 45 minutes like Cameron's vastly overrated film. Be that as it may, this is still a rather weak B-film with poor characterization and a by-the-numbers plot.When a group of underwater workers disturb the lair of a sea creature the monster gets its revenge by destroying their base and snacking on the crew. The crew are all quite underdeveloped, even the romantic leads of Greg Evigan and Nancy Everhard. (SPOILER) You know when characters are about to die because they'll start start talking about their New Hampshire farm like Cindy Pickett or greasy hamburgers like Matt McCoy.STORY $$$ (This isn't a bad story it just offers nothing new. The characterization is weak because it tries to forcefeed clichés. Miguel Ferrer plays the doofus Bill Paxton character of ALIENS and the romantic link between Everhard and Evigan is too weak for my money. None of the other characters are even moderately developed leaving the viewer with little invested in the people on the screen).ACTING $$$ (The acting wasn't the problem. Miguel Ferrer clearly gives the best performance in this film with his excellent, slimy portrayal of Snyder, the ever-picked-upon handyman eager to get topside. I thought Nia Peeples and Nancy Everhard should have changed roles because Everhard's character was a tough-as-nails Navy officer and Nancy, although she clearly got into solid shape for the role, looks more like a schoolmarm than a soldier--Peeples on the other hand, has the hard body for a female Navy officer but her line readings were way too fast. I felt like whenever Nia had a line I had accidentally hit the fast forward button. The other actors were fine. Evigan is okay as the male lead and Matt McCoy does a solid job as the goof-off. Ferris Bueller's mom, Cindy Pickett, gives a solid performance as the base's medical officer and Marius Weyers is great as always. His character really needed to be more developed though).NUDITY None, but no female cast member wears a bra in this movie. They didn't quite adhere to their packing list before departing on this six-month deployment. "},{"Title":"Better than you might expect it to be","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, this movie isn't that awful. It does have some questionable physics, and a whole bunch of plot holes. It even has some bad actors! But in the end, it keeps going well enough to maintain interest, albeit sometimes only to see what foolishness comes up next.The main star (I guess) is Greg Evigan, of BJ and the Bear fame. He doesn't have a chimp side-kick here, though. In fact, there are a whole bunch of people who filmgoers will recognise, if not be able to put a name to. But the real star is Miguel Ferrer, who has a kind of Hudson-from-Aliens role. He gets increasingly manic as the film progresses until he finally loses it totally. The movie is worth watching for him alone!The plot is the usual science tampering with nature deal and the ensuing onslaught of nature on science. Nothing remarkable. Nothing that isn't predictable. The creature, however, is refreshingly different and done well enough with the effects of the day to not look pathetic in this age of CGI.As I mentioned, there are some dodgy plot holes and physics, but the movie entertains enough that you can overlook them (for the most part) and just enjoy it.All in all a film worth a look in on a quiet day. "},{"Title":"I'm half the man I used to be...","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director Sean S. Cunningham of Friday the 13th fame brings us this waterlogged creature feature that provides undemanding entertainment provided you are like this viewer and usually eat up stuff like this. It's not really bad at all, it's just not really distinguished. It may have its flaws (such as a standard bunch of characters), but it still sizes up as reasonably fun B level genre fare.The crew of an ocean floor missile installation and research base buy themselves a whole lot of trouble when they open up a cavern in which a great big hungry, likely prehistoric lobster type animal had been residing. The thing does not take long to express its displeasure at being disturbed by causing all kinds of problems, not the least of which is snacking on our assorted cast members.DeepStar Six has adequate action and suspense scenes, plus some moments that a viewer is likely to remember even if overall they don't care for the movie - such as a character bursting open after deciding not to decompress, and the creature chomping another right in half. The actors do a good job with their roles - Greg Evigan is a likable hero, Nancy Everhard an endearing leading lady. Taurean Blacque, Cindy Pickett, Marius Weyers, Matt McCoy, Elya Baskin, Thom Bray, and Ronn Carroll all amuse with their performances; the presence of super sexy Nia Peeples is another bonus. But Miguel Ferrer is the standout playing the kind of high strung, weaselly bastard we often expect to see in movies of this ilk. Right from his introduction he's at work complaining, and as this story plays out it's not surprising to see what a headache he becomes.Production design, by John Krenz Reinhart Jr., and cinematography, by genre veteran Mac Ahlberg (Re- Animator, House) are well done, and Harry Manfredini, who will go down in history for his ki-ki-ki-ma-ma-ma refrain from the Friday the 13th franchise, supplies a score that's really quite good and far removed from his F13 scores. That brings us to the creature itself, which is more effective when it's NOT seen. The obvious phoniness of the thing, flapping mouth and all, however, may put off some viewers and just add to the appeal for others.The movie gets off to a nice start, with the kind of scrolling opening credits we don't see too often. Genre fans will note the presence of Kane Hodder as the stunt coordinator and Mark Shostrom, Chris Walas, Greg Nicotero, and Robert Kurtzman among the creature effects crew. All things considered, this is worth a look for the monster movie lover who will embrace the sub genre no matter what the budget or level of skill (or lack thereof) may be for any given movie.Six out of 10. "}{"Title":"Kinda like a slasher, but with a giant underwater nasty...","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What got me excited about this movie was the crew, Sean Cunningham, Jim Isaacs and Henry Manfredini have all been involved with the Friday the 13th series of movies. Given that they're top of my list of 'chilled night in' movies and keep me warm at night so to speak, the idea of a non-Jason movie with these fellas working on it pricked up my ears.The movie is actually quite similar in feel to their other significant works, in that it's tense, well scored and at times quite bloody. You'll certainly be sucked into the movies atmosphere. What also helps is that unlike many other films of this genre, the script and acting are tight, so much so that you really don't want the characters to die, a change from the normal 'you're so dumb, I hope you get a pitchfork in the neck' line of thinking most suspense horrors take.The creature (I won't describe it heavily, as it's a big part of the movie and knowing what it looks like etc might spoil it a bit) is quite a piece of work, doing the unthinkable and managing to sneak up on people underwater despite being one of the largest beasts I've seen in a movie for quite some time. Several times I jumped out of genuine shock at its attacks.So, as you can tell, I really liked this film, so why the 7 out of 10, shouldn't it be a 9 or 10? Well, it has its shortcomings. The Sci-Fi aspect of the movie is quite underdeveloped, which is a shame, as the production design is excellent, and I wish a little more had been done with it than just creating an underwater haunted house. Also, the movie has not aged well at all. Certain sections (largely due to the budget, so I don't really blame them) look like they've been lifted straight out of Stingray. I can't help but feel that most of the budget was sunk into the creature (I tell you now though, it has paid off in spades). All of this unfortunately makes the movie a little patchy to watch, hence the 7. "},{"Title":"Strangely non-horrifying horror film, but a pleasant and inoffensive one","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an odd movie. The upside there's honestly not much to complain about the film's cast and production. The acting is actually pretty good; perhaps the best example of this is that probably the stupidest plot device in history on paper (Ordered to secure a set of nuclear missiles so the crew can pull out, Miguel Ferrer's character elects to do so by detonating the things) seems vaugely credible and quite amusing on film. The production design's great and believable, there are some mildly interesting plot points (Mild Good-natured Guy dies, but did you expect Confident Female Scientist to cop it immediately afterward?) and the special effects are generally okay.The down side nothing much actually happens. Even though the plot's centered around the threat from the monster, the giant prawn/crab/thingummijig doesn't seem to do a whole lot to be honest - most of the cast die without much in the way of struggle ('Here comes the monster. Ooh, it's eating me! See ya, folks.') The biggest shock scene (spoiled, if that's the right word, by the DVD cover) is a little bit... laughable, really, at least to anybody over the age of eight. What should be an deeply uncomfortable image (diver's guts hanging out of his shattered JIM diving suit) becomes laughable as said diving suit goes tootling purposely over the camera, like a kid dangling seaweed in their parents' faces at the beach. There's almost no shocks and scares at all, in fact, and not much gore either.I do have a soft spot for DeepStar Six; it's quite a weak movie, but one that's very hard to actively dislike. Maybe this is a horror film for the kids, who'll probably love it and find it pleasurably frightening - I know I did when I was seven.  "},{"Title":"Good cast, so-so script","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DeepStar Six is just another Alien clone, to be ranked with all Alien clones as just another time waster. This might be what it deserves, however, it can be noted as a few notches above other Alien clones for its excellent cast, which, even when the story and writing become pretty silly, sticks to it and keeps things running smoothly. The characters are pretty convincing as well, epecially for such low standards as this. And while most of the film is talkly and uneventful, I will proudly state that the last half hour are great and very tension-filled. I was very pleased with the climax, and even the monster was acceptable. If the whole film had been as surprising as gripping as the last half-hour, this might have been the greatest Alien clone around. Instead, it's just a pretty good, low-budget flick that's worth watching once or twice if it comes on cable.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Monster/Science Fiction movie with nice visuals.","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an enjoyable show about an ocean floor mission which uses well-delivered, well-made ships and machinery props. The show tries to be realistic in a successful way. For instance, there is truly a danger from too high an increase of atmospheric pressures under water that will infect the bloodstream and cause a person to literally collapse from not equalizing his inner body pressure with the outside sea pressure. This was used effectively here in the movie. The movie is presented in a mood of suspenseful dread, illuminated by a ray of hope for the crew's survival like many good edge-of-your-seat thriller flicks. The acting showed this intensity okay. It features as one of the members, Snyder, played by Miguel Ferrer, who seems to be disturbed and almost neurotic. He causes mishaps which leads the others to compounded disaster after the monster is known to be lurking somewhere around. There is a violent death of just about everyone and their trapped condition worsens progressively. It seems like the blame for the lost cause of their mission should and was put on Snyder and his actions as being the real detriment to the crew. I think this presents the main monster problem in an effectively scary way. I did feel that some of the scenery underwater was pretty and improved the movie. This film was an adventurous and entertaining show with a cast which included some attractive women although they played not as sex symbols but more influential roles comparable to their male counterparts. Watch this movie for unexpected disaster imposed on a seemingly normal sea quest! "},{"Title":"good movie with a bit of insite","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this movie Evigans character is a reluctant hero who when he find out he is going to be a dad and the mother is also on board makes all haste to save her even at his expense thought hey both survive. The mom to be is also a good character, being the first female to complete SEAL training and is both a sensitive and hard as nails female. the doctor is really a hero, to save her friend and future mom who prays for the safety of her child, sacrifices her self to delay if not kill the killer crab that breaks into the medical area using deifb paddles, granted on a creature the size it probably only tickled. the moon pool scene was also quite good the poor guy knew he was in trouble but he did not know the half  of it. all in all a good movie with a few flaws but still very entertaining "},{"Title":"Trashy B movie hurt by low-budget Special Effects.","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Crew (Greg Evigan, Nancy Everhard, Cindy Pickett, Miguel Ferrer, Marius Weyers, Matt McCoy, Nia Peeples, Taurean Blacque, Elya Baskin, Thom Bray and Ronn Carroll) of scientific ocean floor station DeepStar Six. Which it is funded by the navy is expected to perform scientific studies as well as install an underwater nuclear missile silo. On a routine job, two of the crew members on the small submarine blasted the cave open. They decided to explore it but they encounter the unknown. When a large mysterious creature attacked the underwater ship and killed the two crew members instantly. Since this creature is attractive to light, this thing decides to attack the crew of the ocean floor station.Directed by B movie producerSean S. Cunningham (Friday the 13th, Spring Break) made an entertaining, low-budget adventure with some cheap thrills. The cast do their best with this material but it is Ferrer gives the only memorable performance in this cheap feature. Some people prefer this one over Leviathan but I think, Leviathan is better made, much superior cast and special effects are superior to DeepStar Six. The look of the creature is not bad, the best thing in Cunningham's direction. He only used the creature in some key sequences and the monster only appears in the movie for a couple of minutes.DeepStar Six should have had an large budget, what i felt hurts the movie are the underwater sequences are not very convincing. It seems to me that Cunningham worked hard on a low budget and he did his best to cover the flawed production values. It seems that Mario Kassar and Andrew Vanja from Carolco Pictures only give Cunningham an $10 million budget or less. I felt the script was good and Harry Manfredini (Best known for Friday the 13th movies) gives an good music score, probably his best work. I felt the cast seemed out of place, expect for Ferrer but they did their best.I would love to watch this movie in Widescreen, since the region 1 DVD's are only Full Screen. Maybe in a future Blu-ray release, we can finally watch it in the original Widescreen aspect ratio of 2.351.This is a update from March 25, 2013. I track down the Region 2 DVD from eBay. DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound is quite good. DVD also includes an rather dull commentary track by the filmmakers, two featurette, original theatrical trailer and photo gallery.As a B movie, it works but fails as a A level production. Since Carolco Pictures are better known for their big budget productions. As a Guilty Pleasure, DeepStar Six is entertaining. It is memorable for Miguel Ferrer's standout supporting performance and an surprisingly good Harry Manfredini score. Certainly an interesting double feature with Leviathan for one night's viewing. Super 35. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"a good film","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've only seen half of it yesterday,but it was a good movie with good special effects,good acting and decent direction.the best thing about the movie is Miguel ferrer who plays a Hudson like char who freaks out and leaves the others to die.the other actors did good but Miguel was fantastic.the monster in this movie looked like a half squid and half lobster which i thought was great.for Sean Cunningham he did a decent which id would say this should be his best movie.the problem i found with the movie is that the story could've been better even though it was alright.and i wished that it was a little bit longer too.i do think this film is a little underrated because its a really good film and better then expected from that low budget.if you like scifi underwater movies then you might like this film including leviathan "},{"Title":" Did you see what hit us?","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DeepStar Six is an enthralling science fiction movie. Miguel Ferrer gives an exhilarating performance. All of the cast is charming. An exciting science fiction film that delivers brilliant special effects to a scared out of their mind viewer. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Liked it for its monster fun.","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remembered watching DeepStar Six on TV as a kid, about the same time I first watched The Abyss. While this movie is not as suspenseful, dramatic and adventurous as The Abyss, I still found it to be quite entertaining and fun.The film starts off with a crew in a sub doing some sort of experiment on an underwater nuclear base. However, their presence then disturbs an unidentified giant sea creature, which I thought resembled a large lobster. The creatures attacks the sub and crew and then the rest of the movie is basically a struggle for survival with some intense monster action.The movie is sort of predictable and the cast of characters weren't as memorable as I recalled, but it has a quick-paced plot with good special effects and intense monster action one might find enjoyable.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Much Better than Leviathan!","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm really surprised that this movie doesn't have a higher rating than what it does. It came out around the same time as The Abyss & Levaithan, but I really think it is a good film by itself. I think obviously that The Abyss was the best of the three and Leviathan the worst, but DeepStar Six is sort of like that middle child that really gets ignored. It really blows my mind that Leviathan is rated higher than this movie and probably only because it had a bigger budget.There are uniformly good performances throughout this film and decent enough special-effects, though they are rather dated. The music is well composed and it has a fairly believable story, so why the low ratings? "}{"Title":"Swell enough...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When John Carpenter makes a low budget sci-fi thriller it becomes cult, when Sean S. Cunningham does the same practically everyone calls it cheap. I don't get it. Okay, DeepStar Six is a little dull, but once the monster pops up it isn't that bad. Visually I think it's fine, and although the special effects look slightly pre-mature and clearly a lot of small-scale models have been used I actually prefer this over the clinical and steely looking computer tricks pulled by canonized Industrial Light and Magic.To compare this film to Fantastic Voyage (1966) may be way out of line, but still DeepStar Six reminded me of that somewhat ridiculous film in which a scientific crew and their vehicle are shrunk in order to explore the human body. Little human bodies are saved in DeepStar Six and that is a bit of a waste since the cast is good and especially the female contributions (by Nia Peeples, Nancy Everhard and Cindy Pickett) are swell. Greg Evigan makes a nice lead and he has the right looks for his heroic part. Thank God (or Cunningham) they did not cast a bull like Steven Segal or Chuck Norris for this part, for that would have spoiled everything. A pleasant surprise is the presence of Marius Weyers (who played in the wonderful classic The Gods Must Be Crazy). Not at his best here, but I don't mind. 	Camera and lighting are done in such a way that the interior of the ship as well as the atmosphere look pretty authentic and Sean S. Cunningham has done a fine job in making his actors move around in it naturally and convincingly. Not a masterpiece, but I am pleased to see a film like this from a man who has done much worse.  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deep star 6 was a very good movie.  It had decent special effects, it was very suspenseful and the acting was pretty good.  The character development was excellent.  The cast (while mostly obscure) was top-notch.  Each character was someone you could relate to in real life.  There were no super model nuclear physists or musclebound jarheads,  It was a cast of everyday people and I thought that added to the suspense by making it seem a little more real.  Miguel Ferrar of course was over the top as the manic Snyder. Hodges and Osbourne should of had bigger roles, they were good comic relief. Matt McCoy as Richardson was very convincing. All in all a good movie. If you like survivor type horror movies, then give this movie a try.  "},{"Title":"An underwater Sci-Fi that breaks the mould of space based science fiction","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deepstar Six is a unique sci-fi because it breaks the tradition of having sci-fi's set in space. Deepstar Six is about an underwater navy base that comes under attack from a sea monster that threatens the base and the lives of those in it. This movie has influenced the movie Deep Blue Sea (1999),with the theme of an underwater base and a creature that threatens them. Deepstar has submarines instead of the standard of spaceships in sci-fi's which is one of the reasons this movie is a refreshing change from other sci-fi's.  "},{"Title":"Its a great sea monster movie!","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deep Star Six is a very good sea monster movie! Executive producers Mario Kassar and Andrew G. Vajna brings a great creature on screen! The film has an unusual cast including Miguel Ferrer, Nancy Everhard, Cindy Pickett, Nia Peeples, Elya Baskin, Thom Bray and Ronn Carroll. The entire cast performed good and there is actually some funny lines in the movie. Miguel Ferrer is very good in this movie and he plays his crazy role very good! The way the movie is made makes it seem epic. The score is greatly composed by Harry Manfredini. The monster is awesome! I think the creature is quite neat looking and his roar is impressive. I liked how the creature was introduced! The movie is directed by Sean S. Cunningham who he directs the movie just fine. Really the movie isn't disappointing and there is always something going on. If you love sea monster movies then Deep Star Six is a great one to watch now!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like director Sean S. Cunningham then I strongly recommend that you check out House I and House II The Second Story. He produced those two films. They are two of My all time favorites especially the second one. Also Harry Manfredini composed two excellent scores for them as well!If you like Miguel Ferrer then I recommend you see Hot Shots! Part Deux and Stephen King's The Night Flier to see him in two other great performances!If you like sea monster movies then I recommend that you see Jaws, The Abyss, Leviathan, Deep Rising, Sphere, Lake Placid and Deep Blue Sea!  "},{"Title":"underrated creature feature movie!!!!!!!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a really cool movie with great creature effects and a excellent musical score. It is truely a wonderful movie that must be seen. The acting, effects, and plot are all top-notch. ****1/2 stars out of *****. "},{"Title":"20000 fathoms of fun","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has a very special spot for me because some of its imagery had stuck with well into adulthood and years later when I couldn't even remember very much of it I was reintroduced to it through the glorious tool that is the internet. With a few keywords,keystrokes and a search I was reunited with its title. Its a title that I think could've benefited from a decent transfer as it is not on part with say Leviathan(another masterpiece of aquatic horror) The film,directed by Sean S. Cunningham of Friday the 13th directorial fame opens with a team of scientists and crew drilling the seabed floor to lay underwater missile silos,but as luck(or Sh*t luck) the seabed gives way into an underwater cavern that might house an untouched ecosystem of new aquatic friends. This is the setup for what becomes a rather interesting film that's helped alone by some good cast(Miguel Ferrer,wonderful as always) and some decent creatures effects. Its not as strong as Leviathan,but it still holds up as a rather good horror film with some pretty tense moments as the creature gets loose inside the base. With Cunningham eying another reboot film of Friday The 13th I think he really should revisit this under appreciated gem for modern audiences. It seems far too often we are not given enough horror movies that involve the ocean and when we do get them its either a shark or some fish. This film can be purchased real cheap for a digital copy from apple store which is where I managed to get a copy. I at the time of writing this own both a physical copy, and a digital copy to carry with me for viewing wherever I'm at. "},{"Title":"Rushed Rip Off Of Another Rushed Rip Off Of A Real Movie","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What happens every time a highly anticipated movie is about to be released? The cuckoo effect! A rival studio rushing into production a similarly themed lesser film to cash in on the free publicity of the other film. It's been going on for decades and isn't going to stop.In 1989 we got TWO cuckoo films trying to cash in on the release of James Cameron's much anticipated 'The Abyss.' One was 'Leviathan' and the other was 'Deep Star Six.' While it would be impossible for either of the two to even be in the same league as 'The Abyss,' 'Leviathan' was an enjoyable cuckoo film. It had a fantastic A list cast, a scary build up, and quality FX. 'Deep Star Six' had... Miguel Ferrer.That's the major problem with 'Deep Star Six,' it's doesn't fail because it never even tries on any level. For example, 'Leviathan's limited budget required them to film dry for wet for its underwater shots, which it did surprisingly well. 'Deep Star Six' ONLY HAS ONE 30 SECOND UNDER WATER SHOT! That's right, an under water sci-fi action film which only has one under water scene! The plot, a deep ocean under water base... well, they never really explain WTF there is a giant under water base. They only mention something about it being a nuclear missile site for the Navy or something.Unlike 'Leviathan' the characters are extremely forgettable and the cast is totally devoid of any namable stars, save Miguel Ferrer whom is terribly miscast in his role. The only other three actors I recognized were Greg Evigan ('My Two Dads' 'PSI Love You' 'Tek War') Matt McCoy (husband in 'Hand That Rocks The Cradle') and Elya Baskin (token Russian guy in EVERY MOVIE).I looked up the filmographies of the other actors just in case I missed anyone. Nope. They've barley done any other work.Their mini subs are attacked by a sea monster or so we're told. Remember, there's only one under water shot in the beginning so we never actually see the monster under water or the destruction its blamed for.The monster eventually gets inside the base and this is another example of 'Deep Star Six' not even trying as Matt McCoy being cut in half is NEVER SHOWN! In one shot he's alive, in the next he's cut in half. Maybe the monster is innocent? So far we haven't seen it cause any of the deaths. In fact, we haven't even seen the deaths! When we finally see the monster it's bigger than an elephant which begs the question, how the hell did it get inside and how does it later fit through airlocks the size of manhole covers?The surviving crew members do the only sensible thing and close the airlock, thus trapping the monster inside the base! While the airlock was leaking water they'd already decided to abandon the base anyway so what would one flooded room matter? Anyway, five crew members escape the room alive. Alright, so letter lock the door and NEVER go in that room ever again! At this point the film reminds us that they will decompress and evacuate the base in four hours. Good! Just leave the monster alone for four hours and they'll never have to see it ever again!!! Of course they go back into the room!!! What's the worst that could happen? Thus the monster causes more death and destruction. Maybe it just wants out? Open the airlock and let it out!As I said, there's nothing to hate about 'Deep Star Six' except how little it tries. It was a cuckoo project to begin with that really comes in a distant third behind 'The Abyss' and 'Leviathan.' "},{"Title":"Take this, you big ugly sack of fish s**t!!!","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" To me, this is just a good solid movie, it's just my kind. Standard, but I think it works and I'm quite satisfied by the end of it. I think it demonstrated well that Sean Cunningham wasn't a complete one-trick phony! I have a big soft spot for this, it's one of my favourite 80s monster movies, I love the atmosphere the most and how well it succeeds at being creepy when it's trying to be. It has such a great eerie deep- sea ambiance to it, and you can feel that pressure in more ways than one! The atmosphere and tone of being trapped, isolated and stalked by some manner of unknown terror is obviously something that reminds one of classics like Alien and the superior The Thing, and like in those films but not quite as good, the cast are interesting enough that they do manage to stand out from one another and are not just faceless caricatures, which is something that I feel is largely lost on what passes for horror movies these days. Taurean Blaque was sympathetic as the courageous Captain Laidlow, a captain, one that is soon laid low! And the crackhead-looking Miguel Ferrer was fun as the perpetually screwing up Snyder, a real nervy asshole who manages to make things about ten times worse for everybody at every turn! I liked Nia Peeples until she suddenly turned into a helpless blubbering victim as soon as the monster appeared. My favourite character was the lovely Cindy Picket because she was such a strong commanding female without coming off as hard or bitchy. She should have lived! Despite its flaws I still find it a worthwhile and very enjoyable picture to watch. It's understandable how most folks main issue seems to be that they find it boring, but personally I find that the simple and straightforward nature of the plot works to its advantage, with the first half starting out as an undersea disaster film and the second playing out as a quick-paced creature feature. And the monster I love too and see as the best thing in the movie by a mile. While this was made a bit of a long time ago now I don't think it looks too fishy, the design is different and interesting, at least what they show of it. There's a little crab in there, some turtle, evil red manta ray eyes, it's menacing enough. I thought it looked a lot more fearsome with its mouth closed, when opened it looked a bit silly and overly-complicated. I like the way they build it up, with the simple gag of the mysterious rapidly approaching sonar object being especially hair-raising. It may be just another throwaway 80s sci-fi sci-fi horror thrill-ride movie, but it's also a well-sustained exercise in tension and atmosphere. Now it's 'nostalgia', of interest as much for its 1989 aesthetic as for its unfairly dismissed virtues as a well made slow-building and scary horror picture. Like Friday the 13th, it may not be too long before a CGI-laden 3D remake will appear someday, but Cunningham's Deepstar Six has its own moment in time. "},{"Title":"A pearl in the ocean of B movies","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie definitely ranks among the better B movies I've seen over the last couple of months as part of my current infatuation with 80s trashy science fiction movies. It does have some weaknesses, as all B movies do, so I'll try to defend it for what it is, without raising it to a higher standard than it deserves.The plot, as has been mentioned in other reviews, resembles the plot of Alien, and adds little to the basic premise, except that the action takes place in the deep sea, instead of deep space. In some ways it's an utterly generic rip-off. Even the characters will remind you of their counterparts in Ridley Scott's classic movie.So this movie is definitely never going to score very high, and given that the creature effects are somewhat disappointing, it definitely will not please everybody. But I found the acting to be of a very decent standard, with Miguel Ferrer being the absolute star. He plays the pitiable technician Snyder who slowly evolves from a slightly geeky bullied crew member, into a psychotic liability. Matt McCoy also gives a memorable performance as the wisecracking but very likable Richardson, and most of the other actors gave good performances as well. Nothing worthy of an award here, but good enough to keep me entertained throughout the movie.Apart from the creature, the effects were also quite decent. Again, nothing jawdroppingly good, but at least they made a good effort, and that shows. It's still better than those god awful CGI effects that were to replace these types of special effects only a couple of years after this movie was made. Mind you, I've got nothing against CGI as it is now, but when CGI first made its way into mainstream cinema those effects were so bad they ruined entire movies. Deepstar Six definitely didn't use the best effects available at its time, but it manages quite well with the effects available for its budget.Just because the story is not particularly original, that doesn't mean it's bad. It's actually quite well written. There's a couple of holes, but nothing too obvious or annoying. It obviously took many of its ideas from Alien, but who can really blame the writers for that? Alien is an all-time classic. If you are going to take your inspiration from somewhere, at least take it from somewhere good. And there's enough new stuff here to stop it from being just a copy.Putting it all together, I enjoyed this movie a lot. I'm definitely going to watch it again, and I'll recommend it to anyone who likes science fiction, but isn't too religious about it. Liking this movie requires a forgiving attitude to technical and scientific goofs, of which there are many. If you are willing to suspend your disbelief at these details, I'm sure you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On board a deep-sea mining vessel, the crew, Captain Phillip Laidlaw, (Taurean Blacque) Joyce Collins, (Nancy Everhard) McBride, (Greg Evigan) Snyder, (Miguel Ferrer) Scarpelli, (Nia Peeples) James Richardson, (Matt McCoy) Dr. Diane Norris, (Cindy Pickett) Dr. John Van Gelder, (Marius Weyers) and Burciaga, (Elya Baskin) are under pressure to get a secret Navy project operational. Upon getting the project started, a series of accidents and deaths begin plaguing the site, and their equipment becomes ruined. The distress is eventually discovered to be a giant sea creature, who proceeds to attack the station and are forced to ban together to fight off the voracious creature.A decent creature feature fare, this is pretty forgettable but still has some great moments here and there to make it a watchable one. Give it a shot if you like the underwater monster films, but don't be too surprised if there's a lot of eye-rolling or bored moments.Rated R for Violence and Profanity. "}{"Title":"Save your last breath...to scream.","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ~Spoiler~ It's weird how two films can open the same year and be nearly identical. Hollywood seems to do this often. Examples include Armageddon and Deep Impact as well as Tombstone and Wyatt Earp. Deepstar Six is almost the exact movie that Leviathan was. In fact, I can't tell you which one is the better movie. I rate them the same, but neither of them hold a candle to The Abyss, which is the champion of the '89 underwater film craze. I'm not saying that this was a bad movie. I enjoyed it and it kept me entertained throughout the duration (and that is the main thing I ask a film to do). But it was missing something. Maybe it was the fact that the monster doesn't make an appearance until late in the movie. Maybe it was because there is no Ed Harris or Peter Weller to be found. Or maybe it was the fact that I've seen Leviathan several times so I knew what was lurking around every corner of Deepstar Six. Who knows. Director Sean Cunningham (Friday the 13th) does sneak in some excellent moments here and there. My favorite and most memorable bits include Matt McCoy losing his legs, Marius Weyers' heart exploding, and Miguel Ferrer's freakout and subsequent decompression. Funny that they are all death scenes, but that's what Cunningham does best. "},{"Title":"Not bad, may contain a spoiler.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A top secret base underwater attempting the possibilities of putting an underwater missle silo runs into a pre historic monster which in turn does some murdering. Not a bad movie, definitely able to watch, but also predictable. The creature effects are not that bad. The most gruesome scene in my opinion is when Snyder commits suicide without decompressing. That was the best death scene. If you have nothing better to do, go to a local owned video store and look in the horror section or Sci Fi. It should be there with all the other 80's B movies that are forgotten. Definitely worth watching if you are bored. You might be able to catch it on cable if it ever comes on. "},{"Title":"Average, worth watching","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deep Star Six is not a brilliant film although it is worth watching. It is a classic science-fiction B movie.  The special effects and the sea creature are just about acceptable.  It is clear though that this film had a pretty small budget. "},{"Title":"Use your imagination. Surrender to the atmosphere. Do not analyze and you're in for a rip-roaring underwater science fiction adventure.","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This forgotten and unsuccessful entry by Friday the 13th creator Sean S. Cunningham has been victim to constant criticism by horror/sci-fi film buffs around the world. 'Deep Star Six', along with 'Leviathan', will always be associated with 'The Abyss' - as the anticipation films, and this is why I think it fails with many people. It is because they associate it with 'The Abyss', a superior film. Now, I'm sure the film makers were anticipating that another James Cameron movie would become a blockbuster and obviously they saw the topic he was basing it on had potential. No doubt their goal was to compete with the maestro of the blockbuster with films on his resume that spell 'The Terminator' and 'Aliens'. And much like deep space, deep ocean exercised the imagination. This was a chance to make big money. So, at least four films came out that year surrounding the depths of the mysterious ocean. This is the obvious.......The problem, is that we still associate these three films long after 1989. Apart from the obvious, they are nothing alike.....at all. One is about aliens that manipulate water that have a good reason to destroy the humans (The Abyss). Another is a horror about genetic mutation and a resulting monster that feeds on living things to grow and wreak havoc (Leviathan). And the other is a gory adventure story about what creatures can be lurking below the ocean floor (Deep Star Six). The latter, although not the best of the three, utilizes the imagination far beyond the other two in that it really makes you think about what's down there.Contrary to popular belief, I thought the direction by Cunningham was competent. Maybe not the best direction of all-time, but it was atmospheric and that's what I loved about it. Also, if we're already comparing them, 'Leviathan' might have been more expensive, but 'Deep Star Six' looked better and more realistic (although I immensely enjoyed Leviathan and its sets).The casting was great. I like it when adventure escapist films don't use well known actors - it really makes you feel like you are there and I think you get to know the characters better that way. Otherwise you'd be thinking about the actor's trademark persona all the time. Marius Weyers is one hell of a great South African actor and he always gives a tense and convincing performance in such films.The suspense was well spread. Not over indulgent but realistic. Again, the movie makes you feel like you are there with the crew, so the suspense is more circumstantial than deliberate. The music builds with the atmosphere well.The most important part of the film for me was the cavern and the creature. Both were designed very well, considering the film's limited budget. The creature for the most part was very convincing and at times even scary. The film's special effects, especially the gore was unbelievable. The scene that stood out the most for me was Snyder's quick panic escape to the surface far far about the ocean floor in which he forgets to decompress and he pops like a watermelon - a masterful sequence. Although the creature isn't always around in the film, it is never-the-less quite responsible for 90% of the accidents that occur, apart from the few it actually kills on its own. If the creature weren't there, none of what happens in the movie would have actually happened. So, although we don't see much of the creature, the film is solely based around it. It is the fore front of everything.I liked how the film was a little character driven. Miguel Ferrer nails his role with extreme prejudice. He stole every scene, as the hot-shot turned loser turned psycho. His transformation is unreal. The whole cast is essentially fish bait with brains trying to survive this mysterious creature and resurface.I found the film very engaging, interesting and thought provoking and I just let my imagination take over. The film took me to another world. It was a fun, suspenseful, gory and atmospheric sci-fi underwater adventure.Although it may have some 'Alien' elements in it, it by no means is an 'Alien' clone. It is completely an original film and feels more like a Jules Verne story than a Ridley Scott story. Whoever associates this with 'Alien', 'The Thing' or even 'The Abyss' should be sent to the Gulag for 30 years hard labor without parole.I recommend this film to anyone who wonders about the mysterious, undiscovered deeps of the ocean and to those who love adventure stories in general. Forget about the negative reviews the film gets. See for yourself. "},{"Title":"Groan.","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is first and foremost, a B movie. It's a hastily made movie trying to ride the coat-tails of Abyss' hype... and it shows.First, the plot basically, just an excuse to get a strange hungry creature on board an underwater facility with some terrified humans. From then on, it all unfolds as linearly as you'd expect, with force clichés thrown in; some scenes directly borrowed from other poor movies the very last scene, for instance, mirrors exactly the groan-inducing end of Jaws 4. To seal the deal on a terrible script, quite a few events are completely unexplained. Don't worry, you'll easily predict them, not because they logically follow (they don't), but because they're stereotypical horror movie tropes, badly executed.Next, the creature. The real meat of this kind of movies! Expect disappointment. It looks sillier than scary, moves excruciatingly slowly (on camera; off-camera, it moves extremely fast, maybe it's just shy?) and spends more time posturing (and roaring) in front of the humans than actively attacking them. One never sees it whole, but its head and torso have more screen time than the rest of the cast combined.Finally, the effects. Strong effects can do a whole lot to redeem an otherwise bad movie, DeepStar Six doesn't have those. DeepStar Six compensate for lack of effects with pure gore, in B-movie tradition. Gratuitous gore.DeepStar Six isn't enjoyable. The script is just painful; the creature arbitrary and uncharismatic; the intense scenes dull and slow. "},{"Title":"Very strong,great,underrated,if directly basic,to make you thinking about it.","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Isn't well known fact,but this underwater horror has cult status in some countries.The message is clear for me personally,here is a horror film,with great acting,screenplay,and great visuals.People don't understand,and rate this movie in a good way(most of them).This movie is not an Alien type of a movie,but lot of people talking about this film like some version of Alien movies,while this is based on another concept,for me personally it's about something else.We have sensitivity like a stone,and moral like a door,when we making research's for science,cause we think we can do anything to be the alpha-and anything else in this world.See this if you think you are open to something really scary.8/10 "},{"Title":"The Sean Cunningham Version of The Abyss","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the bottom of the ocean, the DeepStar Six has just discovered a new and deadly alien menace.When you come out around the same time as Leviathan and even more so The Abyss, you are bound to be compared to them. How many movies in a similar vein can there be? This one is much more like Leviathan due to its horror slant and less emphasis on special effects, and that might be a good thing.We get some great 80s personalities, and even if most are not big names, they are faces you have seen many times and would like to see more of. (Maybe we should bother to learn their names.) Best of all, we have creature effects from Greg Nicotero, and stunts from Kane Hodder. Cunningham brings his friends to the party! "},{"Title":"Mixes elements of Alien, The Abyss and Star Trek, but not as good","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Due to the hype of James Cameron's blockbuster The Abyss in 1989, there was a glut of underwater sci-fi/horror thrillers, all lesser productions (not that The Abyss was a great movie, just that it was a top level production).Deepstar Six is essentially an underwater version of Alien and Star Trek, but not as good. The story revolves around A crew of underwater workers/scientists who accidentally breach a cavern and disturb the creature living there. Havoc ensues. The film was directed by Sean S. Cunningham, known for 1980's Friday the 13th and 1983's Spring Break. Deepstar Six is essentially Friday the 13th underwater, but with adults and therefore more sophistication.Although this is a Grade B production in comparison to the Grade A The Abyss, it's not bad at all as far as actors, sets and F/X go. In other words, the sets are convincing, the no-name actors do a quality job and the special effects are effective. The monster is pretty good, it just lacks the iconic stature of the creatures in Alien and Aliens. Whereas the actors are skilled, the character development is lacking and, as such, they're relatively uninteresting people and therefore largely fail to apprehend the viewer's sympathy. Don't get me wrong, there's only one whiny loser in the bunch, but the rest of 'em come off too bland. Nia Peeples is the best, but probably only because she's such a petite babe, who's inexplicably removed prematurely; stupid! Still, there's just barely enough of her.The first half is relatively ho-hum as the characters are introduced and the underwater setting is established, but the second half won me over to some degree. There's a great scene of someone dying because he or she failed to properly decompress; and the ending, although clichéd, is effective. So, overall it's pretty mediocre, but just good enough to check out.The film runs 105 minutes.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Good one minute, pretty bad the next.","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" DSS is a frustrating movie...not as bad as the contemporaneous Leviathan, but not nearly as good as The Abyss. Quite a bit of money and effort went into the movie, and the reasonably good SFX show this. Unfortunately, it falls back into the same pit of horror-SF clichés that plague most movies of the genre.Lots of clang moments here, too. For one thing, how are the creatures getting around the station when the crew keep closing all the water-tight hatches behind them? It's not like there's a suspended ceiling they can crawl through. And in a later scene, it seems like a good idea to open the fuel dump on a submersible vehicle and pour highly-flammable fuel all over the creature before igniting it with a flare. Huh? Since when do submersible vehicles use internal combustion engines that require petroleum-based fuels? (I'd personally like to see the air filters that extract air for the engines from the surrounding seawater.) And how do you decompress from that depth in less than three hours? But, all things considered. it's serviceable as a monster flick. Just don't expect any common sense. Oh, and don't get attached to any of the characters. "},{"Title":"Decent entry, if not overtly spectacular","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Deepstar Six is a rather average creature feature.**SPOILERS**On board a deep-sea mining vessel, the crew, Captain Phillip Laidlaw, (Taurean Blacque) Joyce Collins, (Nancy Everhard) McBride, (Greg Evigan) Snyder, (Miguel Ferrer) Scarpelli, (Nia Peeples) James Richardson, (Matt McCoy) Dr. Diane Norris, (Cindy Pickett) Dr. John Van Gelder, (Marius Weyers) and Burciaga, (Elya Baskin) are under pressure to get a secret Navy project operational. Upon getting the project started, a series of accidents and deaths begin plaguing the site, and their equipment becomes ruined. The distress is eventually discovered to be a giant sea creature, who proceeds to attack the station and are forced to ban together to fight off the voracious creature.The Good News A decent creature feature, this one wasn't half bad. The set-up for the attacks is nice, giving some nice sequences that shows all is not that right. The main one is the first attack on the submarine. The repeated shots of the creature's eye-view ramming the ship are excellent suspense-builders. The dive into the cave is effectively eerie, giving off some nice chills, and the creature's attacks late in the film are also pretty creepy. The look for the creature isn't that bad and makes an interesting design. As a giant mollusk-type creature, it's certainly imposing, especially when compared with the damage it causes at the end. There is a general sense of being shut off from the upper areas that's nicely captured in here, and it does it well. Even though it is a little slow at times, it's never boring and keeps the attention throughout. It's a pretty decent film.The Bad News There's still a few problems overall with the film. It takes awhile to get anyway, and then the result isn't all that spectacular when it happens. The first half is very slow to get started, as it concentrates mostly on the day-to-day systems of the station. It's a real struggle to sit through it at time. The monster itself is a big problem. When it's finally unleashed late in the film, most of the damage and explosions come from the various characters doing something to try and destroy it or escape the base. Hardly anything is actually done by the creature. There's only a few deaths that's actually done on-screen by the creature, and most of the deaths don't even have any impact from the creature. The creature could have been removed from the film completely and there would be little impact on the story. It manages to change size, shape, intelligence and strength whenever it likes to suit the plot too. That in itself is a little confusing, as it's not entirely logical and can easily be seen as such.The Final Verdict A decent creature feature fare, this is pretty forgettable but still has some great moments here and there to make it a watchable one. Give it a shot if you like the underwater monster films, but don't be too surprised if there's a lot of eye-rolling or bored moments.Rated R Graphic Language and Violence "}{"Title":"OK, BUT NOT GREAT.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***MINOR SPOILERS***This was the first entry in the wave of under water/sea monster movies from 89'.The story is about a top-secret military base that is mining on the ocean floor, when they break into a cavern, unleashing a monster. The script is okay, the miniatures for the military base are fair,  but the cast was kind of disappointing. But the special effects are very good. The monster looks like a giant Lobster/Insect with big teeth. So, the special effects and script are the high lights here. Could have been better. Two-and-a-half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I actually liked this movie as a matter of fact there aren't many movies I don't like. But this movie was good for what it was I mean movies dealing with monsters aren't exactly big on plot or script too much. I mean you kind of know who lives and who dies and when. No real big mystery but even with all that it is still enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Sean Cunningham does about the same as in Friday the 13th.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rating 2** out of fourSean Cunningham does about the same splend in camera work as he did in the 1980 film Friday the 13th. In 1989 nearly 10 years later he goes a bit up hill after he failed with A Stranger is Watching, House and the over sex film Spring Break. This year was known for under water terror films like The Abyss and Leviathan. This one hit bottom but was somehow a success. Why? Bigger budget I guess...DeepStar Six is kind of like Alien. Explorers at an under water Navy Base are about to put missiles in the ocean floor disrupt a creature. The creature threatens their base and the crew relize there is no excape from the terror of the deep. The Abyss and Levithan were more well made than DeepStar Six but DeepStar Six had better values and budget. Cunningham said it is better to spend more time on suspense than just special effects. Which was what he did. DeepStar Six had a successful budget of over 3.1 million dollars. Taurean Blaque is the cheif of the crew, Nancy Everhard and Greg Evigan as husband and wife as biologists. Matt McCoy who did better in Hand Rocks the Cradle gets bit in half by the giant crab creature. Nia Peeples who is really hot in this film. Miguel Ferrer as the crazed technician, Cindy Pickett and Marius Weyers as the biologist and professor. Not all their best roles but successful enough. Elya Baskin, Thom Bray and Ronn Carroll as supporting crew members at the under water base.Cunningham was through with directing after this he went on to produce his last sequel to Friday the 13th with Jason goes to Hell but then recently did Jason X. Harry Manfredini has some excellant and suspenseful music and lack of cinematography from MacAlberg.  "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hocky underwater monster opus about a carniverous swimming crustation picking off a crew trapped 6 miles under. One of the weaker of the 1989 underwater thrillers, but not the worst.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Fraud 'Abyss' Like-Picture.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rating- **2/3 (Out Of 5)Greg Evigan and Nancy Everhard's roles are sadly wasted away in this disastrous and poorly created creature picture that could have been better if it didn't lack that acomplishment as it was to ever be popped in front of a camera. Released and Setted in this ABYSS like plot in 1989 lends to way too much fate, fans might think of the film as a JAWS and ALIEN like film, and director Sean Cunningham Friday The 13th, House fails to keep the actors and actresses motivated and well constricted. "},{"Title":"The worst of the undersea trio.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the year of the underwater adventure/horror movie.  I think both The Abyss and Leviathan came out this year.  This is the one I liked the least of the three.  Not that I was all that crazy about the other two.  This one had the underwater research facility like the other two, but this one had some strange monster unleashed, unlike them.  Leviathan had a sort of mutating beast that came from a sub and The Abyss did not have any sort of monster at all.  The problem with this one is that it is a very slow mover and the monster which the previews made it seem like it was the main attraction (as does the tagline) at times just does not factor into the equation.  Of course this movie has its highlights, like when the dude goes up in the escape pod without being decompressed, but all in all this just was not too good of a movie.  The problem with all three of the underwater movies is that they all seemed to be missing something.  They should have pulled their talents and made one movie. "},{"Title":"Excruciating tedium punctuated by poor judgment","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" People keep making excuses for this film and how it doesn't have the budget or flash of a James Cameron movie. Actually, what it lacks is a script editor or writer who has any idea what it is like to watch a movie.The first thirty minutes demonstrate utterly nothing happening. The crew recycle old jokes, complain, and chatter on all without establishing any real personality to the characters. You could cut this down to a five minute montage of one-liners and lose nothing. Then, there's lots of stumbling around while trying to figure out what is happening. Are we supposed to believe the Navy entrusted this crew of people with a $600 toilet lid, much less a submarine? Once the movie gets going, it improves marginally, but not really. Characters cannot identify a reason for any action they take. Instead, they just flail about and burn screen time doing stuff that tells us nothing about the characters, doesn't contribute to the plot, and builds an atmosphere...of tedium. It is excruciating to watch the filmmakers stumble again and again without making a point or providing any kind of actual tension. Instead, it's like watching a second-rate imitation of Seinfeld that got filmed underwater by accident.As others have noted, the short synopsis of this is incompetents undersea are trying to build a missile base, dynamite a cavern, and unleash a terrible monster. Everything else happens exactly as you would expect past that point. Then at some point, anticlimax happens when the monster turns out to be not as exciting as you might hope, and implausible as the terror of the deep that keeps these people in suspense. What makes all of this interesting is that aspects of this movie are well done. The sets are beautiful, the cinematography is great, and the soundtrack is well-above average. But it feels like a sitcom, has cardboard characters, and never gets any depth (har-har) to the motivations of anyone in the film, so it ends up being like Moby-Dick retold by the town drunk. I got a lot of laughs out of this film mocking it MST3K style but definitely do not recommend it.There are films with $30,000 budgets that beat this one palms down simply by having edited their scripts for what an audience might find interesting. Did anyone read this script? When they typed it, maybe, or when they started filming, or when they xeroxed it for crew members? It's as if no one could look at this and think, You know, that's going to be a COLOSSALLY BORING MOVIE, let's drop the shtick and go for the action... or add some personality to these stick figures. But nope. Zero out of four billion stars. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad rip-off.","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Review Summary Forgettable rehash of THE ABYSS and ALIEN. During 1989, a certain sub-genre in the sci-fi films struck cinemas, it was the underwater disaster/thriller epic. Three films were released that time. The most popular was The Abyss, directed by James Cameron. The other was Leviathan. Deepstar Six maybe the weakest of the three. Mostly because of its lack of a famous cast and impressive special-effects. But it's lack of visuals, doesn't always mean it's bad. Deepstar Six is not a totally terrible film, but it's lack of special effects, thrills and especially originality totally sinks it. The film promises a B-monster movie, but the alien beast doesn't fully appear until the second half. First, the crew must get past a flooding, a nuclear explosion problem and the lot, all tedious in its attempt to thrill the audience. If the film gave more interest, it would have been better, even for a rip-off. Rating * out of 5. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment.","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was not good , not good at all. I mean usually I like from this kind of movies (The Abyss, Leviathan) But this one just didn't work on me. Only good thing in this movie was the creature effects. The story was adequate and acting average, but this movie was somehow boring.I watched this movie as a VHS with bad quality, but it can't be about that. I might pay from this movie a euro or two just for the collection.  "},{"Title":"Not -that- bad.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen worse. Your basic creature feature, a little Mickey Ferrer before he got famous (his method of disposing of the missile sled reminded me of certain co-workers I've had at previous jobs), some tech-talk.It's not a documentary, for crying out loud. "}{"Title":"It's scary that they make films this bad.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing and liking Leviathan, I hoped that I would enjoy this similar movie. But what do you think happened? A boring and stupid movie with too much talk, no scares and the worst monster I've seen in the last 10 years? You got it. "},{"Title":"So-so sci-fi.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are too many crisis situations (they face a life-threatening problem every other minute; it gets tiresome) and too much technical jargon (good for authenticity, bad for comprehension). But the special effects are pretty good (at least no worse than those of Anaconda, and that was made eight years later), and there is also a standout performance by an increasingly demented and panicky Miguel Ferrer.   (**) "},{"Title":"Ummm, which 1989 Underwater/horror movie is this again...?","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yep, the summer of 1989 was oversatuated with these kind of flicks, and DeepStar Six was probably the most generic and low-budget of the various movies (Leviathan and Abyss). It's a generic hit-all-the-button type movie, made even more generic by the cost-saving measure of casting TV stars like Greg Evigan (B.J. and the Bear), Taurean Blaque (Hill Street Blues), Nancy Everhard, Cindy Pickett and Christine Pickles (St. Elsewhere - were they having a sale?), Miguel Ferrer (Twin Peaks), Thom Bray (Riptide), Matt McCoy (even worse - the Police Academy movies), and Nia Peeples (General Hospital, Days of Our Lives).Now, I like the underused Taurean Blaque as much as the next person, and he deserves a lot more work then he seems to get or want. Still, when you're flipping through the TV Guide to put together your cast list, you know you've got problems.Also, high marks to Miguel Ferrer (and/or whoever wrote his character) for playing what can only be described as a realistic character in this situation. He's not evil, or incredibly heroic like Evigan. He just reacts like a real person probably would, reminding us these aren't military types (ummm, I think - the plot is a little fuzzy for reasons I mentioned earlier).Overall, though, it's just a very...well, generic underwater/horror movie. I don't begrudge horror-maven Sean Haven for making a low-budget movie only for making one so indistinguishable that even if it had been released outside of the '89 aqua-horror glut it woudl have been forgettable. "},{"Title":"Should be Deep Star STINX!","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was terrible.  The storyline has an interesting basis involving an underwater nuclear plant in the near future, which could have led to myriad possibilities for disaster that would put a scare into the audience.  So which direction does it take?  An ancient sea monster attacks, and by the time it does, you wish it would kill every unlikeable character in the film. The special effects in this movie are terrible, and the acting is worse (led by Greg Evigan of BJ and the Bear and My 2 Dads fame).  I angrily walked out on this stinker when I initially paid to see it, but later on television I watched the ending in a moment of terrible boredom.  That was a mistake--the only thing worse than the rest of the film was the unpredictably predictable ending where Evigan survives a deep underwater battle with the monster and surfaces alive, totally ignoring scientific principles like a necessity for air or the existence of water pressure. Don't watch this film unless you are a masochist. "},{"Title":"Tepid underwater remake of Alien","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite a very solid cast and some fairly good production values, DeepStar Six sinks under the weight of it own inertia. This is an extremely uneventful film, and though ostensibly a monster movie there is almost no monster action whatsoever until the final twenty minutes or so, and even then what we get is extremely lackluster thanks to some very poor special effects. The script presumably aims to build tension gradually and spends a lot of time focusing on the ensemble cast (with a little extra emphasis on our heroine, played by Nancy Everhard), but while this may sound like a good idea in theory, in practice it fails utterly, as even a character-driven story needs a certain amount of drama and tension, which DeepStar Six totally lacks. As a result, I zoned out at numerous points in the tedious plot line and found myself strongly considering the stop button more than once...but I persevered in the vain hope that at some point a monster would rear itself from the mysterious depths and serious havoc would ensue. Never happened, as even when the sea monster that is our villain finally awkwardly asserts itself, the resultant action is poorly executed and the creature effects are inferior to similar designs from the 1950s. Some quality performances from a respectable cast that tries hard are unfortunately wasted, and while the aforementioned Everhard does a good job as our likable but underdeveloped heroine, the best performance probably comes from Miguel Ferrer as a burn-out victim whose sanity is slowly slipping away from him after six months of arduous underwater duty. It wouldn't have taken a whole lot for DeepStar Six to have been a solid b-movie, or maybe even a little more than that, if only the script and direction had made action a higher priority and perhaps developed a couple of the key characters a bit better. But as it stands, DeepStar Six is simply monotonous and underwhelming in the extreme. "},{"Title":"Three Films Stuck Together","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It says a lot about the lack of imagination that when one studio comes up with an idea for a production other studios feel the need to join . If you have a film about a volcano for example there will be another film about a volcano . In 1989 Hollywood studios went one better and brought out three films with an identical premise of a deep sea research station making alien contact LEVIATHAN , THE ABYSS and DEEPSTAR SIX . None of them did very well at the box office which says one thing - if you're going to play follow my leader at least follow a winner Having a film featuring aliens in inner space is no different from having a film featuring aliens in outer space so right away you're think of pulp B movie and unlike THE ABYSS this movie does try and stay true to its B movie roots , even the title DEEPSTAR SIX offers up connotations of sci-fi B movie horror It's strange watching how the storyline is structured . It's a very mechanical three act play but for some bizarre reason a film featuring the ocean as the backdrop lacks a hook . No not a fishing hook stupid a dramatic hook to pull the audience in . The first 30 minutes is composed of a group of marine biologists talking techno-babble as inCharacter A  Technical words , technical words ,technical words Character B  More technical words , technical words Character C  Even more technical words , technical words You can see what the director and screenwriter are trying to do , they're trying to convince the audience that these characters are scientists who exist in the real world and they succeed to a large degree but you're senseless and find yourself uncaring towards the characters . When a hot latina chick does a workout and gets all sweaty you may enjoy this scene then start fearing it might be the best scene in the movie After the first act the second becomes a disaster type movie where the research station will set off its nuclear reactor in the type of plot you've a million times and you're left wondering if DEEPSTAR SIX is a marketing scam not featuring a monster at all . Thankfully we do eventually get a big mouthed monster who chews up the cast but this doesn't happen until the one hour mark By no means a terrible film DEEPSTAR SIX will be a disappointment for those people watching it expecting to see brainless thrills and spills . As I said it feels like three films stuck together , a talkative scientific drama which turns in to a disaster flick and ends as a sci-fi horror B movie and one wonders why it just didn't hit the ground running as a more straight forward horror "},{"Title":"Down real deep in the dark there is something to fear.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Futuristic scientists try to set up an underwater sea lab and soon are forced to deal with a squid-like menace from the deep. The story line is all too familiar and there are just not enough scares to titilate a tad of terror. An ensemble cast features Greg Evigan, Cindy Picket, Miguel Ferrer, Nia Peeples and Nancy Everhard. Just enough special effects to keep this from being a total waste.  "},{"Title":"Abyss type flick of abysmal proportions","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The worst out of the three 89, underwater sci/fi flicks, this one that earned only a drive in release, even starts with minutes of conversation. We have another ugly alien creature SOB, who takes out the members, of this below sea mining station, one by one, one worked miner taking his own life. Deep Star Six takes too much time to get to where it's going. Miquel Ferrer, the suicidal overworked outcast, is one of a few good things about this fizzer. The movie does have some actors I like, plus an intimate shower scene, which I wish could eventuated into more. The big monstrosity of a behemoth with large gills ext. looked so embarrassingly fake, it causes one to say, Haven't we seen enough of these flicks. The scene with Ferrer evacuating ship in his own contraption, going so fast and high, he doesn't remember his own name, where he's subjected to nose bleeds, was quite gripping from what is mostly nothing happening land, it's ending, predictable as to it's surviving number count. We have too some emotional buddy scenes, in the aftermath of a late black member, they becomes humorously entertaining. Oh boo hoo. Cindy Pickett isn't bad as the ship's nurse. "},{"Title":"Poor Quality disaster Flick","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I honestly can;t believe that some people are giving this movie such a high rating, and even more than someone went so far as to put it above James Cameron and Ridley Scott... anyhow the reviewThe film is very much based around the same sort of concepts as Alien, shot instead underwater... The Alien replaced by a giant deep sea invertebrate. However the storyline is much less developed than the older masterpiece instead moving from disaster to catastrophe each of which contrived for the moment rather than a cohesive whole. There is no attempt to study the creature, nor actively work to vanquish it et.c, instead its just one failure to escape after another in tedious repetition. The monster therefore is not a real character in the storyline, its simply a reason for numerous other disasters to have started happening, indeed its a member of the crew who causes most of the problems in a farce of errors. The crew are killed off piecemeal seemingly without care or reason, which is fine because you didn't care about them really, you were never given a chance to get to know them.That said the effects are decent for their time and the acting is solid if not spectacular, when you take into account the poor script they were working with. however overall, this film is not great and not really worth the time and effort to watch unless there is nothing else on. "},{"Title":"Causing two nuclear explosions in one afternoon has to be some kind of record. Poor underwater creature feature.","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Deepstar Six starts miles beneath the surface of the Ocean where a mixture of naval officers & marine biologist's go about their work. Dr. John Van Gelder (Marius Weyers) is in charge of overseeing the construction of a missile platform, scientist Dr. Scarpelli (Nia Peebles) has more noble intentions on her mind while Capatin Phillip Laidlaw (Taurean Blacque) is in charge of the whole damn thing. Officer Joyce Collins (Nancy Everhard) has discovered that beneath the proposed missile platform location there just happens to be a cavern, Van Gelder orders it to be blown up (?!) so general dogs-bodies Hodges (Thom Bray) & Osborne (Ronn Carroll) get in their underwater vehicle & set the explosives using a remote arm. Unfortunately the resulting blast annoys & releases something within the cavern, something big, something nasty & something with an appetite for human flesh...Co-produced & directed by Sean S. Cunningham I personally found Deepstar Six to not live up to my already meagre hopes. The script by Lewis Abernathy & Geof Miller plays more like an underwater disaster film like The Poseidon Adventure (1972) in the sense that the biggest threat our stranded protagonists face are of a technical nature like the little base thing hanging over the edge, water pouring into the base, pressure lines being ruptured so the crew cannot depressurize & escape to the surface along with the fact that the reactors are overheating & will blow up destroying the base. The monster aspect of the film felt almost secondary to me, for over an hour the monster remains totally unseen & just swims around outside until it follows someone in through the airlock after which it never leaves the confines of one room anyway, it's just that's the room where the pressure lines are otherwise the remaining crew wouldn't have to go anywhere near it. I must admit that I'd have preferred the monster to be introduced a lot sooner than it was & for it to stalk & eat the crew, unfortunately it only eats one & a half people. As a whole I found Deepstar Six very slow going & at 100 minutes long it could have done with maybe 10 or 15 minutes shaved off the running time. I wasn't impressed by some of the logic either, why blow a cavern up? The cavern was heading down into the ground so it would just have collapsed in on itself surely?Deepstar Six was one of three underwater sci-if/horror/thriller films from the same year along with James Camerons The Abyss (1989) & Leviathan (1989) & is surely the worst of the bunch. Director Cunningham does a reasonable job but the monster is barely used & the film has little tension, excitement or atmosphere. Some of the model shots look very, well like toy models. There are a couple of decent gore scenes, someone starts to burst as they get a very bad case of the bends, death by oxygen pellet which makes someones chest explode, someone is bitten in half with lots of stringy red stuff hanging down from the upper torso & the monster itself looks quite cool but I'm not sure why it would need claws (when was the last time you saw a fish with arms & claws?) or eye's (that far down it's total darkness anyway, right?).Technically the film is well made & apart from some fake model shots it has a certain polish about it. The acting was OK by a largely unfamiliar (to me) cast with Miguel Ferrer as Snyder who is known to everyone as 'that guy from Robocop (1987)' putting in a nice over-the-top performance.I was throughly disappointed by Deepstar Six, maybe I missed something but I thought it was meant to be a monster film. No such luck, if you can make it too when the monster shows up it becomes decent but I just can't get over the preceding redundant & totally dull first 70 odd minutes. Not recommended. "}{"Title":"It's up there with the worst!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...this film is a notch below Lobster man From Mars...except Lobster was funnier!...I would stop writing here , but they want me to finish four lines...Stinks Stinks Stinks....They should have asked me to do the directing and writing and acting....End of the Line...GARBAGE! "},{"Title":"It's just so bad it boggles the mind","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the 3-something IMDb rating. I knew it would be bad. But my friend said he saw it when he was young and claimed that it was good. He lied. The entire plot and script is a direct alien-ripoff, even the actors look similar! I can almost guarantee that the casting went like this -Ok, we'll cast this guy as Hudson, this one as Hicks, and this girl as Ripley. They act and look just the same, only it's a poor man's version.What else? It's boring, nothing much happens until the end, where this butt-ugly monster that looks like a reject from Tremors appears. There is a little blood in the end, but it seems kind of out of place, since the other 99% of the movie is as tame as a family-flick.During the viewing, I actually started cursing my own life, for being born a human at this time in history, where this abomination of a film exists, and me having the misfortune of watching it. The director responsible for this filth has also directed some chapters of the Friday the 13th series, which confirms that he really deserves to die. "},{"Title":"Why even have dialog?","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the major problems with over half the movies made after about 1975 is that Hollywood went haywire on hating the audience. This is undeniably evident in the sound and dialog.Like most modern movies, we can't understand more than a dozen words spoken by the characters. Why even have dialog? You would never know it was even in English if not for a few words that the actors speak slowly enough to discern, about how much a hen weighs, a part about save yourselves, and a few lines from Ferrer, who is the only actor in this movie who can speak English.The sound crew, the director, and the actors are all at fault when dialog is this intelligible.We do learn from the action that they are underwater in some vessels that are destroyed one by one by a giant sea creature, and somehow there are nuclear explosions involved. Don't try to figure this out. You won't be able to understand the gibberish these amateurs speak.It is apparent that these people are modern day psychopaths, so intent on targeting someone to hate (in this case the character played by Ferrer), that there is a self fulfilling prophecy for them, which they themselves cause. The poor teammate isn't Ferrer's character, but the hero and heroine themselves, which was the ideal of the seventies, eighties, and nineties, the self righteous types.In other words, the very same personalities that would be great hijackers for 9-11. Make no mistake, it was 9-11 that brought movies like this to a halt, and showed these wackos what they were really like.It's a very sick movie, and impossible to interpret without subtitles. Poorly acted, poor sound, but the action sequences are done in a logical way, and it isn't totally repulsive, so it gets a 2/10 instead of a 1/10. "},{"Title":"Boring characters, No action, Poor Production Values","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was so very disappointed with this film. I gave it every chance I could and I am even a huge horror Sci-Fi fan. I enjoyed the other two big horror under-water movies of the 80s (the Abyss and Leviathan) but found Deep Star Six terribly boring with no good action, extremely poor production values, and uninteresting characters who are impossible to care in drab and poorly captured scenery. Its boring and campy...don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"A total waste...","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sat in front of the TV to see this film because of Sean Cunningham. I regret that decision. The movie actually was slowly building its suspense. The plot was not too much cheesy and the cast were honest. DeepStar Six was, in fact, sailing good until that underwater/alien creature first showed its mug on screen. I got utterly disgusted by the lack of imagination of the people that designed its appearance. Its not that I should forgive them just because the release date was back in 1989. Alien was in 1979 and it had one of the finest creature designs till date.I liked Miguel Ferrer in Stephen King's The Night Flier and here he gives a very entertaining performance. His character was also nicely written by the screenwriters. It's one of the few good points of this otherwise worthless production. "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews DeepStar Six","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An underwater research team, planning to place a missile site on the ocean floor, ignite caverns before properly mapping out any forms of life that might be a threat. Dr. John Van Gelder(Marius Weyers)is under a tight schedule(..and actually behind schedule)to get the missile site completed and commands Joyce Collins(Nancy Everhard)to detonate the caverns, despite much crossfire from the crew. After two crew members who lose a camera taking pictures of life inside the now destroyed caverns come up missing, something very huge and fast attacks an outpost station called the Seacrab which is located where the plans for the missile site were to be carried out(this has Joyce and Elya Baskin's Burciaga on board and hurt). McBride(Greg Evigan)and Captain Phillip Laidlaw(Taurean Blacque)trek to the Seacrab to see if Joyce and Burciaga are okay. Burciaga was fatally wounded when heavy equipment crushed him below the waist. Also, Captain Laidlaw perishes when a door(wedged open by a crowbar)closes on him. Once returning to DeepStar Six with two-less crew members, escape plans are batted about because an imminent threat is quite possible. They prepare to set-up quick plans on the missile site and Snyder(Miguel Ferrer)follows a certain procedure which sets off two nuclear bombs which set off an enormous amount of light that the massive life form attracts to the DeepStar Six in search of food. Once the nuclear bombs go off, chaos ensues as the force of the explosions causes bad damage to everything from the outer hull to decompression making the crew's life even more difficult in searching for a way to escape. Just leaving the place is enough for much trauma, but coping with a big creature doesn't help matters. Somehow this crew will have to join forces in killing the beast and find a way to resurrect decompression before serious life-threatening conditions take over(massive radiation due to core being disabled not to mention oxygen tanks being disrupted). This film is really nothing more than people being killed off one-by-one thanks to disastrous circumstances and bad decisions. The whole mess actually started because a man was under so much pressure to get his missile site in operation he forgoes proper techniques in safety protocol. The creature was minding it's own business when some man decides to explode his cavernous lair. He gets even with a few tasty snacks for good measure. A decent B-movie cast is pretty much wasted, though the cast is quite likable despite their limited characterization(sure there are moments where certain characters speak on what they'll do when they return home which is a big no-no since shortly after they say what they plan to do they get killed). The creature looks like a deformed tortoise. It isn't nothing to right home about, but Everhard and Evigan are very likable as lovers with a baby on the horizon. "}]