[{"Title":"Vivid and memorable","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A robust, inventive parallel to the life of Christ. This film seems to display utter commitment and genuine integrity. It is moving without being sentimental, and tells its tale with rigour and without too many contrived plot developments. The performances are splendid. You don't have to be religious to appreciate this one, since it stands up in its own right, even if the parallels are ignored. Deserves to be better known. "},{"Title":"To thine own self be true...","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Daniel Coulombe is recruited by Father LeClerc to jazz up the traditional Passion play (a dramatic representation of the events leading to the passion and Crucifixion of Jesus) staged in Montreal's Catholic Sanctuary. Coulombe, in turn, gathers a group of actors/apostles, ranging from unemployed actor Remy (now overdubbing dialogue on porn movies) to ambitious commercial actress Mireille. Together, they workshop a controversial and moving Passion play which leaves audiences awestruck and the priests reeling, as the production challenges the dogma and hipocrisy of the Catholic church.Director Denys Arcand weaves a remarkably deep tale which comments on commercialism, selling out, spirituality, theological scholarship, fidelity, loyalty and more- but in a manner that is relatively subtle and humorous, so the film never feels didactic. The somewhat magical effects of the theatre come across beautifully; in fact, Jesus Of Montreal is a must for anyone involved with the Theatre. For those interested in film trivia, you'll notice that there are veiled biblical/mythical references throughout the film, (Magdalen lobster, the Lawyer as Satan, The Charon restaurant), and that the director appears as a judge when Daniel is on trial. The story itself is well constructed, and its somber denouement drives home the suggestion that resistance and a revolutionary viewpoint are liable to bring ill fortune...You don't have to be Catholic- or even 'religious' - to enjoy Jesus Of Montreal this is a film for anyone who has ever contemplated the difference between spirituality and religion, or who has had to make a decision between doing what the system demanded and doing what they believe is the honest thing to do. "},{"Title":"Can't recommend it highly enough.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jesus of Montreal is one of my two favorite films...it's tough for me to decide on one or the other (the other is With Honors), but it's one or two.  This film has meant so much to me over the years, with its simple, powerful messages of artistic freedom, personal redemption, perseverance during a personal quest...and how heartbreaking the world, and reality, can be.The male lead has a beautiful Zen-like quality about him during this film...meaning the character as well as the actor.  I'd love to see more of his work.I can only watch this movie once in a while, as it moves me to tears too easily.  It's very funny in places, too. "},{"Title":"An awesome historical and religious WhatIf","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What if Jesus had been born in the year 1970 instead of year 1, and as unheralded now as He was then- how would our society have dealt with Him?And if people can get possessed by the Devil, can a regular guy -- not a nut or a fraud -- become gradually and genuinely possessed by Jesus?Denys Arcand answers both questions in clever and entertaining fashion. With actual events, people, words and thoughts from Jesus' life being transposed to our modern times. Of course a movie like this is aimed at people who don't turn both their brain cells off as they enter the movie house, and won't be happy with 90 minutes of gunshots, car chases, or Jesus being whipped. And yet this highly hypothetical parable still comes off as a plausible dramatic tale, with the usual Arcand mix of tragedy and comedy. You could have never heard of Jesus and still enjoy this movie.The cinematography is gorgeous and the main actors are uniformly excellent. Some of the minor characters bother me intensely, which they are meant to do -- they're just too darn good at it. The script and direction are nicely conventional - in the sense that at no time does the viewer wonder who that guy is or what the heck is going on. Jarring artsy cuts, unannounced flashbacks and weird camera angles are many critics' cup of tea but not mine, and thankfully, not Arcand's either.There is quite a bit of tension-relieving slapstick in this story; some viewers may like it- it *is* funny, but it makes me uncomfortable at times. And the ending is a bit of an anticlimax, although at the second viewing I think I began to see the light. I originally rated this movie 8/10, but after seeing it again I got more in tune with it and also noticed a few very clever details, so I'm upping it to 9/10. Maybe 10/10 when I see it next.  "},{"Title":"Art VS Commercialism *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although I was born in Quebec, and I've lived here for the better part of my life, I still have a hard time identifying with the rest of the province.  I don't follow hockey, I still don't understand heavy jouale (a highly slang-ridden form of French specific to Quebec), and I haven't even seen Les Boys, Les Boys 2, or Cruising Bar, three of the highest grossing Quebec films ever made.  Yet, despite the amount of money these films have made, the only place you're likely to meet anyone who has seen (or much less appreciated) these films, is here in Quebec.  A film like Jesus of Montreal on the other hand, while not being as successful in terms of dollars, has reached a much broader spectrum of people.  It has played in theaters across Canada and the world, and was even nominated for an Oscar for best foreign language film.  Most writings on Jesus of Montreal focus on it being a modernization of Christ's story.  I will focus on how the film is a reflection on Arcand's own struggles.Denys Arcand is now a highly respected and admired director. However, since making Jesus of Montreal in 1989, Arcand has only made three features.  Despite his reputation, it is extremely difficult for him to get a film made.  Positive feedback no matter how strong, doesn't mean anything to the companies that provide the funding, if it doesn't rake in the cash. I mention these points for a reason, because, among other things this is one of the key themes of Jesus of Montreal.Of course, the film is about other things as well, but it is important to remark on the interesting parallel between the story that takes place in the film and Arcand's real-life situation.  In the film, Daniel's version of the Passion Play is popular amongst the public, but because the Church disagrees with the content of the play, the play is canceled.  In real-life of course, it is not the Church that prevents Arcand from making films, but still, the popularity doesn't help either Arcand or Daniel produce their art as often or as easily as they would like to.  Another parallel is that that Daniel refuses to sell out or compromise, and subsequently so did Arcand. Although Arcand has gained a lot of recognition for his work over the years, he has never made a blatantly commercial film.  Arcand's film after Jesus, Love and Human Remains, although in English and not up to his usual standards of quality, was by no means an escapist film, and was clearly not made to rake in easy money.Of course despite the message in Jesus of Montreal that trying to create meaningful art without selling out is a constant uphill battle, the film is not cynical.  On the contrary, the film seems to be saying that the rampant commercialism in the world is one of the very things that give true art its meaning. Twenty years from now, no one will be discussing Les Boys and its importance to Quebec Cinema.  Whatever makes money one day is forgotten the next and replaced by something that makes more money.  But a film with a message that remains relevant throughout the years will never be forgotten.  Jesus of Montreal is as meaningful and inspiring today as it was eleven years ago when it was released.  It has lost none of its wit or bite, and that is it's true value, not how much money it has made. "},{"Title":"An accurate depiction of the Jesus of academia, not faith","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All of us knows who Jesus is, right?This movie brings to light a concept of Jesus that most people do not know is a topic of serious academic scholarship.  The question is, What can we reasonably say about Jesus based solely on historical sources?  Of course, the Bible is the primary source, since Jesus is referred to only in passing by nonreligious sources of his time.  And, because this is an historical pursuit, one goal is also to separate those things which are clearly matters of faith from those which do not require a religious faith in the man.  Therefore, we are left with a Jesus who led an iconoclastic life and was killed for it.  The historian cannot say in an historical journal that Jesus was divine, walked on water, or was raised from the dead.  This portrait is called The Historical Jesus.The historian can, however, make a personal statement of faith-- I believe Jesus is the Anointed of God, who saves us from our sins.  This is not the statement made by Jesus of Montreal.  Masterfully, the cast and crew of the film weave a tale which demands several viewings to fully consume.  Both explicitly and through the use of metaphor, Jesus is depicted as a revolutionary teacher of great charisma and whose life was one of tragedy.  But this film is not about the traditional Christian concept of Jesus; rather, it illustrates only the human aspects of the man who is, to me, God incarnate.  This is the story of Jesus, the man-- not Jesus, the Christ.  Christians may be disappointed by it, or outraged, but I encourage us all to remember that where that where faith (trust in that which cannot be observed) begins, there the historian (or scientist) must stop.  Believers go further.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to think, be they a believer or not. "},{"Title":"Pro-Montreal","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was utterly astonishing. It was one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen. Every word, every action and every track of music that was played was completely appropriate. It really gave me, and I'm sure, all of it's other audiences, something worth thinking about regarding modern religion's morals and even hypocrisy. The film,to me, was like three revolutionary religious ideas in one. First, there was the actual Passion story that caused a stir in it's time, secondly the much disputed portrayal of the Passion performed by the actors, which is what the film basically revolves around, as well as the actual film itself. All three stories, incredibly similar in their own way, are not against religion but simply point out the irrationalities and stupidity of organized religion of the past and of the present. It was a truly wonderful film, and I recommend it to all who are willing to sit down for a couple of hours and be completely absorbed in a very intense yet delicately put together film. The film was one of the most clever I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After about ten years I finally could watch this movie again. I was just around 13 the first time I did and even though I could not remember all the scenes and many details, the essence of the movie stayed. It is not just intelligent, it is beautiful... the photography is excellent... the music is magnificent. But the most important and awesome thing is the argument. What if Jesus would have been born again and everybody is too busy with commerce, fame and banality to notice it? Then you start to think not just in Jesus, but in all the people that lives in the planet and we don't give them the chance to enter in our lives. A perfect example of that are the two TV producers (that might be a metaphor of the followers of Cesar 2000 years ago). And about metaphors there are many others and that's what makes the movie so unique The beautiful actress is Mary Magdalene, the actors are the prophets, and finally (there might be a big spoiler here) The Lawyer. Maybe the scene that impressed me the most is after the trial, in which Daniel gets free without any problem, when he is talking to the man that wanted to be his defense (that Daniel refused), in a very tall building (that remembers to me the biblical story in which Jesus is on the top of the mountain with Satan, being tempted), when he says you could have this city if you want... It's really moving. And like that one I could mention lots more. Even in the very end, when Daniel dies, and her friends give his healthy organs to other persons and you can see them they will live longer the resurrection. I'm not religious at all, but the way they handle the movie and the story is really heart moving. By the other way we have a preacher that has been with a lot of prostitutes, such as they say Mary was, we find a Daniel that besides his friends, is completely alone in the world, we have a girl that (even though is not exactly prostitution) has to sell her body to live, and many other things that are not that nice. So it is not just a white, nice movie, it is very ambiguous. Besides its beautifulness it has a dark (very real) side. It is awesome. "},{"Title":"Excellent, thought-provoking film.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  During the first half of this movie I was trying to figure out if it was a not-so-subtle spoof of Christianity, or an outright sacrilege. As I got angrier and angrier at what was going on in the film, a sudden chill went down my back as I realized I was thinking just like the Catholic church sponsors in the movie, AND just like the Pharisees and Sadducees of Jesus' time. I was trying to fit Christ into my own expectations, and I was just as guilty as Jesus' opponents and killers. Tears welled up in my eyes as I realized that Jesus of Montreal was trying to depict in a very real way exactly what went on in Jesus of Nazareth's time.  This is not a movie for the faint of heart. People bleed, they are naked, and they die. But just as Jesus of Montreal died for his followers and his neighbors, so did Jesus of Nazareth.  "},{"Title":"Stirs the soul","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes I have seen, the classics, Citizen Kane, Casablanca, Gone with the Wind. Yes I know about Scorcese, Coppolla, and the rest.But this is my favourite film of all time.  It is heartwarming, passionate, funny, spiritual, uplifting, and all encompassing that it lifts your soul no matter who you are.  It is universal.  I don't think I will ever find another movie that will beat this and I have seen many good... no ... GREAT films..And of course it is Canadian (and so Am I) and that is a plus. "}{"Title":"A beautiful film about the meaning of spirituality","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jesus of Montreal is a beautiful film about the real meaning of spirituality.  Pitted against the inflexibility of religious institutions, Daniel (played wonderfully by Lothaire Bluteau) shows his rag-tag disciples the real meaning behind the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth.  The story-within-the-story works well. Director Denys Arcand subtly begins to blend the story of the biblical Jesus with the day-to-day lives of a group of actors performing in a play about the last days of Jesus.  The turning over of the tables in the Temple, the temptation of Jesus overlooking the city of Jerusalem, being abandoned by the male disciples, and many other tales of Jesus find their parallel in the lives of Daniel and his friends. The resurrection scene at the end of the film is a particularly moving overlapping of the two stories.  In the hands of a lesser writer/director, this could have all been really trite.  Instead, the film becomes in the truest sense of the term a parable in which we see how great truths from a great teacher really do apply in our own lives.  Every performance is pitch perfect, the pace is just right, and the message is, as always, what we all need to remember Real happiness lies not in what we have but in what we give. A ten out of ten film. "},{"Title":"The greatest film of a great director","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jésus de Montréal is probably the best film of Denys Arcand who also made Le déclin de l'empire américain.Unfortunately this film had a less big commercial success than Le déclin de l'empire américain, but it was made with a biggest budget. Even though, it is an accessible film for almost everybody (the Quebequers may be advantaged because it was filmed in Quebec).I highly recommend this film especially for the Quebequers and all other Canadians.Vincent Leclair "},{"Title":"Insightful commentary on the sacred and the profane","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A priest in a large Catholic church in Montreal thinks the church's annual passion play is getting stale and needs updating. He hires Daniel, an actor, to accomplish this task. Daniel takes his assignment seriously, thinking and studying and putting together a cast of talented actors. The quest for the cast is quite humorous - one actor is dubbing an adult movie, another is appearing in a perfume ad (where she is seen walking on water), and so forth. The actors indeed come up with a play that has the play's audience moving from location to location for the performance of each station.The passion play performed in this movie gave me a better appreciation and understanding of the power and significance of the Jesus myth than anything I have ever read or seen. As a lifelong atheist I can say it is wonderful. Lothaire Bluteau gives a powerful (even passionate?) performance as Jesus.I was uncertain where Jesus of Montreal was going after the performance of the passion play. But that is where things really got interesting. Performing the play has had a marked effect on the cast and Daniel's life starts to take on certain aspects of the life of Christ. Director/writer Denys Arcand is clever in the way he presents the parallels.Daniel is tempted by a publicist who tells him he can make him rich and famous and details some of the techniques. One suggestion is that Daniel write a book, and when Daniel says he doesn't have anything to say the publicist retorts, Some ways of saying nothing go over so well. Think of Ronald Reagan. And there are plenty of writers who could write the book and, at the least, Daniel could publish a cookbook, since they always sell.There is a parallel to Christ's running the moneychangers out of the temple, healing the sick, and even the crucifixion. The play is too avant-garde for the Church and they try to shut it down - refusing to desist Daniel is arrested in the middle of the play while he is on the cross. The movie is filled with such pointed commentary.In passing Arcand touches on the deficiencies of the Canadian health care system (an emergency patient is told to take number forty-eight and wait in line), a topic that he would expand on in The Barbarian Invasions. As a subtle commentary in the context of the story, Saint Mark's Hospital is seen as hopelessly chaotic whereas the Jewish hospital is shown as professional and efficient.As Daniel and his troupe of actors take on more and more of a modern day version of Jesus and his disciples the question arises as to what the reaction would be to Jesus in our modern society. The answer seems to be that he would be regarded as a nut case except by the few who knew him closely and identified with his message.Arcand's talents as a director are not to be underestimated. The staging of the passion play is beautifully done and some of the camera angles used in the church scenes are very creative. As in other Arcand films he uses music by Francois Dompierre mixed with some classical compositions (in this case Pergolesi) to great effect.I came to this movie after having seen and enjoyed Arcand's The Decline of the American Empire and The Barbarian Invasions. After now having seen Jesus of Montreal, I think I can say I am an Arcand fan.This is a clever, humorous, satiric, and absorbing film. "},{"Title":"wonderful early Arcand","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I respectfully suggest to the people who find this film sacrilegious, that you have missed the point. The Daniel character lived according to Jesus' teachings, and was persecuted for it, just as Jesus had been. Both men were persecuted by the establishment who were threatened by his teachings because they could not live to such holy standards. The standards themselves were exalted in the film. This was shown in many ways, one of which was how the lives of all the members of the troupe improved once they joined Daniel in doing the Play (of course analogous to Jesus' disciples.)The complaint that the films smears the priesthood by having the priest in the film be in a sexual relationship with a woman acting in the Passion Play -- that complaint seems awfully quaint now, after the huge real-life sexual abuse scandal involving so many priests. At least the priest in this movie was having a consensual relationship with an adult.Yes, the clergy were depicted as sinful and corrupt, as were the businesspeople (think of the people making the TV commercial, to give just one example). The clergy were not singled out. It was PEOPLE IN POWER, across the board. Their power meant more to them than living by the right principles. They wanted to give the APPEARANCE of living right in order to hold on to their power, but not actually LIVE according to those principles. True of most people today. Really a great film which to me says, the way to glorify Jesus is to live for what he stood for, not just keep up appearances. "},{"Title":"Contemporary Passion Play","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Denys Arcand(The Decline of the American Empire,1986; Love and Human Remains,1993), a founder of Canada's National Film Board, creates a contemporary passion play in the metropolitan streets of Montreal.  His satirical look at the meaning of art and religion and the integrity of performing artists themselves is both poignant and insightful while at the same time humourous.  This film is rarely trite or predictable, taking the viewer on a powerful journey which explores personal morality and realistic and idealistic conventions of Christianity.  Jesus de Montreal is successful on many levels, from biblical parallels to Christ's own legendary life to the challenging views on religion adopted by many people today.  Set in the Catholic stronghold of French-Canadian Society, Jesus de Montreal questions the relevance of spirituality in a society dominated by scientific dogma and material competitiveness. "},{"Title":"Very good artsy movie about the beauty of theatre","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Acting doesn't pay much these days, and a team of very good, yet impoverished actors has to work for the church in a show re-creating the life of Jesus. The need for really creating something lingers and frustrates them ; until an old friend comes back from a long trip. This man has talent and charisma enough to shape the others' fuzzy desires into writing a play. They turn their dull show about Jesus into something terrifyingly beautiful that has the public crying. But then, something happens...This movie is really beautiful and moving, go rent it ! "},{"Title":"Moving and Entertaining","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You do not need to be Catholic or, much less, Quebecois to understand and appreciate this work of art.Jesus of Montreal is an act of sublime spiritual discovery and should be required viewing of all who call themselves Christian. In this film, we see how the Spirit of Christ is born and grows in one man (Lothaire Bluteau), and how the evildoers around him react.We see the evil pharisees who judge and condemn Lothaire (Jesus). These are the people like the American President bush who proclaim loudly to one and all how holy and Christian they are, all the while killing babies with his bombs and bullets and sanctions.Go see this film with an open mind, and you will see and hear the real message of Jesus Christ!  "},{"Title":"Finding faith in the most unusual places","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jesus of Montreal is an engaging movie detailing some historical facts about the life of Jesus Christ while also discussing the nature of faith in 20th century Montreal.Every year a Passion Play, detailing the final days of Jesus Christ, is staged at St.Joseph's Oratory, a cathedral and shrine on Mount Royal in Montreal, Canada.  The play is a relic, and full of melodrama and dialogue more appropriate to the 19th century rather than the 20th.  The priest in charge of the play, Father LeClerc (Gilles Pelletier), finds Daniel, a young actor (Lothaire Bluteau), to play the part of Jesus and puts him in charge of finding a cast to play the other roles.  Daniel gathers together some of his acting friends to stage the play, and decides to present an update of the play with revised dialogue and incorporating much more historical information about life in the time of Christ.Daniel starts the movie as a cosmopolitan young man, but as the film progresses, the challenges he faces in his life and in the staging of the play provide parallels to the life of Christ.The movie discusses some deep themes of faith, the life of Christ, existentialism, the waning role of religion in French-Canadian society, and the good and bad of the entertainment industry.  Definitely meaty stuff, and I believe well realized by Arcand and his cast.  "},{"Title":"Good but not excellent","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found the first half of this movie to be not very interesting and sometimes extremely slow. But the movie picks up in the second half. The story is then more inspiring and some remarks are causes for deep thoughts.There's a lot of irony in the second half. One of them brings Daniel (Jesus, played by Lothaire Bluteau) to Ste-Marthe hospital. No one will take care of him there and he has to be brought to the Montréal Jewish Hospital to get some care! Interesting to hear what Father Leclerc has to say about his life as a priest and how, if he quits his job, he will have nothing remaining.It seems every actors in Québec had a role in this one. Cameos inlude Marc Messier (Les Boys), Roy Dupuis (Being at Home with Claude), Denis Bouchard (Les Matins infidèles), Jean-Louis Millette (Bouscotte) and more.Out of 100, I gave it 74. "},{"Title":"Simply put...","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  one of the best films of all time!  I would have to think that Jésus de Montréal was a real turning point for Canadian cinema in general.  I really want to see some of his other films now, such as the Decline of the American Empire.  "}{"Title":"Artist as God","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know enough about Catholicism or Qeubecor culture to comment intelligently, so I'll keep this focused on the wonderful treatment of storytelling.The Passion has been told and retold for decades and has lost its public appeal. A modern adaptation is needed to connect to a new audience. For a story to take hold of a culture it has to be felt in the spirit of the players, who must to some extent become the art they portray. The artist in many ways is God of his world. He creates, reshapes the world according to his own vision -- his own image. The best art opens and turns outward from this and reshapes the world that consumes it. Shakespeare, Mozart have achieved this.These players do the same thing with the added layer of having to reinterpret the words of an actual God (the irony is that this reinterpretation is closer to the original than the Jesus these Quebecors have known -- after thousands of generations of theological telephone, the message has been distorted).Daniel is consumed by his character, possessed, literally taken over. Much like Jesus the man was consumed by Jesus the supernatural being. Jesus's words, too, changed the world. As far as treatments of artist as God and manipulator of his world, this is one of the best.(And -- Arcand maintains this theme wonderfully in The Barbarian Invasions by having the same priest, also played by Pelletier 15 years later, still seeking to commercialize and monetize the art spawned by his religion.) "},{"Title":"Jesus OF MONTREAL (Denys Arcand, 1989)  ***1/2","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had been impressed by this on first viewing (despite its being in French only), watched on another Good Friday several years ago; a second look (and the benefit of English subtitles) only reinforces its inherent quality. This is an absorbing, original, savage, funny, and frequently stunning piece of work - although, in view of its subject matter, it does have the occasional heavy-going passage. In fact, Jesus OF MONTREAL was expected to emerge victorious at that year's Academy Awards as the Best Foreign Language Film facing stiff competition from the likes of CAMILLE CLAUDEL (1988) and CINEMA PARADISO (1989), the honor was eventually bestowed on the latter - a nostalgia piece with child interest, it was an altogether safer bet (though I've yet to catch the film in its entirety myself!)...Despite their over-familiarity, the 'Passion Play' sequences are quite powerful - thanks also to excellent performances all around. Lothaire Bluteau is quietly impressive in the demanding central role (of an actor who eventually goes mad from playing Christ!); incidentally, he followed this with another spiritual film - BLACK ROBE (1991). Arcand seems to be one of the most interesting auteurs around, as the only other film of his that I've watched - THE BARBARIAN INVASIONS (2004; which did win him an Oscar) - is also superb (apart from being equally thought-provoking and controversial). Speaking of which, I find Jesus OF MONTREAL to be superior to that other notorious Christ-movie of the day - Martin Scorsese's THE LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ (1988)... "},{"Title":"State of the soul...","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brilliant piece of movie, especially fragments of road show! Movie talks about basic human values, vs. hypocrisy of the religion and society; talks about real artists and affectation of mediocrity found in show business, relationships and art. A movie that doesn't belong to high profit type of Hollywood junk production for wide masses. It contains bright and simple thoughts, for the way to soul calmness that we have forgotten... The real religion is the one, there aren't institution and leaders, only human being and love. This is movie about urban kind of the Christ, but Christ isn't person, Christ is a state of soul. Everyone can do it with simplicity, truth and liberty of your life. God is in you, not on the sky or in church corporations! Love&Sun, LeOS "},{"Title":"This is a modern Passion story...","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Contrary to what others see on its surface, this film is the Passion story--not a statement about theater or art. This film tells the story of Jesus the man; allowing him to live in history without the burden of deification. It is a remarkable film that complements other modern films about Jesus--and it's nearly as controversial as Scorsese's Last Temptation of Christ. The script and editing masterfully interweave the story of Jesus with that of our protagonist, Daniel Coloumbe. It makes a powerful statement about what the Church has done to what we know of Jesus today. The cowardice of the priest in the film is an allegory for the intentional self-blinding of the Church itself when it comes to the topic of the deification of Jesus. Emotionally paralyzed with fear of leaving the church and striking out on his own, he would rather strangle his own needs and wants in order to carry on with living a lie.For non-Christians and Christians alike, if you watch this film with an open mind it will leave you inspired. It makes the point that it doesn't matter whether Jesus was the Son of God or the Son of Man--teacher or God. If you can get beyond the the millenia of rhetoric, his message is one that is still powerful today. "},{"Title":"Agreed with previous comment, this is a phenomenal film","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Truly a great film. I initially saw this in Montreal while living there a few years ago and have have been hooked on it since. This film portrays a wonderful parallel in the lives and situations of the characters in the film with the lives of Jesus and his followers. Right down to the dramatic end. Clear Representions made are Jesus, Mary Magdalen, and of course the Pharisees. Its certainly a thought provoking film just as the story of the crucifixion is thought provoking on both a personal level and in looking at the world outside. And to tease my fried who commented previously on this film. It is truly Quebecois, not Canadian. )  "},{"Title":"unjustly eclipsed by Last Temptation","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have only seen the last half of this film- caught it late one night on cable, but it is every bit as moving as one of my other favorite Jesus films- Last Temptation.  And I am an evangelical, charismatic, politically & theologically conservative Christian.  A good challenge to casual & unreflecting faith as well as to hidebound resistance to the Gospel. Not for everyone's tastes, I'll admit. "},{"Title":"one my top 20 favorites","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm utterly astonished that any thinking person wouldn't love this show...though perhaps it may offend every word of the bible must be taken literally Christians.  I'd recommend this show to anyone and think less of the person if he or she didn't enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Compelling blasphemy","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Daniel Coulombe (Lothaire Bluteau) is asked to modernize a passion play written 35 years ago. He gathers people from the play, dubbing artists who sometimes dub porn, and a model with little experience. He incorporates newer controversial theories on Jesus and it becomes a big hit as alternative theater. However the Catholic priest isn't happy with all the changes. Then parts of Jesus' life start happening in the real world. When he is injured at a performance, Daniel can't get a room at the Catholic hospital.Writer/director Denys Arcand made something that transcended simple entertainment. It is unlike anything else. It is blasphemous. And it is compelling. It's ending is tragic and uplifting at the same time. It was nominated for a foreign language Oscar losing out to the also excellent 'Cinema Paradiso'. "},{"Title":"Passion Play Redux","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jesus of Montreal is a play within a movie; in this case The Passion Play. However, the actors do a little rewrite, with changes which anger many traditional Catholics. One of the is that a Roman soldier was Jesus' real father and left right after the Savior's birth; ouch.Daniel, the actor playing Jesus, has an accident and is taken to a Catholic hospital and he is ignored. He leaves and winds up at a Jewish hospital, where he collapses and is pronounced brain dead. He has no relatives, and so his friends are asked for consent to take his organs. The film is an allegory on the life of Christ, using Daniel, as a parallel figure. He has just returned from the east. The other actors have left good, safe jobs, in order to do the play, becoming Daniel's disciples. With the donation of his organs, Daniel is resurrected by saving the lives of others. Jesus of Montreal is a bold vision by director Denys Arcand. "},{"Title":"Moving, odd, unique, and often funny","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A group of young actors put on an updated, radical version of the passion play, and find new meanings in their lives, spiritual and otherwise along the way.At the same time, they battling the hypocrisy of the Church that asked them to 'freshen up' the text, but are unprepared for a questioning, complex work of art. Sometimes the symbolic references to the Bible are too literal and heavy handed. And some of the satire of Montreal's shallow bourgeois art lovers and sell-out advertisers is way too on the nose. But there's something powerful in the film's moments of ambiguity and in the fragile humanity of it's characters. And the actual passion play itself &#x96; full of doubt and using archaeological history to question more literal, fundamentalist interpretations of the Bible is both intellectually fascinating and moving. Flawed enough that it possibly deserves a lower rating, but it haunts me. "}{"Title":"Dennis Arcandy Won Best Foreign Oscar 2004 this is great earlier effort","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Denys Arcand Jesus of Montreal-1989 is a movie from a director with intelligence & refined sensibilities. (His best-known work is The Decline of American Civilization. He also made The Barbarian Invasions a film which I enjoyed very much It won best foreign film Oscar 2004) Plot A group of actors putting on an interpretive Passion Play in Montreal begin to experience a meshing of their characters & their private lives as the production takes form against the growing opposition of the Catholic church. They begin to experience a meshing of their characters & their private lives as the production takes form against the growing opposition of the Catholic Church. (Lothaire Bluteau), the actor who plays Christ, discovers that his own life is taking on some of the aspects of Christ's. By the end of the film we have arrived at a crucifixion scene that actually plays as drama & not simply as something that has been forced into the script. It suggests that most establishments, & especially the church, would be rocked to their foundations by the practical application of the maxims of Christ. The film gives us simple, powerful messages of artistic freedom, personal redemption, perseverance during a personal quest...& how heartbreaking the world, & reality, can be. The film manages to make deft, original swipes at a plethora of modern 'evils' media hype, advertising, hospital bureaucracy, & of course the hypocrisy of the religious establishment. Cinematically the film is visually elegant & an uncluttered sort of movie. In a sense, Jesus of Montreal is a movie about the theater, not about religion. But in the end their challenging production becomes the toast of the city, the Roman Catholic Church strongly objects to its Biblical interpretation & forcefully stops the performances. At least this film does not become overly heavy-handed on screen. This film was nominated for the 1989 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film but did not win. 4 Stars Recommended~! "},{"Title":"life-changing for me","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" a wonderful, wonderful movie! I am a Christian who has always sought the wider view, and this certainly has it. Yes, you need to see it several times to take in all the implications of plot and statements. I had the incredible experience of turning it into a play for a university assignment, and had full houses both nights it was played. we had some terrible struggles putting it together, as we were all beginners - in fact, it somewhat paralleled some of the actual film! It touched hearts, and even those in the audience who hated Christianity liked it. I like to think the film tells about Jesus in a modern vernacular that many people who cannot stand church or who have been hurt by church can relate to. Just for the record, Australian catholics have quite a different attitude to what is acceptable. Not only has the film been seen regularly in Australia (mostly in Art Movie Houses), but it has been on television several times, and for loan at video hire places. Also, our local priests were fully behind me doing the play version, giving valuable insights to how i did it, and one told me how deeply it had affected him. The students saw JofM as cutting edge and I had absolutely no negative comments from any of my fellows in doing it. Just goes to show what a bit of truth in todays world can do. I could not believe it when i came across the JdeM link on one of our local Australian news commentaries . I sort of thought it was all dead and buried now. How wonderful to see it is still having such impact. "},{"Title":"playing Christ is sometimes for real","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this film maybe fifteen years ago, and it had a profound impact. The plot is not original an actor is recruited by a church to play Jesus in a Passion play, and as he works himself into the part, he becomes increasingly Christ-like. (Nicos Kazantzakis took a similar line in his novel 'Christ Recrucified.') However, its modern-day setting and iconoclastic approach mean that 'Jesus of Montreal' really does have a flavour all of its own.The church that has recruited him in the first place becomes alarmed at the radical interpretation he and his carefully-picked cast give the Passion narrative, and nervous at the hit they have on their hands. The parallels between Christ's life and that of the young hero become closer and closer, when he destroys the equipment a set of a morally bankrupt advertising agency (a la Jesus throwing out the money-makers from the Temple.) The film is packed with humour the lead actor is interrogated and then arrested by the local police at whilst still on the cross.So does the Resurrection happen too? In a way it does. Our hero dies, crushed by the weight of the cross during a performance. Tragic, but there is a kind of redemption in that his youth makes his organs highly desirable. The film shows the beneficiaries of his death, a woman given sight with a new retina, a man walking with a new heart, and a boy given a new kidney. A situation turned inside out, just as in the actual Easter story. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Little Film","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A group of actors put on an unorthodox, but acclaimed Passion Play which incites the opposition of the Catholic Church while the actors' lives themselves begin to mirror the Passion itself.I imagine what makes this movie so appreciated is its parallels between the Bible stories and the lives of the actors. And, indeed, this is interesting and surely required some clever writing and whatnot.But what made it enjoyable for me was the exploration of the controversy. Who was the real Jesus? Who was his father? Did he have a beard? What do we really know about him? Without being blasphemous, I think the film touched on some important points, because what we generally believe may not be the same as what the record reveals. "},{"Title":"Explores the gospels in the context of a post-modern society","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very popular movie and was thrilled when I saw that it was being shown on SBS on Good Friday. It is about a man who is hired by the Catholic Cathedral in Montreal to put on a fresher rendition of the passion play but his ideas end up causing a lot of controversy among the priests while bringing thousands to see it. The film itself parallels the life of Christ, even though some of the concepts in the film are incredibly controversial.Arcand questions the origins of the gospels, saying that Jesus existed through the evidence of other Roman writers, there is absolutely no doubt about that. With the gospels though, he says that there is little to trust in them because the disciples are flagrant liars. It is interesting though that only two of the gospels were written by the disciples, that is Matthew and John, while the remaining two gospels were written from second hand accounts, that is Luke and Mark. These accounts obviously were written by talking to hundreds of witnesses, as Luke says at the beginning of his gospel Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us, just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eye-witnesses and servants of the word. Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, it seemed good also for me to write an orderly account for you, Theopilus, so that you may know the certainty of the things that you have been taught (Luke 11-4).I guess in a way it is the parallels that are important. The Catholic Church relies much more upon their tradition that upon the word of God. The priest who was asked to do the play has lost his faith and now only sees the Church as a structure for the poor. I have seen far more in the Church than simply poor people coming because they cannot afford the luxuries of society. I have seen one of the most powerful Lawyers in Australia and one of the twelve managing directors of Woolworths give themselves to Christ and follow his leadership. If this is the case then there is much more to Christ than simply relief for the poor.Jesus of Montreal is a very existentialist film, but also there an undermining of this philosophy. Arcand seems to create a whole feeling of meaninglessness in a beautifully portrayed account of the universe. The whole passion play shows an idea of possible hope and Christ says that he is king and will establish his kingdom, though Pilate comes out with a description of death, saying that he does not know what lies behind death and it could be nothing more than an empty black hole. We see Pilate addressing Christ as if he were a human and not God.We see another parallel in the way that the people love the play while the Church, who organises the play, hate it. Arcand beautifully merges the play with the movie around him as the central figure attacks the priests using Christ's words. We also see the climax come as Daniel Coulomb is illegally performing the play and as the church security attempts to shut it down his cross is knocked down and his head is crushed. The hospital he is taken to is crowded and he is released without any treatment. There are parallels between Christ and Coulomb with the fact that nobody knows anything about him, he has no past and rises to fame quickly only to be killed by those who find offence at his plays. He stands up for his friend, going as far as destroying a film studio like Christ destroys a marketplace in the temple who are ripping people off.This movie is phenomenal and it raises many questions. That is another theme in the movie, questions. There are always questions raised, the nature of the universe, the formula for Coke, the exact nature of the passion play. Where did Christ come from and was he just a good teacher and a magician or his he more. We see in the movie that Christ makes a blind woman see and raises somebody from the dead, this is paralleled at the end when Coulomb's heart and eyes give new hope for those who thought they had none. Jesus of Montreal is an incredibly powerful movie, more powerful that any that I have seen of late. It does not truly portray the Christian message, though it tells us that Christ when to the cross to carry the burden of our sins. This is not important though, but more that the must be some hope in an empty, existentialist world. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and well done","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very impressive film, partly because of the powerful performance by Lothaire Bluteau, who combines authority and vulnerability in his portrayal of both Daniel and Jesus, but also because of the original way the film creatively reworks the story of Jesus, and especially his passion. There is a lot to think about and it is a film to watch more than once, I think.There are just one or two wonky features the equation of the established church with the pharisees is a bit clichéd and simplistic, and the stuff about new archaeological discoveries and Jesus being the son of a Roman soldier is a load of piffle, but I suppose the writer wanted a dramatic excuse for the changes in the script of the traditional passion play.All in all, it's excellent and I heartily recommend it. "},{"Title":"While the script might easily offend, it's still a highly original and exciting film","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Okay, at the outset I must point out that some who watch this film might be offended. The passion play that is portrayed in the film contains quite a bit of non-Biblical material that tends to humanize Jesus and de-emphasize his divinity. A literal interpretation of the life and death of Christ, this is not! Also, Catholic hierarchy are deliberately compared to the Pharisees who persecuted Jesus and some Catholics might feel very uncomfortable with this. In addition, in parts of the play, Jesus is played naked. At first, this shocked me, but this was much more accurate than the usual loincloth portrayal of him--shocking, but not sacrilegious to me. So parents might want to think twice about letting the kids see this, or at least the would want to discuss the film with them.The film started relatively slowly, so I recommend you suspend your judgment until you've seen it all. A relatively unknown actor is asked by a hypocritical priest to re-write and perform the passion play at a shrine in Montreal, Canada. The play is quite a departure from the norm, as some of the actors are clearly not the nice sort of folks you'd expect to be doing religious plays. For example, one does voice dubbing for pornographic films and another does crappy ads that rely on her body more than her acting skills (a 20th century variation on followers like Mary Magdalene and other sinners--this was clever). These choices actually made sense as did many of the occurrences in the film because they were meant to be symbolic of the life of Christ. The characters themselves didn't realize this, but throughout the film they mirror the story from the Gospels. After a while, the actor who plays Jesus begins to lose himself in the role--acting out scenes such as chasing the money-lenders out of the temple and the actual death and resurrection of Christ. All the parallels are too many to repeat here, but someone with a decent knowledge of the life of Jesus will often notice the parallels.In many ways, the final results can be both affirming to believers yet frustrating as well. Frustration at some of the offensive lines of dialog and the way they've made the life of Christ rather revisionistic (saying that salvation is an individual thing--de-emphasizing Christ's part in this and making it more touchy-feely). But the script is so very clever and manages to also make Jesus come alive, in a sense, as the central messages are proclaimed well. Plus, after the death of Jesus in the film, it does a good job of showing how the message and legacy continues. Overall, an excellent and compelling film that is sure to make an impact on the viewer.By the way, this film was released on DVD by Koch-Lorber. While this company has a great track record for bringing independent and foreign films to DVDs, they also usually lack any sort of meaningful bonus materials. For the feature film, I give it an A. For the extras, I give them a D-.PS--Like the great BARBARIAN INVASIONS (also by the same director and starring some of the same cast), this film was highly critical of the Canadian health care system--showing it was being uncaring and overwhelmed. These two films make an interesting counter-point to Michael Moore's SICKO, which tends to glorify this same system! "},{"Title":"renovating the gospels","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young actor is commissioned to update an annual Montreal Passion Play (starring himself) but is a little too convincing in his role, drawing unfriendly criticism from the Catholic Church and finally suffering his own crucifixion (and state-of-the-art resurrection). Director Denys Arcand wants to demystify the Gospels (the performance of the Play itself might have been called 'Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Jesus But Were Afraid To Ask'), but his film works better as a media satire than as a modern-day theology lesson. Lothaire Bluteau's (rarely changing) hang-dog beatific calm makes the title character more of a martyr than Christ ever was (his death throes in the Montreal subway are interminable), although it's never clear if the mysterious actor simply identifies with his role or is in fact the actual Man from Galilee. But even at its most pretentious the film is engagingly playful; Arcand may be wearing his intellect on his sleeve, but his Messiah isn't too far removed from Jeffrey Hunter in 'King of Kings'. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended Film","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jésus de Montréal is one of the best modern realizations of what Christianity is becoming in the hands of Western Culture. The film clearly shows how current Christian leaders are becoming what Jesus himself strode to part from when he parted from the corrupted Jewish community he belonged to. Daniel, the main character, is paralleled to Jesus in so many ways (Daniel gathers actorsJesus gather disciples, Daniel destroys the corrupt acting studioJesus destroys the temple where money lending is occurring, et cetera). These parallels are clearly in place to show how modern Christianity is reversing its role in how it spreads and teaches religion.Lothaire Bluteau does an outstanding job acting as the almost-famous-starving-for-food- but-at-the-same-time-doing-well-for-himself- and-meeting-people-in-high-places actor, while Robert The Page Lepage pulls off a difficultly humorous yet unrefined René.I spell colour with a 'u' because I am British.Of course, one of the film's greatest strength's is that is not American-based. This also leads to the most disappointing part of the film It was not written, directed, or produced by Hindus. If the film had more Indian influence it would be much stronger, as Bollywood and all Hindu-related films are far superior than anything Western civilization can produce. "},{"Title":"Denys Arcand's Jesus of Montreal","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lothaire Bluteau is a mousy actor who is drawn into a new versionof the Passion play, the crucifixion of Christ. The local priest wantsto freshen it up a bit, and Bluteau brings in a small cast to reenactthe scenes and play all the parts. In addition to two veteran actors,Bluteau brings on board Johanne-Marie Tremblay, who happensto be sleeping with the aforementioned priest. He also finds theabsolutely gorgeous Catherine Wilkening, a Parisian model whouses her body in commercials to sell products.Already the parallels between Bluteau and the actual Jesus Christare hinted at, as the actor travels and assembles his apostles.The troupe rewrites the Passion, opening it up to include recentrevisionist history, and the play is performed to an awestruckaudience. Then the trouble begins. The priest did not want THATkind of updating, complete with nudity and the suggestion thatJesus was the son of a Roman soldier, not God.Careful, spoilers ahead! Bluteau attends an audition for a beer adwith Wilkening, and after seeing her humiliated in the name of acheap beer, he destroys the television equipment. He is laterarrested, while hanging on the cross in the play, and booked. Hislawyer is not a criminal lawyer, but an entertainment lawyer whowould love to further Bluteau's career. As secular forces begin toaffect the play's cast, the troupe decides to give one lastperformance despite the priest's ban. In a rather silly fight, Bluteauis injured, and taken to a busy, cruel hospital named St. Mark's. Hefeels better, leaves, and with Tremblay and Wilkening, go to asubway station where he mutters incoherently and passes outagain. This time, he is rushed to a Jewish hospital, where heexpires. His organs are harvested, and his fellow actors decide tocarry on an underground theater company in his name.My main complaint here is not the obvious, that some film makersstrayed from the Gospel to tell Jesus' story. It is the fact that thefilm makers try to equate theater with church, which have moredifferences than similiarities. I minored in Communication Arts incollege, and appeared in my fair share of stage productions. I alsoappear in local television commercials.  However, as Arcand takesa rather hammerheaded approach to theater as church, he forgetsthat church is a matter of faith and belief, not a matter of freespeech. Taking the theater in Bluteau's name, where they will keepup his traditions, is nice, but what if the characters were cooks?Would the fellow cooks take up the deceased's recipes and namea fast food joint after him? One can argue that church can betheatrical, but that cannot be reversed to mean the theater ischurch.The entire film shut itself off to the FAITH of Christianity. The priestdismisses his flock as people who cannot afford psychoanalysis,so they confess their sins to him instead. This might be true forsome, but definitely not for all, but you would not know that here. Ionce read an interesting statement about faith Truth is strangerthan reason. This film will not convince the faithful to lose theirbeliefs. It is better when it shows the crass commercialism andemptiness of many people's lives. Seeing the critics say the samethings after the performances of two entirely different plays spokemore than the priest's obvious people are gullible scene. Hewants the Passion play changed because of pressure from higherup in the church bureaucracy, not because it defiles his beliefs.The idea that Bluteau's organ donation goes to heal the sick,everybody now- just like Jesus is interesting, as is Bluteau'sreception at the Christian hospital as opposed to the Jewishhospital. I liked the cast and direction, but the film's avoidance ofthe one glaring issue here- faith- is something I just cannotovercome. Because of this, I cannot recommend Jesus ofMontreal.The film is in French with English subtitles. This is rated (R) forsome physical violence, mild gore, strong profanity, brief femalenudity, male nudity, sexual references, and adult situations. "}{"Title":"A negative review...of the first half of this film. Strong spoilers.","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film really disappointed me. The acting is atrocious. Unbelievable. And it's about actors. The story is incredibly obvious A group of independent actors stage a Passion Play and, in turn, they start to live out the lives of the characters they play. I've been watching a lot of movies lately, thanks to Netflix, and this is the first one I haven't watched all the way through in a long time. I felt I didn't need to see the end; we all know the end of this story.For some, it seems, this modernization of the Gospels is either sacrilegious or enlightening. I cannot speak to any of this as I wasn't raised in the Christian church. That being said, I was raised in the US and I live in an increasingly Christian culture. I'm curious enough about Jesus and about the modernization of the religion, for better or worse. I haven't seen Mel Gibson's version, but I'm guessing that those who liked that one will like this, except for the most conservative. I just wish this was a better film.Lots of these reviews praise Arcand's direction and especially the cinematography. I liked neither. The film itself is rather prudish and preachy. I didn't believe the characters' personae and I was never involved with their on screen lives. The play within the play is very much dated and would not, I think, carry it's own weight in a real time production. But that's beside the point. What I really needed for this to work would have been stronger development of the characters and the plot to support the philosophical and theological questions the film would like to be about. And the musical choices are obvious and unoriginal.There were two examples of this that come easily to mind. Firstly, there is a reenactment of the parable of Jesus driving the money lenders from the temple the lead actor, who has fallen for the woman who will play Magdalene and who is also a model and dancer, becomes enraged that she must debase herself by auditioning for a commercial (with a wicked producer and plenty of panting men in the audience) with her pants off. He trashes the place and chases them all out. I guess this is the level that the film wishes to reach. The romance between these two is entirely arbitrary and not at all emotionally realized and the scene is played out like a high-school rendering of Death of a Salesman, i.e., not well. Please stop hitting me over the head with this high-handed significance. The other is the relationship between the other female lead and the priest who has asked them to do the play and who, eventually, turns against them and betrays them to the nowadays-corrupt Church. Why. Why does she sleep with this guy. It brings him so much pleasure and me so little pain. Ah, the saintly whore and the lovable old coot. It seems to be just enough for Arcand to signify but not worth the trouble to enrich and enliven these characters. They are going through the motions and I'm reaching for the eject button.Feel free to write me off as bored, jaded or just not interested. Feel free to watch this movie and see the Passion, in all its beauty, sadness and inspiration, delivered as an amateurish and gimmicky charade. Feel free to have all your preconceived ideas affirmed and see any shred of artistic integrity forsaken for monotonous drivel. But don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, but incredibly boring","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, Jesus of Montreal is basically an intelligent movie. The actors are indeed good and the technical side of the movie is okay. But, although I was very interested in the topic and like to think and discuss about religion (I am an atheist), it was hard to force myself to watch the movie to the bitter and in my opinion somehow unconsciously funny end. Why is this movie so incredibly boring? I don't know. It just is and so it is not recommendable. "},{"Title":"deglorifying Jesus","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You believe in God or you don't. You believe in Jesus or you don't. You believe He is the Son of God or you don't. The choice is up to you.Director Denys Arcand has really done everything he could to bring back Jesus to a mere historic figure, social worker, son of two humans, instead of the Son of God the Holy Spirit and Mary, Who opened Heaven again for us. Encouraging the Big Bang, a world come from evolution, instead of seeing the beauty of creation. The film depicts a theologian bringing some modern findings to the actor who plays Jesus in the Passion Play, who happily incorporates them in his play.The depicted priest who runs the sanctuary where the Passion Play is performed in Montreal has a sexual relation with one of the female players of the Passion Play instead of showing his love for God through celibacy. More often than not the director's abhorrence of the Church is clearly visible.The director has tried to make a parallel between Jesus' life and the Passion Play actor's life. This is an admirable attempt, but depicting the Resurrection with the transplantation of the Passion Play actor's organs in other bodies signifies how the director thinks about Jesus.My opinion is not important, God's opinion is, but I wouldn't want to stand in the shoes of the director and actors when standing before Jesus' throne. "}]