[{"Title":"Rise, my son, and walk!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like Michael Keaton, Peter Boyle, or Christopher Lloyd, you will like this film.  That's guaranteed.  But even if you are not fans of the aforementioned talents, I think you will still enjoy this movie.Keaton is at his sarcastic best with his role as a guy with anger problems. It's easy to empathize with him, especially in the situations he finds himself in.  I don't know of any other contemporary actor who could deliver these lines with the same effect.Similarly, Peter Boyle surpasses his performance in Young Frankenstein with his comedic portrayal of a man who believes he is Jesus Christ.  His walk through a hospital is not to be missed!Lloyd plays the control-freak authority figure wannabe with finesse.  It would be difficult indeed to watch this talented comedic actor play a straight role.Stephen Furst is excellent as a man who can only speak in baseball metaphors.  Where the hell has he been since Animal House?The plot is weak and quite predictable, but the lines delivered along the way are worth the effort.  One of the great sleepers. "},{"Title":"Peter Boyle is a comic genius","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I mean it.  After seeing him in this movie, and Young Frankensteeen, and the occasional episode of Everybody Loves Raymond, I can't take him seriously in movies like Joe, Outland and even as Wizard in Taxi Driver. His performance in this movie is absolutely hilarious.  I've always had a soft spot for this underrated gem.  It's basically a screwball version of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, using that movie's famous baseball game scene as its starting point  An easy-going doctor takes his patients to a Yankees game, and runs into trouble on the way there. And I don't really mind the crime subplot here as much as I did in Three Men and a Baby.  Everyone shines here--Michael Keaton (his reference to the World Trade Center was funny then, bittersweet now); Christopher Lloyd; Boyle; even Lorraine Bracco, in a small role.  And it's full of memorable quotes.  This movie never fails to put a smile on my face.   "},{"Title":"Neat little comedy.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the hands of lesser a director and less talented actors, THE DREAM TEAM's plot about four mental patients loose in Manhattan would be silly and childish.  Here, it is funny as hell, you stayed glued to the screen.   The four patients are Michael Keaton, as a loose tempered but charming liar, Peter Boyle as an ex-executive who now believes he is Jesus Christ, Christopher Lloyd as a compulsive neat-nick and Stephen Furst as a catatonic TV commercial/Baseball fan.  Their run-ins with unsuspecting New Yorkers come fast and fresh, no re-heated gags here.  Look for a young perky Lorraine Bracco and Broadway great Phillip Bosco in supporting parts. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The characters in this movie are well done and well acted.  The comedy is great.  Michael Keaton has some great one-liners and facial expressions. You can really relate to his situation.  One of the better comedies I've seen.  "},{"Title":"Lunatics On The Loose","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was a humorous film about a small group of mental patients who are let loose in New York City for a day. They are Jack (Peter Boyle), Henry (Christopher Lloyd), Billy (Michael Keaton).and Albert (Stephen Furst). Actually, they are taken to a ballgame and the doctor in charge of them is kidnapped there, after he witnesses a crime. The boys are are now on their own in a lost in New York scenario.Mainly, this film is a bunch of sight gags more than a cohesive story. Boyle, Lloyd and Keaton are all, by now, well-known actors who bring a lot of life to their characters here. It's a lot of silliness but, for the most part, works and provides a lot of laughs. As a baseball fan, I appreciated Furst's performance best.Peter Boyle (Jack McDermott) plays one of several insane people who are lost in New York and are out on the streets having a good time. He is a Jesus freak, which the screenwriters consider nuts, of course. He and other churchgoers are pictured in the movies as lunatics. Gosh, what a shock Hollywood would do that. They also have crooked cops in here - another shock.The film still had a lot of funny moments, thanks to the actors and the interesting premise of mental patients fending for themselves in the big city. It's total lunacy. "},{"Title":"Stephen Furst needs to get more roles","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's good to know that some movies are just big excuses to be goofy. The Dream Team is one such example. We get introduced to four mental patients Billy Caulfield (Michael Keaton) is actually close to normal, Henry Sikorsky (Christopher Lloyd) believes himself to be a doctor, Jack McDermott (Peter Boyle) believes that he's talking to Jesus, and Albert Ianuzzi (Stephen Furst (yes, Flounder from Animal House!)) barely does anything. When their psychiatrist takes them to New York, he gets attacked by the mafia and the four patients are left to fend for themselves. From there, it's basically two hours of everyone being as loony as possible. Probably the best scene is the box scene; I nearly died laughing when that scene came up.Anyway, this just goes to show what one can do for comedy. It's not to be missed. Also starring Dennis Boutsikaris and Lorraine Bracco. "},{"Title":"I was with Elvis, and my dog told me to do it.....","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mike is a tad delusional. Harry believes he's a doctor. Jack is an ad executive who believes Jesus is speaking to him. Albert is an adult who occasionally wets himself. When they are taken to a ball game by Dr. Weitzman they witness a murder and Weitzman is attacked and hospitalised. The four crazies find that Weitzman will be murdered as a witness and no one believes four mental patients. They have to both use and overcome their delusions in order to save the only decent doctor who is treating them, with both the police and the killers looking for them....I was Thirteen the first time i saw this movie, and i instantly fell in love with it. Having not seen in in nearly 17 years, i was very worried that one of my favourite movies as a child would not have the same effect now, than it did in 1992.Although it has dated quite a bit, it is still laugh out loud funny, and quite surprisingly touching in place. Understandably, the best parts of the film are when the four are bickering. It's consistently funny, and the lines are funny and never fail to raise a smile.Keaton is in full on wacko mode in this, and is probably one of his best forgotten roles. Lloyd can play straight and yet be hilarious, but carries the films most humanistic element. If the scene where he visits his wife and daughter doesn't bring a lump in your throat, you need your brain checking.it's a very sunshine orientated movies, with lots of quotable lines, and if you are feeling down, this is the sort of film you want to watch to brighten your day.it's very easy to watch, goes along quite breezily, and most importantly, never gets boring.highly recommended.plus Keaton has an amazing mullet. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Funny comedy about a group of mental patients who take a trip to the big city under the supervision of their doctor, and wind up being framed for a murder they didn't commit. Far-fetched and far from great, but made enjoyable by a few funny fish-out-of-water/mistaken-identity sequences and the spirited performances by Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd and Peter Boyle all three of whom, it may be noted, seem to have lost their careers in recent time...but were at the top of their games during the era and are certainly at home here in a film that is never quite as good as it could be but is nevertheless a whole lot better than I ever expected it would be.I like the beginning sequence with Ray Charles' Hit the Road Jack over the credits. I don't know why - maybe because I saw it years ago and it's just stuck with me - but I always think of this when I picture the film in my head. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every member of my family loved this movie and has watched it at least twice. We just enjoy the laughs and hummer. It's great entertainment. The movie can be watched by any member and age group. A 10 year enjoys it as much as an 80 year old.Don't understand why some comments say it missed the point etc, I think that sometimes we should have entertainment just for entertainment sake and this move fulfills the bill admirably. There are other venues to deal with mental health issues but this movie in its innocent manner certainly helps understanding not the other way around. Am looking at this very moment to buy a copy to give to a friend. "},{"Title":"Funny and Heartwarming","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Saw this and realized it was a homage to 'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest'. Really enjoyed it though, and the guys were brilliant. Keaton is his usual brilliant self as is Christopher Lloyd, who I might add, is really hilarious in this. Peter Boyle puts in a fine performance too. The whole story was a relatively simple one and not confusing. Comedy rarely gets this good, from a silly point of view. Dialog is real good, and listen to the constant jokes, which are genuinely funny! Anyone slating this would do well to remember, it is a comedy! Meant to be a farce! With lines like We are all naked in the eyes of the Lord! and Everything is so disorganized, comedy fans'll love this! "}{"Title":"Light, insane, extremely funny 80's comedy!","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is comedy at its best, and also has that 80's feel,a good story, specific to comedies until the 90's when they started to rarely have an interesting one.Four mental patients suddenly find themselves alone on the run in the Big Apple and better get sane real goddamn fast , as they are being accused of attacking their psychiatrist -what a great premise for a comedy.Michael Keaton was born for this part, the mental patient with a history of violence.Peter Boyle is also great as an ad executive who believes Jesus is speaking to him, Lloyd and Furst are also great.Combined with the great dialog, delivers one of the best comedies made in the 80's.Memorable quoteAh, it's great to be young and insane! "},{"Title":"It's great to be young and insane...","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of my favorites of Christopher Lloyd's films, though I came to love the ensemble casting of Michael Keaton, Peter Boyle and Stephen Furst. Keaton is great in this; he filmed this the same year he was filming the first Batman movie. Also a very fine performance by Dennis Boutsikaris as the kindly, ill-fated doctor. (My mother and I were always surprised when we saw him in movies afterward; he seemingly has not played anything but a**holes and arrogant lawyers since. This seems to be the one and only halfway likable character he's played.) You have to admit, if mental hospitals were this accommodating and peaceful in real life, being insane wouldn't be such a bad gig. ) I almost wanted to have myself committed by the end of this. (That's perhaps not the glowing recommendation of this film that I mean it to be....) It's like if Lloyd's other looney bin movie One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest had a happy ending. A gentle, harmless film to sit back and relax with. Watch for the cute yet slightly eerie reference to the World Trade Center. Another good New York crime comedy to watch back to back with this is Quick Change starring Bill Murray, Geena Davis and Randy Quaid. "},{"Title":"A Quest for Sanity","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some films that have been forgotten about and left in the past are interesting to me, because they can be surprisingly entertaining and thought provoking. The Dream Team is such a film, and is one of the great sleeper hits of the late 1980's.A remake of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Dream Team is about four mental patients who have been institutionalised for different reasons.Billy Caulfield (Michael Keaton) is a compulsive liar with a violent temper. Despite his inability to control himself at times, he does have a firmer grip on reality than the other members of his group.Henry Sikorsky (Christopher Lloyd) is a neatness freak with delusions of being a doctor. He prefers to focus on the problems of others rather than confront his own, concerning his estrangement from his wife and daughter.Jack McDermott (Peter Boyle) is a former advertising executive with a Messiah complex. He likes to believe he is Jesus Christ so he can elevate himself above his own personal failings.Albert Ianuzzi (Stephen Furst) is a couch potato obsessed with baseball, and has been catatonic for much of his life. Although he is the most withdrawn member of the group, he is aware of what is going on around him. He just doesn't choose to participate.This disparate group of people seem to have nothing in common on the surface, but their therapist, Dr Weitzman (Dennis Boutsikaris) likes to believe they are not too far gone to reclaim their own identities.He wants to bring them into the outside world for a field trip to Yankee Stadium for a baseball game. They are understandably nervous about being out in the real world again, but are willing to give it a try.Unfortunately, Dr Weitzman is mugged by two crooked cops on the way, and our heroes have to fend for themselves.The Dream Team is both funny and touching, as they have difficulty coping with how much the world has changed while they've been in hospital. The four of them have to learn to cooperate with each other to save Dr Weitzman from the cops.Michael Keaton gets a lot of the best lines, as he can be funny, disturbed and troubled all at the same time. His live-wire performance is perfectly attuned to the manic energy he brings to the character.Christopher Lloyd is hysterical as he picks up every piece of litter off of the streets of New York. The scene where he goes to see his wife and daughter for the first time is my favourite part, and is very touching when he discovers he hasn't lost them.Peter Boyle gets a lot of funny scenes, especially when he starts preaching at a Black church, and when he goes back to the advertising agency (Wa wa wa wa).Stephen Furst doesn't get to say much, but he does play an important part because he is the only one who witnessed what happened to Dr Weitzman. He just can't communicate properly what happened.It's nice to see how they gradually begin to reclaim parts of their identities as they focus together for the common goal. They draw strength from each other, and begin the slow process of rebuilding parts of their sanity again.The ending is quite satisfying, because although they are not cured, they have gone a long way towards becoming useful members of society again. Its a pity they never made a sequel because it would have been interesting to see more of their recovery. The four actors have got such a great chemistry, and Dr Weitzman is a likable character because of his faith in them that they may be released one day.Look out for an early appearance from Lorraine Bracco, best known as my favourite character Dr Melfi in the Sopranos. She makes quite an impression as Billy's feisty ex-girlfriend Riley. Another example of how forgotten films can contain hidden surprises.Definitely one of my favourite films. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very funny.  It's one of those movies that I don't think the company had any awards in mind while making it, they just wanted to have fun.  Movies like this are the best kind.  I think Peter Doyle and Stephen Foster did great as supporting actors. "},{"Title":"Four Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Howard Zieff directed this amusing comedy that stars Michael Keaton as Billy Caufield, a new inmate at the New York state sanitarium where he is admitted for observation. One day, his group psychiatrist decides it a good idea to take Billy and three other inmates(played by Christopher Lloyd, Peter Boyle, and Stephen Furst) into the city for a baseball game. While there, he is witness to a crime and hospitalized, leaving the four men on their own, looking for their doctor, and also being pursued by the criminals. How will these guys cope? Clearly inspired by One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest(there is a similar sequence in that film too) this film still works moderately well, with a good cast and funny scenes, even if it is predictable and unlikely. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and under rated","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is about four mental patients who's doctor disappears while taking them on a trip. 'Dr Weitzman' witnesses a murder and is attacked by the killers- who happen to be cops. The patients have to get to their doctor before the two cops do.This is an extremely under rated film that deserves more. It features Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd, Peter Boyle and Stephen Furst, all of which are brilliant in their rolls. There is not much to the plot, mainly because it focuses on the characters, both individuality and as a group.This is an excellent comedy and in my opinion should be on the list for best comedy film. If you have not seen it, you are missing out! "},{"Title":"I drove the moneylenders from the temple. I can handle a ten-spot.","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Dream Team is directed by Howard Zieff and written by John Connolly and David Loucka. It stars Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd, Peter Boyle, Stephen Furst and Lorraine Bracco. Music is by David McHugh and cinematography by Adam Holender.Billy Caulfield (Keaton)-compulsive liar and prone to violent outbursts; Henry Sikorsky (Lloyd)-tidy freak who thinks he's a doctor; Jack McDermot (Boyle)-thinks he's Christ; Albert Ianuzzi (Furst)-near catatonic personality who can only speak in sports jargon. There are people, and perhaps even that little old angel on your shoulder from time to time, that tell you that one shouldn't make fun of the afflicted; case in point folk with mental issues. So it be with this here amusing picture, a film that basically sees four odd balls let loose in New York as they try to find their missing doctor and foil the couple of dirty cops who want to silence said doctor for good. Yet Zieff's film is neither crass or stupid, the comedy is well drawn, with the characters themselves not the danger to society kind, but the misfit sort who are struggling to fit into said society. Looking in at it a bit deeper, film has valid points about acceptance, messages about understanding, friendships and collective group unity being powerful. Even the effects of work pressure is given a sardonic glance. It's not like the makers set out to offend, pic never even sails close to the wind, evidently they clearly set up to entertain and amuse, and that goal is achieved royally because The Dream Team is awfully funny. Does Ed go out of the window? Let's have a show of hands. You can vote too, Ed. This is America. It's a smart collection of actors playing the afflicted guys, four actors very comfortable with each other and enjoying the benefits of a strong script. Each one is handed great comedy moments to act out, neither left out and neither disappointing. Boyle arguably steals the film by way of some excellent visual comedy, but it's most likely Keaton's caustic observations and one line zingers that will leave the lasting impression. The final quarter gets a bit mechanical as the intrepid nut buddies finally bond and the film shifts to a basic chase/race against the clock affair, but the gags still come and you may find you are still laughing about something that was said earlier anyway! Bracco isn't given a lot to do, which practically renders this as being an ultimate buddy buddy guy flick, and the two dirty coppers played by James Remar and Philip Bosco are by the numbers villains. Small moans only, though, and in the name of good comedy, who cares really?It's great to be young and insane! Hell Yeah. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Lorraine Bracco in an ingénue role","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Washington Post reviewer Rita Kempley called the Dream Team a surprisingly amiable romp about a zany quartet of escaped mental patients who flew out of the cuckoo's nest. I agree. But it also interested me because it features Lorraine Bracco in an ingénue role 15 years before she became famous as Tony's psychiatrist in HBO's The Sopranos. Her delightful voice/speech is so recognizable!!!It would seem natural to compare this to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, but that would be like comparing an AA minor league team to the New York Yankees. Cuckoo's Nest had an outstanding script based on an outstanding novel, while The Dream Team is an enjoyable B-movie. Moreover, Michael Keaton is good but he's no Jack Nicholson.Christopher Lloyd (playing the nut who thinks he is a psychiatrist) is excellent. I also appreciated the performances of Peter Boyle (he thinks he is Jesus Christ but preaches nakedness), and Stephen Furst (he is a semi-catatonic who speaks only in baseball announcer clichés.) "},{"Title":"What  a  crazy  line-up!","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Out of no-where at Best Buy I found this movie. Liking all four of the actors that play the characters in the nut house, I bought it.You basically have the baseball nut who can't talk, the imaginative one who can fib just about anyone, the doctor who is extremely tightly and the Son of God who walks around the institution naked.Put these four together and you get a riot of laughs.Personally, Christopher Lloyd and Michael Keaton are the funniest.Peter Boyle alone can take the show, no doubt. One of his funnier scenes is when he starts taking his clothes off in front of a church congregation AND thankfully was escorted out before he could finish.Stephen Furst I haven't seen as much and I have NOT seen Animal House yet. However I did see him in Midnight Madness and thought he did a good job.for comedy at its best and for something completely random, like Monty Python is, this is the movie for you "},{"Title":"**** out of 5","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has the perfect dose of comedy, heart warming touches and sentimentality to make it an instant joy. It is the story of four mental patients, one who can't speack, one who is a neat freak, one who believes he is Jesus and one who can't control his temper as their doctors decides to take them on a field trip to a baseball game. But when their doctor is beaten up by a pair of corrupt police men they decide to go out on there own to find their doc and help catch the people who hurt him. The joy ride begins when they are framed for the crime. This movie is heart warming and touching in ever sense of the word and it is also very funny. The cast are all great as the loveable loonies especially Peter Boyle as the man who thinks he is Jesus. This is great family entertainment that will guarentee a smile from people of all ages. "}{"Title":"Keaton, Lloyd and Boyle running loose in New York","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some ferocious talents - Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd, and Peter Boyle, supported by a talented cast - star in this comedy about four mental hospital patients who roam New York freely after their doctor is severely beaten. One of them (Keaton) has severe anger issues, another thinks he's a doctor (Lloyd), and one thinks he's Jesus Christ (Boyle) and constantly quotes the Bible. The fourth never talks. Their well-meaning psychiatrist (Dennis Boutsikaris) drives them to New York to attend a Yankees game. When he escorts Albert, the non-talker, into an alley to relieve himself, he witnesses two bad cops killing a third and is severely injured before the good-guy police arrive. Albert takes off, but he can't tell the others what happened. After waiting in the van for a while, they all leave for parts unknown. Boyle ends up in a revival meeting giving testimony as Jesus, Keaton looks up his old girlfriend (an almost unrecognizable Lorraine Bracco) - soon, two sets of police are looking for them - with different motives.Though I certainly enjoyed this film, I found it a little slow getting started, and felt it could have been funnier, though the very beginning is great. It does pick up, however, and the acting is superb all around. Keaton is great - one wonders what happened to his career, and why we don't see his lively presence as much in films nowadays. Lloyd manages to be so serious that it's funny but also has a poignant scene with his family. Boyle has the funniest role and he's absolutely hilarious. The ending is very sweet.The movie doesn't make any profound comments on mental disorders but does ask who's crazy in this world and what we're willing to believe about certain people. It also makes the point that by interaction and someone caring, disturbed people can start on the road to healing. Very good and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A comedy with depth.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Keaton plays a mental patient with a history of violence, on a field trip to see the Yankee's play with the rest of his therapy group, a neatness freak, played superbly by Christopher Lloyd, a man who things he's Jesus Christ, and a man who only appears to talk when the television does.Their doctor is attacked and hospitalized without their knowledge and what follows is their attempts to prove their innocence, with the help of Keaton's ex-girlfriend.Keaton brings the depth that he has brought to almost every role he's played, Lloyd gives a very touching performance while the film maintains the comedic moments which help carry the film along.The film draws your attention to the stress of modern city life which has driven all the patients to the edge, though at the same time showing that there is still a sane person simply hiding behind a facade of insanity, which even some of the other doctors in the movie fail to see.Initially, quite a funny movie, on repeated viewings it shows its greater depth, which should have been more explored by the writer and director. "},{"Title":"One of a rare breed ...","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is one of a rare breed of movies that sets itself a small scale ambition and concerntrates more on the characters than the gloss. It's aim is to be nothing more than entertaining. There are hints and illusions to having a message about the reasons the main characters lose their sanity, but it's not heavy handed. There is a thin streak of wit throughout the film, but it is hardly hysterical. There is a streak of drama throughout the film, but it is hardly melodramatic.   The performances are all fine. Keaton, Boyle and Lloyd are, however, exceptional in their roles. They maintain a constantly funny/ sad performance all the way through the film.   This is an above average film. The wit is a little sparse in places and some scenes are dull. 7/10. See it for the great acting on display.  "},{"Title":"Waste of potential","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's always a shame when a good idea is wasted . A comedy about crazy people who are left on their own in big city ? In the right hands this could be a real fun movie . Just imagine the possibilities&#x85; Unfortunately the writers failed me . They weren't able to create interesting characters . I mean seriously from all those mental diseases they couldn't pick up interesting ones ? It's no wonder that jokes here are so lame and unimaginative . How can they be when our heroes aren't funny and interesting . What a waste of good actors . Michael Keaton (Batman) , Christopher Lloyd (Back to the future) , Peter Boyle (Friends of Eddie Coyle) and Stephen Furst (Animal house) deserved better .The good thing is that I don't think anyone should feel offended by this movie despite a rather risky subject it deals with.What a waste. Imagine what John Landis with a right script could do with this one &#x85; So sad. We could have a great comedy instead of forgettable Sunday afternoon movie. I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"Four fly away from the cuckoo's nest.","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you really, really want to sum up The Dream Team in a nutshell (or should that be a nutcase?) then this will do it - a comedy riff on One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest. It's got a bit more to it than that but that will give you a very general idea of the premise.Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd, Peter Boyle and Stephen Furst are four patients taken out on a trip with their doctor (Dennis Boutsikaris). Keaton has anger issues and often lies, Lloyd wants to organise the world, Boyle believes that he is Jesus and Furst just doesn't say much at all, except what he repeats from radio and TV. These quirks, as well as the fact that they can't really stand one another, mean that the group are ill-equipped to handle the situation when their doctor is injured and taken to hospital. Even worse, he was injured by a couple of baddies (James Remar and Philip Bosco) who want to finish the job.Director Howard Zieff may not be a huge name in the history of cinema but he's made some enjoyable movies throughout his career. My Girl was one, Private Benjamin was another and this movie remains one that I can always enjoy watching.Writers Jon Connolly and David Loucka may not have gone on to write anything quite as good as this again but we can be happy that they put all of their good stuff into this project. It's no timeless classic but it does still hold up well and that's thanks to the fun script and great performances from all concerned.Michael Keaton is great at comedy and he can do short-tempered and slightly manic in his sleep so he's perfect in his role, Stephen Furst is just fine though he doesn't really have to do all that much and Christopher Lloyd is always entertaining. But it's Peter Boyle who gets the lion's share of the better lines and delivers them perfectly. James Remar and Philip Bosco are as good as they always are while Lorraine Bracco is a delight in a rare, standard, love interest role.The 1980s produced some classic movies and some absolute stinkers. The Dream Team is neither, but it's still a very entertaining comedy. "},{"Title":"A Great Cast Makes it Worth Watching","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dream Team, The (1989) *** (out of 4) A semi-comic version of ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST has Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd, Peter Boyle and Stephen Furst playing mental patients whose doctor takes them out of the hospital and on a trip to see the Yankees play. The doctor ends up attacked by some people and knocked out in a hospital, which means the four nuts are on their own. One of the most famous scenes from that 1975 film is when Jack Nicholson's character takes the other inmates out on a trip and this film pretty much takes that idea and runs with it. The all-star cast makes this thing worth watching even though there are some major flaws to be found here. To me we get some extremely talented comedians given a certain type of character to play and all of them nail their performances. Keaton plays the chronic liar who also has a violent side. Lloyd plays the biggest nut who doesn't realize he's crazy. Furst is so messed up no one really knows what's wrong with him since he won't speak. Then there's Boyle who thinks he's Jesus himself. Keaton is hysterical as the liar and he gets some really great moments where he tries to lie to the other three just to scare them. One scene has them in the Hudson Tunnel where he tries to make the guys think it's going to cave in. Another has them downtown where he tells them that the werewolves in WOLFEN were real and that they're in the same neighborhood where the real events took place. The way Keaton works these scenes are priceless and get the biggest laughs of the film. Boyle is also extremely good as the guy who thinks he's Jesus. All four work wonderfully well together and it's a lot of fun just seeing them act off one another. Lorraine Bracco has a brief role as Keaton's ex. What really hurts the film is that it runs 113-minutes and features a pretty boring subplot about a couple crooked cops being behind the doctors attack. The entire subplot takes up way too much time and the film at times treats that aspect so serious that it seems they're forgetting that we're watching a comedy. With that said, if you're a fan of the cast then you'll still want to check this one out. "},{"Title":"The Dream Team","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In ways, this seems a similar concept to that of One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest (besides the fact that the main character is genuinely crazy and committed). Basically, Dr. Weitzman (Dennis Boutsikaris) works with with patients in a sanitarium, and one day he convinces the administration to take one group of patients to a ballgame. But he stumbles into a crime in progress, and ends up in hospital. The group meanwhile, wander off individually into New York, forced to cope with an often more bizarre place than the sanitarium. The patients include sensible, but also easily stressed leader Billy Caufield (Michael Keaton), Henry Sikorsky (Cuckoo's Nest's Christopher Lloyd) wanting to be the authority and paying more attention to other peoples' behaviour than his own, Jack McDermott (Peter Boyle) who believes he is Christ, and Albert Ianuzzi (Stephen Furst) who never talks for himself and mainly imitates others speeches. Also starring Lorraine Bracco as Riley, Lizbeth MacKay as Henry's Wife and Olivia Horton as Henry's Daughter. In the end, the patients are the heroes when, after being arrested, they get their own way and get the real criminals, and get to see their ballgame. Very good! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny comedy","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I tuned into this on UK tv a few years ago, not expecting a great laugh - in fact i was only watching in order to kill a bit of time before a re-run of Rocky III on another channel. I had sat down with a book to soak up some of the boredom, but as the minutes passed I found myself getting more and more into the film, to the extent that within fifteen minutes the book had been discarded and I was making pre-commercial plans to grab some refreshment, which is a sign of how much I was enjoying this.Michael Keaton and Christopher Lloyd play two members of a group of four patients from a psychiatric hospital, singled out for a little exposure to the outside world after many years interned. The plot involves the trip going wrong and the four getting lost in the city, and finding that they have to prevent a murder. However, more important is the chemistry of the leading duo, despite the stereotyped nature of their somewhat typecast performance.The whole concept is fairly original and a lot of hard effort from most of the cast makes this a funny and interesting comedy hit. "},{"Title":"A Fun Film","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like Michael Keaton. In fact, I think I have a non-sexual crush on him. Wait, pretend I didn't just say that. Let me just say, in an attempt to regain your confidence in me, that I think Michael Keaton is one of the greatest actors. He is, by far, my favorite. (Please Mike, don't file that restraining order against me again!)The only reason I tell you these things is so you know that I may be partially biased in my review for this movie. It may not be as good as I think it is, but this movie entertains me thoroughly, and that should mean something.The thing about 'The Dream Team' is that it's not just a Michael Keaton showcase movie, like some of his movies that were obviously made to show him off as an actor. ('Multiplicity' is one that comes to mind.) No, 'The Dream Team' is a group effort and the entire group performs well in their roles.For a movie that I watch as often as I do this one, it should be getting old & tired, but I still laugh at the jokes as much as I did the first time I saw this movie.I highly suggest seeing this movie. It truly is one of those under-rated movies that have been forgotten about. "},{"Title":"Together, they can do anything!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One thing that I thought was so great about this movie is the fact that individually these people were problems, but together they were heroes. Each of them had strengths that, when united to a common purpose, saved the day.  In many ways, they were wiser than their doctors.  "}{"Title":"This movie is a classic comedy","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  4 mental patients and their Dr. are on their way to see the New York Yankees Baseball team play at Yankee Stadium but get sidetracked by a witnessed murder. This movie is a comedy re-make of Ken Kesey's One flew over the cuckoo's nest minus Nurse Wratchett. Michael Keaton (Batman and Batman Returns) takes on the role of the Jack Nicholson character while Christopher Lloyd (Back To The Future Trilogy) plays a patient with an obsessive compulsive disorder for having everything neat and clean. Peter Boyle (Young Frankenstien) is a patient who suffers Messiah Complex, he thinks the key to life is to be as naked as God created Adam and Eve. And finally Stephen Furst (National Lampoon's Animal House and Midnight Madness) plays a Catatonic Patient who says nothing except when tv is on and he repeats everything said on it. The highlight of this movie is the group while looking for shelter use a giant cardboard box to move across town during a rain storm. This movie is currently not available on DVD yet but hopefully will be soon. If you're crazy enough (Big Time Pun) order this movie from Amazon.com   "},{"Title":"I don't want him next to me he smells like tunafish!!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must say this movie had a really good cast. Michael Keaton did the best job though. Peter Boyle did great as a guy who was obsessed with god. Poor Albert played by Stephen Furst....didn't talk much but loved baseball and when he did say something he would say something like big inning and keaton says that's a definet yes. You've got to learn to speak albert. Overall a really great movie. I give this **** stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed The Dream Team quite a bit. It was funny and entertaining. Michael Keaton alone is worth watching this one. Not a bad film for a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Slapdash Comedy","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wanted to get with this one, really I did, if only because the cast sounded so promising -- Peter Boyle as a religious fanatic, Michael Keaton as a psychopath, Christopher Loyd as an up-tight obsessive-compulsive, Milo O'Shea as the head honcho of the private psychiatric hospital they escape from, Lorraine Bracco as the ex-girl friend that Keaton improbably encounters in the Bronx.However, it just didn't work. It's as if someone in Hollywood, flourishing his MBA diploma, said to someone else, also an MBA, You remember that scene from 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,' where Jack Nicholson takes these goofballs on an unethical fishing trip? Wowed the critics and the audiences, didn't it? And made more money than the GNP of half a dozen third-world countries combined? Let's take that episode, dump Nicholson, and make a whole major motion picture out of it. The second reason it didn't work for me is that, if there was little originality in the story, there seemed to be practically none in the gags and comic situations written into it. Peter Boyle wandering the streets of New York enters a church full of bouncing, singing African-Americans, gets the spirit, leaps to the stage and begins a confession of all his sins (none of them particularly noteworthy) while stripping off his clothes item by item. When the writers have one of the male stars begin stripping in a public place, it's always a sign of desperation -- Scarecrow, Slap Shot, Sea of Love. It's not a sign of psychosis but of flagging inspiration.Finally, and this is less important, the four patients in the dream team don't really jibe with reality. The majority of psychiatric inpatients are schizophrenic and they're not at all funny. They don't make wisecracks, they're not expressive, and they're so conversationally clumsy that they don't make friends easily. They're emotions are flat. They're unengaging and just about socially bankrupt. Here, they just have viewer-friendly quirks.None of that stuff matters much. You can turn mental illness (or just about anything else) into a joke if the joke is successful, but this attempt fails. "},{"Title":"Better Than One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS BUT DO READ ON, IT'S A GOOD REVIEW!!Meet Billy, Henry, Jack and Albert! Four simple guys with one thing in common they're four mental patience in a New Jersey sanitarium. Billy (Michael Keaton) is a man who loves to make up stories and has the violent streak of a football player. Henry (Christopher Lloyd) is a neat freak. He patrols the hospital like he's a doctor and tries to get people to do things his way. Jack (Peter Boyle) is under the delusion that he's none other than Jesus Christ himself. And Albert (Stephen Furst) is a catatonic. He can move, but just repeats what he hears on TV, like the national anthem. Their doctor is Dr. Weitzman (Dennis Boutsikaris) and one afternoon, one as normal as any, the doctor says they're going on a field trip to Yankee Stadium! The head doctor, Dr. Newald, isn't too crazy about that idea, but he allows it. Next morning, they get ready to go with $10 each. Albert almost eats his, then they hop in their van and head to New York City, jamming with Hit The Road Jack on the way. But en route to the stadium, Albert has to urinate and the bathroom at the gas station is out of order, so Dr. Weitzman takes Albert into an alley where the doc overhears some gangsters. One kills the other one! Weitzman is discovered, they chase him and knock him senseless. So while the doctor is taken away in an ambulance, Albert joins the others in the van and he can't talk so he couldn't explain what happened. Well they bicker with one another, then Billy and Jack take off. Henry follows, leaving Albert alone. In a restaurant, Billy saves his old girlfriend Riley from some no good thugs. Jack ventures in a church, and Henry picks up litter. Henry also stops Jack from taking off all his clothes in church, and they soon walk back to the van, which is being towed! Billy shows up, they rescue Albert from the back and now not only are they alone, in debt, but they got a night on the town! But then lightning flashes and thunder crashes, or as Jack puts it, It's God's way of telling us we're going to die. They go into a clothing shop, get Jack some hot new threads, and have a discussion with a sarcastic and surly police man. The only thing they can do now is try to find the hospital Weitzman is in, but they don't know which one it is and the phone book is full of hospitals. They have to check'em all. Meanwhile, the same gang members who whacked the guy that Weitzman witnessed are actually cops! They know Weitzman is a witness so they gotta get rid of him! Billy, Jack, Henry and Albert foil their plans but the hospital staff think they were trying to do away with Weitzman, so now they're wanted! On the lam! They go to Riley's apartment to seek help and her boyfriend Ed calls the feds on them. They apprehend Billy and Albert. Jack meets with an old business associate, but a nemesis in the company calls the feds on him. Henry ventures to his old home and sees his wife and daughter. He plays doctor again and goes to get the guys out of jail, but they lock him up. While in jail, Billy realizes Weitzman knew what he was doing, even though earlier Billy said, What kind of moron takes four mental patience to a baseball game? Billy realizes they're all getting better, after Albert calls Billy a Shiot (SHEE-OT) Head, he didn't say it that way but I figured I should cover up the profanity in my analysis here. Anyway, they devise a plan when being courted to a psychiatric facility. They switch clothes with other doctors then head to the hospital that Weitzman is in and court him off, but run into the crooked cops. Billy soon turns the tables on them. Soon it's time to go. The police are all around and Billy proclaims, All these cops and I'm not getting arrested. Weird feeling. Weitzman is in no shape to drive, so Billy volunteers because, according to him, he won second in Daytona. On the way back to Cedarbrook Hospital, the four patients have learned to cope with society, as well as one another, so they're trusted to go back to Yankee Stadium on their own. Weitzman asks Billy to bring him back a (hot) dog. Henry feels it's time for a group hug, but the rest don't think so. Maybe after the game. Good movie! It's like One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, minus that horrible nurse. Both movies have Christopher Lloyd in them and Michael Keaton's character is like Jack Nicholson's. But Dream Team is better. You must see this film. It is good! -- "},{"Title":"Passable Comedy...","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Keaton and Boyle shine brightest in this comedy about a bunch of loonies who take a trip to see a baseball game and are sidetracked when their doctor is kidnapped after seeing a crime. Boyle is delightfully witty as a former business mogul who now thinks he's the Messiah. Lloyd is reserved as a man who thinks he's a doctor. Furst is too childish as Albert, a man who thinks everything in life deserves an announcement from Mel Allen or Phil Rizzutto. Keaton goes over the top, but it works and garners plenty of laughs. Zieff directs with poise, but the script lacks any real structure and polish, Would have worked for one season as a sitcom, but is a passable film.   "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Dream Team are four psychiatric patients who gather daily for group therapy at their institution. The wacky, motley crew includes an incessant liar with a history of violence, a perfectionist who thinks he's a doctor, a mute who is obsessed with TV, and a self righteous, religious nut who thinks he's Christ. When their real doctor is mugged on a field trip to Yankee Stadium, they are forced to form a reluctant team in order to resolve what becomes an ever worsening situation.A very slow start is marginally redeemed by a lift in proceedings as the gang hit the road, but really we see no inspiration from any of the cast (Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd, Peter Boyle and Stephen Furst) nor do we see any riotous comedy. Howard Zieff needed to give the movie a large injection of comic mayhem as the paper-thin plot was never going to carry it anywhere.Never promised much, but The Dream Team certainly could have been better.Sunday, April 10, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"a decent outing with the crazies, but a better story could've helped","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It pains me to see a movie where the characters- and the actors playing them more than anything- have more potential than the actual story. Watching it I'm reminded a little of a movie that came out also in 1989 or sometime around then called See No Evil, Hear No Evil with Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder. In it one is blind and one is deaf, and all through the picture Pryor and Wilder are never unconvincing in their parts, and even garner some big-to-small laughs. But the story is a clunker, a kind of 'gee-wiz' thriller that knocks their characters into stereotypical boxes that the actors then have to fight their way out of. The Dream Team has the main characters- a quick-fuse (Michael Keaton), an obsessive compulsive (Christopher Lloyd), a Jesus-delusional (Peter Boyle), and a common near-catatonic type (Stephen Furst)- set loose in New York City after their doctor, who's taking them out for a day out of the mental hospital to go to a Yankee game, gets knocked unconscious by a couple of cops in an alley. From there the characters are put into a kind of crux because a) they're stuck in the thin plot line of the cops being crooked and covering up a crime/needing to bump off the doctor, and b) the patients then got to help save their van and their doctor before anything worse happens.Now this doesn't mean there aren't some spots open for some good comedic touches, and a good few of them come out of Boyle's religious-nut character (one scene I thought was great was when he steps into a black baptist type service and until a certain point doesn't seem any crazier than the rest of the attendees), plus with a great heap-load of Jack Nicholson ala Cuckoo's Nest type attitude in Keaton's performance. But then the plot comes around again, reeling them into a clockwork fixture that keeps more interesting things from happening. While it doesn't stick well to suggest this as it's a late 80s style comedy (with the typical musical score with it, if you hear it you'll know that it sounds like any other score from the Hollywood comedy of the period), I wondered what would happen if the doctor getting knocked out was more random, or even if it was more severe, then there would be chances for a different kind of story, where the four of them would have to be left to their own devices, and see what would happen. There are hints of that, actually, but it doesn't really come to pass. In fact the filmmakers even try to throw in some touching moments or stuff to sort of wrap-around that the patients (even Furst's hard-to-talk character) are getting 'better', whatever that means in the loose context of a comedy-thriller. There is one that does work, where Lloyd goes to visit his family, and it actually rings true. But another supporting character of importance to the four, played by Lorraine Bracco, is almost a foil in the scheme of the picture. The ending, too, seems like a very cheesy stretch.Yet through all of this I kept on watching it, because I liked seeing the actors filling these roles splendidly, almost in spite of the script. It's probably a lot of fun, if not necessarily a challenge, to play a crazy person, and it doesn't seem like at all like the actors (Lloyd the exception) possibly observed or were around mental patients in preparation for the roles, unlike with 'Cuckoo's Nest'. They could've had more to work with in a better screenplay or stronger comedic direction, and because of it it's only memorable for little bits and pieces. Then again, that might be expected from the guy who directed My Girl and My Girl 2, and a remake of Unfaithfully Yours. "},{"Title":"Not as hilarious as I remembered","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this in the movie theatre and remembered laughing my ass off. I guess I was younger and less discriminating, or maybe I was crazier back then and could relate better. There's some genuinely funny bits but Michael Keaton comes off like a poor man's Jack Nicholson impression and after a while he's just annoying. I did love Peter Boyle and Stephen Furst but hell how could you not? Man Lorraine Bracco was young.It's an OK little comedy romp with some funny bits strung together and a few times I really did laugh out loud, but for god sake, rent, don't buy, unless you go to half.com and find it for 75c. "},{"Title":"Good time killer","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie really isnt anything special, it doesnt really have anything new to offer, but it is pretty entertaining.  Four mental patients are taken to a baseball game by their doctor, when they get there, the doctor is attacked by gangsters and rushed to the hospital, meanwhile the patients are stuck in the van waiting for him for hours, after a while they figure he isnt coming back, and start wandering around town, and getting into all kinds of trouble.  It's certainly not a classic comedy, but it's still an amusing flick, especially if you like the actors.  6.4/10. "}{"Title":"A good time","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Even though I should be considered too young to like movies this old to me (I was born in 1986) I find this amusing. I like movies like this, and to be honest you survive the acting parts, and who can keep from smiling when the whole gang sings along to Hit the road, Jack?The story itself may not be very interesting, nor may anyone find it funny. But still, the simple though of a group of mental patients walking around by themselves in New York makes you smile.Go see it and you might catch a glimpse of Peter Boyle topless ;) "},{"Title":"Cuckoo's Nest redo missed an opportunity.","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedy version of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest this time with an up-beat, happy ending!  This black comedy could have been as strong as Cuckoo's Nest but took a much easier, less satisfying road.  Michael Keaton has the Jack Nicholson role and he looks a lot like him.  Like the original it features an assortment of wacky characters all well played.  The fault doesn't lie in the acting which features great comedians giving their all.  The problem lies in the story.  In the shadow of the Cuckoo's Nest the story seems a bit shallow and the ending too easy and a bit fake.  Comedies dealing with mental wards are always fighting an uphill battle because it has to draw laughs from making fun of helpless souls who were dealt a bad hand.  Cuckoo's Nest made us feel uncomfortable and sorry for the characters, enough to be upset of their conditions and their treatment.  The Dream Team suggests that the patients would be just fine if they could get out every now and then.  For most patients the reality is that they are prisoners of their mental condition and no field trip is going to help them escape.  Despite improvements in mental health, no humor is going to end their condition, only make it more livable.  In Robert Altman's M.A.S.H. and the TV version, we were constantly reminded that humor was present to make war bearable, that war was not going to end because of good intentions.  The Dream Team would have been more successful if it had been written to show humor as a way of living with their environment.  Instead the humor is to show that their current environment is something to make fun of and that they should change it.  We are left feeling that it's not that easy and we've been had, laughing at the characters not with them.   "},{"Title":"mediocre","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are good movies and there are movies that are so bad that they're hilarious, thus making them good in a different way.  Unfortunately, The Dream Team was neither and fell somewhere in the middle, making it unbearable to watch.  The plot is terribly cliched and I was bored the entire time.  You know it's bad when you're a college student and you'd rather do homework than watch this crap. "},{"Title":"No laughs for me!","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was so disappointed that Christopher Lloyd in the role of a lunatic didn't actually make me laugh! After seeing Lloyd in Taxi, believe me you'd expect so many laughs in this movie but unfortunately you want have any.It's just a silly movie with a bunch of very good actors. Had it been those great actors in the movie, I wouldn't have bothered watching till the end.Really it's a frustration that Michael Keaton (Multiplicity), Peter Boyle (funniest character in Everybody Loves Raymond), and The Christopher Lloyd (Taxi, Back to the future, and others), all didn't really make this movie a worthy experience. "},{"Title":"Big disappointment-great cast, awful direction and pacing","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a film that had the right elements,but a comedy about supposed mental patients is very difficult to pull off without it being insulting-this wasn't insulting-it just wasn't interesting, realistic, and for the exception of Michael Keaton, no one here was funny. Michael Keaton is great star who deserves a strong comeback.The story is about patients from a mental home who are on an outing, when their psychiatrist in charge is harmed after witnessing a murder, and the patients are left on their own. They ultimately discover the doctors situation, and must protect him from those still trying to kill him. Meanwhile authoroties are looking for them as suspects. If the plot seems dumb-well..it is. But humor and good writing can overcome that. This fails on every level except the acting-though Michael Keaton is the standout. Not even worth a DVD rental. "}]