[{"Title":"an unregarded masterpiece","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"48 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a period picture that takes place in 1971, but there are no references to Vietnam, the flower power movement, Kent State or any other issues or events of the day. This is because the characters have nothing to do with that world. Bob's thoughts revolve around drugstores like planets around the sun. His family of dope thieves lives in almost total isolation. Even junkies who come to do business are admitted to their home with reluctance and then rudely sent on their way. Their only contact with the other world is its drugstores and its cops. They live in a world not ruled by the authorities, but by the dark forces that lie hidden beneath the surface, the ones that some people call superstitions howling banshees, black cats, hats on beds, dogs, the evil eye... In his world, Bob's lunatic logic makes perfect sense and serves him as a guide for living better than any sane worldview.When the crew goes crossroading to the tune of the Israelites we realize that they, too, are like children of a different god; wanderers whose only contact with others is hostile confrontation. They are either attacking drug stores or being attacked by ball-breaking cops.Kelly Lynch, who plays Diane, said in an interview that, The first take was terrible and Matt (Dillon) said he wouldn't support the film. It is not surprising that a film this ambitious should run into some snags. A great film like DC is a tightrope act. The best scenes in the film are also the riskiest; they would have fallen apart in the hands of lesser actors.If you like the film you might get a kick out of the autobiographical novel on which it is based, by James Fogle, the original drugstore cowboy. At the time of the film's release (1989) Fogle had spent thirty-five of his fifty-three years in prison on drug-related charges. I wonder what ever became of him. "},{"Title":"As great as anything","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is easily Gus Van Sant's best movie and contains Matt Dillon's best performance.  The other cast members are also terrific, but the part of Bob is greatly realized by Dillon and he shines.  The movie is difficult to watch at times but you get something out of it to think about when its over. I also must mention a great scene between Lynch, Matt & Matt's mother, played by Grace Zabriskie. To top it all off, this is also Heather Graham's best movie and she delivers as well.  A blues soundtrack and beautiful cinematography make this one to remember. "},{"Title":"Excellent story of a junkie who tries to straighten out his life, only to find out that things aren't much better than they were before.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Dillon delivers one of the best performances of his career in Drugstore Cowboy, a gritty film about the real life of junkies. There is heavy drug content in this film, but in no way is the drug life glorified. We see the more realistic life of drugs on the streets, which is probably what makes this such an aesthetically unpleasing film. No one in the movie looks good, it has just about as much ugliness as a spectacularly ugly movie like Buffalo '66, which enhances the realism of the film. Much of the film is shot in a documentary style, giving it a gritty, realistic feel, almost like a twisted home movie. Dillon plays the part of Bob, a young junkie in the early 1970s who goes around with his group of friends breaking into pharmacies and drug stores and stealing random bottles of prescription bottles looking for their next high. The movie starts at the end of the story, with Bob riding in an ambulance and telling us the story of how he got there, but has the pleasing distinction of not leading you exactly to where you knew you were going to be. Even by showing the end of the story there is nothing given away. This is a powerful drug film that doesn't hold anything back. It is not pretty to look at, but also like Buffalo '66, it's hideously unattractive counterpart, the movie has something to say. "},{"Title":"I saw many, many people like these in the 1970's in San Francisco","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I lived in San Francisco all through the 1970's and saw tons of these kinds of people. They all tended to group together for the common purpose of scoring and getting high on any kind of drugs available, but the drug of choice always seemed to be heroin. These groups, or small communes, always tended to have a strong leader who ran the whole show for the group and issued orders like a drill sergeant, but interestingly, in a very loving way. And nobody ever seemed to question this leader. In fact, HE always seemed to be treated with complete deference (reverence???) as if HE were some kind of a star. Everybody in the group seemed to have a specific job to do within the group, and their jobs seemed to define their value to the group and, hence, their right to be there. Except for the fact that they existed in the general hippy milieu of the time, they never showed any signs of being interested in the presumed hippy world view. I always felt the groups simply represented highly efficient, small business concerns. These people were known thieves, drug dealers, and small-time con artists and, if left alone, they were not considered dangerous. In fact, they were typically very intelligent and interesting people, but very closed-off to the world outside their group. Each group was like its own little cult. The group portrayed in Drugstore Cowboy would have fit in perfectly with what I remember from that time, except that there were typically more people in the groups than just four. I would say these groups numbered more like six to eight people, certainly enough to occupy a large flat or house in one of the cheap neighborhoods. The fact that the cost of living was so much cheaper back then allowed for this type of lifestyle. And it was only when the real estate boom in San Francisco in the mid-to-late 1970's precluded this type of communal existence (lease applications, leases, personal references, high deposits, etc.) that these illegal groups tended to disappear. The ease with which the group in DC moved from one living space to the other would become impossible due to these new economic and social realities (higher rents and stiffer rules). Yes, even in Portland. Anyway, this movie really resonnated with me and triggered my memories of that time, and I think it's accurate to say that this is truly a period piece. I'm certain that the DC group could have only existed in the early 1970's, and certainly no later than say 1974-5. I have no idea why I felt compelled to write all this seeing as how it has very little to do with the movie, which I loved. Thank you! "},{"Title":"Excellent look at a subculture. This film grows in stature over time.","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Drugstore Cowboy takes a look an element of the drug/crime subculture without glamorising, sensationalising or demonising it. I honestly can't think of another film on a similar subject that has managed to pull off this balance so successfully.We care about the characters, but are completely aware of their (many) flaws. We are shown that drugs are pleasurable, but given a realistic portrayal of the great damage they can do. The crime scenes are exciting but we never lose sight of how risky and sometimes pathetic the crimes are.This film is moral without moralising and humane without romanticising or sentimentalising the subject. Drugstore Cowboy may lack the visceral punch of a film like Trainspotting, but has a subtlety, depth and heart missing from other more voyeuristic cinematic treatments of drug use. "},{"Title":"Matt Dillon's best work","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Matt Dillon igives his best performance in this movie, gives an minimalistic, sympathetic portrayal of a junk addict trying to go straight.The subject matter may be a bit dark for those that like to see life from the sunny side. It is set after all, in gray, gray, Portland Oregon in the 70's. It deals with a crew of four, two couples, that go around ripping off drugstores for opiates. It does not attempt to judge or condemn this behavior, it just tells the story of a group of junkies, and one of their attempts to go clean and find out what the straight life is like.Those of you that have experience with any form of substance abuse may find that this movie rings true. I loved the quote by Bob something to the effect of In life, you never know one minute to the next how you're going to feel. But a dope fiend just has to look at the labels on the bottles. By no means does this movie glamorize drug use. In fact, it shows it for what it is, a temporary fix that leads nowhere but destruction. "},{"Title":"A great road movie. A great drug movie. A great black comedy. One of the best movies of the 1980s.","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Drugstore Cowboy' really knocked my socks off when I first watched it about 12-13 years ago, and it still impresses me every time I view it again. An unsentimental drug movie that doesn't resort to knee jerk moralizing, it is one of the very best movies of the 1980s, and still one of the best movies of its kind (Alison Maclean's underrated 'Jesus' Son' is one of the few recent movies to come close to it). Gus Van Sant looked like he was going to be one of the most exciting directors of the 1990s, but after the excellent 'My Own Private Idaho' it quickly proved not to be so, his career ending up with awful saccharine uplifting Hollwood dreck and his misguided remake of 'Psycho' that's best if we pretend never happened.  Whatever he went on to make there's no denying that this is one brilliant movie. Matt Dillon gives one of his strongest and most complex performances, and he is backed up by an equally impressive supporting cast of Kelly Lynch (easily her best role), the wonderful James LeGros ('Floundering'), future sex symbol Heather Graham ('Boogie Nights'), and quirky character actor fave Max Perlich ('Truth Or Consequences, NM'). Also keep an eye out for the shoulda-been-a-star James Remar ('The Warriors') and a cameo by the legendary William S. Burroughs as the Priest. 'Drugstore Cowboy' has energy, humour, depth and honesty. I love it. A wonderful movie and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Please see below","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has much personal meaning to me. In 1990, I had the unfortunate pleasure to be incarcerated at the Northern Nevada Correctional Center in Stewart(Carson City, NV.) Yea, we had cable TV, and first run movies. This was one of them. After viewing the movie, I laughed w/ my co-horts about suing for copy right infringement. (joking, of coarse). My prison stint was drug related. but the interesting thing is I and my girlfriend at the time made these sames moves(Seizures and all)at a southwestern state small town where the Dilaudids were actually kept on the shelf.(1981-83)We hit this one pharmacy -3- times(largest haul470 Dilaudids-1,2,3,and 4mg--Smallest one bottle of 100 # 4's).I lived in Nevada all my life. I did several small stints in several prisons. In closing. I wanted to write this and note, it was a looong time ago. I have lived in Portland ,OR. now for 19 yrs. And I celebrated my -11- year clean anniversary date last Thurs. (8/28/09). After a medical detox, I hooked up w/ a local methadone prgm. and never looked back. It saved MY and my WIFE's life. Take from this what you will. But it's true and I still get a kick out of this movie and my story as it relates w/ it. I rarely tell it often. But I did want to post this message. Thank you for allowing me to express myself...Sincerely, doctom1973...... "},{"Title":"Good sleeper film...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ah yes another movie about drug addicts.  This movie is set in the Northwest US during 1971.  It's a story about 4 friends who  are addicts and get their stuff by robbing drugstores.  They end up robbing them not by violent pistol holdups, but by usualy creating diversions while a friend sneaks behind a pharmacy counter to crack open drawers, or run into a hospital storage room to bust a cabinet with a crowbar.The movie has a neat look and a neat story.  It has to be the only movie about addicts that I have seen where the characters are neither glamorous nor do they look like they are festering with sores and pains and needle marks.  I had to say though I was taken with the film, it has a neat story and has that American Beauty type ending (where the main character finaly makes it to redemption even if it is too late).But it is a unique film and the movie has a look as if it was truly made in the 70's even though it wasn't.  The movie starts off with Dillon being driven away in an ambulance as his voice over tells us about his life, and you feel that you know the story, but you don't as you watch the movie unfold and then realise at the end that the reason he is in the ambulance is not what you think is the obvious answer you thought of at the begining of the film.Not the the best drug addict movie I have seen (I'd give that to the Canadian film 'H') but a very good film none the less.Rating 7 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An all-time favorite, but disturbing","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was my introduction to Gus Van Sant, and I still consider it his best movie. The outstanding feature of Drugstore Cowboy is its magically non-judgmental portrayal of people living on the fringe of society. The characters are vividly portrayed, and exceedingly memorable -- yet it feels effortless to watch this movie, and as though it has been effortless to make. The *sound* of the movie is outstanding, giving the action and the story an ethereal sheen.I have seen the movie three times, but have not watched it in more than four years. And yet, a number of the visual, and auditory, images are still easily retrievable, still vivid. The memories of most movies are simply that for me memories of movie scenes. In this case, it takes some reasoning to get straight that I was not actually present at the action, and that the memories are not of something from real life.Remarkable. Highly recommended! "}{"Title":"A poignant but realistic look at the drug subculture","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you're one of the so-called `art-film' aficionados who was disappointed, as I was, by Requiem for a Dream (and even if you weren't), you'll love Drugstore Cowboy.  Directed by the man who gave us such classics as To Die For and Good Will Hunting, Drugstore Cowboy is, without doubt, Van Sant's greatest work.  It's a magnificent time capsule from the early seventies, having no reference to the Vietnam War, Kent State, or any other icon of the period.  It's purely about the drug subculture.Set along the affluent north Atlantic seaboard, where pharmacies and drugstores litter the urban landscape, the drama revolves around four friends who support their drug habits by robbing the official dispensaries of addictive substances.  An interesting and compelling setup all by itself, in lesser hands, the script and action would be enough to produce a decent flick;  but, it goes way beyond that.  Matt Dillon gives what I think is his best performance ever, a perfectly charming substance abuser who has created a little cocoon of a world all to himself.  Like little moons revolving around his dreamy and sometimes terrifying little world, the drugstores he stalks all promise a one-way trip to a different place.  As viewers, we're all sucked in by the gravity of his world, such that we even begin to understand and believe his peculiar little superstitious rituals.  In this special existence, they make sense.  To transgress against the rules is to court disaster.  And like Adam in the garden, he eventually breaks his own rules, and pays the price.But it's a fortunate fall from grace.  Drugstore Cowboy is completely realistic in its portrayal of the full-blown addict's hitting rock bottom, an experience that is foundational in the wisdom of AA.  The recovery scenes are moving in their sincerity and simplicity, none of which is sugarcoated or saccharine.  And yet, the recovery scenes are both joyous and heartbreakingly poignant.  God, what a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Stiff acting and boring directing sink this one","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Matt Dillon seems to have improved as an actor over the course of his career. In this film about pharmaceutical drug use, Dillon has the majority of lines and is also the narrator. His performance is disarmingly wooden, and is a constant reminder that he is really an actor reciting his lines, rather than the character he is playing.In Drugstore Cowboy, Dillon and his wife (played well enough by Kelly Lynch) rob drugstores with a younger couple (James LeGros and Heather Graham, who was actually not bad). The film is basically a story about how that lifestyle is not so simple. The story and the cinematography are both fine - plenty of gloomy shots when things aren't going well, and some beautiful shots of Oregon. However, the directing and editing seem to be off in a hard-to-quantify way. It's not particularly fast or slow, and not all that long at 100 minutes, but the pacing fails to pull the viewer in. The story is not overpowering, so it needs a directorial style which dwells on the atmosphere and feel, which it doesn't get. At times it starts to veer off nicely towards the somewhat surreal (for example, the hex scene). Most of the time though, it's very representational, simply presenting the facts, and that more slowly than it could.As a side note, William S Burroughs was apparently not meant to be an actor, and the way in which his character exists only to make a point is frustratingly blatant. I think this appearance only diminishes him. "},{"Title":"Great little film.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Alternating between amusing and distressing, this film is one of the best of the drug culture genre.  I like it's simplicity and its West Coast-ishness. Matt Dillon is amazing.  The script is great - Dillon has tons of great lines.  Good performances all around actually.  Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A Generation Lost in Space !!!","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have always been of the opinion that if one wants to get a basic idea of the Flower Movement and the spirit of non-conformism that engulfed the thoughts and minds of the western youth during the 1960s and 1970s, he/she just has to watch the documentaries 'Woodstock' and Gimme Shelter' as a double feature. 'Woodstock' shows the young people enjoying themselves with talented artists and ridding themselves of the clutches of the rigid societal norms while the spirit of peace and love hangs in the air. Then we move to 'Gimme Shelter', it just feels like the evil twin sibling of 'Woodstock'. 'Gimme Shelter' just showcases the same ideals of freedom and non-conformism being abused and misinterpreted leading to absolute hooliganism and extremely regrettable consequences.The characters in 'Drugstore Cowboy' could have attended either of the two music festivals covered in the two aforementioned documentaries respectively, but there certainly exists a stronger thematic link between the characters in 'Drugstore Cowboy' and 'Gimme Shelter'. Bob and his gang are basically wanderers with no permanent address. In a world devastated by social upheavals and political chaos, these characters are lost and have no self identity. But they are still influenced by the youth rebellion and revolts and hence they don't want to conform, they'll do anything that they want without having to be answerable to anyone. Unfortunately all that they want to do is rob drugstores and get high.The film focuses on a small group of youngsters with Bob being their leader. There's his wife Dianne and the slightly younger couple Rick and Nadine. They wander from drugstore to drugstore and come up with new and inventive ways to steal the drugs. They really have no other motive in life and are not ambitious at all. They hate the customs of 'normal' life and want to distance themselves as far as possible from societal rules. Bob and Diane evens mention some superstitions which are nothing but symbols of their insecurity and fear of society catching up with them. Bob's character in this film is somewhat similar to Michael Fassbender's character Brandon in 'Shame'. They are deeply addicted to drugs and sex respectively. Bob is always thinking and fantasising about the next score and the next high, while Brandon is always thinking about the next orgasm. Having said all that, it is a tribute to Gus Van Sant's skills as a storyteller that the characters are still humanised and well developed. The screenplay co-written by Gus Van Sant, William S. Burroughs and Daniel Yost which is based on a then unpublished novel by James Fogle avoids exploiting the characters and the circumstances to generate comedy which I thought some scenes in 'Trainspotting' were guilty of. 'Drugstore Cowboy' is more in the same vein as something like 'Requiem for a Dream' where the director doesn't shy away from depicting the pathetic nature of the lives of the characters and makes them do some very objectionable things, but in the end still manages to make the viewer care about them. The only major problem that I had with the film was the somewhat overly quick change that takes place in Bob's character at the midway point of the film. The explanation for the shift was given, but I would have liked Bob to go through such a transition in a more gentle and gradual manner.Roger Ebert in his review correctly noted that 'Drugstore Cowboy' shares a thematic and stylistic resemblance with some of the other great outlaw road movies like 'Midnight Cowboy' and 'Bonnie and Clyde'. To some extent some scenes even reminded me of Scorsese's Mean Streets. Acting wise, Matt Dillon is the shining star. Others put in good performances too, but it is Dillon who carries the film on his shoulders. His masculine charm and appeal reminded me of Stallone in the first Rocky. But even with the charm, Dillon still manages to exude vulnerability and depth to a character who is struggling to find his place in the world.The ending to the film is rich with irony. It clearly establishes how life can be so unpredictable, mysterious and harsh. The characters in the film clearly took up drugs and their lifestyle to escape the unpredictability and the harshness of real life, but they forgot that life's realities always have a way of catching up with you no matter how hard you try to escape them. "},{"Title":"great work from all 4 actors and creative style from Van Sant","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's 1971 American Northwest. Rob (Matt Dillon), his girlfriend Dianne (Kelly Lynch), his second Rick (James Le Gros) and Rick's girl Nadine (Heather Graham) are all drug addicts. They rob drugstores with well planned schemes. Federal agent Gentry (James Remar) stakes out the group waiting for them to slip up.Director Gus Van Sant brings a jazzy hypnotic sense to the feel of being on drugs. He infuses the movie with an off-center sense of humor. The four leads all contribute some great work. Matt Dillon is a terrific lead. Kelly Lynch is a perfect match. She has the same power without the manic personality of Dillon. James Le Gros is a great second and Heather Graham is build to be a victim in this movie. "},{"Title":"Tough to watch. . .","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've read a few reviews attempting to judge this film in comparison to Requiem & Trainspotting, which is to be completely unfair. A very broad and brief synopsis of the 3 would be similar, but that's where the true similarities end. DC is in truth a hard movie to watch. . .there's nothing glorious or funny or pretty about it. There is no cool or hip vibe, the violence isn't blood and gore but is ugly and real. I can't even honestly say I enjoyed it, but I felt it and thought about it for some time after. To me, DC feels more honest than other in this genre, Very dark and uncomfortable, yet strangely gripping. In my opinion, Matt Dillon is at his best. Graham, Lynch and Le Gros are competent. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Cowboy Junkies.","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the autobiographical junkie lifestyle of James Fogle's novel of the same name, this flick is a quick skim-through of druggie Matt Dillon and his crew of bandits that rob, connive, and steal their way through life just to get a fix. The film is quite cold and grim, but also raw and honest, and it doesn't sugarcoat the lives of these grown up kids.The movie has a more psychological bent to drug use, with psychedelic effects aptly recreating the euphoria of shooting opiates into the arm, and descriptions of the buzz read verbatim from lines in the book. Matt Dillon carries the film as the leading man, and makes a very convincing superstitious junkie who struggles to keep his crew from giving themselves away. Also in for the fun is a slightly amoral cop, whose antics in trying to catch Hughes on a score leads to some suspense and entertainment.The story takes a turn later on when the protagonist, Bob, tries to go straight. It's here where a glimpse into the mind of the drug user is detailed more eloquently and honestly than the thousands of 'drug movies' that have come out of Hollywood in the past 50 years. A cameo by notable beatnik poet and author William S Burrows offers some poignant social commentary on the prediction of the war on drugs, which makes this film only more timely as the years go on. This turns the film from a good one into a slightly great one. The feel of the early 1970s Portland is accurately recreated with the wardrobe, grimy on location sets, and script. The off-kilter and jazzy soundtrack provides bounce and rhythm to the film when it threatens to get bogged down. While the ending somewhat tapers off, the indie- direction by Van Sant and assured acting performances by the cast (including a gorgeous Heather Graham when she was young) turn this into a low 8. Recommended. "},{"Title":"An altogether excellent film.","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Very interesting low key story, based on the writing of James Fogle, a man who truly wrote what he knew, of a small family of small time criminals & drug addicts who rob drugstores to support their habits. The ringleader is Bob (Matt Dillon), who has a certain way of doing things that has just as much to do with superstition as practicality. Bob narrates in the first person, and this helps the gritty Drugstore Cowboy to achieve a gripping realism. There's no melodrama here, and not much in the way of embellishment from director Gus Van Sant, who made an impressive break through with this film. The approach is very matter of fact; the actions of Bob and his gang are neither demonized nor glamorized. As a result, this makes for a compelling experience, with music by Elliot Goldenthal that is effective without ever overwhelming the action. It's gritty stuff, and pretty serious although it never becomes too grim, displaying a sense of humour on occasion and offering some hope for the future. As Bob struggles to kick his habit and leave his criminal ways behind, one can't help but root for him. Dillon does praiseworthy work in the lead, with strong support from James Le Gros, Heather Graham, and especially Kelly Lynch as the wife who has no interest in changing her lifestyle. James Remar is good as the tough, determined, but not unreasonable detective who has hounded Bob much of the time; the real treat is in seeing the legendary author and character William S. Burroughs, very well cast as Tom the Priest. The North Atlantic seaboard atmosphere is potent, and Van Sant and Dillon just pull us right into the life and philosophy of this man who can see the writing on the wall when those hexes (mention of dogs, the presence of a hat on a bed) that he tries to avoid so much inevitably manifest themselves. Overall, Drugstore Cowboy is vivid, convincing, and never maudlin, with everybody involved easily giving 100% percent. Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very influential to later films","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In Bonnie & Clyde style, Bob Hughes (Matt Dillon) and his pack of thieves travel the Pacific Coast ripping off drugstores to maintain their high. Through their adventures we learn about Bob's technique, the police that are after them and the moral/philosophical issues surrounding junkiedom.The cinematography of the film is great. Van Sant seems to try and put the camera into every possible crevice imaginable. At the same time, the Pacific landscape sets up great contrasts of natural and industrialized scenery.Unfortunately, there is something extremely stiff about most of the performances. It seems as though everyone in the film was forced to strictly adhere to the script word's, comma's and all. In a scene where Matt Dillon talks to a rehab counselor, the viewer fells as though Dillon is acting to a mirror in his bedroom. Surprisingly, William S. Burroughs is one of the better actors in the film, playing an on again/off again 80-something junkie preacher. Although, I'm sure drug philosophy wasn't too much of a stretch for Burroughs.In the end, this is one of the better criminal/junkie films out there. Expect Van Sant's boredom loving pacing and pay attention to a couple of shots that are eerily similar to later Tarantino-Aranofsky flicks. "},{"Title":"A talented director and a wonderful cast make Drugstore Cowboy a must-see film.","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Drugstore Cowboy is easily the best film I've seen by Gus Van Sant. It is a very bleak look at the life of four young drug addicts and their lives. Bob (Matt Dillon) is the ringleader. He's experienced, fairly intelligent, and very much addicted. His wife is Dianne (Kelly Lynch). The two of them have been together for years, always stealing and conniving in order to get their fix. Along the way, they've picked up two others (James LeGros and Heather Graham). The film shows us their lives the way they get their drugs, how they have to constantly be on their toes to escape the police who scheme to find ways of arresting the group, and by showing the dangers of the lives they lead.The story is narrated by Bob. At the beginning of the film, we see Bob lying in the back of an ambulance. The film is essentially Bob looking back on his recent past, determining how he got to that point. Bob and Dianne, along with Rick and Nadine, feed their addictions by robbing drugstores and hospitals. They take all the medication they can and proceed to take it, getting high and doped up on everything they can. Nothing seems to be off limits. Things start to turn ugly when Nadine places a 30 day hex on the group. Bob is very superstitious and &#150; at the mention of something as minimal as a dog &#150; believes to his very soul that bad luck is on their side. In this respect, he's right. The police finally dig up some dirt, causing Bob and the gang to pack up and move. They get a hotel room and continue with their lifestyle, robbing another drugstore first, then a hospital. More bad luck ensues, and Bob has some decisions to make.Drugstore Cowboy features and excellent cast. Matt Dillon is a wonderful Bob. Dillon, who has had his share of performances ranging from excellent to dismal, plays this role with conviction. This is a three-dimensional character with his share of problems, but who is also very tormented and easy to feel for. Bob goes through a complete transformation and, with Van Sant's careful execution and Dillon's perfect portrayal, is a very likable, relatable character. Kelly Lynch is less effective, but still rather good in the role of Bob's wife Dianne. Dianne is very torn at the beginning of the film. She's tired of Bob's schemes, the fact that he won't sleep with her, and the way in which he treats people. By the end of the film, though, Dianne seems afraid to change. She's comfortable in her lifestyle, despite the problems she may incur due to it. James LeGros does not have a lot to work with. One emotional scene, though, proves that he knows what he's doing. Rick, his character, is rather under-utilized, but still necessary. Heather Graham plays Nadine, a young and naïve teenager who has latched on to the group as a means of belonging. This is an early role for Graham, but is arguably one of her best performances. She makes Nadine a very pitiful, sad character with whom the audience can most easily feel sorry for.Gus Van Sant has obvious talent as a director and this film is the perfect representation of that. Each character is dealt with very carefully and each actor is on key. This is easily due to Van Sant's talent as a director. Drugstore Cowboy essentially shows the degradation of young lives as a result of drug abuse. It does not glorify the lifestyle in the least, but it is also not preachy. In the hands of another director, Drugstore Cowboy may have ended up a completely different type of movie. Films like Requiem for a Dream, which tried to accomplish the same thing, are overly done and can feel more like an after school special than a realistic look into the lives of these people. Drugstore Cowboy does this perfectly and it is under Van Sant's execution that it works the way it does.Bleak and uncompromising, Drugstore Cowboy is a very impressive film from Van Sant. It features wonderful performances from its four young actors and offers a rather realistic look into the way drug addicts live their lives. It remains intriguing throughout its entire runtime and does not look down at its audience. It contains all the elements an effective film needs to be great a talented director, an able cast, an interesting premise, and a glorious execution. Drugstore Cowboy is not to be missed.9/10 "}{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I actually grew up with people like this. Not all, but I knew people like this. People who had nothing, going nowhere, living on ratty beds and couches, with parents who barely noticed, or weren't around. Now on their own, with absolutely no skills or abilities (or desire) to head in any other direction but the pursuit of the next high. Always scheming to get their next stash. Hiding and ducking in their own living room, from imagined threats and paranoic fantasy. Characters who would show up, and act bizarrely, with hangers-on who desperately wanted to be accepted by this aimless bunch. Barely hanging on to any semblance of a regular life, one half-step away from scrounging in garbage cans.I never got too close to those people, and ended up joining the service, and never looked back to what happened to them.Matt Dillon was exceptional, and a decent job by the cast all around. Dillon captured the essence of a smart guy, who knew what a dead-end existence he lived in, but was unwilling or unable to yet break free. Brilliantly directed by Gus Van Zant. He captured this ugly life well. "},{"Title":"junkies on the run","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching a quartet of teenage junkies rob pharmacies and get high may not be everyone's idea of a good time. But director Gus Van Sant looks beyond the desperate urge for another fix and finds a good deal of insight into the addict's pursuit of slow death in the fast lane, with Matt Dillon giving a memorable performance as the leader of the sometimes comically pathetic outlaw gang. Van Sant's unflinching depiction of the junkie lifestyle is entirely sympathetic but totally unsentimental, showing the non-conformist need for a high without ever glamorizing the drug culture. The episodic story is set (and with good reason) in the year 1971, after the mysticism of experimentation had long since become the grim reality of addiction, but it loses some momentum after Dillon enters a rehabilitation clinic, at which point the film attempts to express verbally what it already proved it could show visually. But the script never sells out for any tidy moral lesson, and the presence of Beat Generation icon William Burroughs in a small but notable cameo role lends a measure of credibility to Van Sant's intentions. "},{"Title":"The short Burroughs speech must be played to kids all over the world .....","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Dear Gus Van Sant,I am not a big fan of your movies. But Drugstore Cowboy was a pretty straightforward account of the life of a superstitious drug addict who robs pharmacies for his daily fix. You kept the art-farty crap to a minimum with some close ups, point of view shots and home video footage. Matt Dillon was solid as always. He played an addict (alcohol) in Factotum as well. Kelly Lynch and Heather Graham were nice eye candy. William Burroughs has a great role as a drug addicted ex-Catholic priest. His short speech was simply terrific (Narcotics have been systematically scapegoated and demonized.) and must be played to young kids all over the world. I wonder whether Brian De Palma stole the structure of Carlito's Way from this film. I have not heard any of the songs that you played in the movie, some of them were pretty catchy. Good Job, Gus. I am really curious about James Fogle's novel now.Best Regards, Pimpin.(7/10) "},{"Title":"Nonjudgmental look at wayward youth","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Gus Van Sant's Drugstore Cowboy is a nonjudgmental portrait of wayward youth, focusing on a quartet of rebels who want nothing more in life than to hang out, shop lift from pharmacies and get high off their spoils. Van Sant seeks not to condone or condemn, but merely to play the part of fly on the wall and observe these individuals who are in their own little world, as created by the 'snake eating its own tail' nature of addiction. Their ringleader Bob (Matt Dillon) leads his crew in self destructive leisure, alongside doting girlfriend Dianne (Kelly Lynch). They are joined by dimwitted Rick (James LeGros) and his very underage girlfriend Nadine (Heather Graham). The film follows their slapdash attempts at a young life, or lack thereof. They're not scumbags or reprehensible people, simply rough hewn youngsters shaped by their environment and engaging in this behaviour simply because they don't know how to do anything else. Despite everything they are likable, especially Dillon, whose laid back, near apathetic cadence sets the tone quite well. The four of them are hounded by stern, straight arrow Detective Gentry (James Remar) who ceaselessly tries to catch them in the act, not so much to humiliate and bust them it seems, but simply to get them on the right track and instill remorse to in turn validate his own existence. The great character actress Grace Zabriskie has a knockout cameo as Bob's sardonic mother, and the original druggie himself William S. Burroughs shows up for a pleasant turn as an old neighbourhood dude and somewhat of a mentor. It's never preachy, nor glorifying, nor repellent, but always strikingly honest and like I said before, without an ounce of judgement. That kind of attitude from a filmmaker telling a story of rapscallions who are so out of line is nice to see. It reminds us that every junkie and lost soul is somebody's son or daughter, and turn your nose at them or not, we all breathe the same air. "},{"Title":"Hats on beds","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There's an odd expectation that any drug addiction depicted in film must be filthy and decrepit. It should make no attempt at glamourising the condition at all, and with that hope it comes with the overall message of 'drugs are bad'. Drugstore Cowboy is an odd entry for this topic. Bob and his crew have been stealing from pharmacies for years and living high and on the run. Then one day he decides to stop and go clean. There is no life-changing epiphany, no stark moment of realisation. And while many movies might go at lengths to depict the hardships involved with getting clean and staying away from that toxic lifestyle, there is no such attempt here. What Van Sant does is slow the monotony of reality to an agonising pace - he gets a new job, he attends group therapy meetings, he bumps into old acquaintances and flames. The high octane mood of the former life is replaced by this droning, dull existence. The dialogue is clipped, and reduced to a snail's pace. There is less life to the performance of Matt Dillon.It is presumably from this perspective that he narrates on his former life as a drugstore cowboy. The shaky, grainy footage of their wild adventures paints a nostalgic aura around it. And he gets some details wrong too, or he was too drugged up to realise it at the time. He remembered that Dianne was more in love with dope than she was with him, as he reclines from her sexual advances, seeking to hit up yet another store for that rush. And later on, as they reconcile, he wants to once again latch onto something that resembles the past, but it is too late. It is here that William S. Burroughs' character is introduced perfectly, as the withered former priest whose eyes nevertheless light up when presented with a little stash of Bob's. His narration has a neutral ease about it; he praises the priest's generosity and endurance, but still realises that he cannot end up this way, clutching helplessly onto a bag of prescription drugs. The film has a knack for presenting the drug lifestyle's morphed perspective, and all its little personal kinks and fears and biases. There is no harsh judgement here, only a light-hearted chuckle, as if Van Sant expects us to let Bob find his own way. When he sets up the cop to get shot, his laughter is overlaid like a laugh track from a sitcom, and topped off with applause. Later the mum and dad of the drug family, so to speak, recount a tragic yet humorous story of how a little doggie led the police all the way to their hideout and stash. They collapse into tears as if the whole world was out to get them. And there is Bob's own superstition, which he treats like any other normal superstition. His mind begins to spin into paranoia after a hat is laid on a bed, and things begin to go wrong. Dramatic sequence are superimposed with goofy images of hats and various items floating around the screen - for a drug addict, this of course makes perfect sense.By his own twisted little logic, he rationalises this turn of events. It is so refreshing to see a film about a drug addict that doesn't demonise the victim, but immerses us into his perspective, and allows him the freedom to make his own choices. Van Sant dangles lures on a fishing line, as if tempting Bob back to that lifestyle, and gives him the agency he needs to become a memorable character. It is incredibly difficult to sell Bob's mournful, poignant dialogue that addresses hats on beds as if it was some mystic power shimmering beneath the surface of life, but this film pulls it off. Responsibility and understanding is born out of sickness, and we not only sympathise, but hope that he makes it and can better his future. "},{"Title":"Well Done","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you are impatient with the characters, you will miss their beauty... One of the scenes shows a taxi pulling away and the taxi itself is the only reference I found to the era the film represents. War vets in the early seventies could drive cabs for a descent wage and usually ended up carting around the younger generation, who usually ended up getting into drugs for a lack of anything better to do than join the Army or go away to college and study more. Bob's mom has those American mother traits that are so undeniable. Dianne is introverted like most drug users, and so are the others, but the collective anti-social identity of the group shows that even degenerates have feelings. Nadine is cute, young, and fragile. The cops are more of the keystone cop variety. You can appreciate the subtle details in the personalities of the characters in this film more than in the films of today that glorify drug use as more of a Wall Street phenomenon than something that always has been the unaccepted reality. This film is not glamorous or particularly easy on the eyes, but more of a dark humor that ends up pressing some of the right buttons. "},{"Title":"Matt Dillon's Best Role","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A pharmacy-robbing dope fiend (Matt Dillon) and his crew pop pills and evade the law.I was never really into the drug culture. I had friends who were, and some who still are. None who reached the point of robbing pharmacies, but still knee-deep in their own way. This film does a great job of showing the best and the worst of that world. Before Trainspotting or Requiem for a Dream, this really got the point across... and with an incredible cameo from William S. Burroughs.This is easily Matt Dillon's best role. He had a good run in the 1980s and 1990s, but seems to have fizzled out after Something About Mary and Wild Things. A shame, really. Even Heather Graham is pretty good here, and she was still in the phase of being a love interest for the two Coreys. "},{"Title":"Distraction burglaries at Pharmacies","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Matt Dillon and Kelly Lynch play a couple that use Heather Grahame and James LeGros to help them stage distraction burglaries at pharmacies in Oregon in the 1970's. Director Gus van Sant paints a numbing and sobering look at their lives, from thwarting cop James Remar and his team, always escaping the seemingly inevitable bust and always looking toward their next big hit. After a drug related death, the second half of the film concerns itself with Dillon getting himself clean.Without the ultra intense visuals that hallmarked the later 'Trainspotting' and 'Requiem For a Dream', van Sant uses time lapsed superimposed images to convey moments of thought and of being high. Matt Dillon in particular portrays the pained intensity of a troubled young man very well and Lynch is good, also, conveying a hard-edged individual.The film never wags any fingers nor blames anybody, or anything. There is no glamour either. Somewhat unlike the other two aforementioned drug movies, there's little squalor or total degradation. No pained or graphic scenes of opiate withdrawal. Drugstore Cowboy doesn't have the roller-coaster ups and downs of those two films, either and we're left with a quality drama that informs as much as it entertains. There's also a smattering of dark humour and a great soundtrack too, that superbly enables the mood. "},{"Title":"Life and death in the wild west","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Drugstore Cowboy' announced the arrival of director Gus van Sant as a major talent in the world of movie-making. Arty yet realistic, humorous yet serious as death, this low-key tale of Oregonian junkie Matt Dillon (who teaches us the familiar lesson that an addict cares only about his next fix) is imaginatively filmed, although like most junkie movies, it becomes more watchable after the introductory scenes (which feature extensive shooting up) are concluded. Unlike most 1970s-set films, there's a welcome absence of exaggerated placement of iconic items, and the cherry on top is an inspired cameo by real-life legendary dope fiend, William S. Burroughs. While not as wildly exuberant as 'Trainspotting', or as lonesome as van Sant's next film, 'My Own Private Idaho', it's still a strong movie, and it's easy to see how it became the launchpad for van Sant's subsequent career. "},{"Title":"My p.o.v","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm just gonna toss a few thoughts onto the table Matt Dillon was superb! (Wild Things shows very little of his talent). Heather Graham acted well but her character was irritating. The only other Gus Van Sant film I've seen is Elephant and it's hard to choose which is better between this and that because they're both two different films. The scene where Bob set up the cops was very funny indeed. I thought Kelly Lynch looked a lot like Juliette Lewis - at times - during the film. Like I said, not much to say but the film's definitely worth a watch. It took me a while to get around to doing so and I'm glad I finally did. I gave this an 8 out of 10 because I was pleasantly surprised. "}{"Title":"Hard Working Junkies","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's funny because I remember when this movie first came out I was impressed by the hallucination sequences. Now they seem dated after seeing movies like Fear and Loathing in Los Vegas and Fight Club.Like Jesus Son, Drugstore Cowboy takes place during the early 70's. Colors are drab and the soundtrack features 70s pop tunes. Both films feature main characters who struggle recover from addiction. Usually drug movies feature junkies who score illegal drugs like heroin. This is the first movie i've seen with pharmaceutical junkies. Based on a novel by former addict James Fogle, director Van Sant incorporates many of Fogle's real life experiences into his movie. The movie does a good job of conveying the powerful effect drugs have on an addict. What I found interesting is the EFFORT it takes Bob (Matt Dillon) and his crew to feed their habit. Similar to Trainspotting, Bob and his crew are forced to turn to a life of crime to feed their habits. They risk imprisonment by robbing drugstores and hospitals to get a pharmaceutical high. Also Bob and his crew are constantly on the run because they are forced to move on regular intervals to escape the police. Recommended for fans of Trainspotting and Jesus Son. "},{"Title":"unusual tone but quite good","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In all honesty, this film is good to me. It's tone is peculiar and will not give in to the anti drug banner. Instead ofiDrugs are bad for you/i,Gus Van Sant presents something different. First off Matt Dillon is a great choice for the lead. His character doesn't give up drugs because they're bbad/b for him...he gives them up because of his weird superstitions(a hat laid on a bed causes a hex!). Van Sant merely presents drugs asireally causing your life a world of hurt/i. I think Kelly Lynch as Dillon's drug crazy wife gets the highlight role here. She will not conform to giving up her passion and true love in life..them drugs that bring so much fun.Van Sant does a good job making this a totally unique drug film. It stands out because it's quirky and at times very funny. This is a dark film,though. The movie doesn't take itself too seriously and that's actually a plus. ****/***** "},{"Title":"Precise Picture of a Drug Addict","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very precise in its depiction of a drug addict.  The craving and rage shown by Bob is precise to a point.  The lack of creative filming of this film does not allow for proper suspence and anticipation. The plot drags towards the end where characters are forgotten and reintroduced later.  The ending of this film is very unbelievable and does not capture the essence of the story.  "},{"Title":"see something new each time you watch it","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every time I watch this movie (and rest assured, I've watched it a lot since sitting mesmerized in the theater in 1989), I find some new nuance in the tale.   Check out the DVD special edition, with commentary by Gus Van Sant and Matt Dillon...it will give you special access to some of the setups for the later sequences, ones that made me do a double-take on my most recent viewing.  What a great film.  William S. Burrough's predictions turned out to be so, so, SO right on about the 'Drug Hysteria'.  Matt Dillon has never been better or more nuanced than he was in this film....he deserved some awards for it.  I still maintain that one of Kelly Lynch's lines, You won't F*** me and I always have to drive, is one of my favorite movie quotes.Check this movie out - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Well-executed movie about a controversial subject","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anti-drug purists will not care for this nuanced, well-crafted work. At the height of the just-say-no nonsense, this movie took a strange, slightly comic view of drug addiction by using Matt Dillon as the head of a group that specializes in stealing drugs from drug stores. The dialogue is terrific - I especially like the scene in which Kelley Lynch curses poor Matt Dillon because the drugs have made him impotent. The movie's original, unconventional take on drugs and the emptiness they bring is compromised a little by the ending, which seems rushed. "},{"Title":"Depressing but great","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie so many times over the past 12 years. I love Van Sant's great cinematography and imagery mainly. All those syringes, pills, and fizzing floating around the screen when people are tripping is brilliant! He could of cast better actresses, Kelly Lynch is just okay when she needs to be so much stronger, and Heather Graham-well, it was probably one of her first films and she was so young, so that is her excuse. She had the opportunity to do so much with that role and didn't, what a shame. But all the actors give solid performances, especially James LeGros. The movie is definitely a downer and I know few people who like it due to that. But I enjoyed the whole essence of it and it is one of the best art house films I have seen. "},{"Title":"precursor to Requiem for a Dream","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A ultra-realistic portrait of a band of druggies who rob drug stores to satisfy their need for a fix.  Great young cast...with a plethora of future stars, add to the overall impact of this landmark film.  Dillon is outstanding the the lead as the leader of the group, who eventually tries to go straight, and ends up in more trouble.  At times depressing, but what do you expect for a production dealing with the real dangers of drug addiction.  A very rewarding piece of cinema that would have to be one of my top drug-related films, and definitely a precursor to the depressingly bleak look at drug addiction brought to the viewer in REQUIEM FOR A DREAM. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time faves!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not much to say except I love it.  Dillon is astounding, Lynch, LeGros, Remar, Perlich are right on. So many memorable lines, my favorite being when Dillon explains to a rehab counsellor why he uses I'm a junkie.  I like drugs.  An atypical, unapologetic explanation that--addiction, financial ruin, and legal problems aside--people use drugs because they think they feel good! Van Sant leaves the moral judgment to the viewer.  Also, the little touches like hats on beds, golf clubs, and women who don't get no lovin' yet are forced to drive make this flick a classic. "},{"Title":"Just say yes","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a movie!  It's a thankfully honest film about drug addiction that doesn't fall into the trap of glamorizing it.  The actors are all incredible.  Gus Van Sant knew what he was doing when making this complex and entertaining movie with sympathetic characters.  Funny, sometimes sad and painful, always excellent.  One of the most influential and best movies of the '80s. "},{"Title":"A groovy, vague, humorous, road movie","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gus Van Sant's best film, in my opinion. Followed by the following My Own Private Idaho. A very laughable film as it is very dramatic. A non-pretentious road movie that depicts the humorous and tragic sides of a very drug related life. The book-based script is very interesting & attractive and consequently a hard one to base a good & upright movie upon, Van Sant did a praiseworthy and nearly excellent film out of this nevertheless. The movie carries a kind of melancholy and yet kind of a groovy rhythm and an original and well recognised atmosphere. Van Sant created a very vague feeling to it as well, which I really found interesting. Acting is authentic & excellent. Personally, I loved it. "}{"Title":"Extremely interesting","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is probably Van Sant's best effort ever.  It's an honest vision of the drug-society in the 80s, the cast in its entirity delivers an outstanding performance, the scenario is good and sounds true (which is rarely the case in movies dealing with the problem of drugs in general), and Van Sant perfectly directed it. What else can I say? Watch it and like it.I give this movie a 9/10. "},{"Title":"I don't want to end up like Bonnie and Clyde-D. Dekker","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gus Van Sant proved himself well with this stark tale of life under the needle.  The hard core scenes are beautifully contrasted with dreamy sequences as if the viewer is being exposed to the solace of a drug high in the face of pain and suffering.  Matt Dillon gives the performance of his career as Bob, a junkie who romanticizes his lifestyle to the best of his ability despite the inevitable consequences.  One of my favorite scenes is when Bob meets up with an old priest he once knew who is heavily drug addicted and offers him some narcotics.  The old man thanks him kindly and gingerly places the score on top of his Holy Bible (which of the two do you think he'll be reaching for first?).  Desmond Dekker's rock-steady Israelites is a fine inclusion in the film's sound track as it up-beatedly gives the feeling of desperation. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Slice of Junkie Life","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the story of a leader of losers.  We follow a crew of junkies as they score, argue, deal with the police on their tail, and confront the reality of their empty lives.  Drugstore Cowboy deserves a special prize for refusing to plug formulaic humor or redemption into the mix -- it simply wouldn't fit and the lyricism of the scenes would be compromised.I always like watching Matt Dillon and James LeGros - but my hat is, once again, off to Max Perlich as David, small-time dealer who's more dangerous than you'd suppose.  If you think he's good here, you have to check out Georgia.  "},{"Title":"Interesting but a little dull","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Gus Van Sant's films all seem to be set at a different level of indie quality. That indie level usually seems to depend on the number of big name stars appear in the film. His films like Elephant or Paranoid Park star non-actors in leading roles, and they're some of the most experimental of his films. But the experimentation goes away slightly when stars like Matt Dillon or Kelly Lynch are introduced like in Van Sant's 1989 film Drugstore Cowboy. Drugstore Cowboy is about a group of junkies who spend their time robbing pharmacies so they can use the myriad of drugs available to get all sorts of new and crazy highs. But after a while the crew has to take their show on the road, and things quickly get complicated in this bleak real world drama that may or may not accurately capture the essence of drug addiction and the lengths some go to fuel said addiction.I said the experimental reaches Gus Van Sant goes to are quelled slightly for this film, and they are, but there is still some interesting and trippy things going on. Van Sant employs a surreal quality to his whole film, capturing the character's highs as dream like mind trips with all sorts of hidden meanings that don't make a ton of sense. But then again, they don't entirely need to. The whole film has a somber and dream like quality to it that drives the whole story and is fuel for the characters motivations, what little motivation these characters have. It's a very strange and loose story about some very strange and loose people.The problem with swathing this film with such a bleak and dreamy tone is that it makes Drugstore Cowboy kind of dull. It starts out with a lot of promise and plenty of potential. The film opens by interesting Matt Dillon's character, Bob, as he narrates an introduction to what he does and who he does it with. We then see one of their robberies take place in a tense and quiet moment. From there the plot starts to sink in as the characters lives grow more and more harrowing and the situations they find themselves in become increasingly grave. But at a certain point the film sort of plateaus and stops being interesting and you stop caring so much about the characters. I was never painfully bored with this film and I watched with a keen and interested eye all the way through, but I was by no means enthralled and the story didn't grip me like it should have.Drugstore Cowboy is a very interesting film and it does plenty of things right. Unfortunately it's just a little boring, and the events that play out aren't terribly original, and I felt like I was just watching another reformed junkie film with a little bit of a Gus Van Sant twist. This is still a pretty decent film, but don't expect too terribly much from it. "},{"Title":"best movie ever made on addiction","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Speaking as a recovering opiate addict I can think of no other movie that depicts addiction in a more accurate realistic way. To be fair the man with the golden arm and hat full of rain were also very well done for their time but drugstore cowboy is the best.I have read reviews here that claim trainspotting or requiem for a dream as better.....not even close.The reason is although many of us ex junkies tended to glamorize drug use eventually we come to realize the redundancy and tediousness that consumes our existence. In the movie drugstore cowboy we see that very thing.They are always either getting high or, and this seems to take up much more time plotting the next score.So forget the melodramatic phony Hollywood depiction of drug addiction; if anyone wants to see the true nature of addiction with all the monotony that goes with it there will be no better movie than this .A couple of points I thought the movie took place in and around Portland Or...and to easily answer one reviewers curiosity on why Nadine was hanging around ....drugs.And "},{"Title":"Just great","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Incredible movie takes place in 1971 in Oregon. Bob (Matt Dillon), his girlfriend Dianne (Kelly Lynch) and Rick (James Le Gros) and HIS girlfriend Nadine (Heather Graham) are all drug addicts. They live together and support their habit by robbing drugstore pharmacies. Their lives slowly become darker and more violent...but can they break away from the drugs? Also police officer Gentry (James Remar) is hot on their trail.This was a breakthrough in 1989. It put director Gus van Sant on the map and (briefly) revived Matt Dillon's career. It was also a surprise hit for such a low-budget film. It might sound like a boring and depressing film but it isn't. There's plenty of humor and the film actually has you rooting for the main characters even though they ARE robbers and addicts. The 1971 era is there but you're not hit over the head with it. The clothes, fashions and the black and white TV with rabbit ears tell you everything you need to know. The acting is excellent across the board. No one is bad but Dillon and Lynch are just simply superb in their roles. Also the direction by van Sant was incredible--it REALLY bought to life more than a few scenes. I was never bored and completely fascinated. WELL worth catching. I give this a 10. "},{"Title":"not the best film about the pains of heroin addiction, but imbued with imaginative film-making, strong acting","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One of Gus Van Sant's early features was Drugstore Cowboy, and look at the lives of a gang of junkies, led by Matt Dillon's Bob Hughes and tagging along his wife Diane (Lynch), partner Rick (James LeGros) and his girl the innocent Nadine (Graham), who go around pilfering through drug stores whenever they can get the chance - which also means whenever bad luck doesn't pervade Bob's consciousness, which can happen if simply a hat is on a bed. It's provocative not because it teaches us something new about heroin with its characters, that junk is bad and people should get off of it, but because of its soulful, honest and piercingly original film-making. Many trademarks of Van Sant's style are present here (time-lapse photography, surreal photography with to objects done matted over other images), plus a really groovy jazz score that puts things in a 50s beatnik era even as it's set in 1971. Even William S. Burroughs, the patron saint of junkie writing from the beat era, plays a character.It's also a triumph for Matt Dillon, who etches out a very memorable performance as Bob. He's proud and can have a quick temper, but he's also quick on his toes, cunning and conniving when he needs to be (i.e. the trick played on the cop who climbs up the ladder), but also is hiding something underneath. He has all of these superstitions, and he believes in them, fully, as he does God, and finds it not to be just some kind of crazy coincidence when, after a terrible tragedy occurs at a motel room, a sheriff's convention happens to be coming to the motel he and Diane and Rick are staying at (an echo of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas came to me in that scene, with a different, more sober result). I totally believed Dillon in this role just as much as I believed him as a young punk in Rumble Fish or a crooked cop in Crash. He's such a great emotional anchor that he makes the picture worth seeing alone.Not that his other fellow actors are dead fish, since they very much aren't (Graham especially, in her pre-Boogie Nights indie breakthrough, is terrific as the one real innocence in the story). It's also a lot of fun, and also in the context of the picture and his real life very haunting and poetic, to see Burroughs as the priest who was a junkie even when Bob was a kid at his church. There's a lot to read into there, which I'm sure Van Sant is intending. But he's also making a statement overall with the picture that the junkie lifestyle is pervasive. It's something that is near impossible to escape, especially if you ever try to go home to do the right thing. It has that special quality of a road movie, and while it has some imperfections (the last third, as Bob cleans up, slows down a little from the momentum that is building in the first two, which isn't entirely a bad thing), the film understands this way of life as did Trainspotting or to an extent Requiem for a Dream.Drugstore Cowboy, among many other films of its ilk, is rich in the quality of its direction, its dramatic nerve and its moments of eccentricity that delight, and one or two moments of dark humor don't hurt either, but it's really a dark, harrowing trip into the junkie world. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"classic drug film","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a novel by a convicted drug robber, Drugstore Cowboy, is one of Gus Van Sant's best. Matt Dillon (as Bob) and sexy Kelly Lynch (as Diane) play a husband and wife team who rob drug stores to get high. Joining them are a young couple (James Le Gros, and Heather Gram in her first big role) who look up to Bob who is the clear leader of the group. On the trail of the foursome is a tenacious cop (played well by James Remar). Rounding out a great cast is the one and only William Burroughs in a small but important role. Although the gang leads a dangerous lifestyle, they share moments of compassion and humor. The team manages to avoid the law due to Bob's wits and sometimes silly superstitious nature until one day his luck runs out. This film has a realistic and gritty style and feels like your watching a documentary at times. Although the film wasn't intended to endorse drug use, more then one convicted drug users has said it made them long for the good old days. A great and effective film. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest dramas of modern cinema.","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Evaluating films is a difficult and ongoing process. I try to watch several films a week in order to judge those I will view in the future with greater understanding of their relation with others in their genre. I will admit that I haven't watched very many films in my nineteen years, but I think that I've viewed enough to discuss Drugstore Cowboy fairly. I first became interested in the film when my dormitory neighbor (during my freshman year of college) had to leave school. I was speaking with his former roommate, and I saw this film on the floor. I was intrigued by it, so I asked if I could take it to our library. I did, and the next day I saw it displayed on the recently-returned shelve. I decided that I would watch it given how unusual I found its title. As I decided to become a film critic later that year, I was introduced to Gus Van Sant when I sporadically chose to watch Mala Noche from the library. I decided to view all of his films in the order he released them.Thus, I finally watched it. The film reminds me of the classic drama films I enjoy. Like those dramas, Drugstore Cowboy shows the ceaseless struggle of people to overcome their own handicaps. There are no direct or permanent antagonists. As the protagonist progresses, the obstacles they encounter, be they other people, the environment, or themselves serve are the antagonists. The greatest of dramas adhere to this trope but also provide a response to what may occur after these obstacles are overcome. Drugstore Cowboy is a member of this distinguished category.The film follows the life of Bob, just Bob, as he travels around the northwestern United States with his family stealing from drugstores to feed his addiction. Bob begins his journey in Portland, Oregon, his hometown. He travels with his wife, Dianne, and a younger couple. Eventually, the younger woman dies of overdoes, and Bob questions his lifestyle. He returns home and enters a rehab center, and leaves Dianne. While there, Bob meets a pastor who is attempting to recover from his lifelong addictions. The film ends as Bob is being transported to the hospital after having been shot by a former associate who accuses him of hiding drugs.Drugstore Cowboy distinguishes itself by its honesty. Bob does not speak with any emotion in his voice. He tells us about the events that he observes as a third party would. Not only does he retain objectivity in his narration, but in his drug addiction too. Bob knows that he is a drug addict but doesn't blame anyone for it. It's rather ironic; Bob is very mature in his acceptance of his problem despite his mother's dissonance with him. Matt Dillon acts appropriately in his role as Bob. He doesn't overact as he did in The Outsiders. He plays Bob as the realistically flawed character he is. Gus Van Sant also deserves credit for the multiple faces of Bob's character. He originally thinks he understands the reasons his life is always troubled. He is superstitious but learns after the young girl dies that his life is a cycle of sorrow and joy just like everyone else's. I was very happy and felt that this strengthened the film's effect.Despite Dillon's strong character development, the minor characters don't grow as much. James Legros' character, Rick, is just a supportive character but acts as a foil to Bob. He is idealistic about leading the group while Bob is subtly upset with it. The other characters also stay true to honesty theme Van Sant includes in this film. Dianne does not enter the rehab center even though she loves Bob. Bob doesn't chase her even though he wishes he could. This acceptance of their own character flaws transforms both of them into real people, worthy of our sympathy.Gus Van Sant should also be praised for the approach he took to directing this film. He superimposes images of various objects, usually over bob during voice-over narration. It's reminiscent of the high Bob gets after he shoots up. The voice-over narration is also useful because it shows Bob's transition into his new life as he narrates his past. The entire experience is an emotional monologue which never becomes sentimental. It is objective and honest. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, Real and full of impact","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What an amazing movie, I saw it 15 years back and Just saw it again. It is so beautiful and dreamy with powerful quotes. The story is about a group of drug addicts, who procure the drugs by stealing from drugstores and hospitals. Now for me, the movie is great, since I could relate to what Bob Matt Dillon keeps quoting throughout the film. The pace is just great, and the movie is quietly hard hitting, somehow each time I saw it, for few days it was top of my mind.To sum up, it talks about how for some people the normal life could be a pain, but even the dreamy state under the influence of drugs does not work out. Taking more meaning out of it, it indicates, how day to day life can push you into something stupid, like drugs, alcohol and so on. Somehow it is not critical of being a drug addict either, it does not even advocate normal life. The feeling at the end is that there is no solace either ways therefore everyone keeps doing something stupid to live by the Life. "}{"Title":"Off-beat, visionary","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Off-beat, visionary film about dope fiend Dillon and his group of misfit drug addicts who go from drug store to drug store looking for the ultimate high. Gus Van Sant's critically acclaimed picture tells the story very well, with good performances from all his lead players. The plot is never riveting, but Van Sant gets you interested early and keeps you so throughout. Cowboy is a short film, either due to excessive editing, or the fact that Van Sant ran out of material, probably the more likely of the two.The definite highlight of the movie is the visual and original cinematography, as we are confronted with some detailed and different camera shots. Worth a look.Wednesday, April 15, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Dope-fiends robbing drugstores","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've got to admit that I don't rate Gus Van Sant very highly. Most of his films are disappointing; and, of course, he was also the man responsible for the entirely pointless Psycho remake - but Drugstore Cowboy is a major highlight of his filmography, and a film that I wouldn't hesitate to name as the best that he's directed. Drugstore Cowboy takes place in the seventies, and is a story of a self confessed 'dope-fiend'. Bob is a man wrapped up in superstitions, and a man that cares for little outside of where his next fix is going to come from. Along with a small group of like-minded friends, Bob robs pharmacies. However, his life changes when he believes that he's been hexed. The plot sticks closely to its subject material; and the director and cast do well in aptly portraying the mind of a drug user, whether it be through pseudo-dream sequences or the actions of the central protagonists. Following a man that robs drugstores isn't the most obvious base for a film; but it provides a good point of view for a story like this, and this film is almost completely successful throughout.Gus Van Sant appears to enjoy making films with documentary elements; 1995's To Die For is key in this respect, but there are several instances where it appears that Drugstore Cowboy is attempting to analyse it's characters from a documentary standpoint. Lead actor Matt Dillon has had a varied career, and many of his films haven't been the best. He can, however, be very proud of his lead performance here. Dillon looks the part that he's meant to be playing, as his good looks brilliantly offset the 'in the gutter' character and his acting talent, which has never been under question if you ask me, is allowed to shine through also. The rest of the cast don't stand out over the lead; although it's worth noting that this film features an early performance from Heather Graham. The atmosphere of the movie is gritty and dirty, and this is helped along by the grainy film stock that the movie has been shot on. The locations are well used also, and Van Sant ensures that the film takes place in the sort of atmosphere you would associate with junkies. Overall, this film is a good dissection of drugs and drug users and comes recommended. "},{"Title":"A poignant, bittersweet, often funny gem.","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've watched this film quite a few times now and every time that I do, it stays with me for awhile as it's got a haunting quality to it. It's got some unforgettable moments, at times heartbreakingly sad and at other times amusing and quite funny.Superb acting throughout, and Matt Dillon shines in this one. I felt his was a pitch perfect performance. And kudos to Van Sant, for he nailed the period and the film looks as if it had been shot in the early 70's. The soundtrack is great as well and it turned me on to some stuff I wasn't familiar with prior.The ending was perfect, although, I hated to see it end. "},{"Title":"Realistic Look At Junkie Lifestyles","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" You don't find too many movies that focus on this topic. Come to think of it, this, RUSH and THE PANIC IN NEEDLE PARK are the only ones I've seen that explore this issue. I'm sure there are other films out there that have done so too, but I've yet to hear about them. Matt Dillon has given his greatest performance to date as a dope fiend who's living on the edge and constantly wants to knock off hospitals for drugs. The addiction to the junk is so powerful that Dillon's a puppet on a string. Whenever he knocks off a pharmacy, the excitement level is pumped up. The first half of this movie is spectacular, but things slow down after that and it never seems to pick up the intensity it has in the beginning. James Le Gros is good as Matt's sidekick and James Remar is even better as the narc on the gang's trail. The soundtrack is really good and gives the movie that early 70's feel.Score, 7 out of 10 Stars "},{"Title":"One of the ALL - TIME GREATS!! Instant classic.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whoa, I have long lost count of how many times I've seen this movie. My best friends and I speak a language all our own, a mad, hilarious jargon comprised of life-long inside-joke fragments and punchlines, inexplicable nicknames, and, most of all, QUOTES! We'll quote damn near anyone or anything, but most of all we quote our favorite movies. Drugstore Cowboy is an absolute goldmine of exquisite quotable material. Immortalized on my yearbook senior page is Nadine, what are you talking about? C'mon honey, you're with me! I'm not gonna leave you anywhere! My best friend's little cousins, ages 3, 5, and 7, at the time, used to chant this quote in unison, suddenly and frequently, because they heard us all say it so many friggin' times. Drugstore Cowboy is a classic through and through. I will never forget a frame of it. I will never forget any of the dialogue, as long as I don't develop any sizeable deposits of aluminum in my brain, that is. We've been calling anyone and everyone Bob and Nadine for years, and our favorite way of pronouncing the word lighter comes from this flick. Dillon and especially LeGros have vast amounts of instant classic lines that have been oft-quoted for ages. And that is the greatest recommendation I could ever give for any movie. If we've been quoting it for years, it's because it's head, shoulders, and usually torso above all the rest. D.C. never becomes obnoxiously moralistic or unhealthily worshipful about its subject matter. It's often as hilarious and endearing as it is unflinching, it offers a message of hope and optimism, but doesn't sugar-coat anything, which strengthens that message. I know from personal experience that the compulsion to use drugs can be treated and arrested, as long as the addict wants to bad enough. I also know that this is an extremely difficult and scary thing to do. The flick conveys both realities equally well. Every actor is in top form here, and the movie is a triumph of ATMOSPHERE. Gus Van Sant creates a Pacific Northwestern environment that is unmistakable; I've never physically been anywhere near the Pacific Northwest, but I already know what it feels like cold and damp(For some more excellent Oregon/Northern Cali atmosphere, check out Tim Hunter's River's Edge, another all-time great)! Bottom line, not one second of this movie has EVER bored me or found me disinterested in its world. I think that's probably the best thing I could say about any film. It makes me part of its world and I enjoy the visit immensely, every single time.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  "},{"Title":"Low on budget, high on just about everything...","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Drugstore Cowboy is an honest, realistic of drug culture in the seventies that tells it's story with an unflinching eye for detail and without any sugary sentimentality, the latter being a trap that many similar films fall into, and is all the better and more powerful because of it.A very well written script by Gus Van Sant and Daniel Yost (based on the novel by James Fogle) and stylish direction by Van Sant are the bones of the films success, however the real meat is the plethora of utterly convincing performances. Matt Dillon, Kelly Lynch, James LeGros and Heather Graham are all very good, and totally convincing in their roles as the small time crew ripping off drugstores for whatever drugs they can get their hands on to support their habits, while fine support comes from James Remar, Max Perlich and especially cult novelist William S. Burroughs (writer of 'Naked Lunch', 'Junky' and 'Interzone' amongst many others) as an aging, strung out ex-priest all adding significantly to the films overall impact and believability.Gritty, smart and realistic Drugstore Cowboy is an impressive piece of work for all concerned, and more than that a damn good film in it's own right. The only real fault that could be perhaps levelled at the film is that it, due in large part to it's relatively short running time, doesn't delve deep enough into the drug lifestyle of it's characters, it's more about the events rather than the life itself, and as such may not be 'deep' enough for some. However that said this is still a very good film and one that is heartily recommended.One Man's Opinion. 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Dreadful Movie, Poorly Done Possible Spoilers","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Virginia Wolff committed suicide by loading her pockets with stones and wading into a stream. Would that some would-be suicide could round up all copies of Drugstore Cowboy, load them into a sack and jump into the Mariana Trench with the sack tied to his or her body. It's not just the unpleasant subject matter, which others have described as realistic. This film-goer can handle realistic. But the movie has the worst acting, especially by Matt Dillon as the principal character, of any that I can recollect. It was made 20 years ago by Gus Van Sant and both he and Dillon have learned a lot in the interim. But Dillon does nothing with his character that is remotely interesting. His decision to enter rehab is unexplained, except in retrospect, and it is totally unconvincing. Among the other characters, only Heather Graham displays any acting talent (in a relatively undemanding role). Kelly Lynch could have been replaced by a department store clothing dummy. As for Van Sant, the best that can be said is that his name was prettily displayed in the credits. "},{"Title":"A familiar narrative but delivered with conviction by Gus Van Sant and Matt Dillon","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 1971, Portland, Oregon. Bob is the unofficial leader of his small group of dope fiends. Dianne is his wife, Rick his friend and Nadine, the comparative virginal Nadine. They make their living stealing drugs from chemists and hospitals, selling some but mostly using it to get high themselves. With such low aspirations, the group easily get sucked into petty squabbles and live one day to the next. While trying to keep the scores coming, Bob also has to contend with the attentions of a bitter cop, Gentry, eager to see him removed from the streets.Narrative-wise this film is a rather obvious affair that sees a group of small time users, robbing their way across the 1970's America on the way to ruin or redemption. We've all seen this sort of drugs are bad, mm-kay movies before but, although it is perhaps a bit familiar, it is still well worth a look for several reasons. Basing his screenplay on Fogle's autobiographical novel, Van Sant produces a convincingly bleak and pointless world that ignores anything else happening in the period of the early seventies and follows his characters in that he only cares about them. The film allows us to see the attraction of the drugs but never to the point where you could accuse it of glamorising their use; just the point where it is convincing as to why they live this way. Sant's low budget direction is mostly very good, pulling off a film that looks grimy.The thing that helps the story become more than it is on paper is the cast &#150; specifically a dominant and convincing performance from Matt Dillon. He is a bit weaker towards the end but generally he is convincing whether strung out or sober; he is the heart of the film and he holds it all together. Lynch supports him well with a harsher character, while LeGros has a fairly simple character but he works it well anyway. Graham is not used as well as she could have been but rounds out the group well. Remar is a good presence and a cameo from Burroughs helps make the flatter final third a bit more interesting.Overall an impressively solid drugs road movie. Being based on real life makes the narrative frame more interesting and Van Sant delivers his script in a convincingly grimy fashion. Dillon takes to this really well and, although the rest of the cast are good, it is his film and e takes it well no matter what the film has his character doing. Well worth a look and deserves to be higher regarded than it is. "},{"Title":"Great real life film","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is as correct as any film could ever hope to be regarding the life of junkies,i know this because I'm like a real life bob,if you've seen this film you have seen my life.Matt Dillon and Kelly Lynch play the part better than i live it and the appearance by William s Burroughs as tom the priest just makes this film better,it is a shame that my life is not as good as the film,but i live in a fantasy land and fantasies are my land,excellent film,i especially like the old pants and v-necks bob wears with his leather jacket,if i had taken acid before watching this i mite be inclined to believe i was watching my mind via the TV,the mind is what you make it not what it makes you,i could care less for neon street lights,hong kong handcuffs or any thing for that matter,i am a dope fiend and as such this is the only film i will ever comment on as it is my life,i can't relate to big time Hollywood films as they are real in who's mind ?the life one lives matters not,we all die any way and when your dead what good is a book brain and a million dollars? If you were to offer me a million dollars to follow me around and watch a real life collapse infront of your eyes,what would i say? "},{"Title":"As real as it gets","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Having a history (long ago and long reformed) I can attest to the validity of the storyline and actions taken by the characters. I lived the same life. That type of drugstore job is called a often called a dizzy dash. The entire experience including constantly being on the move and the unreliability of friends and acquaintances is very realistically represented. It is interesting that the protagonists stay in the same area where they are known by the authorities. It is difficult when the police look for you whenever a drugstore burglary or robbery occurs. I have to point out that the only flaw is that the characters are too generous and compassionate compared to the average dizzy dasher and crew. In reality no one shares, they just take it and do it, sell it,or lose it in a drug haze. The OD dead are not buried. They are abandoned in alleys, ditches, dumpsters, and the like. It is a sad that so many people never find their way out. I was fortunate. "}{"Title":"Of Hats And Hexes","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The lead character, Bob (Matt Dillon), tells his story in flashback. It's hard being a dope fiend; and it's even harder running a crew; Dianne (Kelly Lynch) was my wife; I love her; man, did she love dope ... Rick (James LeGros) was my sidekick, my muscle ... Nadine (Heather Graham) was Rick's old lady ... We played a game you couldn't win ...And so begins Drugstore Cowboy, a depressing tale with a cautionary theme, set in Portland, Oregon, in 1971, and structured as one long flashback. The film's plot centers on Bob's efforts to steal drugs from pharmacies, helped by his crew. There are various hassles with the police, a predictable overdose, an encounter with Bob's mother, and then ... more of the same. In some ways the plot is repetitive.And throughout, there's lots of talk, and occasional psychedelic visions of houses and horses and airplanes and flying pigs, and especially hats. Bob has a thing about hats. In Bob's messed-up world, hats tie in to hexes. Eventually, Bob's life changes, as a result of the hat hex, according to Bob.I guess all of that is normal for drug users. But the whole story is depressing, a real downer, so to speak. I suspect that's the point.As the anti-hero, Matt Dillon gives a fine performance. The support cast is also credible. The plot pace is slow. But that's because this is a character study.Bob and company are gamblers, playing a game. But the game is dangerous. They're gambling with their lives. It's their way of dealing with fear ... the fear of reality. Drugstore Cowboy is a sobering reflection of people hooked on drugs, and the pain and harm that can come about as a result of addiction and obsession. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie ever made on the subject of junkies","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'll just get it out of the way that I'm not a fan of Gus Van Saint. In fact, I can't stand his output after My Own Private Idaho (espescially the incredibly overrated Good Will Hunting). However, this film, his first feature, is an undeniable indie masterpiece. It also ranks as one of the finest and most accurate descriptions of the junkie lifestyle. Forget Requim For a Dream, that film had the subtlety of a kick to the groin.I've never been a junk user, but I have known people who have been addicts in the past. I'll just say that Matt Dillon perfectly captures their essence in the lead role of Bob. Dillon often seems like an actor with more ambition than ability, but he is fantastic in this film. The rest of the cast is superb also. Kelly Lynch as Bob's wife probably gives the best performance in the film. Like Bob, she is fleshed out to be a flawed yet not entirely unsympathetic character. Special note goes to Max Perlich as the dealer David, a real scumbag.The only note of criticism I can give is William S. Burroughs. I love the man and he does a good job in the film, but its a bit distracting to see such a legendary figure in what is otherwise a very realistic film. Still, it is a fun cameo with some typical Burroughs dialog. Overall, I'd place this in my top ten films of the decade. (10/10) "},{"Title":"Is This Dilaudid That I See Before Me?","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Man, is this story familiar. A drug addict (a polysubstance abuser to your doctor) runs with some friends and lives the wild life from one high to the next. One companion ODs. The addict decides to go straight, leaves his loving but terminally addicted wife, enters a methadone program and gets a job, but his past catches up with him and he gets shot but, probably, will survive.It has all the mythological constituents. Jack Lemon has been here before and Frank Sinatra and Al Pacino. And yet this is a movie of unusual originality. In fact, it's pretty good.The script is well written, the direction individualized, and some of the performances are memorable.There is a narration by Bob (Matt Dillon) that wobbles somewhere along the edge of insanity. The dialog brims over with irony. A junkie will do anything to get over the problems of existence like tying your shoes in the morning, or something like that. There seems to be no more room in the church for an elderly drug-addicted priest. She left us an OD'd stiff which in this state is paramount to murder. (Paraphrases all, but it gives you the general idea.) It hardly matters how melodramatic the situation is because there is always a source of humor hidden somewhere inside it.The direction can't be faulted either. Van Sandt not only moves the bodies around efficiently but know when to cut for maximum effect. At one point Dillon is in an attic trying to wrestle a dead body through an opening in order to pass it to his wife (Lynch) who is helping him from the room below. The corpse is dead weight and it slips out of his arms. He swears fiercely, there is a muffled thump, and when he peers out of the opening we see his wife pinned on the floor by the corpse. Now, there's nothing funny about maneuvering a dead body around, but if this had been a Laurel and Hardy movie and the object had been a piano? The temptation here must have been to show the body falling and Lynch collapsing under its weight, but the temptation to do it the easy way is avoided throughout the movie. Van Sandt inserts touches that aren't necessarily unique -- not after David Lynch -- but they are not overdone, they don't draw attention to themselves, and they tell us about the characters. If Van Sandt gives us closeups of drug vials early in the movie, he gives us closeups of a cup of tea after Dillon gets clean. Dillon's fantasies drift, sometimes computerized, across the screen -- double exposures of arrests and the bars of a jail cell, or dead leaves floating on water that somehow turn into silhouettes of people on horseback.The performances are all good, but two are standouts. It's probably Matt Dillon's best performance. He has just hidden the dead body in the attic of a motel room and there is a knock on the door. He rushes to hide his stash and clean up, then opens the door to find the motel manager telling him he and his friends have to leave immediately because his room is reserved for a sheriff's convention. His expression hardly changes and yet we can see it morph from anxious concern to horror. He doesn't say a word.I don't know whose idea it was to cast William S. Burroughs as the drug-addicted retired priest but it was inspired. He's unforgettable in his appearance, demeanor, and dialog (which he must himself have written). Tom was a king, Dillon says of him. Whenever he made a good score he made sure he passed it around to all the kids. His a** was covered in this life and the next. The first time we see him and Dillon meet in a crummy lobby, Burroughs twists slowly around in his seat (he's pretty old) and greets Dillon, saying, That reminds me. I've been feeling a little sick lately. Are you holding? I'm afraid I've made it sound like a comedy, but it isn't. The matter is a serious one and Van Sandt never really lets us forget it. It's just that he and the writers have brought a little Brechtian distance to the story that leaves us in awe of the foolishness and the humanity of the people we're watching. "},{"Title":"A serious case of miscasting and lack of attention to the events of 1971 hamper what could have been a masterpiece","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most poignant scene in the film Drugstore Cowboy arrives in the opening moments when a drug-addicted foursome uses some skillful maneuvers to steal drugs from the local drugstore.  The scenes that follow lack the quality of this interesting opening (rarely in film do addicts rob drug stores though it would seem to be a preferred method of acquiring their drugs) and we are left with a paint by numbers movie about addicts and the lengths that they will go to to protect their habits. What did Roger Ebert see in this film that I couldn't?  In every scene with Kelly Lynch as Dianne I had an incredible desire to watch paint dry.  It was almost as though the casting directors were looking for Juliette Lewis or Winona Ryder but somehow ended up with Kelly Lynch.  I never once believed that Dianne and Matt Dillon as Bob were married because Kelly Lynch looked older and more mature than him.  It seemed that she was more of a bad mother than a wife to him.  Matt Dillon did his best with a fairly one-dimensional character but once again it was almost as though the role was designed for someone else and the directors got stuck with Dillon.  Heather Graham found herself in the position of being forced to play the role of a pathetic teenage drifter so that she could write it on her resume and go on to bigger and better things in Boogie Nights.  I couldn't help but believe throughout the long two hours that the film would have packed a bigger punch if the casting directors had acquired Brad Pitt and Winona Ryder for the lead roles.Drugstore Cowboy may have been somewhat thought-provoking in 1989 but it hardly deserves mention today when stacked up against Trainspotting and Requiem for a Dream.  The film was set in 1971 and wouldn't it have been nice to find out why this foursome adored drugs so much?  Was it the horrors of Vietnam that upset them?  The high of being a product of the flower-child era?  The movie refuses to delve into these issues and instead fixates itself solely on the premise that drugs cause damage but are the most important thing in the lives of the foursome.  Perhaps the film would have been more entertaining and visionary if it had occurred to the writers and director to use the 1971 setting to explain the characters motivations.  The so-called redemption of the Matt Dillon character is merely an attempt to end the movie at the 2 hour point rather than sooner and the scenes with the former drug addicted old man are trite and unnecessary.  Drugstore Cowboy has aged badly and should only be viewed by those who use Roger Ebert's advice as their Bible for opinions on movies.6/10       "},{"Title":"The drugstore was located only a few blocks from my school.","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In what may have been Gus Van Sant's best movie ever, a group of people led by Matt Dillon inhabit a world revolving around drugs in 1971 Portland. They steal the drugs allegedly to sell, but just end up using them. These people have no connection to anything, just exist with no aim in life. Probably the best part of the movie is when William S. Burroughs, as the priest, says that all these anti-drug policies pursued by the government will probably get used to infringe on people's freedom. He wasn't kidding.All in all, Drugstore Cowboy is definitely a movie that I recommend. Grim but not preachy, it hits all the right points in looking at a world degenerating. Also starring Kelly Lynch, James LeGros, James Remar and Grace Zabriskie.And yes, the drugstore was located a few blocks from where I went to middle school and high school. Apparently, when they were filming the scene where the characters pull off the heist, it took all day to film because the actors kept driving the wrong way. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time top fives","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I went to see this film when it first came out, and recently bought the DVD, which I've watched twice.What I most admire about this film is its lack of preachiness, as so many American films tend to do (in fact, the only preachiness, if it can be called that, comes from the junkie ex-priest). This film gives us more of a 'fly on the wall' perspective of how these characters live.One thing it tells us is that not all drug addicts are sick-looking, pus-oozing, rotten-toothed, incoherent, granny-mugging gutter-dwellers. Some drug addicts actually function in society, and some people actually *like* living the junkie lifestyle. They get off on the adrenaline rush of the robberies, burglaries, the whole thing of planning and executing the caper. Sure, the drugs they score are supposed to be the reward, but the satisfaction of a job well done is nearly right up there with the drugs.To look at any of the main characters would not cause drug addict to leap into your head. And that's not because it's a film and they're actors. People like this actually exist. Look at how many famous people seek treatment for drug addiction to prescription drugs (drugs are drugs, prescription or not). You wouldn't pick them as junkies, would you? Probably not.Bob, the patriarch of this little family of druggies, is very street smart. He is 26. He is highly intelligent, plans meticulously, and is very authoritative in the way he runs things. Bob could've been somebody, if he'd have used his planning and management skills for a 'straight life'. He loves his wife, Diane, whom he's know since childhood, and the fact that they are married, being druggies in the 'free love' days, says to me that they are traditionalists, in some weird way. But despite Bob's intelligence, he is very superstitious and believes in hexes - so much so, that he plans his jobs around superstitious events.Bob and Diane have no children, but have two other young addicts living with them, who function as the children in this family. Through the course of the film, they live in various apartments or houses, much better than you'd expect of a group of junkies. And Diane always looks nice, stylish and clean.In order for us to view Bob as a sympathetic character, he can't go out with a gun or a knife, robbing gas stations and convenience stores. So to keep the group in drugs, lodging, and food, Bob does all the planning for their livelihood - ripping off drug stores, and hospital pharmacies (the Holy Grail, in Bob's way of looking at things). Everyone in the family has a role to play - driver, diversion, thief (Bob's job). While the pharmacist is distracted, Bob grabs anything he can get his hands on. The good stuff gets sorted from the bad stuff (eg laxatives), as soon as they get back to their rented digs. No violence is involved.It's not really shown, only briefly touched upon in one scene with a rat-like neighbor, but they have to be doing a decent trade selling this stuff, to pay the rent and buy food (no supermarket I've ever heard of allows people pay for groceries with Dilaudid or 'ludes).And, although it's referred to once, the film doesn't show the nausea and vomiting, and other side-effects (intestinal problems like severe constipation) that can be associated with IV drug use (Heather Graham's character, a drugs newbie, is told to go take her hit, puke for a while, and enjoy the high). For the majority of the time, we see the characters as clear-eyed and lucid. They appear to be quite healthy.The police know that Bob is involved in the pharmacy thefts, but cannot seem to pin him down (James Remar is very good here as the detective who's got Bob's number).Throughout this film, we watch this group of addicts go about their everyday business. We see them hit the road when the heat is on, with Bob and Diane making meticulous plans to send the drugs ahead so that they have drugs waiting for them in every city (thus eliminating the risk of being caught travelling with a big stash).Despite all of Bob's smarts, he is ultimately undone by a superstition, which seems to set a chain of events in motion. Through these events, the lives of everyone in the household are changed forever.The film may gloss over some of the ugly aspect of the druggie lifestyle, which can make it appear more like an alternative lifestyle, than what most would consider a deviant one (this is why I gave it a 9 instead of a 10). Yet despite that, it is not a film that celebrates the druggie lifestyle. It just portrays it as it is, for the most part. The moral judgment is not made by the film, but is left to the viewer (as is Bob's fate, I believe). "},{"Title":"A near classic from Gus Van Sant","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a true story of the experiences of James Fogle (Which I wasn't aware of at first) Bob (Matt Dillon) is a drug addict, who robs drug stores to get his fix. He brings along his partners in crime, Diane (Kelly Lynch) James Le Gros (Rick) and Heather Graham (Nadine) This is not a pleasant film to witness. It's rough around the edges, grueling to get through, but oh, so worth it! I consider this movie to be a near masterpiece for many reasons. The sheer skill of Gus Van Sant, says it all. He may have been responsible for the crappy Psycho remake, but when the man is motivated, he's hard to beat. The gritty nature of this film is absolutely perfect, and I thought the drug abuse was extremely realistic. I felt the desperation of Bob, as well as the undeniable shame that stemmed from robbing drug stores to maintain his habit. It also helps that despite Bob's selfish mannerisms, he manages to remain a sympathetic figure. He won't be sympathetic to everyone, but he was to me. All the credit goes to Matt Dillon for his sensational performance. Kelly Lynch is pretty good herself. She doesn't have as big a role to tackle, but her chemistry with Dillon was excellent, and was vital to the film's success. James Le Gros is good, whilst Heather Graham is splendid in one of her early roles as the clueless tag-along. Drugstore Cowboy also has touches of dark humor. It has a very funny stakeout scene that cracked me up. The most powerful part of the movie for me is when Bob goes straight for a little while. It's a really eye- opening experience, and reminded me how awful addiction can truly be. The movie ends on an ambiguous note. It makes you interpret the situation. I felt it was very smart and expertly done. Final Thoughts I really don't think my words can do this movie justice. I found myself struggling at times to write a review for this movie. Excellent films often do that for me. Just go see it. It's a near classic film that is a must-see. Matt Dillon has rarely been better9.6/10 "},{"Title":"Authentic Drama","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Directed by Gus Van Sant, who is credited here as Gus Van Sant, Jr. Matt Dillon heads A group of drug users(Future Ally McBeal star James Le Gros) the gorgeous Heather Graham , and Kelly Lynch as Dillons' wife. It's set in 1971 which the production designers have done a great job in recreating the past. The title refers to Dillon by robbing drug stores to finance their habit, Following a series of near misses and run ins with determined Cop James Remar, Dillon's character is very superstitious and eventually his luck runs out and eventually seeks rehabilitation Noted Author of 'Naked Lunch' William Burroughs also stars as a former Priest and addict who befriends Dillon during his solace spent during detox. "},{"Title":"Everybody act cool. Like we just got back from church.","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Gus Van Sant continues to dissect the American myth with Drugstore Cowboy, a film which finds a character called Bob (Matt Dillon) attempting to lift himself out of a lowly lifestyle composed primarily of drugs and theft.But the aim here is not only to paint a portrait of a life hopelessly dependent on (or enslaved to) chemical gratification, but to lay bare the fiction of self-determination, a myth in which many Americans deludedly believe. As Bob mournfully says, all he can do is try his best and see what happens. His life is so far out of his hands that it is practically somebody else's life, a fact which he observes throughout the film.Drugstore Cowboy ends on an ambiguous note. After much toil and many attempts to reform, Bob finds himself being rushed to a hospital in an ambulance. Whether he lives or dies is left up to the audience. His fate, as always, is in somebody else's (ours) hands.8/10 &#x96; Too familiar and conventional to be great, too honest to be dismissed as typical Hollywood fare. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"William S. Buroughs as Tom the Priest is AWESOME!","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" William S. Burroughs (As Tom the Priest) takes this film from an 8.5 to a perfect 10! He's perfect. Timothy Farrel (one of the reviewers) is an idiot; with all due respect. His review would have been actually average if not for his ridiculous comment. Actually, his review is quite good, but for the Tom the Priest comment. But let the audience decide.Overall, this film is a must see and is Matt Dillon's finest work. You will witness the absolute lows and highs of a drug story. Very realistic and absorbing. One of the best films of the late 1980s. It's a wonder this movie dose not get as much airtime as it should, but will undoubtedly be respected for years to come and eventually become a true classic! It's also something of a period piece as it takes place in the Pacific Noth West in 1971. Ironically the drug of topic in this film (pain pills) have become the drug of choice for so many people in the 21st century. It just shows, the more things change ... the more they stay the same. Want to show kids, or anyone, the dangers of pain pills? Show them this movie. It gives the lesson without ever turning into Reafer Madmess. A true gem.aruehs "}{"Title":"Scratch","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One of my Personal Favorites...What does The Food & Drug Administration do when Expired Medicine exists upon The Planet Earth which has been left behind by Intergalactic Visitors to Disney World & Features of The Planet Earth...The Potential Hazard exists beyond The Planet Earth and into The Universe and a Crack Team Of Professional Drug Users is assembled to Strip Pharmacies Of Medicine which has no further use and must be Consumed By Junkies...I love this movie...!I find The Team which is covered in the current aired version to be so Wholesome in their Interpersonal Relations with their respect of each other's beliefs to the point of proper preparation of a Cadaver for a Member's Family Line...The things we do and say with those we use Dope with sometimes are more Human then what happens in the Pews of Churches...The Wine is Real, The Book is Rated, and The Time is Observed with Truth...The character of The Priest is present why...?What is Religion when FDA Agents must Confess...?I love being Jewish...!Jewish Accountants in Love with Each Other on Drugs & Travelling.... "},{"Title":"Afnóbrökur dawquase at the Halden. Then rewind.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gus Van Sant's Drugstore Cowboy was a fascinating viewing experience for Monkey Bastard. I found myself enjoying every second, and found myself annoyed with a million things. And still enjoying it.The cinematography is stunning, it really captures that gray, damp, depressing atmosphere present in so many (if not all) parts of the north-west. The writing and a few of the performances bugged me however. A previous reviewer mentioned something about Van Sant being stuck with Matt Dillon and Kelly Lynch because they couldn't get anyone else. I could not agree more.Dillon was as stiff as ever, thinking that a low, whispered voice will make his performance seem real and gritty. It wont. The following is straight out of The Dillon 10 Steps To Acting Programme (TM) pamphletStep 1 Take a sip of tea. Slurp loudly to show people that you are a wild and loose & goosey method actor. Make sure the audience understand the tea is hot. They saw you boil water ten seconds ago, but they are idiots so they may have forgotten. Remind them.Step 2 Turn around in a slow, stiff manner. Look thoughtful.Step 3 Put down tea on table.Step 4 Turn back around. Stiffly.Step 5 Clear throat. Think realism.Step 6 Frown and look brooding. The character is oh so tortured, remember?Step 7 Wave hands around a bit. Y'know, like Chandler on Friends.Step 8 Stop waving. Don't wanna do too much. Gotta make it seem like it's all just coming to you right then and there, and that you're just mucking it up and improvising. You gotta make it look... uhhm... the word escapes me... I think the word is spontaneous, but I'm not sure because I am a male bimbo. I went to the library to look the word up, but for some reason I couldn't find spontaneous under the F section so I got bored and read one of the magazines instead. It had a funny picture of a chimp smoking a cigar. Oh how I laughed. Chimps rule. Corona Light rules too. Damn now I'm thirsty. Wait, what am I doing in a library? Hey look, there's a picture of a funny chimp in this magazine! Huh-huh-huh-huh! Is this a library?Step 9 Look up. Speak your line. Use a hoarse, husky voice and mumble a little bit. Just like that Brando Calrissian dude in that Streetcat With Designer movie.Step 10 Make sure there is a fifteen second pause between each step. You need these fifteen seconds to remind yourself of your next line, because the Dillon mind is not complicated enough to harbor more than one thought at any time. Give the thought plenty of time to leave to make space for the next one.Tada!The only time I've enjoyed a Matt Dillon performance was in There's Something About Mary, where his awkwardness worked as an advantage. Kelly Lynch didn't fare much better. I never believed Dillon and Lynch were addicts. Their acting just seemed like... well, acting (see the Ten Step Programme). I saw Dillon & Lynch running around playing addicts, much like a little children playing house. Sure they're cute as hell, but do you really believe for one second 4 year old Emma and 5 year old Timmy are mother and son? No. Lynch, much like Dillon, seems to think that uttering a line really slowly with a bored face will make them seem tough, arrogant and addict-like. They wont. It takes a real lack of talent to say the line F**k you, a**hole with no emotion what so ever. And no, it's not because she was playing an addict. It's because she doesn't know who to act.I will have to blame some of this on the writing though. Why exactly does almost every line the name of the person the character is talking to? Sure, Bob. Yeah, Bob. Why, Bob? Where are you going, Dianne? Where are you going, Rick? Screw you, Gentry, Screw you, Bob. Dianne, take your coat off. Dianne, stay for a while. Dianne, you look good. Get in the car, Rick. Put this in the car, Nadine. You know what, Dianne? Tom, it's Bob. How much speed do you have, David? Nadine, do you know what you've done? No, Bob.Who the hell talks like this? Makes you wonder if the writer has ever had one single conversation in his life. A little advice the audience knows the names of the characters already, no need to say it over and over. It's only insulting and annoying. Why didn't the actors mention this to Van Sant? Why did they accept such shoddy lines? Didn't they realize how phony it sounded? If not, it only makes me think even less of their acting abilities. Heather Graham (who admittedly didn't have much to do) and James LeGros were a little better. Not much, but a little. Probably because neither had a lot of lines, they just had to stand there and look stupid. They did that well.But still, I did enjoy it. Why? Because I had a lot of fun watching Matt Dillon's scenes and imagining how much better any actor in the world would have done them.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 80s, damn near an American Classic.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an incredible film. Should be required  viewing in Junior High School Health classes across  the country. Van Sant deglamorizes the drug culture and presents an extraordinarily hallucinogenic  visionary film. This film is a stand out and  put Van Sant on the map. Great performances  by all the leads. The style is lean and the  directing is personal and pointed. This is  what great film making is all about. Cannot  understand why this film is not more widely  hailed for the masterpiece it is. "},{"Title":"Grrrreat!","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all the so-called drug movies Drugstore Cowboy struck me as the most entertaining and realistic. It's one of those movies that sticks with you after its over. The acting is very good, especially Matt Dillon in the lead role. A total gem. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved drugstore cowboy.  Van slant really out did himself here by making the plot funny, yet ridiculous as it is believable.  I mean four friends robbing drugstores is a strange idea, but it is also truly believable at the same account.  Good movie. "},{"Title":"Ouch","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one hit a little too close to home!  Great and realistic Portland backdrops, and a wonderful appearance by william burroughs... Remar is solid (as usual) as a cop, and dillon excels in the title role... TV babies has been part of my vernacular after seeing this film... highly recommended!!! "},{"Title":"Solid cast and a great story.","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Drugstore Cowboy is a very mature look at the complexities of living with addictions. The cast is amazing, especially Heather Graham as young Nadine. The situations are more realistic than many portrayals of drug use. "},{"Title":"methadone pretty(8/10)","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Probably Gus Van Sant's best work. Excellent cast as well. Rent it soon!  "},{"Title":"Drugstore Cowboy","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From director Gus Van Sant (My Own Private Idaho, Good Will Hunting), I am sure that I tried of few minutes of this film and got bored, but having remembered the title for so long I was definitely willing to give it more of a chance. Basically highly suspicious Bob Hughes (Matt Dillon) and his wife Dianne (Kelly Lynch) are drug addicts, and are love doing various pharmaceutical drugs, like dilaudid, morphine and cocaine, and keep their habit going they and another couple often steal from pharmacies. They are aware a police officer is getting too close for comfort for them, so they move their operation to another town, but it isn't long after doing this that one of the crew overdoses and dies. They unintentionally have checked into a hotel where a sheriff's convention is taking place, but they do have to move the body from out of the hotel room to into their car, they narrowly avoid getting caught doing this. Believing his warnings is what caused the incident Bob decides he does need help, but he is too scared to join any methadone or any kind of drug eliminating program. Worse comes when junkies he saw earlier ambush his apartment and try to score drugs, and having decided to go straight he doesn't have anything for them to take, so they beat up and then shoot him, but in the end he lives long enough for an ambulance to take him away. Also starring James Remar as Gentry, James Le Gros as Rick, Heather Graham as Nadine, Beah Richards as Drug Counselor, Grace Zabriskie as Bob's Mother and Max Perlich as David. Dillon does well as the junkie who finds it very difficult to let go of his addiction and then later to even try to kick it, I admit I didn't feel as enraptured in this story like I did with Trainspotting, but the drug taking culture is definitely emphasised, not in a judgemental way, and there is interesting provocative material, so all in all it is a worthwhile drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"drugs are always a bum trip","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is finest depiction of working-class hipster life in the late '60s/easrly '70s ever. If you ever want to know how your parents or grandparents spent their Saturday afternoons and nights, don't bother asking them, they will surely lie - See this movie! I don't think we actually know how drugs became so deeply ingrained in American culture. It wasn't just that having sex on LSD was something of an out-of-body experience, or that all music sounds really cool when you're stoned. That explains the high-points of the experience, but the reality of drug culture was really developed among those who could never really get high enough, but only so stoned 'it' didn't hurt so much anymore. This 'it' remains to be explained.I'm still not sure what 'it' is, but Drugstore Cowboy gives you a good idea of what the common drug experience of the late '60s was (and what it still remains) - not so much fun, no Leary-like enlightened consciousness, just the same old same old of unrelenting pain and numbness.Brilliantly articulated in this film. "}{"Title":"Drug addiction  as a gesture","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One gets addicted to drugs, for sure, but that is only a small part of the business. This film tries to show how the addiction is an attitude, a social behavior, an act of belonging to a group, a community, a social class nearly, but not that far away from it. Here the dependence is threefold. First the girlfriend who is determined to stay addicted because her addiction is moderate enough to be controlled. Then the boyfriend and his own girlfriend and this time there is some status question here and to go on is to belong to a certain level of humanity, a certain level of masculinity. And then there is the wider community of the junkies, dealers and other characters in that farcical, yes farcical, melodrama. Then there are various events that make that addiction stick. The solidarity with the girlfriend with whom he was arrested, busted and jailed. He owes her to go on. Then the boyfriend who is the guarantee that he is normal, a normal male, a real male, a male in one word full stop and period. The cops are chasing them, and bad events happen. The boyfriend's girlfriend dies of an overdose one night in total solitude, while a burglary attempt in the pharmacy of a hospital fails pitifully and pathetically, and they have to get rid of the body and bury her in some woods. That makes you stick to your addiction, to your group. And yet, out of boredom and tiredness, and since one of the group has stepped out and down, he decides to do the same and get out of the hassle it has all become. And then you find out very easily how the wider social group is catching upon him. Two of his old acquaintances, now he is isolated, try to get his stash of drugs, since they are convinced he has one, they refuse to believe he has quited, and then since they are getting nothing and nowhere they decide to shoot him dead, which they fail doing because they know nothing about using fire-arms. And there we are in the ambulance taking him away. Will he tell who attacked him or not? Will he go back to that world and that habit? We cannot know and say right away, right now. But one thing is sure. If he goes back it would not be for the physiological habit, but for the social and maybe emotional habit. Drug addiction is first of all in the mind and in the social behavior of the addict, not in his physiological parameters.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"This movie lacks the qualities of a true vision into the life of a junky","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" !!!SPOILERS!!!I understand that the perspective is slanted towards late 1980's, but lets face it, ripping off pharmacies/hospitals wasn't what this movie made it out to seem. The director used the suspense of a smash/scare/grab/escape scenario to give this it's entertainment value. It should in no way be compared to the truth of drug addiction that are more accurately compared in Basketball Diaries and Gia. Let's face it, this was a Hollywood production of what mainstream movie-goers wanted to see in a drug movie. De-sensitized drug use and exaggerated drama leaves a lot to be desired. If you want the mainstream opinion of drug use (now and in the 1980's), this movie is right up your alley. If you want a glimpse at reality walk down the sidewalk and take a look at the people around you and your surroundings without your rose colored glasses. You'd be surprised at the impact of illicit drugs on our society. All things said and done, it was still entertaining, but I had a lot higher expectations. "},{"Title":"ridiculous","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  *possible spoilers, in case you really want to see this* I guess the fact that this is supposedly only Van Sant's second feature film counts for something, but I thought this was just silly.  Four mostly attractive kids go around robbing drug store pharmacies of drugs like dilaudid, morphine, etc.  I think we were supposed to think this was cool.  I thought Kelly Lynch looked like she could have come out of practically ANY era...Her acting is terrible as well.  She's constantly seen smoking, which is obviously supposed to make her look cool as well.  Now, Matt Dillon constantly drinking coffee while kicking heroin I can understand!  Some really dumb dialogue, like Lynch asking Dillon, after a drug store-robbing young friend of theirs has died of an overdose (Dillon had to store and dispose of her body), why he decided to kick the drug life.  I realize there is a certain mentality of drug addicts where this would not be a stupid question, but coming from such a photogenic cast, I found it absurd.  There's one really funny scene where drug rituals, like cooking them in a spoon, shooting up, etc. are fetishized.  The sound effects made me laugh, maybe they'll do the same for you.  Of course, a shot of a tiny Virgin Mary is interspersed in this montage.  Give me a break.       "},{"Title":"Disappointing movie with half developed characters","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The beginning of Drugstore Cowboy starts out well and the robberies are interesting, but that's all this movie has to offer.  Matt Dillon acts well in the first half of the movie, but his acting deteriorates in the second half.  His turnaround to the good life is not acted with enough emotion.  The script is also poor so Dillon isn't totally to blame. On the plus side, Heather Graham does a fine job in the film and its too bad her part is so small.A truly great film about the drug life is Requiem for A Dream.  That movie chews up and spits out Drugstore Cowboy. Ellen Burstyn should have won the Oscar for Best Actress that year. "},{"Title":"It's Hardly Trainspotting!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Drugstore Cowboy i was led to believe was a hard hitting story about junkies and the lengths they go to get their next fix. Hard hitting is not the way i would describe this film , in fact ,the way they film is portrayed is as if going straight and getting off the drugs is least attractive and rewarding. Apart from the death of the young girl (Heather Graham) the scenes where the group of junkies take the drugs are hardly ground breaking or even interesting. So what is the story trying to tell us? Perhaps it is that drugs can affect anybody of any age and that luck or superstition has nothing to do with card's that we are dealt in life. Matt Dillon's acting is good as usual which is more than can be said for all the actors.John Kelly who played the cop was dire. If you want to see a really good film on addiction watch Trainspotting or leaving Las Vegas and give this one a miss. 5 out of 10.  "}]