[{"Title":"","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This is one of the all time most underrated films. It is a little film , but  rarely do you see so many wonderfully funny characters in a comedy. Along  with Breaking Away, and Harold and Maude it falls in a special category  of films I like to watch when I'm feeling life sucks.  Richard Dreyfus and  Teri Garr give their best performances; and the supporting cast, especially  Robbie Coltrane, is terrific. Don't miss this little gem. "},{"Title":"Best Gambling Movie Ever!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I love, love, love, love this movie! I have probably watched it beginning to end 25 times and never tire of it. Probably the only other comedy I have seen as many times is Blazing Saddles.Dreyfuss, Garr and Johansen and especially Tilly are great. I couldn't think of anyone else playing these parts.This is the type of movie that gets lost on the shelves of your local video store. The actors are solid, but not stars, and the movie is not geared to the moron crowd. But it constantly delivers belly laugh after belly laugh.And to think it's just a little story about a guy at the track that is having a very good day! "},{"Title":"perfect comedy","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  All I can pretty much do is conquer with what everyone else said.  This is an extremely underrated, hardly known, right on the money racetrack pic. Dreyfuss (playing a guy named Trotter) is a gambling obsessed cabbie who's been waiting forever for that one perfect day at the track.  He gets a tip from his buddy Looney (crack up Johanssen) and the two head off to bet on the doctored up horse.  Dreyfuss wins 710 dollars which kicks off an incredible run of luck over the day, but the real core of the film is the truckload of laughs to be found.  Literally every one of the oddball characters has a great scene and contributes largely.  From the other losers at the bar across from the track to the snobs in the Jockey Club, I loved everybody.  A real treat is the rapport between Dreyfuss and Johanssen, who are great as the wiser bettor and the dopey friend.  And I couldnt believe the suspense I felt during the final race, there was a tremendous amount of genuine tension.  Great score, too, capturing both the upbeat and dramatic moments.  Dreyfuss best film. "},{"Title":"Just a very funny movie","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I'm not a horse racing fan, but Let it Ride is one funny movie. Richard Dreyfuss plays Jay Trotter with over the top enthusiasm. I bet he had a lot of fun making this movie. He has three or four scenes with David Johansen,(former lead singer of the New York Dolls) that show that an old pro like Dreyfuss doesn't have to step on the innate comedic talents of the former rock star. Robbie Coltrane(our friend Hagrid from Harry Potter) takes a small role as the betting-window employee and embellishes it with charm and wit to become the conscience of the movie. Jennifer Tilly's role is the kind that only a Tilly could play, the gold digger, with, ironically, a heart of gold. And of course, no one can play a nouveau-rich envelope magnate better than Allen Garfield. My only niggling criticism is with Terry Garr. She's played this role before, and it shows. She doesn't bring much to her long-suffering wife role, but all in all, this movie is a real treat, even if you're not into the horses. "},{"Title":"An absolute charmer!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This movie is on cable a lot. My intention to watch a few minutes invariably turns into my watching until the end. I love this movie.It is a simple and very funny movie with a fine cast portraying an array of eccentric characters. Yet there is often a sweetness in this film reminiscent of a movie like Roxanne.The premise is that at times the universe can align in such a way that you just know in your bones that nothing can stop you from having a really good day. Watching Richard Dreyfuss come to this realization and watching him savoring it while it is happening is appealing.It struck me last night that of all Mr. Dreyfuss's admirable body of work, I like him the best in Let It Ride. "},{"Title":"I got the horse right here","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  A wonderful comedy! Richard Dreyfuss is having a very good day and so do I whenever I see this movie. Such characters! You WILL to root for Trotter if not for his band of misfit hanger-onners. And Jennifer Tilly does what Jennifer Tilly does best. I can't find a single thing wrong with this movie, and it held my attention and completely entertained. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Funny movie..unlikely but loved it...","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Richard Dreyfuss is a funny little actor, I have seen most of his films.. and this one was great. He is hilarious and so is Jennifer Tilly as the millionaire's girlfriend. Would recommend this movie to anyone whose life sucks, especially on a bad day. Good to watch with a crowd too. "},{"Title":"I'm having a VERY GOOD DAY!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Recently watched this again on ESPN Classic's Sunday night movie, and it certainly holds up well. Laughs abound. Dreyfuss was never better in a comedy, and David Johansen turns in another classic supporting turn (see Scrooged for further proof). All the other supporting parts, both at the bar and the track, are terrific as well. The hosts of the ESPN Reel Classic movies joked that they probably had to lower Jennifer Tilly into her dress. They also had interviews with the director (Joe Pytka) before they cut to commercials, and he had one really funny revelation. At first, they couldn't figure out why this bombed big time when it was originally dumped in theaters back in '89, despite decent reviews. After a little research, it was determined that people who frequent horse racing (a/k/a a good chunk of the target audience) almost never go to the movies. They're too broke! "},{"Title":"A loveable story about a loveable loser","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This film just makes you feel good when you watch it. You identify one way or another with Richard Dreyfuss, who plays the down on his luck gambler who wishes for one last lucky streak. The supporting cast is a great collection of colorful characters. Jennifer Tilly and David Johansen especially help keep this movie rolling. At a running time of only 90 minutes it doesn't really lag and it's genuinely funny. Watching this movie makes you wish you had Trotter's luck. Bottom Line A competent comedy that keeps it's charm even after repeated viewings. Worth having in the collection.  "},{"Title":"10","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Best Horse Racing Comedy EVER! This movie is a great representation of how it can sometimes feel to be a a race track. the cast is wonderful, the pictures and story and one of a kind and every horseplayer can relate to this movie. The locations were excellent, the voices (track announcer - Trevor Denman) is a voice I grew up with while going to the races at Santa Anita. I very good DVD to own and watch over and over, since the jokes are hidden, but there. From the opening scene of the bar, to the people who are with you and then not with you, I can totally relate to since it seems like you win alone when no one is looking, but after you win, then everyone will follow you around the race track as of you are going to do it 4 times each and every day from that point on. "}{"Title":"I saw this in Rehab","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I love Richard Dreyfuss the 1st film I saw him in was Jaws I think in 1974 or something, he was 23 or so.In this particular film he plays a fair dink um loser who does not know when to stop, despite risking all he has(which ain't much)and decides to have one of those days out we all dream about.Out at the track nothing seems to be going wrong.Or is that right? You will have to see, although it is funny no matter which way you look at it. If you have ever been to the races you will see plenty of characters you can relate to as well. The bragger, the tipster(s), the trainers, the colorful characters commonly referred to as it sounds better than criminal, the loan sharks and the guy who is always out to bite everyone for a loan.The problem is was that I saw this movie whilst in rehab for a gambling addiction myself. Funny but meant so much more to me Cheers "},{"Title":"You're not going believe this...","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  but this one is a classic. Its one of those movies that everyone you know either never heard of or makes fun of you for even bringing up. Let me tell you though, stranded on the island with only one movie available, I want it to be this uplifting film. It may not be my favorite, but I can easily watch it beginning to end and start it right over. The cast each grasped the characters to perfection, with one a better loser than the next! Looking for a little pick-me up, give Jay Trotter and Let It Ride one chance. Although you may still be embarrassed to mention you love it in front of your friends, I bet you will!  "},{"Title":"Joe Pytka is a genius !","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" To start, I am not one who has spent much time and money visiting race tracks. This movie does not require or rely on the viewer being well informed or plugged into this environment. Perhaps the most entertaining racetrack comedy of all times. Joe Pytka's creative use of non-standard camera angles and perspectives, really let's the viewer peer through the ether and into the gritty side of horse racing. The cast headed by Richard Dreyfuss, bring a quirky, yet charming and sometimes seedy portrayal of the down and out denizens of racetrack regulars. The writing is witty and full of little details that will reveal themselves more and more to repeated viewings. Pytka's direction is never better than the scene in which Richard Dreyfuss and Robbie Coltrane use the same lines repeated in succession, in order to arrive at a delightful conclusion. Sorry, no tip offs here. See the movie for yourself, this one scene alone is worth the cost of a movie rental. Pytka also uses a wonderful soundtrack to set the appropriate mood.Pytka does have a few stock, canned scenes that aren't really necessary, but they do no harm to the overall enjoyment and delight when viewing such a creative and different film. To be fair, these scenes may well be due to the intrusive studio execs that insist on voicing their opinions and imposing their little power plays in an pathetic attempt to feel like they are part of the creative process. It seems a shame that Joe Pytka has yet to direct other films in this vein. There is always room for more well crafted, original, and thoroughly entertaining movies. Especially when considering the crapola that proliferates from todays movie studios. Joe Pytka may be more well known for TV commercials, but his big screen efforts are worthy of greater attention and applause. Lets hope their may be some more films coming from this talented and refreshingly original director "},{"Title":"Best Film Ever on Life at The Track for Gamblers!","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Director Jay Pytka delivers the perfect film about gamblers at the racetrack. Pytka carefully constructs the life of Cab Driver Jay Trotter(Richard Dreyfuss) as the down on his luck gambler who just can't get a break. Pam(Terri Garr) the somewhat understanding and tolerant wife is terrific. Dreyfuss plays it to the hilt and it is Academy Award winning material as he captures the downs, mostly, of life as a gambler, who needs that one break to get his life on track(pun intended).Finally, overhearing a tip on a live long shot, Dreyfuss heads for the track to try and collect a large bet, and prove to himself, that his life has meaning, and then the action begins.Heartwarming, hilarious, touching, as the film captures almost every character who goes to the track, and the sociology associated with them. From all walks of life people go to the track, it is the ultimate melting pot, where you can wager for or against each other.Like war, this game has significant social meaning, that while you can win, taking the other persons money, while being a better handicapper, is more fun and positive, than destroying them on the battlefield.This film is almost perfect, but still gets a 10 out of 10.Dreyfuss has never been better. "},{"Title":" You Could be Walking around Lucky and not even know it ","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Among all the films made by Richard Dreyfuss who plays Jay Trotter in  Let It Ride  this has got to be the happiest. His best friend Looney, played by David Johansen (Supurb role for him) confides that two men in his taxi cab were caught on tape fixing a race. Although Trotter has promised his wife Pam (Teri Garr) he has given up gambling, he is nevertheless found at the racetrack with what he believes is a sure thing. The trouble is, he learns not only will he having a good day, it will be a day he discovers he can't seem to lose. The winnings begin to double as do his bets, he is even lucky enough to be hit upon by a beautiful and shapely young girl name Vickie (Jennifer Tilly). The film is wonderfully packs with tense events and comedic situations, but is definitely enhanced by the odd characters who surround Trotter. For instance There's Tony Cheeseburger played enjoyably by Richard Dimitri and Robbie Coltrane who is the mystified Ticket Seller. With the majority of the population at the racetrack rooting for Trotter, it's little wonder the audience feels compelled to join in. Easily recommended to all audiences. **** "},{"Title":"Little-Known but Much-Loved!","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Great movie!  I'm surprised that it didn't do too well.  My husband and I constantly quote it.God likes me!  He really, really likes me!If you like Richard Dreyfuss, you'll love this movie.  It highlights his comedic talent perfectly! "},{"Title":"Richard Dreyfuss gives one of his best comedic performances.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  A must see movie for comedy loving fans. Richard Dreyfuss gives one of his best comedic performances in my opinion. A lovable loser, with an even more lovable best friend named Looney appropriately. Supporting characters make this an ensemble cast-like movie, with not well known actors. You will recognize quite a few of the supporting actors in this movie. Robbie Coltrain is fantastic as the clerk at the $50.00 window..., and you might notice a certain Sex in the City star if you look closely. Classic lines can be pulled from this movie, unforgettable lines even from the smallest parts. As we hear Trotter talking to himself, calculating what to do next to what his winning could be. From the opening scene in a Chinese restaurant, to the last at the track this movie will keep you laughing. As well as thinking and remembering those days you might have put two dollars on a long shot yourself. You will love this movie the more you watch it, routing for the little guy. "},{"Title":"Dreyfuss at his Best","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" If your like me you can't help but cheer on during any 'underdog' type sporting movie, sit and watch a movie like Rockie and it don't matter how many times you've seen it you'll be on the edge of your seat yelling 'Come on Rocky !!'..Well this is another of those movie's...does not matter if you like horse racing or not, this isn't a movie about horse racing so much as it is about one guy making good...and I can guarantee that if you are someone who cheers on the underdog you'll love this movie. Great supporting cast including a hilarious (but not very well known in the US) Robbie Coltrane and hardly a slow moment throughout. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth your time.","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I used to bet the horses, so I related a bit to this movie. No, I never had a day like Trotter had, but how I wished. ) This movie had lots of support in the comedy that ensues in the movie. Cheeseburger was so good, as was the cashier he returned to after every race he bet. Not a blockbuster, of course, but worth your time to view it. One reviewer said he felt the tension as the last race started and I have to agree. It was rather predictable, but as the horse trainers told Trotter after he returned the audio tape, You never know!Fun fun flick!Enjoy! "},{"Title":"This Is My Favorite Comedy (And I Wish I Were Walking Around That Lucky)","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This is one movie everyone in my family can watch multiple times and still find funny and quote at random and everyone is able to respond with the right line. Every actor is absolutely brilliant, no matter how small the part (standouts in the supporting cast are Jennifer Tilly and Robbie Coltrane, whom you would never believe is English.) Hialeah is beautiful. And true to the advertising, Trotter (Richard Dreyfuss) drinks, smokes, gambles, and thinks about committing adultery, and you WILL love him. Horseplayers like myself will also recognize a lot of the track atmosphere, and appreciate that the movie may be poking fun, but it's affectionate fun. Major bonus you can use the opening scene to start fights at Chinese restaurants. This will feel like an especially good day at the track, down to the authentic voice of Trevor Denman calling the races. "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This movie is to Richard Dreyfus what Slapshot is to Paul Newman. Almost constantly hysterical, the movie captures the oddball characters at the track and at the bar perfectly. (No surprise there - the cast is a virtual who's who of the great character actors of that time!) Dreyfus turns in an over-the-top performance that somehow is not overdone. Catch a pre - Sex and the City Cynthia Nixon as the naive Evangeline and Robbie Coltrane as the grizzled betting window teller. You really should buy or rent the DVD instead of settling for the broadcast version. If you have a free Saturday night this would be a good double feature with Tin Men. "},{"Title":"The Best Horse Racing Comedy Ever - Hands Down","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Like Caddyshack is to golfers, Soapdish is to the daytime television industry, this movie is without question the consummate horse racing comedy. Anyone who has ever spent time at a horse track or dog track will immediately relate to the film and its characters. From the opening sequence, the hook is set. As Trotter goes through his day, almost every conceivable track incident is covered. From offbeat betting strategies to offbeat personalities, you will recognize what compulsive racing handicappers/bettors go through every day at the track. Almost all track regulars believe there is some great conspiracy among owners, trainers, jockeys, stewards and all other track personnel to determine winners. These are all touched upon at some point, including the notion that races can be manipulated. You'll want to see it more than once. "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem!","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Rarely has a film been released that quickly disappears only to be remembered for being such an underrated gem. The only other movie that had this rare commodity was the Bill Murray directed comedy Quick Change, also based on a book by Jay Cronley! Richard Dreyfuss plays Jay Trotter a down-on-his-luck cab driver/gambler who promises to his wife that his betting days are over ... that is until he gets a tip from a conversation between two guys in the back of his cab. Non-stop hilarity ensues and there are so many colourful painted over-the-top characters that each and every one steals their scenes with relish. The scenes at the Miami Race Track are excitingly handled, coupled with some very funny encounters between the working class (Dreyfuss) and the rich, stuck-up types that turn their noses up at Jay (especially when he's on his winning streak!!!). If there is one gripe I have - it is a personal one. I have been a fan of this movie since 1990 and would love to get my hands on a soundtrack album featuring all the songs. Sadly I haven't yet found one. "},{"Title":"Super Excellent","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I feel like most of the people who commented on this movie. I absolutely love it and have watched it many many times. It is a feel good movie that can lift you up when you feel down. There are so many funny scenes and great lines. My favorites are 1) when the cop is holding the money box in the bar and he claims to have peripheral vision...it's a gift and 2) when Trotter is recanting his day after his last big bet and he says You can't put a price tag on a day like that. My boyfriend and I use that line after a really good day and laugh peppering it with comments like paid Looney's tab. Oh my God, it's just the best Jerry, the best!!! "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining -- 8 out of 10","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  What could have been an average at best TV movie is instead a very successful motion picture comedy in large part due to Richard Dreyfuss's performance. Stopping just short of being over-the-top in the very funny comedic scenes, he also creates a three-dimensional character who is warm and touching -- you really are rooting for him.The other thing I really liked about this movie was its willingness to stray from the usual formula good things happen/conflict something bad happens/resolution.  This entire film depicted a happy and lucky protagonist -- a great tonic to cure the blues is this underrated gem. "},{"Title":"A quiet but remarkably funny movie","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Let me say off the top that I've been a fan of thoroughbred racing for over 30 years.I loved this movie!  Dreyfus was perfect as the addicted gambler who really wanted to stop but found what all gamblers dream of  the one day when he couldn't miss.Robbie Coltrane was his usual superb self as the ticket seller, and his interaction with the lead was some of the best comedy you'll see.The bar scenes were remarkably true-to-life.  I could almost feel the smoke and grease settling on my skin as I watched that sorry collection of losers lament their fates, none of them realizing that they created the very fates they lament.The depictions of the Jockey Club members seemed dead-on as well, especially when they all got jealous of the hero's amazing run of luck.To me, the funniest part was where Trotter was asking everyone in the grandstands which horse they were backing, and then betting on the one horse they didn't choose.  Absolutely priceless!I had a few complaints about the movie, though.  The whole film seemed a bit sleepy, as if the early-morning track scenes set the pace for the entire day.  The crowds at the finish line weren't anywhere near as enthusiastic as they should have been at the end of the races (go to any major track any day of the week and see for yourself).  The math used in calculating the winning odds didn't seem to add up (that's a real nit-pick, I know).  Finally, the end of the last race seemed anti-climactic.  Even if Trotter did know he was destined to win, neither he nor Pam looked anywhere near as happy as they should have been over winning a few hundred thousand dollars.Still, this movie is great fun.  Every time I watch it, it feels fresh and comfortable, and there aren't many movies I can say that about.You could be walking around lucky, and not even know it ) "},{"Title":"Terrific Feel-Good Flick","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" The greatest thing about films that Richard Dreyfuss makes is perhaps the casting. Every character fits and fits well. After the film is over, one cannot help but to reflect on the fact that they couldn't think of anyone playing the various roles other than those who were cast for the roles and who appear in the movie.Let It Ride is a film that has a Damon Runyon feel about it even though it does not take place on the streets of New York City.The sets could not be more fitting and well done. The lines are attacked with utmost comedic timing. There is really no standout role, perhaps with the exception of Jennifer Tilly (joke!). The whole film is a team effort.All in all, not only is this film a classic that you'll want to watch again and again, but it is a film for our times. It is the prayer of every person on the planet, Just let me have one good day. No preaching, however, just hilarity and high-jinx without a bit of let-down from start to finish. Jay Trotter has a VERY good day!Enjoy! "},{"Title":"if you gamble you can relate","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" dreyfus senses as a person with a gambling problem he is having that one special day where everything is going right and maybe at the end of it so many wrong turns in his life will be straightened out.but should he 'let it all ride' on one final bet and maybe be able to walk away clean? if one of his long shots loses will he forever be betting more hoping to catch the big one that got away? its a funny movie but underneath the laughs you can feel the pain and loneliness of the characters whose lives are governed by their addiction to horse racing. don't see this film only if you don't like dreyfus,comedies, or gambling flixs. "},{"Title":"Its a great film","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" For me its one of the great undiscovered (or at least unappreciated) great comedy films of the last 20 years - full stop. It's the very fact that nobody else is aware of it that makes it extra special for me. Coming from England where Robbie Coltrane has been a regular on our TV screens since before this film was made I know him and his humour very well and I think it is his relationship with Richard Dreyfuss which really makes the film tick as a comedy. This together with the constant barrage of one liners is simply fantastic. I am not aware of Richard Dreyfuss ever having done a comedy before but after this I cant believe he didn't do more. It really is a cracker and if you haven't yet seen it then get hold of a copy and do so immediately. "},{"Title":"An Hilarious Classic","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Rarely is a film as funny as this one. Dreyfuss is wonderful in things like this, and he tears up the screen. Even better, though is David Johansen as Looney, sort of a one-up Ed Norton character. The plot itself, is kind of The Honeymooners do Guys And Dolls, and director Joe Pytka (who gained fame and wealth directing some famous commercials over 4 decades) makes sure the mixture works far better than it sounds here. This is a silly movie, it's also a very sharp and mature movie, dealing with some otherwise dark topics. This, in part, is what makes it work so well. Jennifer Tilly gives probably the best performance of her career, playing her trademark bimbo (when Dreyfuss comments on her luscious long legs, she says Yeah, they go from my ass to the ground, without missing a breath). Hard as it may be to believe this is on a par with films like Tootsie for delivering the comedic goods. You'll love it. "}{"Title":"Someday you can be walking around lucky and not know it","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Every one of us feels that there's one day, just one day in ones lifetime, when everything would go right no matter what we would do. Even if we go out of our way to make things go wrong for us. It's that day when the stars in the havens are all aligned in our favor and for just that one day God gives us the power to control our own destiny. The problem is that we never know just what that day is and when it does come around we don't realize that it's here and we let it slip away from us.Perennial loser and Miami cab driver Jay Trotter, Richard Dreyfuss, is one of the lucky few who in the movie Let It Ride realizes that his lucky day has dawned and by the time that day is over, after the 10th race at Hialeah, he'll be on cloud nine just by standing on the mountain of money that he won that day at the races.Hilariously funny and at the same time uplifting little movie about a loser who becomes a winner and at the same time realizes that this was his last, and only, very good day at the racetrack and leaves his gambling days behind him going out on the winning side of the track.Miami cabbie Looney, David Johansen, and his friend and fellow taxi driver Trotter listen in on a tape that Looney secretly recorded. The tape is a conversation between two horse owners in his taxi talking about their horse, Charity, in the first race at Hialeah. The gamblers say that Charity being such a sure shot to win that the only way that she could lose is if she's struck by a lighting bolt when the starting gate opens. Trotter who just swore off gambling the night before to his wife Pam, Teri Garr, feels that this is his lucky day the day that he's been prying for all these years and doesn't want to let it pass him by. Trotter put his last $50.00 on Charity, a 100 to 1 morning line long shot, to win and let's it ride on that entire afternoons racing card. In the first race Charity wins in a photo-finish and pays $28.40 to win on a two dollar ticket giving back an overjoyed Trotter $710.00 for his $50.00 win ticket. In the rest of the movie we see Trotter continue to tempt the fate in every race and like some kind of miracle wins every one of them. Putting every dime that he won on each preceding race. When the day is over Trotter not only breaks the track but gets his wife to come back to him. Trotter also gets the respect and admiration of every one at the racetrack who ended up rooting for him more then for any horse that they ever bet on to win. Richard Dreyfuss in one of his best and most underrated roles as that lovable loser turned winner Jay Trotter. Who by the end of the movie when his wife Pam, who just got to the racetrack, hears a loud roar from the crowd asks him astonishingly what's everybody cheering about not realizing that their cheering for him. Teri Gar, Pam Trotter, who's on and off relationship with her husband Jay looked like it was off for good. Until fate intervened and made everything that was wrong in her suffering over the years. As Jay lost every dollar that he ever made gambling, right on that one unbelievable and magical day. With Looney, David Johansen, who couldn't tell a winning horse if it trampled him found out if your with a winner, Trotter, long enough winning will end up rubbing off on you. Let It Ride has a wonderful supporting cast of Jennifer Tilly, Vicki, Alan Garfield, Greenberg, Tony Longo, Simpson. There's also the ticket clerk, Robbie Coltrane, who was behind the window all afternoon selling Trotter all those winning tickets. Coltrane got so caught up with Trotter's lucky day that he had to take an entire drugstore's supply of sedatives to keep his nerves from completely collapsing. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Mix a little spirituality and a little insanity in the form of Jay Trotter, a man who's not afraid of risking everything on a single bet... again and again, even as the stakes grow higher and higher.  All he wants is to move up into a classier circle of people, but all their classiness is just an act, and in the end it's his fellow lowlifes who are rooting for him.  This is my favorite movie, and I can't quite figure out why.  Maybe it's the nutty characters he interacts with all through the movie?  Maybe it's the forced calmness with which he places each bet?  Maybe it's the guy at the betting window (my favorite character, and the actor plays Hagrid in 'Harry Potter')?  This movie isn't perfect, nor does it try to be... but it's just lots of fun!  And I still love the surprise ending. "},{"Title":"Don't Let the Critics Deceive You","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This film is a light-hearted comedic gem that received a rather unfair series of reviews by professionals who seem to be mostly interested only in content if it fits a cookie cutter slate for Oscar Worthy. This is no Academy Award Winning movie, but it is entertaining, well done, and all around a joy to watch.The overall premise about an unlucky fellow turning his luck around while still trying to do right by his wife is touching and delivered in a sincere fashion if not a serious one. While Jay Trotter (Richard Dreyfuss) may seem like a shallow, self-obsessed character it becomes evident through his actions and eventual decision to Let it Ride that he has a level of complexity to him. In the end it is a story about the underdog getting his due.If you haven't seen this film and are on the fence I highly recommend you give it a try. The professional reviews about it are mainly the same dry It won't win an Oscar crud that you expect from professional reviewers watching a movie that was not meant for Oscar Candidacy anyway. Take it for what it is a funny film about a man turning his life around with just a little bit of luck and a lot of perseverance. "},{"Title":"Best horse-racing movie that isn't about the horse","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" What a ride!!! -)This is one of my favorite forgotten comedies from the late-80s. It has a wonderful cast of character actors who perfectly back up the true star of the film, Richard Dreyfuss (Trotter), who pulls out all the stops in his comic repertoire to exhibit quality humor throughout this little film. This movie starts slow then builds up steam and doesn't let up until the exciting climax that mirrors the real-life feeling of betting on a horse race.The story of a down-and-out loser who has just sworn off gambling, boozing, and is returning to his estranged wife on the exact day his life changes with a tip on a horse that literally changes his fortunes for the better. Dreyfuss infuses humor, desperation and good luck into a comic transformation from lovable sap to the luckiest man walking within the matter of nine horse races during the day.The joy I get from watching this is all the interactions with the minor characters throughout the day. The Looney character is the perpetual failure as the best friend who can't catch a break, even though it kicks him square in the teeth. When Trotter wins on the sure-thing bet in the opening then asks Looney, who didn't bet the sure-thing, who he likes in the next race - then promptly scratches that horse off as a failure right in front of the guy... It makes me laugh out loud even though I've watched the movie over a dozen times. The rest of the interactions - from the dive bar across the street, standing trackside during the race, the betting window (with the hilarious Robbie Cochrane), or even at the upper-class Jockey Club - we are treated to a feast of quirky characters that not only keep the action moving, but creates new ways for Trotter to marvel at the luckiest day of his life.This movie was forgotten because it's target audience was the exact people who bypass the movie theater and head straight for the racetrack. What a shame. This movie deserves a place in our comedy landscape for the charm, simplicity, and fun it creates along the way as Dreyfuss breathes life into a loser who realizes, while it's happening, what it feels like to hit a winning streak and enjoy the ride the entire time. This is a comedy classic. There's a reason it's so hard to find on DVD. Not because it was in limited release. It's because the people who own the out-of-print DVDs never want to part with them. This movie is a joy. Let it ride indeed!!! "},{"Title":"Down in front, you big lug....","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Jay Trotter is a cab driver who has a slight problem with gambling.Instead of reconciling his failing marriage as planned, he instead goes to the track, and mystically, it seems as though he can't lose, no matter how much he bets, and has an incredible day, in more ways than one....The surprising thing about this movie is that there isn't any twist to the movie. That's the twist if you would. Any other film would have our hero lose everything, or lose almost everything and win something back. But not here.He just keeps winning and winning, and it sounds like its a boring narrative, but it's what happens between races that make the film so watchable.It's a farce basically. Trotter thinks he his having the best day of his life, but in reality, his world is falling apart around him, and it's this tenseness to the story that makes you think 'once a loser, always a loser'.Ironically you would bet good money on Trotter losing everything come the end, but then gambling is a bit of a mugs game.Dreyfuss is wonderful, full of energy and zest throughout his hectic day,and the support are equally wonderful, and somewhat bizarre.It's a bit of a forgotten movie, but it's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"This movie is one of my guilty pleasures","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" You know it never ceases to amuse me. The character development, or lack there of, isn't deep, but, it is thorough enough that we have an empathy for the characters. This is one of Dreyfuss' better roles and he plays it with aplomb. The other Runyanesque cast of characters we find at the track are colorful and charming, with excellent performances by Robbie Coltrane, Terri Garr, Jennifer Tilly, David Johansen and Joe Roselius, among others. I think what appeals to me about this film is that the good guy 'wins'. As American's it is our nature to 'love' winners and when we find a sympathetic nice guy who is having 'a very good day'. Well, we root for him and wish him well. This is a fun little movie that I strongly recommend if your looking for some light fair to enjoy a few smiles. "},{"Title":"Racetrack visitors will recognize these kind of characters","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I really liked this movie. Sure, it isn't IMDb top 100, but there are more than a few genuinely funny moments. Richard to David What, you like the odds on lightning? But my favorite part is when Richard and Jennifer were cheering on Fleet Dreams. What happens after Richard wins is classic, especially to anyone that has ever made horse bets. Richard God likes me, he really, really likes me. Wow, what a day, what a day, what a fabulous day. Woman patron in the Jockey Club they ought to put a guard on the back door so that sort doesn't get in here. Anyone that has ever dealt with so-called high society will really enjoy this scene. "},{"Title":"Help! Horse Name!","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Can anyone remember, the movie name of the winning horse in the last race of the movie Let It Ride? I have gone blank.I have to answer this for a trivia quiz. By far the best horse racing movie ever made!I watch it every time I have a bad day t the window & need cheering up. Richard Dreyfus is great. I play, I've Got a Horse... a work all the time-drives everyone crazy as the song sticks! I have been to racetracks all over North America and the characters at every track all seem to be the same. Makes every track feel like home! I recommend this movie to everyone. I think Racetracks should give a copy to all new players. Thanks "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This is no doubt the greatest horse racing movie ever made. I doubt there is no true horse racing fan that has not seen this movie at least five times. I have often wondered if Dreyfus is a race nut but I was told by his wife that he has never been to the races. That makes him an even greater actor than I originally thought. I have used many of the lines in this movie many times since I first watched this movie. Some of my lines are, Is this a great country or what? Other lines I use are, You can't put a price tag on a day like this! Another is God loves me, I'm due. And, I didn't know we were having a beauty contest today! And, finally, I just saw my life flash before my eyes! "},{"Title":"A great film to watch","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I have always been a huge Richard Dryfuss fan and have seen him portray so many characters ranging from Jaws to Mr. Holands Opus and he always seems to nail his characters down and add a personal touch. With Seabiscut coming out two years ago, there really haven't been to many films that showed the lighter, funnier side of horse racing like Let it Ride did. It is a great film to watch and I really never get tired of watching it. It has a lot of fun down to earth characters who each leave a unique mark on the film. Comedies today just aren't as witty, original and fun as this one was. It doesn't get the attention or recognition that it deserves but give it a chance and I am sure that you will at least walk away with a smile. "}{"Title":"Fine Lines","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Let it Ride is a great movie, about a guy down on his luck at the race track.  However, on this one day it seem he can't lose no matter what horse he bets on.  A great story about the relationship of people at the track from the losers to the winners, and the man behind the both cashing tickets, and the guys getting the money.  If you are down on your luck then watch this movie and you will know that things will turn around.  "},{"Title":"An unknown classic","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I know next to nothing about gambling, especially at a racetrack, and I love this movie.It's not the plot, which is highly predictable, it's the characters- and the detailed interaction between them that makes this movie so funny. The gamblers in the local dive next to the track waver from extreme hatred towards Dreyfuss to an all-bar toast to friendship.  The security guard who takes his authority position too seriously- he is ready to shoot any criminal.  His line about his peripheral vision is classic.Almost every character in this movie goes through an extreme transition- making this a feel good movie about someone who needs a very lucky day. "},{"Title":"This movie is so funny, you may hurt yourself laughing!","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This is a funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny, funny movie!  Did I mention it was funny, yet? Rent it!!  Now!!  Woooooooooo!! "},{"Title":"Can't miss for horse-race lovers","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  And a decent trip around the entertainment track even for those who aren't that wise to the sport of kings!Richard Dreyfuss is excellent as Jay Trotter, so down on his luck for so long that he can't believe his good fortune today (and ONLY today). He's the highlight of this sometimes wrong-headed, but always right-hearted, comedic tale of a serial loser's redemption.Jennifer Tilly is simply ... well ... smokin'!Terri Garr, Robbie Coltrane and David Johansen do fine work in supporting roles. Watch closely and you'll see a (very) young Cynthia Nixon! (You know, the redhead from Sex and the City.) ... And you get the impeccable race calls and captivating voice of the remarkable Trevor Denman.Those who get horse racing should love this film. A lot of you other folks will, too.Seabiscuit, it ain't. But you could gamble away 90 minutes of your life on far worse comedic fare.  "},{"Title":"I'm Gonna Collect $69,000!","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I always love watching this movie before The Breeders' Cup comes on. And in the 2003 Breeders' Cup, one of the trainers of a winning horse quoted, And I only thought Richard Dreyfuss had a fabulous day!My favorite scene is the Jockey Club where Dreyfuss meets the uppity crowd. His wife threw a fit when she saw the 48 $50 win tickets on the #3 horse, Fleet Dreams to win.Then when the 7th race was over, Vicki pulled Trotter down to the ground, hugging him. Trotter yells in profane victory (toned down on broadcast TV).The snoots @ the jockey club despises him of his behavior.Trotter leaves those snooty nose people saying, I'm gonna collect $69,000!Wish I had that kind of luck over @ Lone Star Race Track (LOL)! "},{"Title":"A must for racing fans","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This movie is clearly a must for any fan of Thoroughbred racing, and should be viewed by any fan of comedy, regardless...Dreyfus is brilliant, and the movie is guaranteed to put a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"What a Joy Ride","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I saw this movie on television many years ago and I loved it! It have since been in the back of my head until today when i got on DVD. It was actually even better than i remebered it! I give it a 10. Richard Dreyfuss gives a great performence portraying a gambler you can't help falling in love with. "},{"Title":"Over-acting that works","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I'm currently working at a video store, and whenever someone asks for a great comedy, I pull out this movie.  EVERYBODY has liked this one.  The over-acting (especially the facial expressions, gestures, and come-on come-on, come-on! dialogue as the horses run the track) works exceedingly well, and has me in stitches.  The opening sequence (where Trotter and his wife discuss what makes a fortune cookie good) is worth the price of admission.  The one-liners are inserted so well and so subtly, you might have to watch this movie more than once, twice, maybe three times.  My personal favorites to look for are- are you done with that? ...I'm on the pill. and a football salesman?Bottom Line  Surprisingly funny sleeper with quotable dialogue and a wonderful cast of supporting actors and actresses. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Underrated Comedy","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Richard Dreyfuss is superb as a down-on-his-luck, would-be recovering gambler who stumbles accross the tip of a lifetime that leads him on a one day wild ride at the race track.  Based on the book Good Vibes, this story translates remarkably well to the big screen.  The writing is very fast paced and surprisingly intelligent, laced with sarcasm and irony.  Anyone who has ever gambled will find something in this movie that will resonate all too clearly.  For horse racing fans, this movie is remarkably sound from a technical standpoint.  Supporting cast all turn in phenomenal performances including Terri Garr as the manic wife, Robbie Coltrane as the Paramutual Teller who witnesses long shot after long shot come in, Jennifer Tilly as a lusty bimbo, and David Johansson (aka Buster Poindexter) as his slovenly best friend along for the ride.  Watch more than once as there is a lot happening that may be missed the first time around. "},{"Title":"A very funny film that gets better over time.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Let It Ride is an absolute hoot of a movie!  The interplay between Richard Dreyfuss and Teri Garr is worth the price of admission.  All the supporting players looked like they were enjoying themselves making this film.  This is a great movie to watch when you are not feeling on top of your game, as Trotters exuberant attitude is highly contagious.  Jennifer Tilly was as hot in this movie as she was during her recurring guest appearances on Hill Street Blues.  The bottom line is  Rent this movie, it is a blast!!! "}{"Title":"Why not, I'm on the pill...","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  There have been some really funny movies (like Operation Petticoat and My Favorite Year) and there have been really funny movies about sports (like Caddyshack),Let it Ride is right there with them.Directed by maniac Joe Pytka (the man who brought you those fast-talking FED EX commercials among others), this fast paced slapstick approach to degenerate gambling will keep you in stiches.Richard Dreyfuss has never been better. Robbie Coltrane is HILARIOUS! Richard Edson and  Allen Garfield are both perfect, as usual.For the boys, probably, worth the rent for the pre-Superbowl party, or other male-bonding experiences.   "},{"Title":"Before Sex in the City actress spotting","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Great movie! Very funny.Anyone notice a before Sex in the City Cynthia Nixon in the bar scenes? She has braces on her teeth and dirty blond long hair, she looks like a little girl. Well, a little girl smoking a cigarette betting her $200 in the big race. Great to see folks who are more prominent now in their early roles. I of course love love love Mr. Dreyfuss in most anything he does, especially his early to mid time roles. I can't think of any movie's that I really hated him in. Same for Teri Garr, she's been in so many great films from Young Frankenstein to Mr. Mom, she's only slowed down lately. This film had so many great actors in it and was directed well, they hit it on the nose with this one. One question...Whatever happened to Mr. Johansen? "},{"Title":"light wacky world of gambling losers","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Jay Trotter (Richard Dreyfuss) is a superstitious habitual gambler. His fellow cab driver Looney (David Johansen) has a secret microphone in the backseat. It records insider information on a horse race. Despite promising his estranged wife Pam (Teri Garr), he places a bet not considering it gambling. It comes up a winner but he can't stop when he gets another tip.It has a light wacky view of degenerate gambling losers. It's not that funny but I like Dreyfuss' hopeless gambler character. His manic craziness gets fun sometimes. It's not big on laughs but there is an odd fun sense of this world. The group of weird characters are interesting. The movie does need actual jokes and actual laughs. "},{"Title":"Its Post Time !!","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" A good friend of mine drug me out to Beulah Park racetrack for my first time back in 1990. Over the years I've become a passionate horseplayer and I've watched as the subject of my passion has withered with the onset of the internet. Horseracing attendance at most small tracks has plummeted, while the handle, or amount bet on the racing at a given track has generally increased. Most people sit at home and watch and play on the internet. But I'm here to tell you- when I first watched Let It Ride, I could quickly associate just about every character in the movie with a character I knew at Beulah. My favorite part of the movie is when Trotter polls friends, strangers, anyone, about who they liked in a given race. He immediately scratched their selection off !! When he was down to one horse left on his list, that was his wager. I can't tell you how many times I've been at the track amongst six or seven friends, and the only horse that won was the one none of us had bet on !! What a great movie about a subculture that only still exists at the big New York, Florida, Kentucky, and California racetracks. Horseplayers are an interesting group, to say the least, and this movie does a great job capturing the typical personas that you'll find at the track. Its Post Time !! "},{"Title":"This is just taking advantage of an extraordinary business opportunity &#x85; Let It Ride","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I sometimes forget how blatant music was used in films of the 1980s. Let It Ride may have been made in 1989, but it did not leave that trend behind quite yet. Not only do the cheesy rock ballads come through at the start, the montage shots behind the credits are graced with one that has the title in the lyrics. That's just how Hollywood rolled in the 80s, and the process recalled those films of John Hughes, a man who used song to make a soundtrack for the decade's worth of angst in America's youth. The difference, though, is that this Richard Dreyfuss vehicle is an R-rated work that revels in its vulgarity, sexuality, and poverty-stricken characters gambling and boozing. I'll admit that going in I had no clue exactly what to expect, figuring it was Dreyfuss's Trotter watching his life go down the toilet. So, to my surprise, the entire story surrounds his day at the track, arriving with a hot tip and riding the wave of good luck until the tension of losing it all becomes too much to handle&#x97;for everyone around him.Literally spanning the course of one day at the horse track, after Trotter's buddy Looney records, amidst the smut that usually occurs, an exchange between two nefarious dealers in the back of his cab talking about a fix the night before, Let It Ride doesn't have too much plot to mess with the laughs at its core. Trotter is down on his luck, thinking he deserves more than the life he's been given, including a set of friends that have all their teeth. Looking to turn things around, he and his wife, played nicely by a comedic Teri Garr, make vows to change the way they treat each other, making plans to reconcile and make love the next afternoon. That event soon gets pushed to the side, though, as he cannot believe the information Looney has brought to him, listening to the tape over and over again until he finally decides to end his ban on gambling and bet the sure thing while Garr waits at home in bed.And here is where the fun really begins. Dreyfuss is the epitome of smug, the guy everyone likes because he is a loser that never stops, but also despise when winning for the simple fact that they aren't the ones holding the lucky tickets. Throwing caution to the wind, Trotter makes his way to the $50 Win booth for a bet on the long-shot, after praying to God for the victory inside his favorite bar's restroom, above the far from pristine toilet bowl. Laughed at by the booth worker, chided by fellow bettor Tony Cheeseburger, and bombarded with pessimism from his best bud Looney about listening to information that was too good to be true, he goes for it anyway, watching his luck turn. One win leads to a chain of events for more; even the dismal moments of owed bookies and false arrests somehow work out for the better. But no matter how much cash he stuffs in his shoes, Garr's wife Pam slowly moves further and further away, opening her eyes to the cretin her husband really is. That distance, though, and Trotter's good fortune, only works together to make him finally realize what it is he has at home, despite the ample cleavage of Jennifer Tilly's Vicki available for the taking.So, the main point of the film becomes whether Dreyfuss can continue to win. You begin to fall into one of two camps, either the one hoping it doesn't stop or the one that can't wait to see the fallout when it all ends. Therefore, the cast of eccentrics weaving in and out of his life start to be the main driving force behind the plot. It is quite the menagerie of losers, rich elite, crooks, and bored track employees. Dreyfuss himself really does put the film on his back and never steps off the gas as he rides the luck for as long as he can. Never afraid to speak his mind, he has the wonderful trait of being able to completely alienate all those that care about him. Feeling that he is better than them all, the cavalier attitude does begin to fail a bit when his friends fall into trouble, realizing that although he wishes they weren't the people he was stuck with, they are the ones he's become attached to. This is especially true with Looney, his dimwitted pal that is so unlucky, his demise is actually the catalyst to Trotter's winning ways. David Johansen's portrayal is fantastic, complete with childlike facial expressions and the innocence of just talking forever, unaware of the consequences or the definition of tact.The rest of the cast is pretty hilarious&#x97;keeping the laughs coming and disguising the fact the film is just replaying the same event four different times with four different races. Richard Dimitri is over-the-top as the gold chain wearing Tony Cheeseburger, switching his allegiances to whomever has the hot hand; John Roselius is funny as the gruff, peripheral-sighted police officer; and Tony Longo does what he does best, standing big and tall as the heavy who cashes in by charging people to stand by the track's rails. As for the most memorable role, that goes to Robbie Coltrane's ticket taker as a stand-in for the audience with perfect comedic timing. He watches the craziness going on around Trotter, at first dismissing him as the loser we assume he is, but eventually warming up to hail him as his hero, the most fearless man he's ever witnessed at the track. We go through the exact same progression, eventually allowing ourselves to root for the underdog and think that if he can have a day of absolute success, maybe we can too. "},{"Title":"Let it ride could have been a better movie","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" let it ride could haven been a better movie if it had been more realistic, I am not saying a serious movie but without many unrealistic sequences that are a little funny but not intelligent that diminish the category of the movie.I liked the characters, but the performances were over the top. I think with a more serious plot this would have been a much better movie, instead of one of many little feel good movie which we can watch on TV.the plot of the movie is about a gambler who promises his wife giving up gambling in order to return home, but a horse race tip is going to change his mind and he will give one more chance to his luck. "},{"Title":"For the skewed sense of humor....","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This is just one of the all-time delights that did not receive the attention and recognition that it deserved.  It has become an oft-quoted film for a friend of mine and myself over the years.  Oddly, we did not know each other when we both fell in love with this film.  All of the characters are amazingly portrayed and the timing is perfect.  As with the other comments here, I echo the fact that this film is an absolute joy and humorous pleasure to watch over and over again.  It's simply a step-off, a bit lop-sided, just a tad off-center, and all around, great.Watch this.  Watch this often.  Take it in.  Let the magic grab hold of you and you can bet that this will be a winner. "},{"Title":"guilty pleasure","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This is a silly movie but I love seeing it.  Richard Dreyfuss is perfect as the seedy, degenerate gambler, Jack Trotter who is blessed (or cursed)with one day where nothing can go wrong.  The supporting characters are great and especially memorable is the sensational Jennifer Tilly as Vicki the football salesman (fans of the movie will know what I mean!).  Robbie Coltrane almost steals the show as the ticket seller. My favorite spoiler moments---Trotter kneeling next to a filthy toilet in a dingy bar, praying that God would give him a break---just how low can anyone get?. . .  A hand-cuffed Trotter crawling across the floor with his shoe in his teeth trying to get to the betting window before the race starts. . .  Dreyfuss is such a good actor that he can get a laugh out of a single one-word line  RUM!  (fans again will know what I mean!).  "},{"Title":"a great day at the track!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This movie hits the nail right on the head! I grew up near a race track and went quite often. I still go occasionally but now it's to people watch. The cast is just great and Richard Dreyfuss as always is at the top of his game. If you go to a racetrack on any given day you will see one or all these characters there, enjoy, it's a delight   "},{"Title":"A Lucky Day","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I am so glad that everyone seemed to think as much of Let It Ride as I did. My entire family laughed out loud throughout the picture.Richard Dreyfuss' character KNOWS that this is going to be his lucky day. Teri Garr, who portrays his wife, has heard that story before, and is not happy about hearing it again.Most of the action occurs at the racetrack, where Dreyfuss runs into old friends--and makes some new ones. Some of his real-life relatives are extras in the film, and if you look hard enough in the bar scenes, you'll see a star from Sex In The City. The Bride of Chuckie brings in a ton of laughs.Dreyfuss, as always, was great, and we'd all like to have a day like the one he had in this movie. Teri played an excellent, realistic wife, and came through in the end.See this one, it's a winner! "}{"Title":"Best movie of all time (if you love horseracing and gambling)!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Fantastic movie... Dreyfus is a gem.Some of the best betting lines I've seen are in this racing/gaming masterpiece.I recommend this movie to everyone and if you like to gamble or like horseracing you must buy the video.Ever dreamed of having that one day, just having that one day, then this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Looking for an overlooked treasure? You found it!","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Not a funnier movie about a day in the life of a degenerate gambler around. Not many funnier movies around period. Wonderful performances and memorable characters. A movie that makes you feel that everybody should have just one very good day when everything goes their way. Watch this and your day will be just a little bit better. "},{"Title":"A most amazing day at the races","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  If you are a fan of thoroughbred racing, you will probably love this film. The opening number from Guys and Dolls alone is a real treat.  Richard Dreyfuss turns in a sterling performance as a down-at-the-heels racing enthusiast with a slight gambling problem and a few errors in judgment. It's a winning ticket. "},{"Title":"A total sleeper, a true surprise!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  One of the best movies built around horse racing.  Funny screenplay, with well paced direction. And Meg Tilly in that red dress! Robbie Coltrane is perfect. Richard Dreyfus is so good at expressing glee in this movie.The loser has a good day!  I stumbled upon this on cable and was so glad I stayed with it. It made me wonder what happened to this flick when it was in the theatre? It truly tanked! It could easily become one of your favorites JerryG "},{"Title":"You might be walkin' around lucky...","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" ...and not even know it.  If you don't get a bet down, you'll  never find out.  This is the lesson of the movie.  Trotter is on fire, he can't lose, and everyone around him is oblivious to his  attempts to share his lucky streak with his lovable loser  friends.This movie is so good, so uplifting to the spirit, so funny, so lyrical that it's a mystery to me that it wasn't a runaway commercial success.  The feel of the track at Hialeah was extraordinary  the music  perfectly matched, the flamingos in flight, the close shot camera work of the horses in the final race...it all works, and it's richly satisfying.Late in the film, when Richard Dreyfuss turns to face the camera and asks Am I havin' a good day, or what? you'll feel like This Could Happen To You.  Yeah, sure.  "},{"Title":"Great movie to see before a day at the races..","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I loved this movie and rated it 9/10.I discovered it about four years ago and must have watched it about 20 times before, and I still make a point to watch it once a year...Before the Melbourne Cup.I guess I liked it because I'm a diehard gambler and it is one movie where the average Joe in the street gets to win. A real feel good movie that leaves you smiling and wanting more. Richard Dreyfuss is perfect as the average Joe Joe in the street and is well backed up with a cast of genuinely funny people... My favourite of whom was 'Cheeseburger', Robbie Coltrane is good value as well. "},{"Title":"Absolutely the best racetrack movie ever made.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I have been a regular at the track for 30 years and I recognized every one of the characters in the film. The portrayal of the wealthy loser with the young bimbo was extremely rich. I especially enjoyed the attempt to read the trainer's instructions to get an inside tip. Go fast and win "},{"Title":"Where did this one go?","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Funny, well written, well performed and no preachy moralising. No wonder this one bombed at the box office. Obviously written by somebody who loves gambling for people who love gambling this is a very pleasent way to spend 90 minutes. Good to see a film brave enough to treat a subject like gambling without becoming a sermon. Check it out if you get the chance.  "},{"Title":"Laugh! Laugh! Laugh!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Did I say you'll laugh?  This a very underrated gem.  Whoever wrote this story sure knew their way around a race track.  Dreyfuss, Coltrane, Garr & Tilly (How in the hell did she ever keep that dress on?) were all terrific. David Johansen (aka David Poindexter - remember the recording Hot, Hot, Hot?) showed his true comidic talents.  Don't miss this movie. "},{"Title":"If you gamble, you will love this movie...","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I own this movie and watch anytime I'm just sitting around the house. I don't know many people that have seen it, but whoever I recommend it to ,has always said they enjoyed it, maybe not as much as I have but everyone is a critic...   "}{"Title":"An Outrageously Funny Movie","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Let it Ride is the kind of movie, where you laugh from beginning to end. The great Richard Dreyfuss puts on a great show as Jay Trotter, the gambler who just can't stop. The way he acts in this movie has to be seen to be believed. His actions and movements are just so funny and after seeing this movie at least 15 times, it still makes me laugh just as hard. While many critics panned this movie, I believe that the majority of people would have had a great time watching this film. Even though Richard Dreyfuss steals the show, Terri Garr, Robbie Coltrane and the rest of the cast put in great performances. I highly recommend this movie to anyone looking for a great laugh. In my view it is one of the best comedies ever made.  "},{"Title":"Lots to like a funny fantasy without danger.","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This is like the US equivalent of one of those Olde English Ealing comedies; lots of great supporting cast, some LOL setpieces that are beautifully integrated, gentle social comment and a plot that everybody can identify with. The racetrack setting is reminiscent of the genre, too. Teri Garr is especially good as the long suffering gambler's wife, and Robbie Coltrane enjoys himself as the window clerk, (funny, but his stock American accent slips a lot!). I wouldn't call it a classic for the reason that the plot makes it all too easy for Trotter. While you do share the excitement as the horses race, you never really get the feeling that Trotter's fate is in jeopardy, or that there is much sense of crisis - Teri Garr threatens divorce but immediately takes it back, the villains are nothing but cream puffs, everybody thinks Trotter's a hero. They even make it clear before the last race I'm covered - you can't put a price on a day like that, so the ultimate outcome is slightly irrelevant. It's also too easy for him to break his promise to stop gambling at the beginning; he doesn't feel guilty, he doesn't worry about it, his confidence is never shaken. It's not clear whether his 'good' day is a reward for being honest, his luck just 'happens'. This takes the film into the realm of fantasy wish-fulfilment, as though it was a sort of chick flick for guys. Nothing wrong with that, because the good humour is sincere enough. It doesn't become trite, anyway. I'd say it was fine for little kids apart from the f-bombs and the dubious message that gamblers win in the end, but it looks like they had fun making it. "},{"Title":"A forgotten gem","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  ***Warning - Spoilers***Nobody else I know has ever seen this film, which I first came across whilst channel hopping - it was the opening 'Can do' song that made me stop and pay attention. I'm glad I did, as it instantly became one of my all time favourites.Let It Ride reminds me of a 1970's British sitcom, like Steptoe and Son or Rising Damp. I think this is why I liked it so much, and also why it disappeared without a trace when it was released. There's a grimy, seedy feel to this film at times which lends to the pathos. The 70's sitcoms I referred to often had plots dealing with people trying to find their way out of miserable situations, and usually failing. In Let It Ride, Trotter kneels over a toilet bowl praying for God to give him a break, that he doesn't belong with these other bums. If you're familiar with the work of Galton & Simpson (writers of Steptoe, The Likely Lads, Hancock's Half Hour) you'll see the comparison.The difference, though, is that Trotter finds his way out of the quagmire. If this were by Galton & Simpson, he would have fallen at the last fence, ready to do it all again next week.It's this somewhat murky aspect to the film that made it less palatable to American audiences, I think. That really is a shame, because Let It Ride contains so many delightfully funny moments, so many nail-on-the-head observations, that it really deserves to be more widely seen. The performances by Richard Dreyfuss, Teri Garr , David Johansen , Robbie Coltrane (Hagrid in Harry Potter) and Jennifer Tilly are all superb. The direction is tight and snappy, and the script is hilarious. What more could you want from a film comedy? "},{"Title":"Not very memorable, but it was rather fun","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  It's been a few years since I saw this film, but even though I remember very little about it, I do remember one important thing...I liked it.  I recall that Richard Dreyfuss does a terrific job of carrying this movie, which is no small task considering how thin the plot is.  I also remember that this movie has a good supporting cast, but make no mistake about it, this is a vehicle to showcase Dreyfuss' considerable talent.  The rest of this movie escapes me, so I guess I have to call it a forgettable film, but to be fair, it was fun while it lasted. "},{"Title":"Ummmmmm.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Richard Dreyfuss stars as a low-life who just cannot say no to much of anything in this lean comedy. He definitely has a taste for gambling at the horse track as he spends much of this free-time there with his scummy friends. That is about it. This is a sorry film that only has a couple of filming locations and it tries to capitalize on Dreyfuss' name. It fails miserably in all it wants to do. 2 stars out of 5. "}]