[{"Title":"You Must Be Crazy If You Don't Like This One Too","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This sequel is definitely not as insightful about the nature of man as the original, but there're still more than enough slapsticks, romance and family drama to make up for it.The two children are particularly adorable, their strength comes from their innocence, without the precocity that has become the hallmark of Hollywood. Their storyline is thus the most heart-warming of all.The two soldiers from opposing forces provide much of the slapstick of movie, and they are very good, with exceptionally funny facial expressions.And let¡¯s not count Lena Farugia and Hans Strydom out, who play a doctor of law from New York and a zoologist on assignment ¨C their opposite-attract romance is rather stereotypical but Lena in particular is such a charming delight that I forget how much Strydom looks like Tom Selleck, instead, wonder why Lena had not since made another movie - yes, really sad ( - she could¡¯ve been a big star.So in the end, one very funny little film, worth every penny and more to rent or buy. Keep some band-aids with you while watching, as you may get some stitches in your side.  "},{"Title":"A worthwhile sequel that's a microcosm of South Africa","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Series note While it's not imperative to watch The Gods Must be Crazy (1980) first, it's recommendable. If you watch II before seeing I, it might act as a slight spoiler to I for you.Set an unspecified amount of time after the first film, Part II has Xixo (N!xau) living back with his tribe of bushmen in the Kalahari. His children ask to go with him on a murula-collecting trip. He's reluctant to take his small son, because he says that if his small son is not as tall as his bow, it's too dangerous. His small son talks him into it anyway. But not too long into the trip, Xixo and another bushman find signs of an injured elephant. He sends his kids back home, but a large truck driven by poachers sidetracks them. Xixo's kids end up in the back of the truck, unable to jump off once it starts rolling.Meanwhile, Ann Taylor (Lena Faugia), a lawyer from New York, has traveled to Africa for a convention where she is supposed to deliver a lecture. Her group is staying at a safari lodge. While there, a ranger hits on her and talks her into going for a short safari flight in a two-seater airplane/glider. While away, they run into Stephen Marshall (Hans Strydom), who ends up hooking up with Ann instead. In another thread, there are a number of military vehicles riding along the edge of the Kalahari. We eventually meet two men on opposing sides of the intermittent skirmishes that have been occurring in the area.Like the first Gods Must be Crazy, Part II's plot sounds over-complicated on paper. But also like the first film, writer/director Jamie Uys shows himself to be a master of handling a number of concurrent threads that gradually merge. The film is never confusing or incoherent as it would be in less capable hands.The bad news, however, is that part of the reason for the above is that Uys used the first film as something of a template for this one. The threads--bushmen, military guys, and experienced ranger/Dr. guy with an attractive fish-out-of-water woman with whom there is a budding romance, are direct parallels to the first film, as are the way they develop and merge, as well as some specific comic scenarios. The bushman is searching for something that brings him into contact with the others. There is a wreck of sorts that leaves the fish-out-of-water woman and the ranger stranded in the bush. The woman gets her dress caught on something so that she shows some skin and it emphasizes the building romantic/erotic tensions, the military guys and poachers are bumblers who can't shoot straight, and so on. It's not that any of this material is bad (most of it is quite good, actually) or that I subtract points for formula. It's more that the film is bound to remind you of Part I's similar scenes, and Part I is a work of sublime genius.However, there is a major thematic/subtextual difference from Part I. The first film was a parable-like satire of culture/society/civilization that suggested that maybe we'd made some missteps and should reconsider where we'd ended up culturally. Although there are hints of the same ideas here, Part II's most prominent themes/subtexts are much less ambitious, and maybe less universal, but no less enjoyable.Uys sets Part II almost exclusively in the bush. There are neither the cities nor villages of Part I. Instead, Uys seems to present something of a microcosm of South African culture circa 1989 against a functionally abstract backdrop.Ann (and the other characters in her group, whom we only see very briefly) represents both suave urbanites and the plethora of tourists who head to the area for eco-tourism. Xixo and his fellow bushmen represent the various native groups who have tried to go about business as usual as much as possible while having to adapt to the ways of non-indigenous (per more current anthropological history, at least) peoples who have come to occupy and often control the natives' land. Stephen represents the non-indigenous who have tried to also adapt themselves to their adopted country and its environment, to live in harmony with both the natives and the land. The two poachers represent all of the opportunists who have tried to exploit the area and its resources--not intending to do it harm, exactly, but not caring if they do, either, as long as it doesn't affect their profit/comfort margin. And the military guys represent regimentation, political control, and the constant armed conflicts in the area, whether official or not, engaged in by natives and the non-indigenous alike, who have all chosen a non-native lifestyle dictated by ideas of possession, laws/rules, control, force, and so on. While these are not the only groups in the region, they represent the primary conflicting interests that underlie much of the tension the area has experienced in the past (and continues to experience even now, if in a less formal and violent way).While Uys doesn't employ the unusual editing of Part I (with its extreme time/action manipulations during the course of scenes and single shots) to the same extent (there is a bit of it here, but it is very subtle), and he doesn't amp up the spoof nature of the film as much (the bushmen speech isn't so comically exaggerated via overdubs, for example), he present even more beautiful cinematography, with a lot of fantastic desert shots, plus more suspense utilizing native fauna. I think I prefer the score in this film, also.Part II is funny, but the tone isn't quite as madcap, and there isn't quite as much slapstick (although there still is plenty to be had) as Part I. However, this is still a more than worthwhile sequel to a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The other innocent joy","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This sequel has the same innocence and joy of the first one, just not as much. It's nice, but gets a little self-conscious. Part of the joy and purity of the first one is that it hadn't looked in the mirror too much. This one - well, it's still good, it'll lighten your heart to watch it, but you'll check your watch once or twice. The first movie moved on the premise one Coke bottle in the garden of Eden could corrupt it. (They did a totally believable job of it, too, you ought to check out the first picture.) Civilization is a little heavier handed this time. This picture has some of that contrived feel that most sequels have. But it's still a pleasure. How often do you see real joy in a picture, family love, innocence - and lots of laughs? A slapstick cops and robbers type of plot. The kids loved it.  "},{"Title":"Delightful sequel","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Too many story lines to make this as good as the first one, but it's still a delight. The kids are charming, and the female lead is a wonderful physical comedienne. A pity Jamie Uys didn't make more movies. "},{"Title":"Outstanding movie -- funniest kids on earth!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is a lot of story in this movie, but the thread that follows the two little black kids who get separated from their father is hilarious. Imagine this--a 3 year old and a 4 year old, speaking Xhosa(?) through the whole movie to each other--and yet YOU the viewer know every word they say! No voice-over! No sub-titles, just exceedingly clever script-writing combined with brilliant direction of these two kids.I wish I could afford to buy the two Gods... movies, but until then I keep an eye on TV listings and never miss an opportunity to watch them again and again. "},{"Title":"Oh kids!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though not as funny as the original- the refreshing beauty of the children and the determination of the father to find them make this an enjoyable movie. Plus it was nice to see all the wildlife- including the badger from hell.  This time there was more chemistry between the leads- believably romantic-- and the nature- how to survive in a waterless place was accurate.   "},{"Title":"Very, very funny sequel","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Gods Must Be Crazy II (1989) C-97 min. D Jamie Uys. N!xau, Lena Farugia, Hans Strydom, Eiros, Nadies, Erick Bowen. Sequel to the hit box-office smash is just as funny, concerning the bushman's quest to find his children, who have been `kidnapped' by a pair of poachers. Meanwhile, two inept soldiers are out to make each other suffer through slapstick catastrophes and a duo of scientists find themselves lost in the desert. Farugia is hilarious as the anti-nature scientist, while Bowen is funny as well (as a Cuban soldier who loses his sense of direction every few minutes). RATING 8 out of 10. Rated PG for partial nudity, slapstick violence, and strong language.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing for Lena","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While Gods...II is not quite as hilarious as the first, it is still well worth seeing, especially for the performance of the lovely Lena Farugia. Two questions will come to mind. Why haven't we seen her before? and Why haven't we seen her since? Lena Farugia is an American born, New York trained actress living and working in South Africa, with experience as a writer and producer in television. I don't know if she did her own stunts in the movie, but if not, that was one beautiful stunt double! "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel to a classic","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While the original film would have been very  difficult to top, The Gods Must Be Crazy II is  certainly a strong movie. The innocence and  silliness that was captured so amazingly in  the first film was faithfully reconstructed in  this film. Xixo was much more commanding  in this film, and the two kids who played his  children were also quite good. Unfortunately,  the film makers had to beat the idea into the  ground, and made an terrible third sequel.  Alas, sometimes a great idea shouldn't  always be built upon. "},{"Title":"Lackluster, yet fun sequel","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sequels rarely come close to the original, and this is no exception. With the exception of N!xau, most of the cast has changed. It's an attempt to recapture the magic of the first movie, but it falls short. Yet, I still love it, and feel it's still a good movie, since there is a weaving of multiple stories. It's a nice film for fans of the original. "}{"Title":"Amazing stupid funny movie","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" what An amazing sequel!! this sequel is equally better like the first one.yet stupid but very funny things..the gods must be really crazy p ;) the way he makes people,animals deal & wander around. i enjoyed every minutes of this movie..did not thought it would be as beautiful as the first one but it caught me of the guard.and i'm really happy.had a wonderful evening time while watching. ) Xixo doesn't know ways of the people outside his tribe but this is what makes his heart pure,selfless,help other people i really love the helicopter thing & when the girl jumps on Dr. Stephen Marshall when she sees an animal.this bit of the movie excites me most.i mean the whole plot of the helicopter..not when her dress comes off & shows her panties.a movie to enjoy all the time when you're in the mood. "},{"Title":"More laughs in the desert!","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In this South African sequel to The Gods Must Be Crazy, African bushman named Xixo (N!xau) is on a long and winding journey in the hot desert, trying to find his lost children who were accidentally stowed away on a poachers' truck. Along the way, he encounters a couple of dueling soldiers trying to capture each other and two doctors, Stephen Marshall (Hans Strydom) and Ann Taylor (Lena Farugia), who are having troubles of their own.Like the first film, the three leading actors gave off a lot of physical comedy, from Xi's surprised and confused expressions as he spots the foreigners, to the awkward chemistry between Marshall and Taylor. While not much to a story compared to the first film, with just a lot of running around, bumping into wild animals and getting lost in the desert, there are still a bunch of innocent, slapstick and laugh out-loud comedy that will sure captivate an audience. I especially enjoyed Lena Farugia's performance as Ann Taylor and it's fun watching each character's misadventures in the big, hot desert.Jamie Uys did a pretty good job directing this movie, carefully assimilating the primitive villagers with the modern people. It's more non-stop fun, laughter and entertainment.Grade B "},{"Title":"original comedy filmed in a unique area","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the funniest family films i have ever seen.  i was young when i saw it, but i still love it.  my whole family loves it and after renting it 4 times we finally bought it.  there is very little colorful language and although its not as original as the first one, it is just as funny (if not more so).  you've gotta check it out.  maybe its a little on the cheesy side, but it's so original...and teaches you a lesson  are we really so much advanced than these people?  ignorance is bliss... "},{"Title":"MY REVIEW Time to Get Crazy Again!!","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Gods Must Be Crazy II. Movie takes you again into the wild yet simple world of Xixo played efficiently by N!xau and how simple mistakes turn into the hilarious situations. The whole writing is filled with funny ideas and conversations which are simple and touching and director handles the things with an easy hand making you laugh and care at the same time and how he gets the best work from animals in the jungle. Lena Farugia playing beautiful Dr. Ann Taylor is always into the center of the problems and does an astounding job. There are many funny moments like scenes involving the tiny twin engine plane, Ann fighting with monkeys over a glass of water and my favorite Hans Strydom's love hate relationship with a wild creature who is stuck to his boot. I am going with good 7 out of 10 for The Gods Must Be Crazy II. I bet you have not seen such a funny and touching comedy over the wild world of Africa. "},{"Title":"A Delightful little movie","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" CONTAIN SPOILER Again this is a movie that I watched when I was a kid, I remember all the laughs my siblings and I had all along the movie. And now as a parent I am rediscovering it with my own kids and hope they will like it as much as i did and yes! they absolutely loved it. Mostly the second half. The movie takes place in the Kalahari desert. It's a sequel to The gods must be crazy I, just bit less funny but still very enjoyable. It's about the adventures of a little bushman and his kids, as well as other characters. We watched it yesterday. What a joy to hear my kids laugh at the many tribulations of the characters in the movie. There are different story lines intertwined resulting in a charming, funny, little movie. I'm actually surprised that this movie is no more famous. SPOILER Our favourite moment is when they all tried to escape the hunter so so funny! Totally recommend it to EVERYONE. "},{"Title":"Hilarity Continues","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gods Must Be Crazy was a unique and wonderful film that became a surprise hit, spawning this sequel nine years later. This one is just as enjoyable as the first and is actually constructed a little better. The violence in the first film was a bit jarring, whereas this sequel is more gentle. Like the first, there are three intertwined stories - the bushman searches for his lost children, a white couple experiences a hilarious adventure, and a pair of soldiers on opposite sides of a cause try to take each other prisoner. Uys, who also directed the hilarious documentary Animals are Beautiful People, elicits fine performances from a number of very cute animals here. "},{"Title":"You Must Be Crazy Not to Like This Sequel !","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Xixo is back again. This time, his children accidentally stow away on a fast-moving poachers' truck, unable to get off, and Xixo sets out to rescue them. Along the way, he encounters a couple of soldiers trying to capture each other and a pilot and passenger of a small plane, who are each having a few problems of their own.It's a kind of story intertwined in the middle, with Xixo wandering the desert in search of his lost children, & about a law doctor and a zoologist from New York who went to Africa & suffered a plane crash, about two game rangers, & about two poachers involved in the business of trading ivories .While not as entertaining as original ( it's very seldom that sequel can match the original ), it is such a nice movie to watch after all . With clean good jokes ( except if you don't like watching almost naked children in tight 'bikinis' ), it is good fun for the whole family .The children actors did an exceptional job in portraying an innocence touch to the movie . & the main lead ( the doctor & the zoologist ) is funny indeed, with lots of funny moments they went through. I laughed my heart out when a skunk bit the doctor's leg because he accidentally stepped on it. Hehehe ..& who can forget the two game wardens! They scurried for their lives when they were threatened to be shot by the poachers. Suffice to say that it is hilarious ! All in all, it's a well made, wonderful sequel that is as entertaining as the original. "},{"Title":"2 Crazy","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film would be okay if you hadn't seen and enjoyed the original The Gods Must be Crazy. Now I see why there wasn't a III brought out!This film takes most of the original ingredients, and stirs in extra of crazy stunts, silliness, drama, wildlife, and heartwarming bushmen (children) shots. But the whole thing lacks the cohesive storyline of the original, and comes out half-baked and mostly quite impossible to believe in or identify with.Having said that I would definitely recommend watching it for the good bits - although you may get bored in between, or just fed up with 2 stupid comedy. There are some amazing shots of wildlife, crazy stunts with a microlight plane and storms, and the bush-children really steal the show - but don't expect anything like the original. "},{"Title":"Best movie I've ever seen, a favorite of all times.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Contains excellent comedy, romance, adventure and drama.  The children are beautiful and the story is a wonderful adventure for the whole family.  Lots of great laughs!  "},{"Title":"Slapstick & Innocence","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very fine followup to The Gods Must Be Crazy.  The scenes of the lost children trying to find their way back are really the best part of the film, and their reunion with each other and their father will tug your heartstrings - in a good way.  The rest of the hijinks are silly and funny - when the opposing soldiers are forced at gunpoint to hold hands, for example, it's a treat.  Animals, inanimate objects, and people all play parts in the comedy, just as in life. Altogether very entertaining and one of my favorite comedies of all time.  "}{"Title":"Has sort of the same problems as the first movie but it's also just as fun and good!","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a worthy sequel to the successful movie The Gods Must Be Crazy from 1980. Perhaps in its build up and in terms of professionalism this is even a better movie than the first one.The story flows better from start till finish, though the movie still decides on putting in a bit too many characters and plot-lines. At times you feel that the movie could had done without a couple of plot-lines and characters. The movie at times has difficulties putting its focus on its many different characters equally, especially toward the end, in which N!xau basically gets underused too much.Still the movie is a real fun time. It's a real simple and silly movie, that you simply need to enjoy for what it is. Its slapstick humor works well again and provides the movie with plenty of laughs in it.The animal wild life of Africa also plays a big role again, even more so than in the first movie. It's real nice to see what they had achieved with the animals in this movie, that at times certainly give away better performances than some of the actors within the movie.It's surprising how good and fun this sequel actually is!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Silly but necessary sequel!","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ever since the Gods must be crazy premiered ten years earlier, there was a need for a sequel because the film generated a buzz not seen in years. With a native bushman in a starring role in the original, he returns. This time, his two sons go missing or on an adventurous journey through Africa. The cast also includes a female doctor, a white lady, who gets into the same mischief as in the first film. The cast and crew are alright. The story is not much different as African tribal people get introduced to modern society. In the original, the bushman thought it was an animal and not a car. The story is still heartwarming and entertaining as well. "},{"Title":"The way movies should be!","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The plot and story line are innocent.  A non-violent adventureThe movie is entertaining and humorous with refreshing morality. More movies like this are needed for the world today! "},{"Title":"silly broad slapstick and still a bit of charm","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Xixo is one of the Bushmen of the Kalahari. His children Xiri and Xisa come along on a hunt. The kids are on their way home when they follow tire tracks. He get on the truck of the ivory hunters and get stuck as it takes off. Xixo chases after them. Meanwhile Dr. Ann Taylor from NYC is in Africa for a conference. She accepts a flight from zoologist Dr. Stephen Marshall on his ultralight plane. They crash in the Kalahari. Marshall is hounded by a skunk. A Cuban soldier and an African soldier are fighting each other.One of the main problem is that the movie is scattered with five main characters and four others that have big roles. The attention is scattered through all of these characters off in different places doing their own things. The story is all over the place. The slapstick is really broad and silly. The only truly compelling section is Xiri being chased by a hyena. It's something I've never seen before and something really memorable. I don't hate this but it's really dumb at times. Also I don't know how fast a bushman runs but it's unreal that he chased down the truck. The two doctors are not good enough to be funny and the two soldiers are horribly cartoonish. It makes the movie have clashing tones. "},{"Title":"Another fun-filled romp","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE GODS MUST BE CRAZY II is the belated follow-up to the surprise African hit charting the misadventures of the Namibian bushman N!xau and his unlikely buddies in a comic-fuelled caper. This sequel sees N!xau return with the same director (but without the rest of the cast) to embark on some new, but very familiar, adventures.The plot begins afresh when a couple of N!xau's kids accidentally stow away on a truck driven by elephant poachers and packed with ivory from their latest expedition. N!xau sets out on an epic quest to rescue them and along the way gets tangled up in the adventures of a pilot and his female companion alongside a couple of hostile soldiers.It's business as usual in THE GODS MUST BE CRAZY II, with all manner of slapstick comedy to enjoy. N!xau shines as usual and is the highlight of the production, but Hans Strydom and Lena Farugia are also good value for money, although their characters aren't quite as funny as those of the original. Still, there's plenty to enjoy here, not least the bits with the wild animals (the honey badger scene is a highlight) alongside the absolutely madcap climax. "}]