[{"Title":"Fleming's Bond is Back","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"115 out of 144 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most underrated film in the series.  It's ironic that the first of the EON films not to draw its title directly from an Ian Fleming story is also the closest in spirit to Fleming since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Of course, the titles had long since become the ONLY connection between Fleming's original stories and the movies -- the film plots and Roger Moore's portrayal bore almost no resemblance to Fleming's Bond.In License to Kill continues what he started in The Living Daylights he portrays a Bond that is still an ultra-suave superagent, but is also moody and reckless -- in other words, human.Bond is driven to avenge the near murder of his friend Felix Leiter (and the murder of Leiter's wife) at the hands of drug lord Franz Sanchez.  Sanchez is excellently played by Robert Davi.  He ends up being assisted by CIA agent Pam Bouvier.  Bouvier is played by Cary Lowell, in a performance that earns her automatic entry onto the list of top 5 all time Bond women.Some elements of the story come from Fleming's short story The Hildebrande Rarity.  Sanchez's doomed henchmen Milton Krest is lifted directly from The Hildebrand Rarity, and elements of the relationship between Sanchez and his girlfriend Lupe echo that of Krest and his wife Liz in the original story.The other Fleming story drawn upon is Live and Let Die for the plot-driving scene in which Leiter is thrown to the sharks. (This marks the second time that Fleming's Live and Let Die was drawn upon for a key scene in a movie other than the film version of LALD.  The other is the dragged behind a speedboat over the reef scene in For Your Eyes Only.  It kind of makes you wonder what the powers that be at EON were thinking when they couldn't find a place for these powerful, effective scenes in the pastiche that is LALD.)License to Kill features a realistic, believable story. Add to it the equal ruthlessness of Bond and Sanchez in their respective portrayals by Dalton and Davi and you have a movie that will stand out over time as one of the best in the series. "},{"Title":"A criminally underrated Bond picture","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"98 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence To Kill is one of the most underrated Bond movies since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Slipping easily back into 007's shoes with style after his previous role as Bond, Timothy Dalton embodies the character. With a break away from the comic-book villains and fantastical locations, the filmmakers decide to focus instead on a very adult and contemporary story about drug smuggling and revenge. Michael G. Wilson and Richard Maibaum's story is engaging and exciting, with a steadfast confidence in their leading man. This is a Bond movie that took risks -- it was the first 15-rated Bond film in the UK -- and surely deserves kudos for doing so. Make no mistake; this is not a family Bond picture. Its themes require a more mature perspective than its predecessors, and the violence is certainly stronger than anything that had come before. Unfortunately, these factors seem to be what critics of Licence To Kill call 'faults'. But why is change so bad, I ask? Casino Royale is getting major appreciation from critics for its grittiness and its darker edge. So why not Licence To Kill? After all, this is the movie that started the current trend, with Dalton's mature portrayal of Bond paving the way for Pierce Brosnan and, without doubt, Daniel Craig. It always amazes me that people do not give Dalton more respect for what he did with the character. This guy started the ball rolling. And boy did he give it a hard push.The characters in Licence To Kill are one of it's major plus points. James Bond is the most human we have seen him in 20 years, as Dalton brings a real sense emotional depth to the character; a tortured man full of hurt and pain and vengeance, his determined and stony face almost cracking with the burning hatred that is barely contained inside of him. We also get a strong female lead with Carey Lowell, whose portrayal of Pam Bouvier is at once intelligent, sexy, and funny. On the flip side of the coin, we have a genuinely terrifying villain in the shape of Robert Davi, playing his role deadly straight with not a hint of camp. It's a rare scenario where you feel Bond has met someone of equal competence. The Sanchez character is a frightening presence, and an early role from Benicio Del Toro is just as effective; his chilling grin a fear-inducing sight.Technically speaking, John Glen's direction is taught and assured, with the pace never really letting up for the 130+ minutes running time, save at the very end of the movie where the spectacular truck chase sequence perhaps drags just a little. The brilliant Michael Kamen also supplies us with an elegant, sensual and brooding score that is a vital player unto itself, complimenting the visuals excellently.In spite of these pluses, there are some minor quibbles. As I said before, the truck finale is perhaps a bit long, even though the stunt work is amazing, but it does slow the pace a bit. Talisa Soto is indeed beautiful as Sanchez' girlfriend but, bless her, she isn't exactly the most talented actress on the planet. She plays her part well enough, but the role isn't exactly Oscar-worthy, and it's not helped by the fact that the script tends to relegate her to the sidelines. Everett McGill's cigar-chomping Killifer is rather too pantomime for me - he just doesn't stand up to the characters of Sanchez or Anthony Zerbe's Krest but he doesn't stick around long so doesn't get in the way too much.With a striking leading man in Bond's shoes, Licence To Kill deserves a lot more credit than it gets. This is the film that broke the mould, opening the doors to a more adult, violent Bond world that continued briefly with some of the Brosnan films and certainly with Daniel Craig's portrayal of the character. In Timothy Dalton we have a brilliant actor in the starring role who brought us a more human and believable Bond, yet it is Daniel Craig who is currently getting the credit for these exact traits. Don't get me wrong, his characterisation is superb. But Dalton is the one who started it off, and it is a shame that he only made the two films.John Glen says that from all of the Bond movies that he directed, Licence To Kill is the one he is most proud of. And rightly so. Not only do we get a more fleshed-out character in Bond than previous outings, we get a more believable and mature storyline, with great characters and competent direction. Definitely one of the most underrated Bond movies, this engaging film is a great piece of entertainment, and one that I hope will gather praise with time. See it.4 stars. "},{"Title":"Hard-edged Bond film. Not a great commercial success, but it has interesting points.","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"94 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton only played Bond twice, but he tried to base his interpretation of the character on the descriptions provided by Ian Fleming in the original novels. Therefore, his Bond is quite ruthless and embittered, and always ready to stick two fingers up at the establishment if he feels they've got it wrong. Bond is vacationing in Florida, acting as best-man at his friend Felix Leiter's wedding, when the unthinkable happens. Leiter and his wife are assaulted by some Central American thugs; the wife is murdered and Leiter is crippled by sharks. Bond is obviously deeply unhappy about this, but his bosses instruct him to let the matter drop and get on with another assignment. 007 knows who is responsible for the injuries to his friend, so he revokes his licence to kill and becomes a rogue agent, tracking down the villainous drug lord Sanchez (Robert Davi) to his Latin America headquarters. Here, aided by Sanchez's unfaithful mistress Lupe (Talisa Soto) and CIA agent Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell), Bond attempts to wipe out their enormous clandestine drug operation single-handedly.There's definitely an uneasy, hard edge to the film which makes it unique among the Bond series. Whether or not this improves the film depends on your personal taste if you like safe, humorous Roger Moore escapades, you'll probably find this too jarring, whereas if you prefer espionage stories with a bit of grit and sweat, this may be just what you're after. The action sequences are still outrageous in the tried-and-trusted Bond style, with memorable episodes featuring a daring helicopter .vs. airplane pursuit; a barefoot water-skiing sequence; and a truck chase down the side of a mountain. Some of the language, though not out-and-out foul, is a bit stronger and more believable than in other Bond entries. The theme tune from Gladys Knight and the Pips is one of the better 007-tracks.Licence to Kill is a new twist on the Bond theme. It isn't the best, and some of its new ideas don't fit with the usual routine (which may or may not be a good thing), but it is certainly interesting. "},{"Title":"Dalton's best run in the role","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"86 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The worst-performing movie in the Bond movie in terms of grosses, it probably failed because it wasn't really a Bond at all.  True, it is the character Fleming created, and Q is in there, but this extremely violent thriller with its strong female characterisation (Carey Lowell, perhaps the only Bond girl with `balls') is not a neat fit with the others.The only one of the franchise created especially with star Timothy Dalton in mind (perhaps the sexiest Bond of them all?) it is a tale of loyalty, drug cartels, sharks, and 007 losing his licence and setting off as a vigilante.  Lowell plays agent Pam Bouvier, who shines in a bar fight and gives 007 as good as he gets.  And boy, do these two have chemistry together!The only problem with this movie is that it gets so truncated on its TV showings that it loses a lot of its point (and in the worst edit I saw, its sense).  There is perhaps too much going on - the abused Latino bimbo, the crooked evangelist, the Japanese businessmen touring the factory, the casino &#133;Not at all as bad as many commentators at the time and since have suggested.  What a pity the series stagnated after this before its big budget Pierce Bronson revival.   Dalton should have had the chance to show us more of the character he portrays in `Licence to Kill'.  And what a great theme tune from Gladys Knight.  "},{"Title":"CLASSIC BOND!","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"50 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked Timothy Dalton as Bond. I really thought the guy did a great job. The Living Daylights was an excellent Bond thriller, more in line with Dr No and From Russia With Love in tone and style, but with Licence To Kill you can tell that Broccoli decided to compete with the big boys with this action packed spectacular that aims high and scores. What we have here is Bond with spectacular action scenes and a more nastier steak with regards to the violence that is  more in line with Hollywood action blockbusters than with quintessential British spies. This is why the film works. Licence To Kill is much more darker than any of the Bond films that has come before, and after the silliness of the Moore era, that was what  this franchise needed. Why have world domination craving villains when you can just p*ss Bond off, big time. Having Felix Lieter maimed and his wife killed on their wedding day is inspired and immediately puts the film on a darker streak. The script here is very strong as we watch a darker more violent Bond infiltrate the bad guy's lifestyle and then proceed to work from there.Don't make any mistakes this is not a Bond film that would be broadcast during a Bank Holiday afternoon. What we have here is a film that is graphically violent. Check out the head explosion scene or the nasty incidents involving sharks. Having Bond on the revenge path makes for a more interesting tale than just another villain trying to take over the world. The more personal element fits in with this more darker Bond. Dalton really rises to the occasion here and ensures that he will be remembered as a fine actor who played the part of James Bond. The ice cool look of anger as he dumps a bad guy into a shark tank with a case fool of money is fantastic as is his reaction to finding Lieter's dead wife. It may not be said, buy OHMSS is being referenced. Helping Dalton along the way is a great support cast. Robert Davi is superb as Franz Sanchez, without doubt the nastiest Bond villain there has ever been. We have two Bond girls too. Talisa Soto is beautifully sultry, but Carey Lowell just pips her to the post as Pam Bouvier who really gives Bond a run for his money. Another great casting point is an increased role for Q. Desmond Lewellyn appears here more than he ever has done before, helping out in the mission that makes one wonder the Bond writers never thought of it before, or why they never did it after.Licence To Kill is classic Bond. Purists may give of with the more American touch to the narrative (you just know that any theatrical trailer is crying out for voice over man to go this time it's personal), but the more darker narrative suits the film and it shows that Dalton was a good Bond no matter what his critics say. With some of the most spectacular action sequences at the time, this is a genuine Bond classic.Shaken and stirred most definitely. "},{"Title":"The first Bond film to receive a Restricted (R) rating code for excessive violence&#133;","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the most serious Bond movie since From Russia with Love, writer Michael G. Wilson eliminated some of the very elements that have contributed to the longevity of the series&#151;namely, the biting humor, fascinating locations, and a grandiose scheme perpetrated by a fantasy villain&#133; Licence to Kill was almost a claustrophobic Bond considering its limited and uninteresting trips to Key West and Isthmus City&#133;Dalton&#151;who is once again serious and on target&#151;should have been lightened up a bit&#133; Audiences who spend two or more hours with Bond need to laugh once in a while&#133; Thankfully, Q, awarded the biggest role of his film career (following a tip-off from an anxious Moneypenny), was on hand to provide some crucial comic relief&#133; The story was a brave departure from anything previously ventured shortly after acting as best man at the wedding of Felix Leiter, Bond discovers that Leiter's bride has been murdered and that his friend has been savaged by a shark&#133; With grim determination, 007 launches a personal vendetta against Frank Sanchez, the sadistic drug baron responsible; his obsession sees him stripped of his license to kill by a furious M (Robert Brown).Robert Davi proved to be an excellent choice for the role of murderous South American drug lord Franz Sanchez&#133; Surrounded by a private army that keeps potential assassins at arm's length, Sanchez was not an easy target&#133; His main associates include corrupt seaman Anthony Zerbe, a drunken pervert and a sadist Benecio Del Toro&#133;Carey Lowell showed to be the best Bond girl in years&#133; She was delightful as Pam Bouvier, a resourceful, beautiful CIA pilot and undercover operative who helps Bond at every turn&#133; Her excellent introduction in the Barrelhead Bar is nothing but pure dynamite&#133; "},{"Title":"A darker Bond but a good Bond","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"45 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a major drugs bust CIA agent Felix Leiter gets married with his friend James Bond as his best man. However in a revenge attack drug lord Franz Sanchez mutilates Leiter and kills his wife. James Bond wants revenge but is ordered to stay out of it. Ignoring the order Bond goes on a personal vendetta to bring down Sanchez's organisation.This was Dalton's second and last Bond movie. It was also his best. The nature of Bond is a lot darker than during the Roger Moore years and this lends itself to a more violent film with revenge as the motivation. The story is actually OK and allows some humour, however some may not like the idea of Bond as a vigilante type. The action is pretty good although not as visually stunning as other blockbusters. The drama is good and the Bond girls are all good.Dalton was a good Bond no matter what is said &#150; all he did was take it back to the root rather than playing it camp like Moore, he gave a harder edge to the role that was missing. Davi is a good bad guy &#150; he can do this in his sleep and he's good here even if his 'evil Cuban guy' dial is turned up to 11! The girls are both good in different ways &#150; Lowell's more demure comedy role or Soto's vixen. The inclusion of faces like Everett McGill is good and the rising star of Benicio Del Toro is an interesting find in retrospect. Wayne Newton is also really funny in a funny cameo.Overall this isn't the best of the Bonds but it is a nice change after years of Moore being camp. The darker edge may put some off but it does add more action to the proceedings that had been missing recently. "},{"Title":"Effective immediately, your licence to kill is revoked, and I require you to hand over your weapon.","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill is directed by John Glen and written by Richard Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson. It's an original story that uses characters and instances created by Ian Fleming. It stars Timothy Dalton, Carey Lowell, Robert Davi, Talisa Soto, Anthony Zerbe, Desmond Llewelyn, David Hedison, Benicio Del Toro, Frank McRae, Everett McGill and Wayne Newton. Music is scored by Michael Kamen and cinematography by Alec Mills.Bond 16 and 007 goes rogue when drug baron Franz Sanchez leaves Felix Leiter mutilated and his wife dead. With licence revoked by MI6, Bond has to go it alone to enact revenge for the Leiters.The controversial Bond for many reasons, Licence to Kill even today has been known to induce fearsome arguments in Bond fan circles. Not since On Her Majesty's Secret Service has a Bond film so polarised opinions. In one corner are the folks who determine it's not a Bond movie, in the other is those who say it's a stripped to the bone human Bond. You either love it or you hate it it seems. True to say that it is more an action thriller than a outright Bond film, no humongous sets, no megalomaniac villain (Davi's drug baron a very realistic menace) and of course there is Bond being pursued by those that have courted him previously as their number one agent. Yet there's a whole raft of scenarios that could only exist in a Bond universe, there's gadgets, too, for those that enjoy that side of Bond. Where else would you see a tanker driving on its side? Or exploding toothpaste and alarm clock, camera's that turn into weapons and a broom that is actually a transmitter? Not Bondian enough? Really?Licence to Kill is a superior action thriller movie, the script is tight, the cast ace and the picture is crammed full of exceptional action set pieces. From the pre-credits sequence that sees Bond and Leiter enact a mid-air arrest, to the rather brilliant tanker carnage at the finale, the film rarely pauses for breath, and right there in the centre is a brilliant Dalton giving a rogue Bond plenty of layers. He's brainy and classy, fallible and driven, intense and tough, always sexy and always dangerous. Dalton's ability to convey raw emotion as each challenge comes his way is a real treat to watch. But most of all he is right there restoring Bond to being a serious action figure. What Bond fans didn't realise at the time was that it would be 17 years before Bond would be this raw again, then it would be heralded as a brave new start for Bond!Another of the film's strengths is bringing back Hedison as Leiter, last seen playing the role in Live and Let Die, Hedison has great chemistry with Dalton and it's a joy to see Leiter play an active part in the action on screen. However, the makers do make a misstep by having Leiter be all too jovial at the end of the film, weird since he is minus a limb and his wife was raped and murdered by Sanchez's henchmen. Another big plus is Lowell's Pam Bouvier, a tough and brave Bond girl, sexy as heck, her pilot skills come in handy and she's no mug when it comes to brawling. Lowell does fine work in the role and keeps it away from being a token interest cliché. Davi keeps Sanchez as believable, a very driven drug baron who is cultured and funny, but always pulsing a vicious streak, while McRae has presence, McGill neatly keeps the cards close to his chest, Del Toro a nice line in nastiness and Soto is pretty as a picture and plays Lupe Lamora with skilled vulnerability. And of course there's Llewelyn as Q, who here gets a right old meaty role as he goes out in the field to become Bond's only aid from MI6. Again, not Bondian enough?Licence to Kill saw the end of Dalton's tenure as Bond, legal issues between Danjaq and MGM/UA meant that no Bond movie would be made for another six years. By then Dalton had moved on to other work and was 51. It also marked the end of production duties for Cubby Broccoli, the final direction by John Glen (5 Bond films in total), Richard Maibaum's last script and the last performances by Robert Brown as M and Caroline Bliss as Moneypenney. One of the many misconceptions about the Dalton era is that Licence to Kill was a flop, it made $156 million worldwide, considerably down on The Living Daylights but more than A View to a Kill. A huge profit of over $100 million, this in spite of it being pitched against Batman and sequels to beloved American films by a studio head who had no idea how to market a film. The best actor to take on the role of Bond, Dalton's impact on the series cannot be overstated, he (rightly so) is very proud of his work in the two films and still talks very fondly of a role he respected beyond compare. 9/10 "},{"Title":"I Don't Understand People's Reaction To the Violence In This Film","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sure, it's not the best 007 film, and Dalton is not the best Bond (that would be Brosnan or Connery, leaning toward Connery for the better films), but the idea that anyone would be appalled by the violence in this movie is, err, appalling. Did people forget that in DR. NO Connery plugs six bullets into Prof. Dent? Or breaks the neck of No's security guard on the island? Or that Quarrel is graphically roasted alive by the dragon? In FRWL, people are strangled and stabbed and beaten and shot throughout the entire movie! Had no one actually read Fleming's LIVE AND LET DIE novel? Bond is a Secret Agent with a Licence To Kill, hence the title of this movie! At the time, I was very impressed with this movie, and still find it enjoyable to watch though it hasn't aged well. The dialog is rough at times and so is some of the acting, though it had the best cast in a 007 film in dog's years! The costuming is a joke, the drug story shop-worn, and 007's 'resignation' scene, what should have been the first truly dramatic moment of the entire movie, is treated as though the movie starred Steven Segal! Also, in a series where music plays an integral part, this movie just didn't come through. Knight's title theme has a rousing under-rhythm, but overall it's just a modern 'Thunderball', and Kamen's non-score makes me feel like I'm watching a 'Lethal Weapon' movie. When it ends and the most memorable music in the film is the Mex-mariachi music from the trucks' speakers, you know the music director f'd up big time! How come that wasn't on the soundtrack? Heh-he.Still there are plenty high points thanks to the EON team David Hedison as the best Felix Lieter ever, Carey Lowell as the best Bond Girl since Melina Havelock, Q's extended presence, the camera-gun, the Hong Kong narcotics plot twist, and the credible action stunts (007 overtaking the drug money plane is breathless from the moment he harpoon's one of Sanchez' men, pun intended)! Seeing James Bond actually get hurt at the end of the movie was a real stunner though! In the end, it's not great Bondage, but it's an overlooked cut above much of it's competition. "},{"Title":"Underrated, misunderstood entry in the 007 Series","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence To Kill came out during the huge box office summer of '89 (which included Batman, Indiana Jones, Ghostbusters II, etc). Unfortunately, lousy advertising and Timothy Dalton's lack of appeal to American audiences did not bring in the big bucks that could have been expected. While the film did not do great in the US compared to other Bond films, it still did well overseas. Because of the assumption that LTK was a flop, people consider it one of the weakest entries in the series. Needless to say, they're dead wrong.(Possible Spoilers)Sanchez is one of the most realistic, deadly villains Bond has ever met, and this is also 007's most personal mission yet. Felix Leiter, the trusted ally and Bond's best friend is fed to sharks and his newlywed bride has been murdered. After Bond decides to attend to Felix and find out what happens and doesn't leave for his mission, he resigns and his license to kill is revoked by M. Bond goes on a personal vendetta which involves more spying, more detective work and less gadgets and over the top villanious plans. Licence to Kill isn't everybody's cup of tea, and some think it's a Charles Bronson rip off, but personally I see it as more of an Ian Fleming Bond movie, which is ironic since this is the first movie title not to be taken from a Fleming novel. Q has a nice supporting role rather than the smaller role he usually has.In a way, I always see Licence to Kill to be the end of an era for Bond films. It seemed with Goldeneye's release in 1995, Pierce Brosnan's Bond is not the same Bond as portrayed by his four predecessors. I don't know why, but with Felix Leiter out of action, Bond losing his license, the last appearance of so many members of the Bond crew and cast, it seems like Dalton's final portrayal was the end of one continuity, and Brosnan's is a new, revamped Bond. Nonetheless, this is one of the best Bond films of the entire series, both pre-Brosnan and the Brosnan era.  "}{"Title":"Might not be the no.1 Bond movie, but Dalton is my favourite Bond","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Bond film series has been with us since the early sixties and for a character to stand the test of time, there requires a certain reinvention and reinvigoration for it to maintain longevity. Opinions are subjective as we all know, so make of this what you will.'Licence to Kill' is one of the top five best Bond movies of all time along with it's powerhouse theme song. Up until this particular picture, we were introduced to Sean Connery's unique suave, set against an array of exotic backdrops and a strong supporting cast. George Lazenby, although criticised for being boring, offered us some great action sequences in his short time as the British spy. A sophisticated edge that was overpowered by it's comical tone throughout his run, Roger Moore took the reins during the 70's and early 80's. Then in 1987, Welsh actor Timothy Dalton donned the role of 007.With 'The Living Daylights' establishing Dalton as James Bond, we were given fair warning on the tonal shift. Given this was the 80's, where a number of films were heavily inclusive of hard 'R' violence - 'Licence to Kill' adapted and not only brought us a visceral Bond film, but as many film historians have cited, one of the, if not the closest portrayals of Ian's Flemming's character.For those giving current Bond actor, Daniel Craig the credit (or hate in some cases) for a cold and stoic interpretation of the character, I suggest you watch the Timothy Dalton Bond films, because this is where it started.In 'Licence to Kill', Bond is essentially a one many army taking on a South American cocaine czar. This is a James Bond that up until this point was never seen like this on screen before. His best friends are maimed, he's stripped of his rank, his government and as it relates to the title - his licence to kill is revoked. He is left with almost nothing aside from his skills and weapons expert, Q.Dalton plays Bond as a wounded wolf with a sensitivity and vulnerability visible in his eyes and the way he emotes. As opposed to his predecessors, Dalton plays the character with an introspective approach, where you can feel the torment and tension bubbling inside. Even when he smiles, there is pain, reminding us of what he has endured as a human being.Bond's antagonist is played by Robert Davi - another underrated performer known mostly for his roles as a villain. He plays a drug king with a code, where loyalty seems to matter more than the money. We are immediately set with these two huge characters on a road to collision; the dark angel's raid on the reaper that claimed the lives and elements that held Bond together.The whole film is non-stop and that also reflects the carnage and violence. The climactic chase is one of the best with the inclusion of trucks, jeeps and a plane against a beautiful Mexican mountain view.As a huge proponent for Timothy Dalton's Bond, I advise any fans of the series to watch or re- watch his incarnations. Hopefully an appreciation will come about for how truly great and underrated he was. "},{"Title":"A different Bond, and a very good one!","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldfinger is the benchmark of great Bond films, and while this one doesn't come anywhere near that - you still can't really ask much more of a Bond film. Licence to Kill, the last of the eighties bond films, stands out because director John Glen seems keen to make it as little like the rest of the series as possible. Most Bond films feature the popular spy on a mission and answering to MI6 - but here he's acting out a personal vendetta, and we get to see a different side to Ian Flemings' character. The film opens with a rather over the top wedding sequence, in which James Bonds' friend and ally Felix Leighter gets married to a pretty blonde woman. However, just before this we watched Bond and Felix apprehend a drug dealer, and not taking to being caught very kindly - the dealer decides to use some of his cronies to maim Felix and kill his wife. Bond then decides to go after the drug dealer, much to the dismay of MI6 who promptly take away his licence to kill. This doesn't stop Bond, however, as along with a few allies - he sets out to get revenge on those responsible...Many people say that Timothy Dalton was the worst of the Bonds, but I disagree. While he doesn't fit the role as well as Sean Connery, and isn't quite manly enough for my liking - his suave style goes brilliantly with the James Bond character, and he is perfect for exploring the darker side of the character in this film. The film has that eighties style that often seems tacky nowadays, but it's not laid on thick until the very end, and this doesn't hinder the film. The stunts are the best thing about Licence to Kill, as the director constantly succeeds at delivering memorable and exciting action scenes, the best of which is saved until the end. The fact that this film takes in the theme of 'the war on drugs' means it stands out from a lot of the rest of the series as world domination is never mentioned. Robert Davi gets to play the Bond villain, and for me is one of the best of the entire series. He manages to be evil without ever looking comical, and that can't be easy in a series known for being completely overblown. Overall, Licence to Kill is undoubtedly one of my favourite Bond films, and it therefore comes highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Dalton is the best Bond","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"42 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill has a mixture of all the essential Bond attributes. Dalton is an action man and a more sensitive and moody Bond in this film. Shame he turned down the chance to do Goldeneye, that would have made him a mega star.  "},{"Title":"Stimulating adventure in which an avenger Bond  goes after a drug baron  to revenge an attack on his best partner","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton's second entry in which faces dangerous adventures around the world in this solid , slick thriller with magic mix of action-packed , dazzling stunts, gadgetry, and romance provided by sexy company as Talila Soto and Carey Lowell. Timothy Dalton's last outing with overwhelming action and spectacular scenarios . This was Timothy Dalton second appearance as tough and attractive James Bond of the Ian Fleming's famous creation and screen-written by Richard Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson . This Bond film deals with seductive James Bond OO7 as the ultimate spy hero who undergoes a dangerous mission seeking revenge . This time Bond gets mad after a close friend named Felix Leiter (David Hedison of Voyage to the bottom of the sea) from the intelligence sector being abducted on his wedding day ( the bride is played by Priscilla Barnes), and 007 goes undercover to link the kidnapping to an international drug cartel . James attempts to chase the corrupt kingpin and a double-dealing agent (Everet McGill). Meanwhile , there happens a high-octane race and discovers clues about Sanchez (the ruthless villain well played by Robert Davi) and his hoodlums (Anthony Zerbe , Don Stroud and Benicio Del Toro at one of his first appearances). James is double-crossed and continues to follow the lead to baddie's headquarter . Bond deserts Her Majesty's Secret Service and embarks on a world wide personal vendetta . Meanwhile, 007 join forces with a gorgeous , cocky CIA agent (Carey Lowell who married Richard Gere) and of course he falls in love with her .Timothy Dalton as new James Bond is nice , lacked in irony, suavity and sympathy characterized by Roger Moore however earns in dimension of humanity , coldness ,cunning , adding intelligence and toughness like Sean Connery and nearly to character created by Ian Fleming . Timothy Dalton made his final intervention as Bond in this Licence to Kill, the toughest of the Bond films since Connery's early efforts .In spite of the spectacular opening sequences the Bond films were starting to look a little bit old and tired just like its star Roger Moore , then the producers Michael Wilson, Albert R. Broccoli and his daughter Barbara Broccoli hired Timothy Dalton to up the series. However , Dalton only played two Bonds ,¨The living daylights¨ and ¨Licence to Kill ¨ with the same director John Glen . Here Bond is an efficient , relentless agent trying to chase obstinately the criminals led by a drug kingpin , traveling around the world as always , as this globe-trotting story to achieve his aims , James along the way uses violent means even pulling off brutal killings against enemies who wreak all sorts of havoc . As always Bond will use gadgets and spectacular cars provided by ¨Q¨ (Desmond Llewelyn in an important appearance) . In addition , there appears at the second intervention Caroline Bliss and Robert Brown as ¨MoneyPenny¨ and ¨M¨ , respectively .The picture with a low-key intrigue contains sensational chases , silly set pieces, high adventure ,great stunts, ferocious action , amazing gimmicks and exciting images like are the happenings on the frantic boat pursuit , a midair brawl with breathtaking aerial scenes over the controls of an out-of-control aircraft , and unstopped action truck-races in the Mexican desert . Enjoyable title song and stirring musical score fitting to action by Michael Kamen , in similar style to classic John Barry . Riveting and fancy main titles by habitual Maurice Binder . It's brimming with colorful and fascinating cinematography by cameraman Alec Mils. The motion picture produced by habitual producers, Albert ,Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson , being professionally directed by John Glen who directed various outings (Licence to kill, A view to kill , For your eyes only. Octopussy) though with no originality . The film will appeal to James Bond series's buffs but good for fans only ; because this one goes on far too long . Rating  6 , well worth watching . "},{"Title":"His dark side is a dangerous place to be!","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This 16th entry in the Bond franchise is notable for multiple reasons. It marks many firsts and several lasts, but it's also the darkest and nastiest the series has ever got, and this really appeals to me. I severely doubt that Bond will ever go as wicked and hardcore as Timothy Dalton's second venture.Second and last for Dalton. Fifth and last for director John Glen. Last for Robert Brown as M. Last for Caroline Bliss as Moneypenny. First and last for composer Michael Kamen. First Bond movie to be given an adult rating (barely escaping an R in the US and cut to get a 15 in the UK). And, most importantly, the very last Bond movie to be released during the summer season. A fact that endures to this day as the studio now favors a late autumn/early winter slot. It also marked the last entry for over six years, the longest gap in the franchise, before Brosnan rebooted the character with Goldeneye.Summer 1989 was very busy for moviegoers. Tim Burton's Batman, Indiana Jones, Ghostbusters 2, and Lethal Weapon 2 were all pulling in huge business. For the kiddies there was lighter fare such as Honey, I Shrunk the Kids. Franchise fatigue had set in with James Bond. The public had endured one movie every two years since 1962 and were looking elsewhere for thrills and adventure. No one cared for a mean and nasty Bond movie. The few who took a chance were turned off by the violence and sadism. Licence to Kill became the dark, very dark, horse of the franchise. If there is one kind of movie I adore above all else, it's the dark horse. This time around Bond goes Bad (with a capital B, you should notice).The formula of a supervillain surrounded by scantily-clad women out for world domination being thwarted by gadgets and expensive cars is thrown out. Licence to Kill subverts viewer expectations on many levels and gives us an altogether different story for Bond (though perhaps a bit too familiar in regards to other 80s action movies).After successfully capturing South American drug lord Franz Sanchez (a cool, smoldering performance by Robert Davi) in Miami series spook Felix Leiter (David Hedison, reprising his role from Live and Let Die) ties the knot with lovely wife Della. Sanchez does not plan to stay incarcerated for long and has soon corrupted the man bringing him in for trial. Immediately after being sprung from captivity he murders Della and mutilates Leiter by feeding him to a shark. The sight of a dead woman in her wedding dress opens old wounds for Bond and he relentlessly hunts down Sanchez.M is having none of this and orders Bond to abandon his quest for vengeance or face the consequences. Bond promptly quits MI6 and goes rouge. In many ways it is Bond who is the villain of this film. As I said, Franz Sanchez is not a cartoon. He's simply a businessman looking to expand his empire. A man who believes in loyalty above all else. Look out for him and he'll look out for you. Bond identifies this crack in the armor and abuses it, squeezing himself into Sanchez's operation and destroying it from within. Sanchez does not have any ridiculous backstory or motivation, he develops as a character as Bond manipulates and exploits him. His confusion and naive sense of friendship the cause of many sad ironies. It's easy to forget that we are supposed to enjoy his downfall as Bond sets about wrecking his dreams and future.Timothy Dalton absolutely kills it as Bond in LTK. His sharp, focused eyes and his cold, angry performance give us an insight into a whole new side of the character. Here Bond is stripped down, without back- up, with little to no weapons or gadgets, while winging his revenge plot on the fly. This is not the soft, dull-witted Bond of the Moore-era. Dalton is furious. Sanchez finally gives him a much-needed outlet for his pent-up rage over Tracy's death. You could go straight from OHMSS to LTK and completely skip over the silly Moore years altogether.John Glen is not much of a visual director, he was really just there to make sure that the cameras were switched on during these years. LTK is shot in lovely anamorphic Panavision with very high key photography. I do feel that the film could have benefited from more atmospheric intriguing camera-work and it sometimes comes close but for the most part this is same-old when it comes to aesthetics, and is the only noticeable similarity it has to the previous movies.Michael Kamen's score might also sound familiar. It might remind you of Nakatomi Plaza specifically. Kamen's late 80s/early 90s signature is all over this one, which is appropriate since it IS the Die Hard Bond, sharing cast and crew members with the 1988 classic. The sign of a good Bond composer is one who knows when to just go totally crazy with the famous Bond chorus (something no Daniel Craig entry has done yet). The chorus marks the moment when 007 does something Totally Bond. Here it's during the moment he wheelies through a fire in a big rig, the look on his face as he smacks down on top of another car proving that being Bad is so damn Good. Do not listen to the killjoys who say that this movie killed the franchise. LTK is a tough, nose-to-the-grinding block Bond movie that could have been taken a few steps further had Glen had the talent and flair to do so, but as it is this is still a very important entry in an innovating and enduring series. "},{"Title":"So I'm Not Alone!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Reading the comments now (many of them quite recent) it's now obvious that I'm not the only person who highly rates this Bond film.It actually draws quite a lot of it's style from the work of Kurosawa and his acolyte, Sergio Leoni.Most of all though, it goes some way to really exploring the moral ambiguities of 'wet work' as in Apocalypse Now. Bond is on his own, like he would be anyway and makes alliances of convenience wherever they further his aims - but his aims are murder, revenge - pure and simple. "},{"Title":"Violent, well-plotted Bond film with a menacing Timothy Dalton","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film is radically different from nearly all the previous Bond films. There's a lot of violence, some of it rather gruesome and the plot shows Bond at his merciless best as he avenges the death of a friend. Timothy Dalton still seems too stiff to be Bond, but he's certainly far more menacing this time. The film is well-paced and there are double crosses galore. The villain Robert Davi plays a drug baron who's not really interested in world domination. Benicio Del Toro gave early notice of his talent. Although a failure at the box office, the film is well worth watching.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"James Bond dies hard...","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence To Kill (1989) was the second and last 007 adventure of the fourth Bond actor Timothy Dalton. Directed by John Glen again, Bond is faced with his most personal and painful mission since the death of his wife Tracey in On Her Majesty's Secret Service (1969). After Bond and his long-time American friend, CIA agent Felix Leiter, have caught drug dealing gangster boss Franz sanchez, the villain manages to escape and takes bloody revenge by killing Leiter's just married wife and hurting Leiter badly. Now it's Bond's turn to leave leaving the British Secret Service with a revoked licence to kill and to start his deadly revenge mission...Like in Dalton's first Bond performance The Living Daylights (1987), the Dalton era brought back more serious plots and psychological aspects to the series and dropped humour, slapstick, comic-like supper villains and family-friendly mainstream entertainment. In fact, Licence To Kill was rated R for the most extreme violence and action in the whole Bond series. It was clearly influenced by the late eighties action cinema of the Leathal Weapon, Die Hard and the Schwarzenegger movies.Dalton's performance is stunning, reflecting Ian Fleming's original Bond figure with a suffering and passionate character instead of a playboy just repeating funny dialogues. The rest of the cast is also superb, with Robert Davi as villain, Talisa Sato and Carey Lovell as Bond girls and a young Benicio Del Toro (Traffic) as psychopathic killer. Desmond Llewelyn has his best and longest Q performance by supporting Bond on is mission with some of the funniest gadgets.The settings are restricted to Miami and Mexico just like in previous Bond movies like Goldfinger (1964) and Diamonds Are Forever (1971) and influenced by successful TV series like Miami Vice and Magnum, P.I.. The big disadvantage of this movie is the lack of the typical British settings, humor and Bond tradition - in fact, Licence To Kill is the most American Bond movie ever done.The Goldfinger-style title theme was sung by Gladys Knight this time, and the score was composed by Michael Kamen, the producer and arranger of several Pink Floyd records.All in all, Licence To Kill is a rather unusual Bond experience, but for me it's one of the best parts of this long-running movies series. Unfortunately, due to a long-running struggle between the Bond producers and several other problems, it took six more years to produce another Bond movie - too long for Timothy Dalton who left the series in April, 1994, after eight Bond years with only two movies. Immediately after his departure, Irish actor Pierce Brosnan, the original first choice for The Living daylights, was announced as new Bond for Goldeneye (1995).  "},{"Title":"I love the final stunt scene","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The chase down the mountain with the trucks and the car is excellent. When the final truck goes barreling down across all the roads, it's truly terrifying, a sign of how Bond does not care if he dies as long as he gets Sanchez. I think Dalton is not so much humorless as relentless, obsessed. I also think he was going for a more serious Bond after the jokiness of Roger Moore. I think it's a decent movie. Talisa Soto is wonderful, the best thing in it, although Carey Lowell is also quite good, and it's nice to see Desmond Llewellyn out in the field. Q & Bond always spar, but beyond the fact that they truly respect each other, they also truly like each other and care for each other. The sparring is a bit of manly cover for their feelings. Q's willingness to risk himself for Bond in this movie is a sign of their real relationship. "},{"Title":"The most underrated Bond film of all...WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Bond producers need for making the character more real reached it's zenith in 1989 with LICENCE TO KILL, a movie which incorporated elements of LIVE AND LET DIE into it's plot and in spite of stiff competition on it's 1989 summer release from the megahyped BATMAN and INDIANA JONES AND THE LAST CRUSADE, still managed, in the UK at least, to succeed in good measure. For all that though, the more violent atmosphere did give it a handicap and there were some who felt it was so out of character with the rest of the series.Perhaps it was Timothy Dalton's determination to make the character his own that possibly undermined it. Dalton's classical training and earlier success in films like THE LION IN WINTER and FLASH GORDON tended to make it more of a KING LEAR-type tragedy than a summer blockbuster for the masses. Perhaps it was the brutality of Robert Davi's Sanchez character, sounding more like a distant cousin of Tony Montana, that drove some away. Perhaps it was the distinction of becoming the first '15' in the UK. Even so, what emerges is a top-class adventure which improves the more times you see it, as all the Bonds do.The film opens with Sanchez torturing his long-term lover, but the DEA are quick on the trail with Bond's old buddy Felix Leiter (David Hedison) giving the go-ahead to trap Sanchez whilst en route to his wedding day. They initially succeed, but then Sanchez escapes and wreaks revenge on Leiter by feeding him to a shark. Bond then, with the help of gutsy pilot Pam Bouvier (Mrs Richard Gere these days, Carey Lowell) to go after Sanchez.LICENCE TO KILL is as different a Bond film as you can get without straying too far from the formula of the Bond series. All the more reason to applaud an attempt to do something different. "}{"Title":"One of the Best Bond Films Ever!!!","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps one of the most under-rated Bond movies , this one turns out to be one of the best ever made. Not at all as dark as the other reviewers make it out to be, it is in fact a very enjoyable flick. Action-packed and emotionally charged , this time Bond goes renegade and goes on a hunt to avenge the evil drug-lord Sanchez , who has killed , Bond's fiend Felix Leiter's wife and maimed Leiter himself. THe only difference between other Bond films and this one ,is that Bond goes renegade. Everything else is the same. There is humour, there is Q , there is Moneypenny, there are two very sexy Bond Girls and there is a good story. The climactic action/chase sequence has got to be one of the Best Bond film climax ever. It is to be seen to be believed. Go and get it , if you haven't seen it. You will love it. "},{"Title":"Before Craig, Dalton was Tough As Nails!!!","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" License to Kill qualifies as a groundbreaking James Bond film because Timothy Dalton plays Ian Fleming's secret agent largely straightforward without puns. This entry in the long-running franchise emerged as the least likable Bond; it crashed and burned at the American box office and prompted the Bond producers to return to a more light-hearted Roger Moore type Bond with Pierce Brosnan replacing the grim and gruff Timothy Dalton. Nevertheless, this ranks as a memorable entry with David Hedison reprising his role as Felix Leiter. Furthermore, License to Kill is probably the most violent 007 outing. One of the villains is blown to bits in a decompression chamber. The heroine Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell) is in the same class as Tracy from On Her Majesty's Secret Service. She is no slouch. She can fly a plane and wield a pump action shotgun with equal aplomb. Franz Sanchez is quite possibly the most murderous of the Bond villains, too. When his girlfriend sneaks off to a secret rendezvous with another man, Sanchez tracks them down and cuts out the man's heart! Unlike most other Bonds, License to Kill took place ostensibly in one location&#x97;Central America. The Michael G. Wilson & Richard Maibaum screenplay bristles with many imaginative touches. Foremost of them is Sanchez's scheme to ship cocaine mixed in with gasoline in tanker trucks. The biggest difference between this Bond and the other 007 escapades is that our indestructible hero quits British Intelligence after Sanchez feeds Felix to a great white shark! He disagreed with something that ate him reads the note that Bond finds on Felix's ravaged body. Moreover, the villains have murdered Felix's bride Della Churchill Leiter (Priscilla Barnes) and left her body with her eyes open.After a notorious cartel drug smuggler, Sanchez (Robert Davi of Die Hard) is captured over the Gulf of Mexico in an audacious air kidnapping by Bond and Leiter, a treacherous DEA agent Ed Killifer (Everett McGill of Heartbreak Ridge) takes a $2 million bribe and turns him loose. Sanchez orders his henchmen led by Dario (Benicio Del Toro of Savages) to abduct Leiter, and they feed him to a great white shark. This is the first day of the rest of your life, Sanchez assures Leiter. Bond is set to board a plane and leave the United States for an assignment in Istanbul when he learns about this debacle. He refuses to obey M (Robert Brown of The Spy Who Loved Me) and M revokes his license to kill. Nevertheless, Q (Desmond Llewelyn of Goldfinger) comes to his rescue with a variety of gadgets. Just before Sanchez's men are about to take Killifer out of the country, 007 and his buddy Sharkey (Frank McRae) surprise him and feed him to the same great white that munched on Leiter. Bond looks up Pam and she helps him. Disaster strikes again for 007 as Sanchez's men kill Sharkey.This Bond is one of the best. Timothy Dalton broke new ground as a tough-as-nails 007 long before Daniel Craig made his similarly gritty Bond popular. The poor performance of License to Kill at the box office ended director John Glen's long-time contribution to the franchise. Starting with For Your Eyes Only, Glen helmed five James Bond movies. He cut his teeth on the franchise as the editor on On Her Majesty's Secret Service. "},{"Title":"License to Kill","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 007 goes rogue, losing his license to kill from his Majesty's Secret Service, when an American CIA chum is badly injured when fed to a shark by a menacing drug lord in charge of a Latin American drug cartel with influence around the globe. This is far, far removed from the James Bond series I am accustomed to, but does seem to have been a decent critical success, although I know of quite a few disgruntled Bond fans who believe this deserves to be wiped clean from the franchise. Anyway, the kind of villains in this Bond film may be a little too realistic, less colorful, belonging more in a Steven Seagal movie. But certain factors are Bond; this has a sizable amount of field work for ingenious inventor Q, who I don't believe has ever seen so much action, normally popping up in one memorable, customary scene to introduce the movie's various devices to use to help the secret agent get out of tight jams that threaten his life, the beauties are definitely easy on the eyes (Carey Lowell is a terrific Bond girl, tough, stubborn, courageous, sexy (what a pair of legs, my goodness!) and still quite feminine when upset at her man also shares a bed with the stunning, mouth-watering Talisa Soto, the squeeze the main villain covets), and he gets a chance to go underwater in a frogman suit numerous times and there is a shark that gets to feed on humans (both good and evil). Robert Davi is at home in his part of ruthless drug-lord, Franz Sanchez, demanding loyalty from those who work for him, so worked up against a partner who helps him run drugs into US (Anthony Zerbe, particularly slimy, a part he can sleep walk through and still make your skin crawl) that he throws him into a diving bell, cutting a line on the outside watching his head explode (!), believing he has betrayed him (Bond planted this in his mind successfully). But the plot is really tailor made for someone less sophisticated than a character like Bond, more appropriate for someone like Norris who can play a crusty, less civilized Texas Ranger or Seagal as a profane, straight-forward NYC cop. That said, if this plot is to work, I can't imagine Moore or Connery could play it with any hint of believability, so Dalton, who wasn't necessarily ever given his fair reward by the Bond Franchise, and all that intensity and bravado does so with conviction and panache I applaud. License to Kill won't make the top lists of many Bond fans, but I bet fans of Lethal Weapon will enjoy it; it has a fair share of violence and some definite nasty sorts for Bond to vanquish (Benecio Del Toro, so young but fierce, has a small but memorable part as an acid-grinning thug). Several actors show up in the cast such as David Hedison, returning to the franchise as Leiter, Wayne Newton (of all people) as a guru whose palace is actually Davi's drug manufacturing plant, Everett McGill as an American CIA agent who betrays his country for money he'll never get to spend, Priscilla Barnes as Hedison's newly married victim of circumstance, Don Stroud as Davi's military muscle, and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa as a Hong Kong agent undercover as a drug supplier. What this movie does well is show that vigilantism can interrupt hard field work, but Dalton's Bond is damned determined to get revenge for his friend. With help from Desmond Llewelyn's Q and Lowell's pilot (both wearing a variety of disguises and masquerading as different types of people), Bond just might be able to persevere. Latin America for the most part is the choice of setting for this film. "},{"Title":"The dark knight...strays from the formula. 82.5/100","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 17th of 23 Bond movies (16th of 22 official Bond movies) Watching bonus features from The spy who loved me you learn that the Bond series was always pitched at a wide audience. This movie strays from that formula...it goes to some dark places. Violence in the franchise has never been this grim and it is not of the comic book variety endemic to the series. There are comic book aspects to this movie though. It's also pleasing to note that this movie shows solidarity with On her majesty's secret service...the Connery movies after this didn't reference that at all. There were two Moore movies where the story from that film was referenced The spy who loved me; and For your eyes only.Exotic locations 'Isthmus' (fictional country...shot in Mexico) and Florida.Plot Long time franchise regular Felix Leiter (CIA) is about to get married. When Isthmusian (?) drug king pin Franz Sanchez is in the area, Bond and Leiter take the opportunity to capture him. Things go pear shaped for them soon after, when Sanchez escapes. Bond makes the pursuit of Sanchez a personal vendetta, for obvious reasons.Franchise clichés Pre-title sequence - The gun barrel sequence has symphonic music before the theme proper starts near the end of that sequence. James prepares for his role as Felix' best man at his wedding. Sanchez is spotted in the area...Theme song - Seems to be a variation on Goldfinger, with Gladys Knight being credited as the singer in the end credits. There is a lovely end title song by Patti LaBelle...If you asked me to...this song should feature on Bond soundtracks! Q - Check. I've got a note under this section which no longer means anything to me Ranad McD Plastic explosive/R McD plastic bag. Must remember to write meaningful notes in future!...edit in 26/01/2012...I think I meant that someone in the movie says plastic with the a sound found in car, like Ranald McDonald (former Australian broadcaster) said that word, e.g. for plaastic bag.M - Check. According to Wiki, this is Robert Brown's 4th time playing M...but just noticed this...he played a different character in The spy who loved me! Wiki also lists this movie as his last in the role.Silly female character names - I'm drawing another blank here...this element hasn't been part of the Dalton movies and won't be...this is Dalton's 2nd and last time in the role.Sexism/misogyny - Another blank here.Wine buffery - No doubt this is product placement, but Bond lowers his standards to fit in with his environment...Pam Bouvier orders a certain brand of beer (with lime!) and Bond says Same when asked for his choice of drink. He also asks for Bollinger R.D another time...they get a mention in the end credits...more product placement. He also utters the immortal line that until Dalton's turn as Bond never got uttered, I don't think...Medium dry vodka martini. Shaken, not stirred.Watch for * Some of the scenes which are intimated are horrific in nature. There is nothing intimated about one scene...people who have seen the horror shocker Scanners will be reminded of it. That movie had an R rating for a scene similar to one in this movie...which is not rated R! * Bond smoking...and the warning on smoking in the end credits! That's called having your cake and eating it too! * A rather young and handsome Benicio del Toro...not sure if I'm confusing him with someone else...but as a middle aged guy his head seems to have swelled...he's nicely proportioned in this movie anyway.* The statuesque beauty of Carey Lowell as Pam Bouvier (Marge's better looking sister?). Carey has an unconventional beauty...can't put my finger on it, apart from that phrase statue-esque. As for 'conventional' beauty, I don't think you can go pass the gorgeous Britt Ekland in The man with the golden gun, I think.* Sanchez calling Bond Hermano...not sure what that means! * Bond playing Blackjack...in an earlier movie he played some inscrutable card game...wish I'd made a note on that...hopefully I have! * This might be the first time a Bond movie has not been filmed at Pinewood Studios...not counting the unofficial Never say never again, of course. It was filmed at Mexico Studios...in Mexico...Note to self - Bond knows Bouvier, I think, from somewhere else...the wedding?Conclusion Not sure how many Dalton movies I saw at the time..maybe just the one. Memory not strong...maybe I found the tone of his movies too serious? In any case, having seen his two movies recently I have to say that he was very good in the role...the seriousness is actually a positive now. In fact, it could have done with some more...too many comic book moments in them.Could give this movie as much as 85/100...it's a welcome and effective change of pace from the usual formula. "},{"Title":"Licence Revoked...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In a summer line-up consisting of 'Batman', 'Star Trek V', and 'Indiana Jones and The Last Crusade', was it all too surprising where this film ended up in Bond lore?The last 007 film to be released as a summer blockbuster (Goldeneye started the mid-November trend), it also served as Dalton's Bond swan song, though it would take 6 years to realize.'License' was originally titled 'License Revoked' and culled together several of the leftover plots from Ian Flemming's original stories that producers, through the years, had left alone.This film gave us the perfect Dalton Bond, tough, gritty and walking the line of stone cold agent versus vigilante... darker than any Connery role since 'Dr. No' and colder than Moore in 'Eyes Only'. 'Licence' was also the first film to nearly be branded by an 'R' rating, though it survived to PG-13.Although less 007 than 'Living Daylights', this film does make a good movie, and presents Dalton a bit more range to play off of with a well sewn supporting cast. Falling short of epic, bring the popcorn but don't worry, bathroom breaks are allowed. "},{"Title":"A gritty revenge thriller","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To refresh your memory, LICENCE TO KILL is the Bond movie with Wayne Newton, the shark tank, Felix Leiter's serious injury, the South American cocaine ring, a young Benicio Del Toro, the drug manufacturing plant, the tanker truck chase, and James Bond as a rogue agent.In my mind, LICENCE TO KILL is definitely one of the lesser Bonds. It hardly has the look or feel of a Bond film. It's surprisingly gritty and violent. Cold-blooded killing, shark attacks, bone-crushing grinders, people burned alive, etc. There's nothing fun about this movie. James Bond is fueled by a personal vendetta, after his pal Felix winds up in a hospital. He is stripped of his British Secret Service-mandated license to kill and goes off on his own, hell-bent on revenge.The film marked the second and last time Timothy Dalton would portray 007. (Overall it was the sixteenth film in the series.) The action takes place in the Florida Keys and Latin America.The first hour or so is barely distinguishable from any other late-'80s American action flick. The movie gets rolling once the action shifts from Florida to South America. We get glimpses of Bond's MI6 buddies (M, Moneypenny, Q), we see Bond dress up in a tuxedo and visit a casino, we see the latest in cutting-edge spy gadgets, and we are introduced to the film's crazy character. This time around, the part is played by famous Las Vegas entertainer Wayne Newton. His character is a sort of televangelist whose spiritual resorts serve as a cover for an illegal drug circle.Carey Lowell plays a CIA agent who helps 007 take on the drug cartel. She's a pretty good Bond girl, proving to be quite capable of handling any situation. And she's not too hard on the eyes, either. The other Bond beauty in the film is Talisa Soto as the drug kingpin Sanchez's girlfriend. Sanchez is played ruthlessly by rough-faced Robert Davi, with a young Benicio Del Toro playing one of his henchmen.It's also nice to see Q (Desmond Llewelyn) have more to do out in the field, assisting 007 while on leave from MI6.Timothy Dalton is a good actor and he has some fine moments as Bond in this entry. It was cool seeing a resourceful James Bond work his way into the villain's good graces. And I enjoyed the final scene in the film where Bond jumps into the pool. It would have been interesting to see Dalton continue in the role of the super-spy.I admit LICENCE TO KILL is one of my least favorite James Bond movies. I don't like the way it starts off, but it improves about halfway in and it's not *that* bad. Just not as good as other films in the series. It's probably the most serious of the pre-Daniel Craig Bonds, without much of the wit and sense of adventure that made the franchise so popular. There's plenty of gritty action and excellent stuntwork, but I still find the film somewhat lacking. After LICENCE it would be six years before 007 would return to cinemas, with Pierce Brosnan taking over the role in GOLDENEYE (1995). "},{"Title":"A Bond Film that has gotten better over time","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have to say I love ALL the Bond films. It really amuses me how wannbe critics like to slam Roger Moore's films. True, he should have stopped at For Your Eyes Only and even though I loved Octopussy and A View To a Kill, he was wayyyy to old to do the part. Especially in A View To a Kill he had one of those plastic surgeries on his eyes and he looked really silly. When I first saw License To Kill in the summer of 1989 I was almost 20 and even though I liked it because I love Bond I was a bit disappointed at first. It seemed to me to be more of an episode of Miami Vice than a James Bond film. But after seeing it a few times over the last 19 years and reading Ian Fleming's books, I really love it! Spoiler after this... The tie in of Bond avenging his friend Leiter was perfect. Leiter's wife is killed literally a the evening of the wedding. This is personal for Bond because in On Her Majesty's Secret Service he loses his wife Teresa or Tracy as she liked to be called, to the same kind of criminal mind as Robert Davi's Sanchez. Ernst Stavro Blofeld tries to kill Bond for paralyzing him in a tree branch after their fight on the bobsled track. Instead of killing Bond the bullet kills Tracy. Then of course Bond had his revenge on Blofeld at the beginning of For Your Eyes Only, truly a great death for a villain! But these memories are Bond's sensitive side that he rarely reveals. And when Leiter's wife is murdered, it brings it all back and he just becomes a cold killing machine, of course with the Bond suave we all know! The scene where Sanchez dies is especially terrific when after they both get thrown off a gas truck and Sanchez is bloodied and soaked with Gasoline he asks Bond before he wants to kill him you could have had everything and Bond pulls out the cigarette lighter that Leiter and his wife gave him at the wedding reception at the beginning of the film. Looks at Sanchez and says don't you want to know why? and as Sanchez looks down he sees the inscription of Felix and his wife's name, realizes who he REALLY is and a second later Bond flicks the lighter on him and Sanchez screams and burns to death. Perfect ending for someone like that I thought! And as other posters have truthfully said, the song at the end is the best! All in all a very good Bond movie that stands the test of time! "},{"Title":"Every Recurrent Action Hero Needs A Vengeful Rampage Film","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence To Kill has some of the worst mandatory Bond film one-liners I've ever heard, most of them said in a seeming hurry so that the scene can just hurry up and move on, only to realize that the rest of the dialogue isn't much better. In fact, this is a very poorly written film in general. Also, the two Bond women, Carey Lowell and Talisa Soto, deliver two of the worst performances delivered in any of the twenty-one James Bond films to date. They are almost staggeringly bad, stale, scripted, stilted, like two reluctant students being made to read aloud in class. But, there is something unique about this particular installment in the 007 series that must be cherished and given notice. That is its renegade darkness, its fearless exploration of more intense scenes of violence, its use of black and deep red in the costumes, sets, and cinematography, the chance the series took to be like other action movies instead of being isolated a James Bond film. Albert R. Broccoli simply decided to completely suspend the series from Ian Fleming's original stories and give Bond a reason to upstage his usual professional courtesy in his killing and knocking unconscious with seriously vindictive and malicious intent. Every villain and henchman gets Bond's spiciest flavor of dispatch.The locations may not be as exotic and brazen as usual and the unusually intense violence may be a little too sporadic, but the villains are as mean as they come. Robert Davi's drug lord Franz Sanchez is ruthless, sick, and completely aware of it, and we are informed of this from the get-go. Every one of his lackeys is no less depraved and sadistic. They don't just have you shot, they have some unheard-of ways of making an example out of you. The highlight of the antagonists is Benicio Del Toro. When I first saw this, Del Toro was not at all a star, and hardly anyone had ever heard of him. But he stood out to me. He doesn't have too much screen time, but what he does with what he has is nothing short of effective.Yes, Licence To Kill may technically be a very lame script, a mostly deplorable cast, and not exactly an intelligent movie, but at heart, it just wants to run free and let Bond unwind that deeply violent heart of his. The musical score pounds, the climax is short but quite fun, and newly dark themes that suddenly rush through this final film before the franchise's six-year break are well worth it. "},{"Title":"Not the best Bond film but one of my favorites for one reason Desmond Llewelyn","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT I'll be taking about events in the movie that, depending on how much you know or want to know about what happens, can be considered spoilers. So, if by some chance you haven't seen the movie yet, you might want to skip this.We all know what  Q's (and Desmond Llewelyn's) role was for most of the series. He would appear at the beginning (sometimes later in the movie, just to add some variation) to give Bond his latest gadgets and send Bond off on the mission with a plea that he return them for once. At the end, Q and M would catch Bond flagrante delicto, and Q would utter, Oh, Bond. Not this time.For once, Q is part of the mission, whether Bond likes it or not. When he gives Bond the new toys, he stays. Bond tells him repeatedly, Thank you, Q, now go home and each time you can see in Llewelyn's face that that is last thing Q wants to do.  He gets to put on a disguise, cheesy though it may be. For the first, time, he gets to play spy, and he's having the time of his life. "},{"Title":"A Dark & Underrated Bond Film","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Minor/Vague SpoilersLicence to Kill, released in 1989, is the sixteenth film by EON Productions. It is also Timothy Dalton's second and final appearance as Bond as well as director John Glen's fifth and final consecutive Bond film. As I have gone through a re-watch of the franchise from Dr. No (1962) till now, it wasn't until I saw this film that I felt like I should write a review because it does seem like it is an underrated film among the James Bond franchise. Something that separates this film from most of the others that had preceded it is that it definitely has a different tone that proves to be worthy of a top 5 Bond film. The storyline involves Bond being suspended from MI6 when he seeks vengeance on drug lord Franz Sanchez, played by Robert Davi, who tortured his best friend, CIA agent Felix Leiter, portrayed by David Hedison reprising his role, and murdered his wife after he helped captured him. Dalton plays this role very seriously unlike the previous three Bonds before him, Sean Connery, George Lazenby, and Roger Moore. Everything that was campy about Bond that Moore brought to the role is completely gone. No more is he swinging from vines or sneaking into a woman only island disguised as a crocodile. While I'm sure, at the time, this would have been some kind of a shock because of the tone, even with Dalton's previous Bond film; The Living Daylights (1987), there were some elements from previous Bond's still leftover.The main theme, sung by Gladys Knight, known as the Empress of Soul is a great fit to the theme songs that came before it. The only negative would be that it does not really fit with the tone of the actual film it is in. The film is definitely much different to previous films and even most that came after it and the main reason for this is that it is a personal story. Connery's final Bond film Diamonds Are Forever (1971) is really the only one that comes close to a revenge film and that could be argued that it is only in the cold open for the majority of the movie. This film doesn't have the main villain wanting to take over the world and instead is on a smaller scale relative to previous Bond villains. Davi plays the role of evil drug lord and seems to have a certain charm to him that separates him from other villains. A young Benicio Del Toro plays Dario, Sanchez's henchman, who brings a feeling of intimidation whenever he is on screen. I think this may be my favourite Desmond Llewelyn performance as Q because he has much more to do than just give Bond his gadgets and send him on his way. He plays an important role in helping Bond in the field. I think because of this we get to know more about Q and his personality which usually takes a backseat. There is more room for banter with him and Bond that really shows their great chemistry together. Carey Lowell is this films Bond Girl Pam Bouvier who I really enjoyed in this film as she, like Q, had a lot more to do when helping Bond in the film and was also a lot more useful than previous Bond Girls.This film is more violent than some of the previous films, for example, there is a scene where one of the second in command gets their head exploded in a decompression chamber. While this is true it is because of this grittiness and violence that seems to make it more realistic which makes it a better film. I think this also changes the direction overall of the Bond films moving forward and making them darker and much less campy&#x85; notwithstanding Pierce Brosnan's later film Die Another Day.Overall, this film definitely improved upon my re-watch of the entire James Bond franchise and much like Lazenby's On Her Majesty's Secret Service it should no longer be as underrated as it seems to be when 'what are the greatest Bond films' discussion takes place. "}{"Title":"Timothy as 007 much darker much stronger & deadlier this time","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the success of The living daylights Timothy Dalton is back in Licence to kill. This time he is much darker, deadlier & much stronger than before. The film was previously titled Licence revoked but United Artist thought that American's wont understand what Revoked means? Strange. Licence to kill began 007 attending his best friend CIA agent Felix leiter's wedding's, but as usual nothing is easy to go on 007 way. 007 is out for revenge a task which is not assigned by M.This film has the original story not from Ian Fleming's novel. John Glen final performance as bond movie director does a outstanding job for this movie. Truly a bond movie on the other hand Timothy playing 007.Originally John Barry was supposed to conduct score for this movie. but due to severe throat infection he was not able to this time, so Michael Kamen steps in & does a wonderful job for Licence to kill. The title track of movie is the best track ever in bond series which is performed by Glady knight. This movie has the longest role of Q in the whole bond series & he plays wonderfully. Robert Davi plays his role perfectly as drug dealer. I still dnt understand why this movie is so underrated in bond series & why it is considered the worst bond movies ever ? Resources say that Timothy Dalton wouldn't return as James Bond cause of failure of Licence to kill by United Artist. Totally disagree. My Rating 10/10 for Licence to kill. "},{"Title":"Where all other Bonds begin, this one ends.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a disappointment! This is definitively the weakest Bondfilm ever made. The filmmakers have totally ignored Fleming's style and atmosphere and made something completely new and different. It feels more like an American B-action than a Bondfilm. Timothy Dalton lacks charm and charisma and can't match up with Connery, Lazenby, Moore or Brosnan. But he deserves a better film than this. "},{"Title":"Gruesome","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the only R-rated James Bond movie, even though all of them have been full of sex and violence. Reason they push things to extreme here. James Bond's CIA friend is maimed by a shark and left alive, his bride is raped and killed, and Bond's first response is to have a corrupt agent fed alive to sharks himself. And this is only the beginning.The main villain is a drug lord, whom the British secret service says Bond shouldn't waste his time on, despite everything. The idea is that Bond is supposed to be intensely loyal to his country...but he abandons all that in his wildcat revenge against the drug lord. The villain, bad though he is, is not on a level with Goldfinger or other genuine world threats, and one would have expected Bond to deal with him on his own accord, when the right time came. But Bond doesn't act like Bond; he acts like Rambo. And in the end he winds up simply back in the British secret service as if nothing happened. That's a little too forgiving for any entity to deal with someone who breaks its core rules. "},{"Title":"After a great start, Dalton's career as Bond suddenly goes downhill.","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" First let me just say that a Bond film is a Bond film, and I have yet to find one that wasn't at least a little bit fun. But this is probably one of the weaker entries in the series. Timothy Dalton continues to do a great job with his more vulnerable but tough depiction of our hero, and the film has a couple other fairly capable actors, but most of the supporting cast is surprisingly weak. As if they wanted to save money by hiring a bunch of low rate, B-movie actors, and considering the series was in a financial crisis at the time, I wouldn't be surprised if that's what they did. The fact is, this film failed where Casino Royale succeeded - a grittier, tougher, closer to Fleming style of Bond. It starts to go in the right direction but is restrained by some of the campy humor that was more known in the Roger Moore films. We get a tough as nails, more cold blooded hero, but we still have Bond on the back of an airplane in mid-flight, doing stunts in an 18-wheeler, and... Wayne Newton, who provides us with our comic relief. Some fans credit this film as being one of the truest to the original Fleming books, in terms of style, and while I admit Dalton does the author justice, overall, the movie's darker, serious moments are more of a nod towards Miami Vice or Lethal Weapon (the 80s action movie trend) rather than anything close to Fleming. The film does have some redeeming qualities, however. The action, particularly the tanker truck climax, is exciting. Cary Lowell makes for an interesting love interest, as a tough, sarcastic, shotgun wielding CIA agent. While probably one of the weaker actresses of the series, she has a certain charm about her and a screen chemistry with Dalton that works. And she goes through a wicked transformation in her appearance, from a somewhat plain looking tomboy to gorgeous woman with class, that has both the audience and 007 doing a double take. The villain, Sanchez is almost too ordinary and doesn't have that tongue-in-cheek quality that makes the best Bond villains memorable. Robert Davi is sinister enough however, and gives a fairly decent performance overall. I also love the fact that Bond plays Iago (metaphorically speaking) in this one; pretending to help Sanchez and eventually gaining his trust, before ripping his organization apart from the inside. The movie also seems to bring to question a moral conflict within our hero, which is unique. In the start of the film, Bond sets out on a mission of vengeance, but later he has a realization that there is more to the picture than just his personal vendetta, which seems to imply the notion of what justice really is. Unfortunately, the movie suddenly diverts back to the action when this is realized and doesn't take the time to develop the idea at all.All in all, Licence to Kill can be a fun Bond flick, but it's a film that takes itself too seriously in some areas and not seriously enough in others and tends to lose it's charm along the way. "},{"Title":"Interesting Installment in Series Nearly Reaches Greatness.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton's short run as Bond ended with this wild and crazed film that has Bond going after Colombian drug lord Robert Davi after his friend Felix (David Hedison) is brutally mutilated by a tank full of hungry sharks. Hedison's new wife was also killed in the venture. The British want Bond to forget the matter and start a new assignment, but Bond decides to pull rank and seek revenge on his own. He gets help from the hot Carey Lowell, but also seems to have eyes for Davi's woman (the breath-taking Talisa Soto). A wild plan to get money to manufacture drugs is developed by Davi with the help of silly evangelist Wayne Newton. Benicio Del Toro is also along for the ride as Davi's most dangerous henchman. I really like Licence to Kill, but it is not as solid as I would like. There are some shortcomings that keep Licence to Kill from being as good as it should have been. Still not a bad installment in the vastly popular series. 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Up there with Goldfinger","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Like I said in my Die Another Day review, i have all of the bond films, and never say never again, with a couple of behind the scenes tapes n what not...so listen up yuz! How can so many ppl hate this movie so much? This bond movie had everything the new ones lack. Story...very cool. Bond goin renegade...breath of fresh air, cool. Extra smart violence...cool. and by smart violence i mean it is to know how not to be like vin diesel's ridiculous XXX, but to give ppl thinking that guy deserves that exactly what they wanted to see. Was there espionage? Oh yeah!!! Dalton and Davi were practically friends half way through, and that's what Bond is, or at least was, ALL ABOUT. This movie had a perfect mix of class, glamour, ingenuity, suspense and action.  There's nothing more you could ask for. "},{"Title":"Dalton's final Bond appearance is a serious one.","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is Timothy Dalton's second and final appearance playing James Bond, and the mission takes him to track down drug baron Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), who left Bond's good friend, Felix Leiter (David Hedison) near death. Feeling that Sanchez should be the least of Bond's worries, MI6 chief M strips 007 of his license to kill. This leaves Bond sneaking away to find Sanchez unofficially.Full of vengeance and suspense, this is one of the most serious Bond films. Unlike Connery and Moore, Dalton gave Bond's character more emotions and realism; this is evident in the scenes where 007 cries over the lifeless body his friend's wife, and him showing anger and confusion when he was stripped of his license to kill. While Connery and Moore displayed more levels of confidence and suaveness, and having a somewhat superficial personality and unphased emotions, Dalton showed more feelings that are more inclined to everyday people, and even displayed much drama (such as in the scene when he argued about his priority assignments with M). It's a huge contrast, but all acted out very well in the story.This movie is full of thrilling non-stop action, and villains you would love to hate and root against, most notably, Franz Sanchez. And, this movie features the biggest role that Q (Desmond Llewelyn) has. Q has always had a somewhat cynical and frustrated working relationship with Connery and Moore's Bond, as well as with Pierce Brosnan's Bond. However, in this movie, Q has a more rapport relationship with Dalton's Bond and even showed concern in his well-being.With all these elements, along with a solid plot, this is one unique 007 movie and a good one to close out Dalton's brief but touching portrayal of the agent.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"final outing for Dalton as 007","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton in his final outing as James Bond, is out for revenge as stalwart ally Felix Leiter, (David Hedison) is abducted along with his wife and has a disagreement with something that ate him,Dalton against the wishes of MI5 has his Licence Revoked (this was the Original title of the film, but was changed to avoid it sounding like a film about careless drivers!)and sets off as a rogue agent determined to bring down Drug baron Franz Sanchez,(Robert Davi who just has to be one of the best Bond Villains ever!Bond gains the aide of one of CIA Operative Pam Bouvier(Carey Lowell) and together with a little help from Q branch infiltrates Sanchezs' drug factories and proceeds to bring him down. final outing for Timothy Dalton as 007 which is sad as he truly captured some of the Ian Fleming essence, Michael Kamen contributes an excellent score. "},{"Title":"Bond gives up his Licence to kill to avenge his friend Felix Leiter","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Now i understand the difference between a typical bond movie and Licence to Kill. A typical Bond Movie has a super villain with a havoc creating weapon or plan. a typical bond movie has a bit of humor. a typical bond is enjoying things. a typical bond enjoys interactions with bond girls.these are all the missing points of Licence to Kill. where i enjoyed Licence to kill as a good action movie, and liked one of the bond girls pretty much, there wasn't typical bond stuff in it. the actions were a bit gross. there was no world dominating evil plan. no deadly weapon. only revenge. and also, the script doesn't fully cover loop holes. for instance, bonds reaction and emotion after avenging his friend wasn't good enough. and the bond girls? they were good and smashing.. the chemistry between Lowell and Dalton wasn't bad, but things didn't work out well..Dalton seemed more interested in the actions than the girls. no real bondish romantic sequence.. and this movie got a PG-13 rating. they ought to have used some of that on those scenes... so as a bond movie, Licence to kill isn't good. but as a action movie, its smashing! "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated Bond flick.","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I loved this movie back when it first came out in 1989, and it still holds up well today. Timothy Dalton is absolutely terrific in his second outing as Bond, and I really wish we could have been treated to more Dalton outings as 007. He brought a level of humanity to Bond that really works in a story such as this one in which revenge is a central theme. One of the things I liked about Dalton's Bond was that he got enraged when a friend or ally was killed, whereas in some of the other Bond movies, Bond seemed more indifferent. I can't speak highly enough of what Dalton did with the role.Robert Davi makes an equally memorable villain as the drug lord Sanchez. The scene where he has Felix Leiter maimed by the shark is chilling. While Sanchez has a sadistic side to him, Davi also conveys a very interesting code of honor in the character as well, making Sanchez much more than a one-dimensional cookie cutter villain. I put in my top 5 of best Bond villains.The rest of the cast is excellent. Carey Lowell is a refreshingly capable Bond girl. Anthony Zerbe does well as the sub-villain, Krest. And a very young Benicio del Toro is a standout with his menacing presence as Dario, Sanchez's chief assassin.The action scenes are thrilling, especially with the gasoline trucks at the end. And Gladys Knight does a good job with the theme song.I highly recommend Licence to Kill. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Had a strange Early 1980's TV feel to it.","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am taking my son through the bond movies by decade. It is fascinating to note, not just the differences in how the different actors portrayed 007, but the movies all reflecting the social values of the decades which produced them. That said, Dalton's bond portrays a need for vengeance that is almost stoic emotionally; he is chaste, but abruptly makes sexual connections later in the movie that seem forced and contrived. He is dedicated to his American friends, yet seemed inexplicably detached from Q and M, his British colleagues. I found these unique personality quirks to lack the refined depth and dimensionality of the Connery bond. On a side note, this bond movie had a very strange production value feel to it, an almost campy soap opera or TV A-Team feel to it, with interlude music and film stock that made it appear more like a TV show, and the bond, as portrayed, felt more like a TV show protagonist than a feature film. "},{"Title":"An awesome Bond flick","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton made an excellent Bond (this may shock some people).  This movie starts out with the usual chase but ends in Bond parachuting to a wedding.After his best friend's (Felix Leiter) wedding, a group of thugs kill Felix's wife and greatly harm Felix.  This turns into a personal vendetta against the baddies.Bond decides to strike out against the chief crook without the blessing of MI-6.It's refreshing to see Bond act human.  Dalton gives the character a range of emotions that often lacks in other Bond films.  Ian fleming, if he were still alive, might have found this Bond closer to the Bond in his books.Bond actually has feelings!One of my favorite Bond movies!  Roger Moore has nothing on Mr. Dalton.  Given a few more pictures, he would have grown even further in the character.  "},{"Title":"The Breakdown Of Bond's Relationship With HMSS","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  License To Kill tries to add a new wrinkle to the James Bond series, and it works as the most underrated of the series.  Timothy Dalton deserves greater respect for his performances as 007 than he usually gets, because he imbues the character with superb hard-nosed cynisicm that comes out most strongly here.The strains within James' relationship with HMSS have been touched on in previous Bond films (notably in 1969's On Her Majesty's Secret Service), but this is the first film to show outright meltdown in that relationship, as Bond vows to avenge a brutal attack that gravely injures his friend Felix Leiter (David Hedison) and kills Leiter's bride - an attack carried out by vicious drug lord Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), who is arming himself with high-tech weaponry.James' mission of vengeance nearly explodes in his face, but he succeeds in piercing Sanchez' empire and this leads to a wild desert chase in liquid-heroin-filled tanker trucks, a chase which erupts in flame and leads to a final showdown between Bond and Sanchez.   "},{"Title":"Franchise to Kill","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pros &#150; Very few. Timothy Dalton is an underrated Bond (My favorite Bond after Connery, actually). Desmond Llewelyn as Q is given more to do here than any other Bond movie. And hey, there's Benecio del Toro in an early role.Cons &#150; Bond in a bar brawl. Bond punches Q. Felix Leiter gazes lustfully at a nurse just days after his wife is brutally raped and killed. Wayne Newton.This isn't a Bond movie. It's a Steven Segal revenge flick. Except waaaaaaaaaay tackier.  "},{"Title":"Another Thrilling Dalton Film that is a Refreshing Change of Pace","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film, the last James Bond film of the Cold War era, has been criticized by many for not being traditional Bond. However, in my opinion, that is part of what makes the film great. I love the darker, more violent approach that this entry took.Timothy Dalton is once again exceptional as James Bond. His more serious style of playing Bond makes him completely at home in this film. Sadly, this was his final Bond film. He did great in the two films he was in.Franz Sanchez is an outstanding villain. For my money, he is one of the top 5 villains of the series. Robert Davi plays the role with charisma, style, and real grit. His henchmen, Dario, played by Benicio del Toro, however, was shamefully underused, and Sanchez' girlfriend Lupe could have been better developed.The story is more serious and realistic than usual, and that makes for a good change of pace. Like in the last film, the locations, this time in Floida and Mexico, aren't as big or epic but have more of a realism to them.This film also delivers as far as action goes. The truck chase in the mountains, in particular, was the real show stealer. It was absolutely pulse-pounding; I would put it up against any of the best action scenes in the series. Another benefit is that it has one of the better Bond girls, Pam Bouvier, played by Carey Lowell. The theme song by Gladys Knight is also pretty nice.Dark, violent, and gritty, this is definitely one of the best films of the series. It was a great second and final outing for Dalton and a great ending to the Bond of the Cold War. Bond would not return until 6 years later.9/10 "},{"Title":"It's unbelievable how this and The Living Daylights were underrated","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill is without a doubt, one of the best Bond films ever produced. The plot is complex and the action is entertaining. Timothy Dalton, in my opinion, is the best actor to portray the character. I cannot believe how underrated this Bond film is when it captures the theme of Bond novel stories (especially how Dalton captures the main character itself) and it beats the campy Moore Bond flicks and is slightly better than the Connery Bonds, as it is more realistic and darker. Hopefully, as more people would come to familiarize themselves w/ Fleming's Bond novels, the more they will recognize Dalton's 2 Bond flicks, which are among the best of the film franchise. "},{"Title":"An AMAZING Bond Film!","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The most underrated film ever. I'm serious! Licence to Kill is a fantastic action film. The movie is about Bond out for revenge. He is not on an MI6 mission, Bond is angry at the character of Franz Sanchez who was played magnificently by Robert Davi. Easily the darkest film of the series, this is one of the few Bond films that went away from all of the campyness the series was known for. After disasters like Moonraker and A View to a Kill, Timothy Dalton became Bond and it is a true shame that he didn't play Bond a third time. Dalton is my favorite Bond actor. This movie is totally worth the watch.Watch it. Please! "},{"Title":"A Bond Film For Those Who Love The Ian Fleming Books","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My father had nearly all of the James Bond books and as a child I read them. What always struck me was the differences between the books and the movies.I always felt the movies never quite captured 007's real personality or nature. The books had a harder edge that the movies, particularly the Roger Moore ones lacked.Then along came Licence To Kill. This was the one Bond that actually seemed to be the closest to Ian Fleming's version of James Bond. Harder edged, cunning and with more than a streak of cruelty, and Timothy Dalton certainly did him justice.I could not understand why the film flopped at the time, although it was going up against some big blockbuster movies such as Batman, Lethal Weapon 2 and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. A mistake they have never made again. It was also considered the darkest and most realistically violent Bond to date. Also the fact that Bond was going after a South American drug lord and not one of the more flamboyant villains that audiences were used to.It's a pity because Franz Sanchez, played brilliantly by Robert Davi was in my opinion the best and most interesting Bond villain ever on screen. Cold, ruthless and utterly believable, so much so that according to legend, a real Mexican drug lord congratulated Davi on his realistic portrayal of a drug lord.Benicio del Toro, the youngest man ever to play a henchman, (he was 21 at the time) played Dario, Sanchez's personal enforcer was a treat to watch. Talisa Soto as Lupe Lamora, Sanchez's girlfriend and Carey Lowell as Pam Bouvier, an ex-Army pilot and CIA informant were both quite good in their respective roles. It was a treat to see Anthony Zerbe as Milton Krest, a character lifted from the short story, The Hildebrand Rarity as well as David Hedison as Felix Leiter and Desmond Llewelyn as Q.This film is not for the faint hearted, it is violent and the violence is brutal and realistic, it does not shy away as some of the other Bond films tended to do. The scene where Sanchez whips Lupe with a stingray tail made me wince (and made me wonder what happened to the rest of the stingray) and later you actually the bloodied welts across her lower back. Her lover having his heart cut out and although you don't see it, his scream is blood curdling. Also the scene where Leiter's leg is bitten off by a shark and Krest's head exploding in the hyperbaric chamber. Dario slowly being minced in a grinding machine and at the end when Bond sets Sanchez on fire. There is a lot of blood and explosions to be sure, but this is the Bond that Ian Fleming created, this is at heart, a true Bond story.Perhaps that is why people did not like it and the critics panned it, to them it was too gritty, not the suave polished fun James Bond with tongue firmly in cheek and gadgets at hand, although there are a few here. The scene with Pam Bouvier fiddling with a laser camera was hilarious.All up this is a Bond film for people who love the books and like a harder edged story with realistic villains and a Bond that goes rogue and gets innocent people killed all so he can extract revenge for the murder of his best friend's wife and his friend's maiming at the jaws of a shark.I have noticed it has now reached cult status and many critics are actually now giving it a more favourable review. Watch it if you really want to see Ian Fleming's creation brought to life. "},{"Title":"One of the best 007 movies","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A typical revenge story. After drug lord Franz Sanchez maims Felix Leiter and kills Leiter's wife shortly after their wedding, James Bond sets out on a personal quest for revenge at any cost; even if it means going rogue from MI6.This is maybe the darker, more realistic pre-Craig Bond. However, unlike Craig's, this one manages to keep the feeling of a Bond movie. There is still that flair of fantasy going around, easily noted in the opening scenes, but they try to keep it from going too far; after Moore's more light-hearted approach to the franchise, it's quite nice to see it going serious again.Timothy Dalton is fantastic here. After a rather forgettable first attempt in TLD, he manages find the balance only Sean Connery had. He is charming and charismatic, his eyes always having that playful spark on them. Yet, he is also ruthless when he needs to be and manages to remember us what is Bond; his cold-blood as he tries to get closer to Sanchez, as he sets a man on fire and watches as another has his head exploded... This is no ordinary man on a revenge quest this is a professional killer who knows what he is doing and will do anything to get it done. His stunts are believably well-done too.Also unlike the newer Bonds, the girls also shine in here. Talisa Soto is beautiful as Lupe and in most other movies would have robbed the spotlight, but Carey Lowell gives her a run for her money. Her Pam is one of the best Bond girls I've seen and her final scenes with Dalton's Bond are beautifully romantic, something from a classic romance. Other important roles in the cast are Desmond Llewelyn, who gets an increased screen time as Q, and Robert Davi who plays villain Sanchez, one of the most ruthless Bond villain but who doesn't really shine in here. It's also fun to note a young Benicio del Toro in one of his first roles.Licence to Kill is one of the better 007 movies, and quite a nice change of pace from Moore's fantastic outings. It's a shame it went into hiatus and we didn't get to see Dalton play this role more times, which is even more sad because of the Roger Moore wannabe that replaced him. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite Bond movies and I have always been surprised how many people did not like it, or have never seen it. Usually I watch James Bond movies for the magnificent stunts and spectacular locations, and can never remember the convoluted plots by the end of the film. However, this one is different. The stunts are first-rate as always, though the locations are not as exotic. The plot is unusually straightforward, yet his methods are not. Watching Bond sow seeds of doubt in Sanchez's head, inciting Sanchez to do the bulk of the work in destroying his own operation, still amuses me even after numerous viewings. Even though I enjoyed Pierce Brosnan's performance as Bond, after Licence to Kill, I was always disappointed that Timothy Dalton did not take a few extra turns at the character. "}{"Title":"John Barry, where are you ?","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Not the worst Bond movie but certainly belongs somewhere in the bottom of the barrel. Biggest problem might be the (uncharacteristic for 007) below average production values but what really sinks it is the mediocre score by Michael Kamen. Just compare this score to the terrific one in the Living Daylights and you'll see what I mean. If only Dalton had been given the right materials, I believe his Bond performance would be much better remembered than what it is today. His critics have been unfairly harsh but Pierce Brosnan was clearly a better choice, still, had Brosnan done Licence to Kill I doubt he would have escaped this thing unharmed. Best thing I can say about LTK ? It's much better than A View to a Kill but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Please don't bet that you'll ever escape","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how LICENCE TO KILL rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title LICENCE TO KILL Possibly the prefect Bond movie title, but it kinda loses it punch when it isn't used until 15 films in the series. Still, it's better than the original title, LICENCE REVOKED. 6 points.Pre-Credit Teaser A funny thing happened on the way to the church.... Bond gets sidetracked from his duties as best man by a visiting drug lord. It is a rare glimpse of James doing something outside of being a spy, yet it shows how he really has no private life at all. 8 points.Opening Credits Maurice Binder's final contribution to the series begins with a groan it features the film's first and most obvious product placement, for an Olympus camera. Tacky, even for a series that is absolutely shameless in it's commercialism. The suggestive material that follows include the repeated image of women getting shot in the back. 2 points.Theme Song Who in their right mind would think a title like Licence to Kill is an appropriate lyric for a romantic ballad. Well, four guys did, that is how many contributed to this forgettable, albeit homicidal song with lines like Please don't bet that you'll ever escape me / Once I get my sights on you. and Got a license to kill (to kill) / Anyone who tries to tear us apart. Hmmmm.... Even the wonderful voice of Gladys Knight can't disguise the psychotic leanings of this dreary number. Terrible and creepy. 0 points.Bond, James Bond Well, it took both Connery and Moore three films before they could comfortably fill Bond's tuxedo, but, alas, Timothy Dalton just couldn't make it that far. Let's just generously conclude that Dalton and Bond were not a good mix. His gruff and vaguely condescending approach to the part left us neither shaken nor stirred. 3 points.Bond Babes Technically, as Felix Leiter's doomed bride, Priscilla Barnes doesn't qualify as a Bond Girl, since she comes and goes so fast . It's a shame as she is a bright presence in a grim movie. And she is a nice contrast to Talisa Soto's gloomy turn as the villain's abused mistress. That leaves Carey Lowell as Pam Bouvier, one of Bond's classier female cohorts; overlooking that she falls madly in love with James, she is smart, independent and, of course, attractive. And she handles herself quite well in a barroom brawl. The film's best joke Miss Bouvier grimace of disgust at the taste of James signature dry martini. 8 points.Bond Villain For some inexplicable reason, the film has James Bond squaring off against Tony Montana. Well, not really, but obviously drug kingpin Franz Sanchez is modeled after Al Pacino's character in SCARFACE, which is extremely odd since that 1983 Brian DePalma film was a flop. Played by Robert Davi, the mobster is every bit as sadistic as Montana, though far less over the top in style. As part of the new Bond realism, the character lacks style and charm and that certainly doesn't work in his favor. 5 points.Bond Baddies At least Sanchez surrounded himself with a few memorable henchmen, including future Oscar winner Benicio Del Toro, who in a small role gets to suffer one of the film's more memorable deaths. The wonderful Anthony Zerbe would have been great cast as the film's lead villain, but instead makes an impression as a sleazy underling. And also on hand is Wayne Newton; the smarmy Vegas lounge singer plays a smarmy televangelist in the type of oily role that has pretty much made his name a punchline. 7 points.Sinister Plot When the wedding of CIA agent Felix Leiter ends with him maimed and his bride dead, Bond turns vigilante and loses his licence to kill -- though that doesn't stop him from racking up a sizable body count. Curiously, when Bond's own bride was murdered on their wedding day, Bond made very little effort to get revenge, yet here he goes absolutely postal. Anyway, it puts James on the trail of a Latin American drug lord and a whole lot of people get killed and a lot of things blow up. 6 points.Production values The film's saving grace is a chase down a Mexican mountainside involving four tanker trucks filled with gasoline. This is the sort of stuff that the Bond people do so well, especially when they can give it an unexpected twist. 8 points.Bonus Points Kudos to Anthony Starke as Truman-Lodge, Sanchez's yuppie accountant who delights in keeping his boss informed about how much he is worth, but who has a complete meltdown when the business literally starts collapsing. Obsessed with corporate value, Truman-Lodge is at once a satiric attack on the greed of the eighties and a rare acknowledgment by the filmmakers of their own extravagant excesses. 5 points.Summary Turned rogue agent, James goes off all half-cocked (no pun intended), bungling repeatedly as he disrupts several sting operations. We discover that 007 is both a hothead and fallible; two very un-Bond-like qualities. It's admirable that the series tries to do something different, but showing this side of the character only diminishes the whole Bond mystique.Bond-o-meter Rating 58 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"Not horrible... but a departure from tradition is always a risk.","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" All in all, not a bad bond film. Despite it's flaws, I still find it more engaging than other bond films - especially some of the earlier ones such as From Russia with Love (a drawn out unengaging bond that seemed to end half way through) and Live and Let Die (Yawn).However, there are problems that I simply can't get past. First, as a bond fan, I found it irritating that they resorted to a poorly conceived and done to death formula he's now out on his own and thirsty for revenge... his style. This strays from the tradition of Bond and at times, I felt that this could easily have been a non-Bond film if they changed the names of characters and edited a few bits and pieces here and there. And it wouldn't have been mistaken for a Bond or compared to one either.What made it worse was the insertion of Q. AFter Bond has broken ranks with MI6, Q still rolls into town with a bag of gadgets to help him out? It gave me the impression that they were trying to give it as much Bond flavour as they could. The same was the case with the fact that Sanchez had a casino which, of course, gives Bond the opportunity to beat the house out of an obscene amount of money.So in the end, it seemed like just another typical unimaginative action film that they adapted Bond characters and Bond plot devices to.But then again, it's not horrible. In fact, it's rather watchable and it certainly isn't the worst bond ever.Second, the violence in this film was bit too much. The British had a lot of style in showing the Americans that you can make really good actions films without blood, gore, swearing and yelling. But this film didn't follow in the footpath of the others. Having a shark eat Felix's legs off and having that guys head explode in the compression chamber thing was a bit too gross-out for Bond films.Third, there was very little double entrande and well timed one-liners. I love this aspect of all the Bond films, which is why I like Tomorrow Never Dies so much. But the plot was a bit too gloomy and serious to litter with comical, tongue-in-cheek one liners from Bond.In a way, I feel very sorry for Timothy Dalton. After turning down the roll in the past, he finally accepted the role and began with The Living Daylights - one of the finest bonds of all time. Then he was handed this one and as expected, it didn't do well at the box office when compared to all the others. HE was keen to do another bond after this, but legal battles delayed the next Bond and by the time the air was cleared and the producers gave the green-light to Goldeneye, Dalton turned it down. Some think he may have felt too old or perhaps he had simply lost his desire after so many years. Perhaps he felt that if Goldeneye failed too, his career would be virtually ruined.Whatever the reason, he was nonetheless a good Bond that brought gritty realism to the role. If you look at Goldeneye, you will notice that Bond seems relative dark and serious when compared to Tomorrow Never Dies and later ones. This was because the writers wrote Goldeneye under the assumption that Dalton would be playing the lead role.Unfortunately, Dalton managed only one winner and one dud from his stint. That's history I suppose. "},{"Title":"An Essential Bond Film A Look At 'Licence to Kill'","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The James Bond film franchise is officially the most high grossing and famous franchise in history. Probably raking in even more than 'Star Wars' when you put together grosses of all 20 films with toys, magazines, videos, DVDs... It has earned a whole load of money in it's time but sometimes a Bond film needs to come along to put Bond back on track which usually happens after a very over the top film. We've had 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service', 'For Your Eyes Only', 'The World is not Enough' and this film, 'Licence to Kill' or LTK as I will refer to it. LTK is based on part of Ian Fleming's second James Bond book 'Live and Let Die' where Bond's CIA agent buddy Felix Leiter is captured by a character known as The Robber and fed to sharks then left half dead with a note attached to him saying in capital letters HE DISAGREED WITH SOMETHING THAT ATE HIM. When the feature film version came out in 1973, many fans were annoyed to see this excellent sequence hadn't been adapted for the film. It would take a full 16 years to see this scene on film but it certainly pays off. In Timothy Dalton's second and last performance as James Bond, he is the best man for his friend Felix Leiter's (David Hedison reprising his role from 'Live and Let Die') wedding. As Leiter begins his honeymoon, a drug lord called Sanchez (An effective Robert Davi) who Leiter captured early on in the film, escapes and attacks Leiter and rapes and murders his wife. He has Leiter eaten by sharks and left for dead with a note identical to the one in the book 'Live and Let Die'. Bond decides he must avenge Leiter but, in a very well written scene, M (Robert Brown) takes away his licence to kill leading Bond to go on a personal vendetta against Sanchez. It's a very effective film. Dalton is amazing as Bond, Davi is an even superior villain than Telly Savalas, Carey Lowell is one of the best Bond girls in recent years, and Hedison is good in his role as Leiter besides his very over dramatic line I'll See You In Hell! which is a bit too over the top and which makes the other wise brilliant scene too comic. The only fault is the fact that the character of Felix Leiter has never been fully developed in the Bond films. Perhaps the least known recurring character, he has appeared in 7 films and has been played by 6 different actors, all of different age, weight and talent. Originally envisioned to always be played by Jack Lord, he demanded too much money after appearing in the first Bond film because he had just become a huge star on TV. In the books, Felix was sort of like Bond's CIA double but in the films was never fully developed. Although Rik Van Nutter probably portrayed him best in 'Thunderball', Hedison is a close second playing him in this film and 'Live and Let Die'. If the character had been played by the same actor more, his near death may be much more effective but it is done very well as it is. The stand out of this film has to be a young Benicio Del Toro as Sanchez' evil henchman Dario who is a close second to Odd Job as the perfect henchman. Unlike other henchman, he's very smart and lethal and can be quite vicious in many of his scenes. Speaking of viciousness, this film is probably most famous for it's violence. Although the violent bits are not continuous and are few and far between, they stand out for being very brutal but in the end, it only adds to this amazingly tense Bond thriller. However, two scenes that could have been the most violent were never depicted on screen. One was Dario's butchering of Lupe's lover and the other was Dario's rape of Della. These were both tastefully shown off screen and that makes these brutal attacks all the more effective. The script by Richard Maibum and Michael G. Wilson is their best Bond collaboration. They have took the best part of Fleming's 'Live and Let Die' novel and crafted it into a truly stand out Bond film. John Glen's final directing job on the Bond films is a nice farewell to a man who really put his stamp on the Bond films. As noted before, the performances are top notch with Dalton, Lowell, Davi and Del Toro standing out. Bringing a bit of comic relief to the preceedings is gadget master Q who steals the show in many of his scenes. This Bond film finishes up as a truly effective and haunting film which left me stunned. The recent Bond films are excellent but they don't make 'em like this any more. "},{"Title":"The true essence of Bond","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton's second outing as Bond sees him seeking revenge on an evil drug lord, Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), for permanently disabling his old ally Felix, and killing his wife. Here Dalton has grown well into the Bond character, and plays him as a gritty determined killer, much as he was in the Fleming novels. There are some well worked stunts, notably an armoured truck falling into the sea, and the villains subsequent escape, but none of them are ever as over the top, or unrealistic as those seen in the Roger Moore films. Also seen are some excellent gadgets, much missed in the later Moore films. While the formula has been updated for the modern world, and Bond is returned to his macho self in the Sean Connery style. It is a shame Dalton didn't do more Bonds as he certainly had the character to a T.  "},{"Title":"Licence revoked","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence To Kill is actually one of the weaker Bond movies.Dalton can't quite convince as Bond. He sense of humor is completely gone and he has he charisma of an ice cube. Bond is on a mission to kill, but it's still Bond, so lighten up! Licence To Kill somehow doesn't feel as a real Bond movie, it's more of a standard action movie like Die Hard. There's nothing special in it.The actors are quite convincing, but the storyline isn't very fresh. There are some grueling scenes in this one, scenes that don't belong in a Bond movie. Too much violence for my taste.As standard action flick, Licence To Kill is okay, but as a Bond movie it is severely lacking. "},{"Title":"Why Do People Disparage Timothy Dalton's Bond?  He's Fantastic!","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If I had to go into outer space and could only take one Bond film with me, I would choose the 1989 film Licence To Kill starring Timothy Dalton as Bond. Before Casino Royale, this was the most realistic and brutal Bond film available.With a believable villain (a strong Robert Davi) and a story that goes deeper into the character and personality of James Bond, than previous Bond films, Licence To Kill works on dramatic levels, yet it doesn't disappoint on the action/adventure aspects you expect from a Bond film either.When Welsh born actor Timothy Dalton took over playing James Bond in 1987, it was a bleak time for Bond. At fifty-eight, Roger Moore was clearly too old to play Bond anymore. Plus, the cinematic field of action heroes was getting crowded with upstarts like Bruce Willis, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone. Whether it was fair or not, it became Timothy Dalton's job to revive the Bond series and Dalton was determined to take Bond to more dramatic levels and make him a character with recognizable human flaws and weaknesses.Licence To Kill (originally titled Licence Revoked) tells how James Bond gets his notorious license to kill revoked when he disobeys M in order to go after Franz Sanchez, a rich South American drug lord (think an apolitical Noriega). It is a story of betrayal, revenge, loyalty and the laundering of vast amounts of drug money; not the usual Bond plot of a megalomaniac bent on world domination.The film begins with Sanchez being captured by Bond's CIA colleague Felix Leiter (David Hedison) and when Sanchez escapes (after giving a two million dollar bribe), Sanchez takes revenge on Felix and has him mutilated by sharks. This makes Bond see red and he can only think about how he can avenge his friend.But, Bond's forays against Sanchez cause diplomatic trouble for the British government so M orders Bond to drop this personal vendetta. Bond refuses and offers his resignation from the Secret Service. We're not a country club, 007! says M testily, As of now your licence to kill is revoked! But before the other British agents can disarm him, Bond breaks away and becomes a rogue agent.Now operating alone, Bond works his way into Sanchez's criminal organization and along with CIA operative Pam Bouvier (Carrey Lowell), who was working with Leiter and with Q (Desmond Llewellyn) who has come out into the field to help Bond on this quest, Bond manages to befriend Sanchez and slowly begins to sow the seeds of distrust in him. However, in doing this, Bond ruins the careful groundwork laid by other narcotics authorities that also want to bring Sanchez to justice. It seems Bond's private vendetta is causing more problems than it solves.Of course this all leads to a grand confrontation between Bond and Sanchez as well as an exciting finale. At the end of Licence To Kill, Sanchez is trying to move four large tanker trucks filled with a mixture of gasoline and cocaine out of his country. This is a real method used by drug smugglers as the cocaine can be dissolved in the fuel where it is difficult to detect. Later, it can be chemically reconstituted from the gas leaving you with millions of dollars in salable coke and a tanker of gasoline to sell as a bonus. Once again, as with using signature guns, personal computers, space shuttles and portable nuclear weapons, the Bond films are way ahead of everyone else on the science curve.The tanker truck chase finale that ends Licence To Kill is one of the most complex and thrilling chase sequences in the entire Bond series, which is really saying something. The tanker trucks were built by the Kenworth Truck Company of Seattle and cost between $65,000 and $125,000 each. Some were regular trucks, but some were modified to do specific stunts like rear wheelies, side wheelies and rollovers. One truck was rigged so it could be driven by remote control; another had its steering mechanism hidden in the sleeping compartment behind the cab so a stunt driver could operate the vehicle during the close shots where it had to look like the actors were driving. And since this is a Bond film, several trucks were built specifically to be blown up.In Licence To Kill, the parallels between Bond and Sanchez are unusually close. Both men are intelligent, commanding and fiercely loyal to their friends. In other circumstances, these guys could be friends. But here, Bond actively builds up Sanchez's trust, only to break it. It is not an attractive thing to do, but it is dramatic and interesting to see Bond manipulate the drug baron's paranoia.All the production elements in Licence To Kill contribute to the film's harder edge. For example, the music score by the late Michael Kamen is less melodic and sweeping than previous Bond scores. Licence To Kill uses more real locations, less fanciful sets; even the cinematography by Bond regular Alec Mills is harsher with more contrast and less fill light than other Bond films.All of these differences make Licence To Kill stand out as the hardest Bond film of the entire series until Casino Royale. It was a brave choice by Cubby Broccoli to change the successful formula, but I give him lots of credit for taking that chance.And I remain truly mystified at the dislike so many Bond fans have for Timothy Dalton's portrayal of Bond. Dalton was believable in the action sequences and the romantic ones as well. As a woman I know claimed after seeing Licence To Kill as her first Bond film, all Bond actors should look that good in a tight wet suit. "},{"Title":"Shark Sandwich (spoilers)","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Every Bond has his predilections. Connery, for instance, seemed to favour fine wines and slapping women about, while Roger Moore loved bad puns, raised eyebrows and lots and lots of snatch. Then you have Brosnan who enjoyed fiddling with the knot in his tie and mowing hundreds of people down with machine guns (as for Lazenby's speciality, well, he liked playing dress up). But with Timothy Dalton it always seemed to be about fighting and good old revenge. Sure he enjoyed the company of many beautiful ladies, but he always seemed happiest when smashing someone in the mouth or feeding them to a shark. And so it is with Licence to Kill, one of the best of the Bond series and only outdone in the violence stakes by the recent Casino Royale.But even as violent as Casino Royale is with its gonad abuse, it doesn't have men getting their legs munched off by ravenous sharks and seedy bonk-eyed sleazebags getting their heads exploded, does it? So maybe Licence to Kill still holds its crown as the most violent Bond film. But whether that's the case or not is unimportant. What's important is that Licence to Kill is a great Bond film and that Dalton is sorely unappreciated as 007.It's something of a mystery to me why Dalton gets such a hard time from some people. The main complaint is that his Bond is humourless, or even bland. Well, I certainly don't think he's bland and I have no problem with him being humourless. I mean, as much as I love Roger Moore as Bond, he'd run his course. We needed a break from the one-liners and double entendres. Therefore I rather enjoy watching a Bond who just wants to bust heads and maybe score a little snatch on the side.And while on the subject of snatch, Dalton gets spoiled in this film. Sure he doesn't get the sheer volume of lovin' that Moore was accustomed to, but quality is better than quantity, right? After all, Grace Jones would hardly be anyone's first choice shag, would they? Well, at least nobody who's sane. Carey Lowell, on the other hand is one of the best looking Bond girls and one of the least grating. And while Talisa Soto has negligible talent as an actress, she's at least worth a seeing to.It's also worth noting that Bond seems to have something going with Felix Leiter's wife. In the opening scenes they're continually kissing and grabbing one another, and then she lobs her garter in his direction. They're far too touchy-feely to be just friends. So therefore is Bond's revenge dictated by the rage he feels at having his pal become a shark sandwich or at losing a piece of beloved totty? Probably a bit of each actually.But one of the film's main strengths is that the bad guy, Sanchez, is actually quite likable. Everything he does is motivated by greed or personal injustice rather than psychosis &#150; he feeds Felix to the sharks because he's investigating him, he whips his girlfriend because she's cheating on him and he explodes Krest's head because he believes him to be stealing. Therefore you get the impression that had he not killed his friends, Bond and Sanchez might have got along quite well with one another. They certainly have plenty in common. They both like women, they both like the fine things in life and they're both aroused by violence. But at the same time neither one is needlessly cruel. They do what they have to do and that's it. As much of a cliché as it is, they're mirror images, and the film is made all the more interesting by the excellent rapport they have.And it's also quite telling that Sanchez, in some respects, is more Bond than Bond. Certainly when it comes to one-liners. Just take the scene after he kills Krest. What's his response to a whole wedge of cash getting splattered with bits of brain and skull? Launder it. And I love the bit where Sanchez kills his annoying accountant. It's time to start cutting overheads. It's a bit of a shame he has to get killed.But at least Sanchez gets killed in style &#150; being burnt to a crisp is always a good way to go. And the final action scene is excellent with its exploding tankers and gravity defying juggernauts. And it also sees Bond getting bruised and beaten long before Daniel Craig did the same.And it's also wonderful that Bond is a bit of a bastard in this film. He plays mind games with his rival, leading him to believe they're pals; he sets up Krest and watches impassively as he dies; and he grabs women by the hair while threatening to kill them. Wonderful.The only thing that lets the film down somewhat is the political correctness. You get the impression that with Carey Lowell's character they're trying a bit too hard at times to prove that women can be more than ornaments. Not that this is Lowell's fault, as she's a terrific Bond girl, but all the Yes, sir stuff and the harbour pilot sequence is a bit heavy handed &#150; the Bond universe is still a bit uncomfortable with women who aren't just there to be nailed.Another small problem is Felix Leiter. He looks far too happy for someone who's just had his wife killed and vital pieces of his body bitten off. Wouldn't he be just a little bit downcast? But no, he laughs and jokes with James, apparently oblivious to his future as a wheelchair-bound widower.That aside, though, Licence to Kill is a terrific entry in the Bond series. And it also gets extra points for giving Q a decent role. Certainly any film that features a Welshman disguised as a moustachioed Mexican road-sweeper must be doing something right. "},{"Title":"A great end to 80's Bonds","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While coming into the first scenes, although visually pleasing and strong, places set in sunny south Florida, the directing, and some of the lines seem a little 'off and on' again. A Wedding party for Felix Lighter and his lovely young bride, all the while in the middle of hearing 'news' that a drug lord, named Franz Sanchez, that they have been watching is on the loose in the area, they set-up and scramble to grab him! After an eventful, fire fight with Sanchez's men, Franz, escapes, waving jovially at the law as he takes off in his Cessna. They manage with Bond's involvement to catch up to and 'collar' this banana republic, dealer. Sanchez, (Robert Davi) a mean looking and aggressive yet on the other hand sophisticated, even calm and at times mild mannered Cuban king-pin. They all return to the wedding party, minus Sanchez. But, before Felix can collect on the honeymoon, fun, he is betrayed by a fellow, department colleague. A rogue agent, Killifer, (Everett McGill) who gives a good 'hot' and then 'cold' performance. But even his greed couldn't save Killifer from going down. A cool surprise is some of the young actors in the industry that turned out to be big later, are small part nobodies here. Anthony Stark Seinfeld's 'Jimmy' and two young ladies, Talisa Soto and Carrie,(now married to Richard Gere with 2 kids) who played Pam Bouvier, and a couple others like...A young Benicio Del Toro, plays 'Dario' a right hand, young-blood thirsty motivated organization player, who is looking to move up in the biz. Dario is there for Sanchez, for any kind of work or clean-up, that he might need. Some situations in this Bond, like many other Bond's seemed too convenient, to feel 'real'. I.e. the church, wedding party parachuting, right at the front steps of the church, after Sanchez's capture. Stuff like that, everything right in place the first time. Rarely happens, especially that often. Then the bar escape after Dario, meets up with Pam and James. Pam blasts an opening in the wall, with a 12 gage and James gets the boat going, then she gets shot in then back, because she is not looking behind her to make sure no one will shoot her on the way out! Plus the boat scene when they ran out of fuel at sun rise, that whole moment was ruined because they didn't use true light from the sunrise, rather it looked like they shot it at Pinewood Studios (London) they should have used that moment to draw us in deeper to the onset of the romance and relationship between the two love interests. The director in my opinion, missed out on the depth that could have been made through, some dark shadows and after boating through water, they probably would have had more of a wind blown look and some damp or even wet hair. Bond could have that slicked back, look and she would have been a wet super-model. It would have framed that situation and scene to perfect completion of that chapter in the film then, it would be a 'fresh' lead in to the next segment. The casino and Bond's introduction to the banker and then Sanchez. The entry of 'Q' the beloved spy-gadget trainer, from M.I.6. (Desmond Llewelyn). It would be merely a decade later and the second to the last departure movie of another James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) that Llewelyn, would graciously be 'retired' only to pass away in an auto accident in the same year- 1999.Sanchez and a deal for 'Stinger' missiles with the Contra Rebels, remember them? Big news in the eighties. Sanchez is looking to expand out and he is using a Prophet named 'Joe Butcher' and his T.V. broadcast, played by Wayne Newton. A Phoney, but very turned onto all the ladies type guy, in a cult religion, and a 'front' to sell drugs. Can anyone just read ahead? This place is going to burn to the ground!! James is on the case. Overall, this was interesting and at times comical, (good and bad) for me, the story, the action and the acting was what a Bond picture is for, entertainment and high energy-packed fun!!This was the second and last of the 'Timothy Dalton Bonds'. Some have said that he was the least liked of all them, I say, that he was great for the time. Beside, you're only as good as the director and the producers and the writing. Some can go way beyond, because they are good. Dalton was just a different flavor of Bond. He was a satisfying late eighties Bond character. It won't win any awards most likely, but it's a pleasing way to spend two hours, especially if you share the time with someone you care about. Recommended for action and adventure lovers. (***) "},{"Title":"My Favorite Bond Movie; One of My Favorites --Period!","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge James Bond fan so I'll just give you the heads up beforehand that when you read this review, I'm not comparing it to movies outside of the Bond world so much as I am comparing it to other Bond movies.First of all, this is a different type of Bond movie. There isn't some madman trying to take over the world with some diabolical weapon; Robert Davi plays Franz Sanchez who's a criminal drug-lord that actually has values loyalty above everything. He only hires trusted friends and this is how he manages to succeed. Bond and Sanchez's paths cross after Sanchez maims Bond's long time comrade and friend Felix Leiter and kills Leiter's new wife. Bond takes this personally and resigns from MI6 and begins his quest for vengeance.Dalton's interpretation of James Bond has always been my favorite. Hardnosed and dedicated to staying alive and completing the mission rather than the lighthearted playboy nature of Roger Moore or the suave Sean Connery, who always seem to be ready for 'action'. That said, Dalton as Bond in this movie is superb. You see how bitter he is and how rash and dangerous his actions are as he goes into situations alone and using only his own intelligence since he doesn't receive any help from MI6. Eventually he befriends and protects CIA Agent Pam Bouvier played by Carey Lowell, and it's nice to see a Bond girl with some independence, character, and attitude. Not to mention she's easy to look at.Her counterpart is Lupe Lamora played by Talisa Soto, who's also very beautiful, and manages to help James Bond because as Sanchez's girlfriend she wants out but as evidenced by the opening sequence, there's no escape for her. Bond then becomes her way out of a life of crime and being Sanchez's pet (symbolized by the iguana Sanchez has) and he then acquires a side mission of helping her out. Another thing I like about this movie is the fact that there are so many key characters that get development. It's not Bond v. Villain + Main Henchman, as so often seen in past movies. Sanchez's crime syndicate is quite complex and you see Benicio del Toro as Dario, Anthony Zerbe as Milton Krest, Anthony Starke as Truman Lodge, Don Stroud as Heller, and Wayne Newton as Joe Butcher all make significant contributions towards the solidarity and completeness of this film.Also welcomed is the subplot of Bond accidentally meddling with a third party take-down of Sanchez. Bond tries to assassinate Sanchez and he gets captured by ninjas and questioned by one of Sanchez's drug buyers but Sanchez's team quickly finds them and Bond plays the whole situation off very coolly as if he was trying to protect Sanchez and calls them a freelance hit team. After that, the movie unwinds and Bond, with the help of Bouvier, Lupe, and Q (on his own accord), takes down Sanchez in style.The soundtrack to this film is quite good. The opening theme performed by Gladys Knight also happens to be my favorite Bond theme, and the rest of the soundtrack is appropriate, unlike Eric Serra's soundtrack for GoldenEye which was a disaster and sucked some life out of the film. And don't forget Patti LaBelle's If You Asked Me To, which is a very nice song to listen to.There are lots of memorable lines in it, too. One of my favorites being when Dario tells Felix Leiter about his wife We gave her a nice honeymooooooooon!!For me this has become one of those movies that I could pop in at any time and enjoy myself, and that's something special that I don't find in too many films. "}{"Title":"Miami Vice The Movie","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  License to Kill is a great movie but let's face it, it's not James Bond. This movie has James Bond after a drug dealer. C'mon with this plot Don Johnson could have played James Bond.**1/2 out of ****stars "},{"Title":"Awesome movie.","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Not good as a Bond movie but very good as a movie on its own.In the two Timothy Dalton Bond's the biggest difference compared to the other Bond's is the character of Bond itself. It's a more humane and realistic character. This movie has probably the most humane Bond we will ever see. This is the first and only Bond movie that's only about a personal revenge from Bond.The movie is also more cruel and darker compared to other Bond's. Unfortunately that also means that there is not the same amount of humor that we are used to in a Bond movie. But that's not really a bad thing, just try to see this movie as an individual instead of a part of the Bond series.There are some really great characters. As always especially the villains. Robert Davi plays one of my favorite Bond villains and a very young and at that time still unknown Benicio Del Toro plays an awesome psychopathic killer, he actually is scary. Wonderful casting! I also like the character of Q in this one, his character also seems more humane and I love the way the movie shows the special kind of friendship Bond and Q have.The movie misses the special kind of Bond feeling but is very awesome on his own nevertheless. It has some great spectacular scene's and moments with at time some sharp dialogue.The musical score by Michael Kamen and the theme song by Diana Warren are typical 80's but fit the movie very well.Only one tiny thing I didn't liked was the editing. At some points it was unintentional slap-stick like such as the stereotype bar fight scene.Still an awesome movie!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Of All The Bond Adventures This One Is Best Forgotten","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" License To Kill (1989) is an inanely dismal installment to the Bond franchise that is best forgotten. It stars Timothy Dalton in his second and final performance. After aiding old time friend and FBI man, Felix Leiter (David Hedison) in a drug bust, and standing up for Felix at his wedding, Bond returns hours later to discover Felix's wife is dead and that Felix is barely clinging to life after being fed to a shark. Seems drug lord, Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi) was none too thrilled about Bond and Leiter's bust. From his posh villa in Mexico, Sanchez is perfectly content to let bygones be bygones. But Bond wants revenge. Told to drop things by his superiors, Bond defies the British government, is stripped of his double-o ranking and embarks upon a campaign of revenge. To this end he seems perfectly in tune with the aspirations of Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell), an undercover FBI agent assigned to pick up where Felix left off. Together, Bond and Bouvier prowl the back streets of Mexico City, doing battle with Sanchez's psychotic henchman, Dario (a very young, Benicio Del Toro) while Bond attempts to bleed Sanchez maul, Lupe Lamore (Talisa Soto) for information.What is particularly disappointing about this film is the sudden absence of fundamental elements that we have come to expect from a Bond movie; scantily clad women, witty one liners, memorable action sequences &#150; and above all else &#150; a certain amount of seriousness on the part of the actors to suspend the audience in the art of make believe. But there is nothing even remotely engaging about a misguided vignette that has Wayne Newton cast as a charlatan leader of a religious cult. Nor is there anything memorable about the brief moments of action that round out an otherwise boring movie in which the bulk of the plot concentrates on Sanchez &#150; sneering and plotting while other men with guns shoot it out with Bond and Bouvier.MGM/UA's DVD is the absolute worst transfer of any of the Bond movies. Riddled in aliasing, pixelization, shimmering of fine details and severe edge enhancement, the video is never stable long enough to appreciate the story &#150; such as it is. Colors are dated with overly pink flesh tones, weak contrast levels and a generally gritty digital that is distracting to say the least. Blacks are more deep gray, whites are either blooming or dull and age related artifacts are quite obvious throughout &#150; much more so than expected for a film of this vintage. The audio is stereo surround, but is generally strident and lacking in bass. Extras include two documentaries, audio commentaries, promotional materials and the film's theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"What the hell happened?","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a James Bond film.  It isn't even remotely Fleming-inspired, either.  This is a typical action film that could have starred Ah-nold or Bruce Willis.  There's no style or color to seperate this film from the rest of the action pack.  And aside from the way in which the plot develops, once it is in gear it is a cookie-cutter plot with cookie-cutter action.Dalton had a great Bond in The Living Daylights.  Where did it go?  Here he is an unpleasant person - why would either of the Bond girls in this film WANT to be anywhere near him?  He's a depressing, dark bore.  He lost his charm, his charisma.The hardcore Dalton fans would say, He's supposed to be brooding - his friend Felix is maimed, etc etc etc. This is true, but Bond becomes too much of an anti-hero archtype, one with which the audience can no longer identify.The villian is minor, too.  I mean, ultimately who cares if Bond thwarts his plot or not?  It would have no affect on 99% of people's lives.All said and done, Dalton made one of the best and one of the worst Bond movies.  Unfortunately, if converted to present value dollars, BOTH films were failures at the box office.  They're 2 of the 3 lowest grossing Bond films of all time (Licence To Kill is the lowest grossing Bond movie ever).  A shame, as Dalton would have done well in a good movie and good script - like Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"A tuxedoed Rambo but not Bond at all","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I think License to kill is the weakest entry in the series. The first problem is Timothy Dalton. Although he's a good actor, he's definitely not 007. No charisma, no humor. He's too serious, romantic and too sadist. In a certain way he could match the literary Ian Fleming, but he lacks the essential qualities of the cinematic Bond -a witty, cynical, sophisticated super-spy with women and gadgets.The film itself is NOT a Bond movie. Look at the plot Bond seeks revenge for a friend of him and the wife, assassinated by drug trafficker Sanchez. British Secret Service doesn't allow him to do that and Bond licence to kill is revoked. Our agent decides to go on all the same...Usually 007 never works alone he makes love and kills for the Union Jack only!?! That's what it makes the character funny! With Licence to kill 007 makers put an episode from a legendary franchise at the same action level of an ordinary Hollywood picture. The film is also too violent for being a Bond flick. It's ridiculous seeing Bond searching for revenge and death on his own. Here Bond is a tuxedoed Rambo, but not the myth we knew in all the previous films.The producers (the Broccolis) made a big mistake with this film, which flopped at the box office (it didn't really flop, but it was the lowest money-grossing film of the 007 franchise). Luckily. "},{"Title":"Bond's nadir","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Fans will never agree about what ingredients make Bond truly great, but the closest we get to a consensus is that Licence to Kill contains none of them.Despite the film's title, Bond has no licence to kill because he is not the government-sanctioned assassin to which we have become accustomed. Instead, he is a renegade who loses his decorum and punches a civil servant when he is instructed not to avenge the maiming of a friend, Felix Leiter, and the rape of Leiter's bride.With hindsight, the writers' decision to eject Bond from the Establishment was more foolish than brave. The reason Bond is so intriguing is because, on the face of it, he is morally repugnant. He is a borderline psychopath whose conscience is unaffected either by murder or his use of women. How can an audience be sympathetic to a man with no sympathy? The answer is that although he plays fast and loose with morality, he retains a code of ethics governed by loyalty to his country. He is the human embodiment of realpolitik.By removing Bond's defining loyalty, the writers broke the spell. In this film, Bond is merely a vengeful hit-man.And a terribly dour one at that. Timothy Dalton studied Ian Fleming's books to get back to the original character, but in so doing only reminds us of why Sean Connery and Roger Moore did not. Bond is not interesting because of his human qualities. It is his ability to operate without fear, love or regret that makes him compelling.What makes the film beyond redemption is the awful script and unremarkable acting. Robert Davi, playing a heavily accented drugs baron who speaks fluent English except for the word amigo, is actively bad, while the rest of the cast scrape through as forgettable.Even if it is not the worst Bond film (a title for which The World Is Not Enough is a strong contender) it is certainly the most brutal. It earned an unprecedented (and commercially damaging) 15 certificate in Britain. Such a mistake has never been made since. "},{"Title":"Bloody Revenge Thriller, Shoehorned into the Bond Formula","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It is perhaps appropriate that this film was recently shown on British television during the same weekend that saw the return of Dr Who to our screens, as it seems to me that that series and the Bond films have a lot in common. Both first saw the light of day in the early sixties, and both enjoyed considerable success throughout the sixties and seventies and into the early eighties. In both cases, the series was kept going by the device of having a succession of actors play the main character. Both depended upon a subtle balance between genuinely exciting plots and tongue-in-cheek humour. And both series seemed to go into a decline in the late eighties and appeared to have come to an end in the same year, 1989. (An attempt was made to revive both formulae in the mid-nineties, with greater success in the case of Bond than of the Doctor).In both cases the cause of the decline lay in an upsetting of the balance. Dr Who became too camp and self-mocking during the Sylvester McCoy era, with the result that the programme contained too much comedy and too little excitement. In the case of the Bond films, Roger Moore also came close to falling into this trap on occasions and in his last, sub-standard film A View to a Kill fell headlong into it. The producers of the series seem to have recognised this danger, because Timothy Dalton, with his very different approach to the role, was clearly hired to redress the balance. In his first outing, The Living Daylights (a better film than its immediate predecessor) this approach was reasonably successful. In Licence to Kill however, he went too far in the opposite direction and made the character too dark and brooding.The plot is rather different from that of the standard Bond film. In the normal pre-credits action sequence, Bond and his American colleague Felix Leiter arrest a notorious drug dealer named Franz Sanchez and still manage to get to the church in time for Leiter's wedding (at which Bond is best man). Sanchez, however, manages to escape from custody and takes his revenge by a sadistic attack on Leiter and his wife, leaving her dead and him crippled. Bond resolves to seek revenge on Sanchez, but the American authorities seem uninterested, and Bond is ordered not to pursue the matter by his superior, M. Bond resigns from the British Secret Service in order to go after Sanchez, leading M to revoke his licence to kill.It might have been interesting if Bond, deprived of his licence to kill, had decided that homicide is not the answer to every problem and used methods other than lethal force to overcome his enemies. Such a film would have been less violent than the normal Bond movie but could have been just as thrilling. Unfortunately, the filmmakers chose not to pursue this option. Licence to Kill is actually more, rather than less, violent than the average Bond. Moreover, the film subverts the ethos of the series in a way which the filmmakers may not have noticed. Although the Bond films are escapist entertainment, they are nevertheless underpinned by a code of morality which is essentially that of the war film. Bond is not a hired assassin but a soldier fighting for his country in a just war against evil men, a war which is undeclared but no less real. Licence to Kill dispenses with the just war theory, however, and makes Bond a free agent, fighting not for his country but to satisfy his own desire for personal revenge. This was, to say the least, a development that made me uneasy.Timothy Dalton was perhaps not the most successful Bond, but he was in some ways unlucky. In neither of his films did he have a memorable heroine to support him or a memorable villain to fight against. In The Living Daylights he had the simpering Maryam d'Abo and Jeroen Krabbe's weak General Koskov; here, he has Carey Lowell, one of the more colourless Bond girls, who plays American drug enforcement officer Pam Bouvier, and Robert Davi's Sanchez, little more than a crude thug, although he has a nice line in cynical remarks (he disagreed with something that ate him). Like The Living Daylights, which criticised the Russian occupation of Afghanistan, but unlike most of the earlier Bond films, Licence to Kill dabbles in current affairs. Sanchez, who takes refuge in a corrupt Latin American dictatorship named Isthmus, is based upon the Panamanian strongman General Noriega, much in the news in 1989 because of his alleged involvement with the international drugs trade.The main problem with the film, however, is its heavy, humourless style. An attempt to lighten the mood is made by having the eccentric scientist Q track Bond down in Isthmus in order to pass on to him his latest inventions. This development seemed highly improbable, but Desmond Llewellyn's character was evidently too popular to omit entirely. This incident aside, however, there is little in the way of humorous relief. Together with Timothy Dalton's brooding manner and the transformation of Bond from a fighter in a just cause to a ruthless avenger, this makes for a less enjoyable film than most in this series. No doubt a good, if violent, thriller could have been made about a rogue secret agent out to avenge a friend, but it was a mistake to try to shoehorn such a plot into the Bond formula. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton's Second&#x97;and Last&#x97;James Bond Film","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie begins with James Bond (Timothy Dalton) riding in a car with his colleague Felix Lighter (David Hedison) who is about to be married to a woman named Della Churchill (Priscilla Barnes). James Bond is Felix's best man. On the way there Felix is notified that the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) is about to arrest an extremely dangerous drug lord by the name of Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi) and they request his help. Naturally, James Bond offers to accompany Felix even though this case is out of his jurisdiction and outside of his general scope of duties. Although the two of them eventually manage to capture Sanchez, he gets a good look at Felix which results in extremely serious consequences for both Felix and his new bride Della when Sanchez manages to escape. James Bond then vows to recapture or kill Sanchez afterward even though his superior expressly forbids him from interfering in an American affair. As a result James Bond has to hunt Sanchez while fellow agents from MI6 are now hunting him. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that I was pleasantly surprised at how good this film turned out to be&#x97;especially considering the fact that quite a few critics haven't been too kind in their appraisal of Timothy Dalton in this particular role. Be that as it may, I particularly liked the increased role provided for Q (Desmond Llewelyn) who not only turned in a solid performance but also gave the film a bit of continuity as well. Likewise, Carey Lowell (as Pamela Bouvier) certainly didn't hurt the scenery in any way. In any case, I enjoyed this movie and I have rated it accordingly. Above average. "},{"Title":"A great farewell to Timothy Dalton","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Directed by John Glen and produced by Albert Broccoli, it has script by Richard Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson and is the sixteenth film in the franchise. In this film, besides the central cast inherited from previous films, Timothy Dalton is James Bond alongside a great cast Carey Lowell plays the Bond-girl Pam Bouvier, Talisa Soto gives life to the bond-girl Lupe, David Hedison plays Felix Leiter, Anthony Zerbe gives life to Milton Krest and Robert Davi is the villain, Franz Sanchez.In this film, James Bond pursues the killers of his friend, Felix Leiter, disobeying orders from London. This quest for revenge will lead him to the Caribbean, where he will face a powerful drug lord.This is probably the best Timothy Dalton's contribution to the 007 franchise. The actor truly embodied the vengeful and loyal spirit of Bond, giving realism to each action scene. This is a Bond that has little to do with the sarcastic gentleman of Roger Moore, and that somewhat resembles the macho killer of Sean Connery. Definitely, this Bond is a ruthless assassin, trained to kill, and who kills without thinking twice. The script puts Bond for the first time in a conflict of loyalties should he be loyal to his friend and avenge his death or remain loyal to his flag and follow orders? The most similar situation we had seen so far was the resignation that Bond presented to M in On Her Majesty's Secret Service but, if we consider that he was saved by the intervention of Miss Moneypenny, it ends up not being a conflict between boss's orders and employee's loyalty. We can thus say that Dalton closed well his participation in the franchise, since this was the last film of him in the role. I also liked the approach taken by the film to the anti-drug fight, a hot topic which wasn't seen in Bond films since Live and Let Die, and was approached with realism and very pertinently, in conjunction with other hot topics, addressed more discreetly, as the use of cults and new religions for dubious purposes or massive corruption of the governments in Latin America. A sequence particularly well done is the final fight, combined with the gradual destruction of tankers. The opening theme of this film, sung by Gladys Night, is remarkable. "},{"Title":"James Bond takes on a powerful drug lord to avenge his friend.","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton was the first James Bond I have seen and I still consider him the best. In Licence to Kill, Dalton's Bond is cunning, dangerous, but has feelings. His expressions clear shows the feeling beneath his cold exterior. Unlike Daniel Craig, Dalton's Bond does not know martial arts, but actually moves very quickly. He is believably dangerous. You may notice that he is quite quick with the foot and that he uses it very often. The movie itself is thrilling. We see Bond playing villains against each other, and dupes his nemesis in order to get close. The fact, that Bond seems human, and can get hurt makes you worry more about the carry and actually feel the thrill in all the action scenes you wonder how is he going to take out the guys in the bar without martial arts, or how is he going to win a bunch of scuba divers underwater armed with harpoons. Robert Davi's portrayal as villain is also brilliant and menacing. He actually seems as smart as Bond (though he fell for Bond's ploy once). I was surprised to see a youthful Benicio Del Toro. He actually looked almost like Brad Pitt, and he was memorable villain too. I don't know how the real Bond should be like since I have not seen all the Bond movies yet, but I think Dalton's Bond is what a real spy would need to survive smarts, cunning, but not necessarily super hand to hand fighting skills. "}{"Title":"Trying to go darker but need more commitment","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond (Timothy Dalton) teams up with Felix Leiter (David Hedison) on his wedding day on a DEA raid, and captures drug lord Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi) who is in the States to retrieve his runaway girlfriend Lupe Lamora (Talisa Soto). Corrupt agent Ed Killifer (Everett McGill) helps Franz escape. Then Franz tortures Felix and kills his new wife. Bond sets out to avenge his friend. Nobody can extradite Franz, M does not approve forcing Bond to quit, and M strips Bond of his license to kill. However, none of it can stop Bond from hunting down Franz with the help of Leiter's informant Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell).This is Timothy Dalton's second and last time as Bond. It's noteworthy to see Benicio Del Toro early in his career as one of the henchmen. This is an even darker Bond from Dalton. He's a good actor, but he doesn't have enough of a mean streak to go that dark. And having Wayne Newton as the guru front for the cartel doesn't increase the movie's credibility. The whole thing needs more commitment from the people in charge to go grittier and darker. In the end, the franchise isn't ready yet. The best thing in the movie is where Carey Lowell hid her gun. "},{"Title":"I liked it, if only for Dalton...","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dalton was an unlucky chap, a man who put too much acting into creating the perfect Bond, he didn't understand that the public wanted something different. Parallels have been and continue to be drawn between him and Daniel Craig in their styles, and it is my opinion (bating some die hard Bond fans) that he was the perfect Bond. Perhaps a little too dour and dark for the times and entering the series after the somewhat overly camp Moore, meant he was even more a change of style. The film on the whole wasn't perfect, you could tell where changes had been made to adapt from Moore to Dalton, and the quips fewer, this was the Bond Fleming envisioned, but perhaps not the one the public expected. "},{"Title":"Hard-Hitting Farewell.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton returns as James Bond 007 for his second and(sadly) last appearance, as Bond sets out on a mission of vengeance against the drug lords(led by sinister Robert Davi) who savagely attacked his best friend, CIA agent Felix Leiter(once again played by David Hedison, who should have played him in every appearance of the character!) at his wedding, and then murdered his wife( beautiful Priscilla Barnes). While Felix survives, Bond is forced to resign as an official agent of her Majesty, in order to take down the evil gangsters.Lots of exciting action and stunts, with a far more graphic edge to the violence, which raises the dramatic stakes. Dalton is again superb, showing Bond's steely determination in a magnificent way that makes him a formidable foe. Film is a bit too long and at times uneven, but is still a satisfying conclusion to this franchise, before it was revamped with the younger persona of Pierce Brosnan... "},{"Title":"BOND#16 a Personal Vendetta for 007","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" MASTER PLAN sell drugs - lots of drugs. In some ways, this Bonder can be viewed as a final chapter in the saga of Felix Leiter, Bond's CIA liaison, who was introduced way back in the 1st one (Dr.No). He's played here by actor Hedison, the only actor returning for a 2nd go-around as Leiter (after Live and Let Die). He's getting married at the start of this one and Bond is his best man; the wedding is delayed briefly when the two agents make it their business to arrest drug lord Sanchez, who had slipped into Florida for some R&R, such as cutting out hearts. This teaser and then the wedding lend a humanistic tone to the Bond saga, something we'd noted in Dalton's previous effort The Living Daylights, and which we'd only seen briefly back in On Her Majesty's Secret Service a full 20 years earlier. So, it's not as if we've had time to become accustomed to such a tone - Bond is better known as the invulnerable super-agent, perhaps not laughing in the face of death but at least shrugging it off. But, the kicker is, if we had to pick the one Bond actor to go renegade on us - to have his license revoked and go off on a personal mission of vengeance - it would have to be Dalton. I certainly can't picture Moore in this role; Connery - maybe, and possibly Lazenby. But, Moore? He'd find some way to retain his license to kill and sneak away while 'on leave' or some such thing. Of course, the newest Bond, Craig, has the same rebellious qualities which we see here, but he didn't show up until almost 20 years after this one and he played a younger, untried version.This one also marked Dalton's last stab at Bond after only a duo of films and also features the last versions of M and Moneypenny that we see here. Q would show up in a few more of the Brosnan films; his role is again expanded here (as in Octopussy), having him take an active part in the unauthorized mission, confirming what we'd always suspected - he's the uncle figure to Bond, where-as M is the stern father figure. The scene of Q showing up with his latest bag of gadgets reminds me of an old relative arriving in time for Christmas with a bag of goodies for the kids. This Bonder has a few such nice touches, suggesting family and friendship; there's even mention of Bond's deceased wife. But, the strongest element is friendship - Bond probably doesn't have too many true friends (they tend to die prematurely, for one thing), so when a couple of them are dealt with brutally, he takes personal offense. This passion Dalton displays, subverted into relentless revenge, works within the confines of this off kilter Bonder; it seemed like a Die Hard-type thriller when it was released, Americanized and certainly not Bondish, upsetting many fans at the time of release. However, time has been kind to this one, much like On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and it can be looked upon now as just a different, darker approach among the 20+ Bonders to date - the one where Bond dishes out payback for himself and a friend, not for Queen and Country. There's an escalation of the usual violence - some of the deaths are particularly grisly for a Bonder - including a return to the use of sharks, which seem to pop up in every few Bonders.The vendetta, uh, mission takes him to Isthmus City down in South America, where, again, it appears as if we've entered some Scarface domain, not the Bond universe. Bond somewhat infiltrates Sanchez' organization, consisting of sadistic henchmen and opportunistic sleazeballs. As before, Dalton as Bond seems always surrounded by visceral danger and frightening threats - you can tell this guy's more than a bit nervous in some scenes - and inadvertently causes the deaths of other white hats. There's chasing on the water, in the air and, in the climax, on some narrow roads, where we we see some unlikely stunts using tanker trucks - but this is when we're reminded it is a Bond thriller, after all; most of these are exciting and spectacular. You also gotta hand it to actor Davi, who creates a memorable villain as the ruthless, VERY sadistic and, ultimately paranoid Sanchez. In a nod to previous Bond villains, the filmmakers even have a lizard perched on Sanchez' shoulder in one scene, to make sure we understand who we're dealing with. But, Davi manages, by the end, to convey that his killer is not just about the money (in fact, he cares less and less about the bucks as the story proceeds) - he enjoys the thrill of the kill, the passion, if you will, of evil, to counterpoint Bond's drive for cold justice. Therefore, his demise is particularly satisfying and marked the end of the eighties preoccupation with wealth, to boot. The two femme fatales are uneven in their performances; both end up on Bond's side and neither is a good fit for him. Bond would return only six years later in Goldeneye - Dalton would not. Bond7 Villain8 Femme Fatales6 Henchmen7 Leiter8 Fights7 Stunts/Chases8 Gadgets5 Auto5 Locations5 Pace8 overall7- "},{"Title":"Bond goes renegade","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill was the 16th James Bond film and the last to feature Timothy Dalton as the spy. The story is focused on Bond stopping drug dealer Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), who attacked Bond friend, Felix Leiter (David Hedison). What makes the story different is that Bond has gone renegade from MI6. Most of the film was shot in Mexico, which i feels best suits the movie. The are some truly breathtaking scenes. The stars give their best performance, with Robert Davi giving a really sinister version of a Bond villain. The characters of M, Q and Moneypenny return. Q finally gets his due now, with a much expanded character, who delivers some of the best scene. Caroline Bliss still create a poor version of Moneypenny. Her screen time is a lot smaller than the previous adventure, The Living Daylights.Michael Kamen provides the score this time, but although i like it, it is really a mixed bag. You may like it and you may not. The action sequences are wonderful with a fantastic tanker chase with an explosive finale. The Bond film is a lot grittier this time. This is the only Bond film to date where a villains head is seen exploding. Timothy Dalton gives the audience a troubled, violent vision of Bond which i think is one of the best. Licence to Kill is really one of the Bond films where you need to watch it, to decide whether you like it or not. If you liked the recent blockbuster, Casino Royale, there's a good bet you will enjoy this.James Bond will return in Goldeneye "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton's second appearance","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After his brilliant debut in The Living Daylights Timothy Dalton returns as James Bond in a darker tale about revenge. I would say this is the grimmest film of the series -- Felix Leiter played with a good deal of warmth by David Hedison is fed to a shark and his wife Della is murdered by Sanchez's henchmen.Sanchez the villain of this film is not the head of SPECTRE but a very successful drug dealer. He is played in a realistic and vicious fashion by Robert Davi. Benicio Del Toro is one of his aides and very effective.Basically the plot is about Bond turning rogue agent, infiltrating Sanchez's organisation and extracting revenge. Timothy Dalton is still as effective as James Bond though the plot doesn't allow him to show much vulnerability.Carey Lowell is attractive as Pam Bouvier and Desmond Llewellyn as Q injects the film with much welcome humour.The stunts are exciting especially the truck chase at the film's climax with director John Glen doing another efficient job at the helm.Michael Kamen writes a rousing score and Gladys Knight sings a wonderfully soulful title song. "},{"Title":"A No-Thrills Bond Picture","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" License to Kill is the last Bond film to star Timothy Dalton, which is probably not surprising since Dalton probably had the good sense to realize that he was already getting too dull and tired for this series. Yet Dalton is not the only reason why License to Kill does not work. Past Bond films had Russian secret agents, great train rides, a Bond girl painted gold, a volcano as a secret lair, thrilling ski chases, a diamond studded satellite that shoots laser beams, and an awesome space station. By 1989, however, the creators of Bond seemed to have come down with a serious case of innovation fatigue, because there is nothing fun in this picture. Instead we are treated to tired clichés like a corrupt Latin American dictatorship in Panama, a cocaine laboratory in some desert, and the most stereotyped televangelist imaginable -- three things that should never be in a Bond picture. The villain, a drug lord with the clichéd name of Sanchez, is also a big disappointment. Robert Davi, who plays Sanchez, is completely wrong for the villain role. He is neither menacing in the way that Dr. No, Spectre, Grant, Goldfinger, and Blofeld were nor is he particularly interesting. So that leaves us with the Bond girls. Carey Lowell seems to be out of her depth as the Bond girl and secret agent Pam Bouvier. Her performance can not even raise a candle to the famous Bond girls of the past, like Honey Ryder, Daniela Bianchi, Diana Rigg, and Claudine Auger. Perhaps the biggest problem with Bouvier is that I could never believe that she was attracted to James Bond. Lowell later did a much better acting job as the assistant district attorney in Law and Order. Talisa Soto makes for a much sexier Bond girl Lupe Lamora, but unfortunately she was given very little to say and do in this picture. So ultimately, License to Kill is a Bond film best forgotten. "},{"Title":"Dalton's last stand","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While he's often branded forgettable or insignificant in the Bond franchise, Timothy Dalton, while not a conventional bond portrayal (right of centre in the very early Connery mould) delivered two very watchable instalments, Licence to Kill being an entertaining romp with attractive ladies and the usual motifs and villains.Here Bond is compelled to take revenge after his old friend CIA agent Felix Leiter (Hedison, reprising his role from Live & Let Die 16 years earlier) is ambushed on his honeymoon to new wife played by Priscilla Barnes. The major villain (Robert Davi) and minor villain (Zerbe, more a nuisance than a serious threat) have joined forces to along with their henchmen, Don Stroud and the under-utilised Everett McGill.Carey Lowell co-stars in the coveted Bond Girl role, perhaps the catalyst that delivered her temporary small-screen stardom as the female lead in Law & Order for three seasons. A familiar supporting cast includes Grand L.Bush as a CIA operative, Pedro Armendariz Jnr, Rafer Johnson, Claudio Brook, Frank McRae and Benecio Del Toro in only his second film. And just to underscore the Bond gravitas, Wayne Newton's familiar vocal intonations are also on display, in a rare dramatic role.There's great use of the shark threat (as was used in previous films, Thunderball, For Your Eyes Only) and the gadgets and locations are more elaborate than ever. It's not the greatest Bond adventure in terms of originality or plot, but in my humble opinion, still rates higher than the likes of A View to a Kill or Quantum of Solace in terms of overall substance. Obviously that's the stuff arguments are made of, suffice to say if you're an avid Bond fan, irrespective of the actor packing the Walther PPK, then Licence to Kill will be just fine. "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton is amazing,they should have kept him.The film is a bit messed up,you don't exactly figure out what is happening.His entrance is good in the starting,the bond girl is not that hot.Not much action thats what spoiled this movie.He just goes shoots gets caught goes to a place escapes from there goes to a ship,they have some plan which does not make sense they could directly go to the place.I wanted to give this movie 5 but giving it six because of one the truck chase,specially the scene when they shoot his truck and he takes it over a stone and the other truck gets shot.They ending is also not that great,but Timothy Dalton is a amazing actor,it may miss the bond factor but still worth a watch "},{"Title":"Bond as a New Man? Hmmm","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film today for the first time in over a decade and to my surprise it was nowhere near as good as I remember and seems to have dated really badly (or maybe it is not yet old enough to be considered coolly retro!) I am not sure if revoking Bond's licence was ever a good move and setting the move nearly all in the Caribbean smells of budgetary restraints rather than scripting. There is also a desperation to the film where they are trying to drag Bond into the age of the new man and without to much success. The direction is nothing special without being terrible but when I watch Bond I want a few memorable shots. Timothy Dalton is in my opinion a good Bond and he tries his best here with some not very good material. I am not sure having Bond on a revenge mission gives the story much depth, especially when Bond passes up on so many chances to take his revenge. In fact one of the movie few saving graces is Dalton delivering one of my favourite on screen head butts of all time. Caret Lowell and Desmond Llewelyn do well with the small bits of meat their roles officer them but could of offered so much more. So one for the fans that may well be better with more time, but for now I am not sure. "}{"Title":"good","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence To Kill is a 1989 spy film. It is the 16th instalment in the James Bond series, and the second and last to star Timothy Dalton as MI6 agent James Bond. Licence to Kill was the first official James Bond film to use a title not derived from either an Ian Fleming novel or a short story. However, it does contain characters and elements from Fleming's novel Live and Let Die and the short story The Hildebrand Rarity. The film revolves around Bond's dismissal from MI6 and his vendetta against a South American drug baron. The title refers to Bond's discretionary licence to kill which allows him to kill without prior approval to complete his mission. The film was originally due to be called License Revoked until research revealed that many Americans didn't know what the term revoked meant.Following the film's disappointing U.S. box office performance compared to some of the other Bond films, the death of screenwriter Richard Maibaum and subsequent legal battles over the ownership of the James Bond series, Licence to Kill was the last Bond film for over six years, the longest interval in the history of the series. It was also the final film to be produced by Albert R. Broccoli, whose declining health led to a diminished role in bringing 1995's GoldenEye to the screen.8/10 "},{"Title":"A great James Bond movie","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is my favourite 007 James Bond movie, Licence to Kll is more darker than some of the other Bond movies and more violent. I was surprised with some of the gore in this film, Timothy Dilton is pretty good as James Bond and one of my favourite Bonds. (Sean Connery, Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan are my other favourites.) The acting is great, Robert Davi did a great job as the villain. One thing I also like is that James Bond isn't trying to save the world again but instead he's going a personal vendetta, this mission is for himself and he has to disobey M16 to do so. It wouldn't be a 007 movie without cool gadgets and this movie has some cool gadgets.The plot sees James Bond going to his best friend's wedding as best man when suddenly they're called to capture the Drug Dealer Franz Sanchez, after capturing him they arrive at the wedding and everything seems fine but when Franz is being driven off one of the officers turns traitor and has the vehicle crash over the bridge. Franz's men then open the door and they escape, Franz then gets his revenge. Bond's friend is captured and almost killed by a shark attack, Bond arrives at the house to find the wife dead and him almost. James Bond then decides to get revenge on Franz Sanchez for what's he done but he soon finds that M16 want him to leave and won't allow him to do this but he quickly escapes, now renegade with M16 Bond must take on Franz without them. With the help of a women named Pam Bouvier and Q who supplies him with his gadgets James Bond goes on a personal vendetta.Licence to Kill is a great James Bond movie that tries to do something different with the series by making it more darker. Check this out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Massively underrated and deserves re-evaluation.","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take Although darker than the previous adventures, this 2nd effort from Timothy Dalton is strong, exciting and well executed. I don't know why the this entry in the Bond series got a very lukewarm acceptance (It was a flop back in 1989?!). I love this entry in the series, one of the best I've seen so far. Timothy Dalton is great as Bond. It has a more serious and personal plot over all the Bonds before. A darker story about Bond avenging the near-death of his friend Felix Leiter (David Hedison, who was the only actor to play the role twice) and the death of Felix's bride and his friend. His vengeance leads him to a plot to stop drug dealer Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), who is responsible for the said crimes, and his plans to extend his drug dealings in the US.This is not only packed with great action and fantastic stunts (the stunt-filled finale is the best one in years), but also with a great strong plot. The new music by Michael Kamen is also great.Perhaps the only real turn-off is that the film almost gets too serious, and the Bond girls (Carey Lowell and Talisa Soto) are not the strongest ones in the series (still, they're good though). I just wonder, why not give it a much higher rating. I love this Bond, and given that its story is rather dark yet realistic, it's one that will stand the test of time. Rating ****1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"The first post cold war Bond","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tim Dalton's second, and ultimately final outing as James Bond was designed to put 007 in a post-Cold War environment, as the Iron Curtain was beginning to crumble at the time. Though the plot has been described as too Miami Vice-ish by some, the film drawed inspiration from Ian Fleming's literary take on 007, and the story is actually cobbled together from two Fleming tales(the pressure chamber scene is directly from Fleming). And of course, Q's gadgets and a fight with ninjas reminds us that this is still James Bond and not Die Hard or Tom Clancy.Our villain this time is Franz Sanchez, a drug lord who controls a vast multinational syndicate. He already has a Central American President in his pocket, and he wishes to expand his empire even further via a merger with Asian mobsters. He may not be trying to blow up London or start World War 3, but Robert Davi plays him like a Latin Goldfinger. And in a possible nod to Blofeld, he has a pet iguana. Bond's CIA counterpart, Felix Leiter, has been after Sanchez for years, but he's stymied by the kingpin's tendency to stay in non-extradition territory. But when Sanchez goes to Florida to pick up(and punish) a cheating girlfriend, Leiter moves in and finally gets his man. Sanchez escapes via bribery and kidnaps Leiter and his fiancée on their wedding day, maiming Leiter and killing his bride. Bond is obsessed with avenging his comrade, but M tells him to let it go. So Bond resigns from MI6 to go after Sanchez himself.All traces of the Roger Moore era have been left behind, resulting in a film that might be too dark for those who prefer Roger's take on 007. Dalton's Bond is not too far off from Sean Connery's, but he is perhaps too grim. Connery probably would've injected some well timed humor here and there too keep his portrayal from being TOO stern and bitter. The film DOES have some comic relief though...Q has an expanded role, and Wayne Newton has a lighthearted cameo. The supporting cast is rounded out by Law & Order's Carey Lowell as the Bond girl, and indie-film darling Benicio Del Toro as the main henchman. In conclusion One of the toughest, meanest 007s this side of Sean Connery, a strong villain and henchman, a Bond girl whose outfits show a lot of leg. On the downside, not as much foreign intrigue as the European based adventures and a bit more stoicism from our hero. But it ultimately does what it intended to to do bring Bond back to his roots while simultaneously keeping him up to date. "},{"Title":"Bond Straight Up","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If good intentions were the same as final results, Licence To Kill would be the greatest Bond film since Goldfinger. But of course that's not the case.Timothy Dalton avoids the curse of Lazenby by returning for action as 007 a second, final time. He's kind of awkward in the role, not fitting the conventional Bond image, but when he isn't trying to make a rare joke, he actually benefits from this naturalistic approach. As many note, and the producers claimed before and after the film was released, this was a new kind of Bond film, one that used the Ian Fleming novels as more than title fodder. Some story nuggets in the Fleming opus turn up here, and more importantly, Bond is portrayed as a real human being with doubts and an ability to be physically and emotionally hurt, just as Fleming wrote him. Some would say this dampens the excitement level, but as any loyal Fleming reader knows, the verisimilitude only enhances it.Bond doesn't globe trot much either. He starts out in Key West and the Caribbean, then goes to Mexico, which probably is the shortest distance covered in any Bond film. Fleming didn't throw his fictional creation around that much, either, preferring to acclimate him (and the reader) to a couple of choice locales. The villains are bereft of out sized accoutrement's, just a clever drug lord and his greedy underlings. There are two women, and Bond for once is expected to choose one rather than sleep with both. Again, Fleming didn't stick Bond with more than one woman per novel, and sometimes, as in the novel Moonraker, he didn't even get her. Bond the sexual athlete arrived with Sean Connery, and in the age of AIDS, Timothy Dalton is careful in his romantic exploits.So that's all to like, as are the many twists and turns the story takes. Bond, stripped of his license to kill, sets off to revenge a friend, infiltrating a drug gang and then planting the seeds of distrust with the gang boss, Sanchez, played by Robert Davi. Other than a pet iguana, Davi isn't given much to set Sanchez apart from the many Bond super villains of yore, but Davi makes the most of the situation, playing Sanchez with real menace, a glint of humor, and a desire to find someone he can trust, which Bond plays to rather inhumanly but well.So Davi and Dalton complement each other fine, and to complete this happy triangle, there's Carey Lowell as Pam Bouvier, the best Bond girl since Barbara Bach in The Spy Who Loved Me. Making the Bond girl a competent independent woman rather than a helpless ditz has become so ingrained in the series as to become a tired cliché, but Lowell doesn't only hold her own in the action scenes, and look like a million and a half bucks in a sparkling gown, she lets you into her character with real humor and pathos.There's some great stunts, too. Bond lassos a plane from a helicopter at the opening, boards a seaplane in mid-flight in the middle, and dodges burning trucks and Stinger missiles at the end. He even gets attacked by someone wielding a stuffed marlin, which is Dalton's one real fun moment.The knock, and it's a big one, is that the story never really gels. Bond's Yojimbo-style takedown of Sanchez's enterprise is too contrived, with people that would recognize him unaccountably out of action when Bond arrives at Sanchez's casino. There's a subplot involving a Hong Kong drug plot that comes in out of left field, puts Bond on the sidelines, and then vanishes. The story feels rushed, some of the supporting players give weak performances, and bits like Wayne Newton as a televangelist, however fun, feel tacked on.Dalton was still in shakedown mode here, trying to figure out where he fit in on a once-great franchise suddenly out of favor with the fickle masses and in need of reeling in the excess silliness of the later Roger Moore films. He looks uncomfortable. My sense is Dalton didn't like playing 007; he didn't seem to want the role after this and declined to participate in the 1999 DVD re-release (a very nice package, by the way, especially as there is real candor in the reminiscences and some obvious enthusiasm in the accounts given by Lowell, Davi, and Benicio Del Toro, the future Oscar winner who had his first memorable role in Licence To Kill as Sanchez's faithful henchman).Dalton was a film away in my opinion from redefining James Bond as a true movie hero of the 1990s, not in the glitzy, soulless way Pierce Brosnan later employed, but as a hero you could really root for and empathize with. Licence To Kill shows that starting to happen, and for Fleming fans like myself, that's exciting to see. But the end result was a film that failed to find an audience, and a long six-year hiatus that nearly killed the series. Careful what you wish for, fellow Flemingites... "},{"Title":"A different approach having your license revoked","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton actually did a good job portraying James Bond.  License to Kill was a very unique movie. First, it had a movie rating of PG-13 which was higher than any other Bond film up to that point.  Second, Bond had his license revoked because he was pursuing a personal agenda against the orders from M. This is the only film in the series where something like that has happened. Timothy Dalton has a more serious edge to his character of James Bond than the others. For License to Kill, this fit perfectly. For those who are only moderate James Bond film watchers and state that all the movies seem like carbon copies of each other, you may want to watch License to Kill for something different. "},{"Title":"Bond wants revenge!","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is that above.  Felix is left for dead and Bond goes after the drug kingpin that almost killed Felix and did murder his new wife.  This is one of the few Bonds where Bond isn't on a typical mission, in fact Bond disobeys more orders here than any other.  Great action sequences abound and the story here is good to.  Dalton is good, his super seriousness serves him well here as the tone of this flick is a bit darker than most of the Bond movies.  The villans are better in this one than Living Daylights, but in this one the Bond gals are probably the most forgettable.  They do their job ok, they just don't have anything really special about them.  All in all though this film is rather good.  Nothing against Pierce, but to bad Dalton stopped being Bond so soon.  And the reason this Bond performed poorly at the box office was the fact it came out in the summer of 89 a year of a bunch of hit movies and this one got lost in the wake and was poorly advertised. "},{"Title":"Not enough of what James Bond is supposed to deliver.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I personally like more realism in the Bond movies, and this movie does offer that. But, unfortunately, this movie just doesn't offer fans anything more than other actions films can offer, which is probably why this Bond film was a real flop at the box office. The biggest problem here is that the story and the villains are simply too common and too boring. And the action scenes, though nicely realistic, are simply not up to Bond standards. In case anyone has been confused in my other reviews about what I mean when I say realistic and intense action that is up to Bond standards, I mean the mountain climbing scene in For Your Eyes Only, and the fight on the cargo plane in The Living Daylights. In addition, the tomboy Bond girl here is totally unlikable, and Wayne Newton in a Bond movie is a disgrace.   "},{"Title":"This is an excellent installment in the James Bond series, despite Timothy Dalton&#133;","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah, Dalton screwed up again, but luckily he didn't screw up the Bond character bad enough to take too much away from this excellent action film. The opening scene, in which the helicopter captures the airplane in mid-flight is very cool, except for the fact that there is at least one shot where Bond's hair is perfectly still, it seems that one of the editors forgot he's supposed to be hanging from a helicopter and pacing a plane in mid-air. When comparing the theme song of License To Kill to those of some of the previous Bond films, this one is actually relatively good (although it is still an awful song). And then, as if another Bond song wasn't torture enough, the end credits roll to the tune of that song that everyone who has ever been in a K-Mart store knows &#150; `If&#133;you&#133;ask me to, I just might change my mind, and hold you in my arms for-e-ever&#133;' Etc. etc. etc. Dammit, now it's stuck in my head. Thanks a lot!The story of License To Kill deals with a major drug lord named Sanchez, an d this film is a rare occasion where Bond actually goes behind enemy lines and works for the villain temporarily. It was a particularly interesting idea the way that the drugs were sold through the religious channel. While there can be no denying the quality of the action scenes in this film, there was so much money carelessly tossed to sharks or compression chambers or some other such nonsense that I thought I was going to be sick. But one of the things that really makes this one of the better stories of a Bond film is that there is actually a point in the film in which the plot thickens. James, at one point, discovers that his girl might be involved with Sanchez, and this is followed by a series of fairly effective plot twists, which are largely absent from most 007 movies.Despite Timothy Dalton, the casting is very good. It's pretty ironic that the same bonehead that cast Dalton as Bond again also had the smarts to cast Benecio Del Toro in this film. That may not seem like a real stroke of genius NOW, but when License To Kill was filmed, he had only had a tiny part in a Pee-Wee Herman movie. It's not like they were hunting down Best Actor winners. It makes you wonder if they would have given him such a badly written role and such a grisly death if they knew how huge he would be a decade or so later.By the way, there is something seriously wrong with people's eyes in this 007 installment. First of all, the guy who springs Sanchez out of jail has the most distracting and disturbing twitch in his right eye that I have ever seen. The sickening way that his right eye opens and closes lazily in coordination with his speech makes me wish they had just badly scarred his face, like they did with Donald Pleasance (who is a much better looking man) in You Only Live Twice. And as if that wasn't bad enough, the freakin' Bond girl was wall-eyed!! Whose idea was that?! Sure, she was an attractive enough woman, but I just could not get over the way her right eye pointed off into the distance to the right anytime she was shown from the front.She was a pretty tough girl though. You remember the bar scene where people are fighting with knives and shotguns and chairs and cue sticks and a friggin' swordfish (yet the strippers on stage continue to dance around as though nothing is happening), and after she blows a ridiculously huge hole in the wall, she tells James to go out and get the boat started and that she'll stay and hold off the entire bar full of p***ed off drunk guys. This establishes the personality of a refreshingly new independent Bond girl but it also emphasizes the pansy-ass Bond that Dalton delivers. Sean Connery would never have left his girl in there to defend herself alone against the entire bar.This is the last Bond film that Dalton was in. And can there be any question about why that is? Let's see, in License To Kill, Timothy Dalton leaves the Bond girl to save the day at the bar, he pathetically begs for his life on the conveyor belt near the end of the film (in an admittedly horrific situation, but he was a little more desperate than is traditional for James Bond), and in at least one scene, he emphasizes James Bond's traditional love of tiny, tiny guns.But despite all this, License To Kill is not all bad. There is some genuine tension in several places, there are some very creative death scenes, and the action, while overly excessive at some points, is generally convincing enough. Except for the semi truck scenes at the end. The closing scene started off SO GOOD, and then Bond jumps up on two wheels (or should I say nine wheels?) to avoid a missile, which was just way too much. However, I'm willing to overlook that just because it is a signature Bond scene, but then he does a wheelie in that same truck to get through a fireball. A WHEELIE! Oh my GOD!!! I thought I had seen something stupid in a Bond film before, but that beats them all! That's even dumber than any of the crap that is so prevalent in Pierce Brosnan's and even Roger Moore's Bond films. The ending was unique in that Bond had to choose between two girls, and it tried to have the traditional ending at sea by ending with Bond and the girl in a swimming pool, at which point that god-awful song kicks in. It's such a shame that these great action movies are always filled with so much garbage.  "},{"Title":"A different Bond, but just as good.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton does a great job with James Bond, especially considering that he is competing with predecessors Sean Connery and Roger Moore, both of whom left their own, unmistakable impressions on the character.  Without a doubt, Timothy Dalton's Bond is much different than others.  He has not the hard edge of Connery's, nor the tongue-in-cheek attitude of Moore's; rather, he is more moody, more subdued, and he does not play for the audience reaction.  His interpretation is equally valid as anyone else's, and to say that Dalton should have simply sought to try and replicate a prior style is like saying that there is only one way to present Hamlet.  (I make no such comparisons between the two characters, but merely the fact that each is a character, and thus open to each individual's interpretation.)As far as the movie goes, it finds a very strong plot on the platform of revenge.  Bond with a vendetta is no new concept, but basing a whole movie around revenge is quite ambitious.  No earth-shattering or larger-than-life plot makes this movie seem unreal.  On the contrary, not only does Licence score points in being one of the most realistic Bond movies, but also does it succeed in bringing out a side of Bond, himself, which the audience has never seen before.  Couple the plot with a healthy dose of intrigue, good acting (especially from Dalton's adversary Robert Davi), and the usual flair for the spectacular, and this movie becomes one of the best of Bond. "}{"Title":"Tough mean Bond Adventure","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was the First James Bond Movie I ever saw and loved it then. But now I find some of the scenes just plain dumb, the Hong Kong Ninjas attacking Bond is one, Ninjas are Japanese.The shark eating Felix Lighter, the rape/murder of his fiancée and the are violent scenes and a bit unnecessary for a bond film.I loved the action sequences, the water skining scene is fantastic and found the Bond Girls seductive,especially Carey Lowell after her makeover in the film.The Villain was charismatic in one minute and absolutely cruel the next.Q had a bit more to do which was good.How they sold Cocaine and smuggled it was ingenious.Its a good Bond movie that just needs some Panache to lighten things up. "},{"Title":"8 - Great","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After The Living Daylights, Dalton's 2nd film was written specifically for him to be darker, playing to his strengths. Moving away from the world domination plot again, the villain this time is a drug lord at the peak of a cocaine epidemic. For the first half-hour, it does play like a generic crime film. From there on it develops. After an attack on the Leiter's Bond, in a fury of anger, goes rogue.The cast here is stronger than in the previous film. Pam Bouvier is a Bond girl that is tough like Dalton and carries a shotgun. Having a strong female character is certainly a good thing after the misogyny of older films. Franz Sanchez plays a villain who is charismatic, dangerous, terrifying and bordering into insanity as he loses it all. There's plenty of action, including a notable truck chase. Plus, since this is a rogue mission, Q gets some extra screen time.It's over-the-top, fun, full of Bondian elements, but at the same time it expands the formula and tries to tell a darker more serious story. "},{"Title":"The fun's over","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Released in 1989, Licence to Kill always struck me as the most atypical Bond film. In this one James (Timothy Dalton) goes rogue after a good friend's bride is murdered and the friend is half-eaten by a shark. Stripped of his authority, Bond vengefully goes after the responsible drug lord, Sanchez (Robert Davi).The opening act drives home that Licence to Kill is a more serious and brutal Bond flick. Although there's still a lot of yeah, right cartooniness, the comedic edge of past Bond films is all but gone. And the violence is so savage and merciless compared to past films that it actually comes off shocking.In addition, the spectacular globe-trotting locations are absent in favor of a more one-dimensional setting -- the Florida Keys and Mexico (where the film was shot). Although they do fine with these limited locales, the change is glaring.The women are below par as well. Carey Lowell works best as the Bond babe, but she pales in comparison to, say, Lois Chiles, Luciana Paluzzi and Claudine Auger. Talisa Soto is also on hand as Sanchez' girl and, briefly, Priscilla Barnes.The opening stunt sequence is second rate as well compared to past Bond films, like The Living Daylights, The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker.Furthermore, there's an under-developed subplot about a cult guru and the film seems overlong at 133 minutes.But the movie scores points with effective villains (it wouldn't be right to say good villains, would it?), particularly Davi and a young Benicio Del Toro, both cruel and sadistic.FINAL SAY The fun might be over, but at least they tried something different to stir things up. Unfortunately, it didn't work. Licence to Kill performed weakly at the box office and is easily the worst Bond flick up through Pierce Brosnan's run that ended in 2003. It seems less like a Bond film than any other in the franchise up to 2003. Still, it's interesting as an atypical part of the series -- darker and grittier, albeit still comic booky. Plus Dalton's striking as the vengeful protagonist and, if you can hang around for the final act, it's pretty exciting.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"One of the Best in Bond and Bond Villains","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Recently, revisited this film and I must say like a fine wine it gets better each year. First we have the last film Albert R Broccoli and Richard Maibaum were involved in !! Then we have a subject that is more of a Threat to todays world then all the Spectra type of World dominance stuff that is usually displayed. This threat in the form of of a young Robert Davi whose Franz Sanchez is an absolutely Stellar performance!!! He captures the essence of these Drug lords like I have never seen before or since. Riveting .I have heard some say well it is not really a threat well to them I say it is the most insidious plague on our society and youth !!! And he captures the seductive charm as well !Next we have in Timothy Dalton a modern Bond If Dalton could be critiqued for anything it would be his intensity did not let him settle into the sardonic humor of Bond that task in this film was left to Davi,,we also have a young Benncio Del Toro. Who adds the relationship aspect to Sanchez ,also predating the ambiguous sexuality of Skyfall's Bardem but Davi is subtle in his approach. This is a terrific film with one of the top villains in the entire series !!! "},{"Title":"Out on his own and out for revenge......","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When drug lord Franz Sanchez exacts his brutal vengeance on Bond's friend Felix Leiter, 007 resigns from the British Secret Service and begins a fierce vendetta against the master criminal. Bond won't be satisfied until Sanchez is defeated, and to accomplish this aim he allies himself with a beautiful pilot and Sanchez's sexy girlfriend. But Bond, relegated to outlaw status, must battle agents on both sides of the law as he discovers the horrifying extent of his prey's resources. In order to bring Sanchez down, Bond must survive a ferocious boat chase, a midair brawl over the controls of an out-of-control air-plane, and a finale in the Mexico desert....The unluckiest of the Bonds, this had to contend with Lethal 2, Batman, Indiana Jones, and a slew of family movies. Plus it's the first and only Bond to receive a 15 rating here in Blighty.But to be fair, it's one of the best Bonds going, usurping anything Brosnan did, and is gritty and realistic, just like Craig is doing now.It still has all the gadgets and some silly characters, but it's dark, and easily still the most violent of the 23 movies. Dalton shows again why he was one of the best bonds, and Davi is the Bond villain of the eighties.With great locations and some amazing stunt work, license is an amazing end to the eighties Bond and we had to wait 17 years to something just as good. "},{"Title":"Dalton shines in his last  Bond","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In Timothy Dalton's second and final adventure as 007 we probably have one of the most realistic, gritty and underrated films in the franchise. After Sanchez (Robert Davi), a notorious violent drug dealer tries to kill Bond's buddy Felix Leitner and brutally murders Leitner's new wife on their honeymoon, Bond turns rogue, for justice and revenge.This outing seems custom made for Dalton who has always wanted to make Bond more human but also keeping the sophistication of the iconic character in check. The film succeeds because it perfectly mixes the typical style of the franchise beautiful women, Carey Lowell as Bonds current colleague and love interest (But this Bond girl has balls!) Sanchez's femme fa-tale girlfriend and an evil sidekick played to the hilt by a young Benicio Del toro, a loyal moneypenny who always seems to be watching Bond's back and Desmond Llewellyn of course adding comic relief and gadgets galore as Q. Wayne Newton even has a cool cameo as a slick evangelist and of course an explosive finale pay off that defines a classic Bond film. Adding the expected to a storyline that could easily have been ripped from the headlines at that time, murder and an international drug ring along with Dalton's unfailing ability to show what makes James Bond tick made License to Kill for me a dark, yet unpretentious action extravaganza. "},{"Title":"Dark, serious and brutal Bond film","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" License to Kill (1989) is the first Bond movie to not take its title from one of Ian Fleming's books or short stories. It is however influenced by Live and Let Die book. It is director John Glen's fifth and last Bond movie. Also last time featuring Timothy Dalton as James Bond, Robert Brown as M and Caroline Bliss as Miss Moneypenny.The movie starts with Bond and his CIA friend Felix Leiter on their way to Leiter's wedding, when they are suddenly contacted by DEA who have spotted cruel drug lord Franz Sanchez nearby. Bond and Leiter arrest Sanchez and then proceed to the wedding. Sanchez however escapes the very same day and attacks Leiter's house, killing Leiter's bride Della and feeding Leiter's legs to a shark. Bond finds the two and sees red. When M assigns Bond to an irrelevant case, Bond resigns from the Secret Service, and starts his one man's hunt for Sanchez.License to Kill did very badly at the box office. One reason would be bad marketing, the other extremely dark and serious story telling. While Bond movies had become more and more serious throughout the 80's, this film took it furthest. I think this is the film that should have followed On Her Majesty's Secret Service showing Bond as an uncompromising vigilante on a mission. There is no humor this time and even gadgets are really downplayed.Timothy Dalton brings out darkness in Bond, the kind of which was rarely seen in previous films and has again been seen only recently with Daniel Craig. Strangely Dalton's take on the role in this film shows best Bond as both human and killer. He is a man who is hurt and uses his skills to exact revenge in the only way he knows how. This is him as brutal avenger, who can drop people in the shark tanks. Great support is given by both Carey Lowell as CIA agent Pam Bouvier, possibly the toughest Bond girl ever, and Desmond Llewelyn as Q. This is the only film aside of Octopussy that shows Q helping 007 in field.Robert Davi plays Sanchez. He may not be one of the greater than life villains like Goldfinger or Blofeld, but he is certainly the most sadistic. He finds maiming people and letting them live crippled to be more appropriate than just plain killing them. Beautiful Talisa Soto is his abused mistress with a right balance of vulnerability and dignity. Also notice young and then unknown Benicio Del Toro as one of Sanchez's henchmen.Out of the two Bond films Timothy Dalton was in, License to Kill is not quite as good as The Living Daylights but it's worth your time, especially if you like to see more serious, no bull-it Bond in action. Considering that it is the last Bond film made when the wall of Berlin and Soviet Union still existed, it is a great end of an era in Bond films. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Bond Film!","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" License to Kill is the second of the two Timothy Dalton versions of Bond. However, it is the only one truly written for him as Bond, and hits the mark very well.Dalton becomes the first truly serious Bond, with so few quips and one-liners, making even Connery's version seem humorous. The plot is truly realistic and appropriate then, 40 years ago, or today.Bond helps CIA Agent Felix Leiter (David Hedison in his second appearance as Leiter) bring in a hard-to-catch Colombian drug lord named Sanchez (Robert Davi). Unfortunately, Sanchez escapes and starts getting revenge on those who tried to get him. Leiter is targeted and severely crippled and Bond goes after Sanchez. However, Bond is supposed to be on a mission in Turkey. WHen the CIA and MI6 tell Bond to forget the Leiter issue, Bond tries to quit and is told you don't quit this business. His license to kill is revoked and Bond goes rogue agent. Bond first strikes at Sanchez's business, but then goes undercover as an unemployed agent looking for work-for-hire. Bond crosses territorial lines of many agencies and the various law and crime groups all start targeting him. Bond gets assistance from the sole-surviving Sanchez informant, ex military, now mercenary lady Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell). Bond gets some inside help from Sanchez's mistress, Lupe Lamora (Talisa Soto). Bond eventually gets inside Sanchez's organization to discover a major international drug plot and an evangelical ministry fronting it.The action is quick and furious, and Dalton is as intense a Bond as there has ever been. The various leads all play their parts exceptionally well, and may be the best supporting cast outside of Casino Royale. While no one steals any scenes, no one brings any down, either. Some plot devices seem a bit hackneyed nowadays, but the story works. There are no fancy super-gadgets, or unbelievable story-lines... just a myriad of international agencies trying to get out of each other's way. The usual crazy, not always believable chases and confrontations are there, but the intensity and drive of the story line, matched by Dalton's brutal Bond, carry through. I can not imagine Dalton doing the Brosnan films according to script, and will always be curious as to what stories and growth we would have seen with Dalton (much like Lazenby). As is, Dalton added his touch to Bond and did so without the eventual degradation that afflicts the other longer Bonds (Connery, Moore, Brosnan). "},{"Title":"Great Bond movie ... very underrated","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From 1975 to 1985, Roger Moore made James Bond a comedian with a bunch of cool gadgets, and less masculinity. After that period, we were ready for some testosterone in the Bond Franchise. Timothy Dalton did do that, and did it best with License to Kill. Bond became tough again. Dalton's performance in probably the darkest and most violent James Bond movie (the first one to garner a PG-13) fits the personality of Ian Fleming's Bond. It was a precursor to the Daniel Craig era. Bond's CIA contact, Felix Leiter, (David Heddison) is getting married. However, he and the DEA capture one of the most notorious Colombian Drug Lords, Sanchez (David Avi). He escapes and vows revenge on those who caught him. Felix's wife is killed, and he is tortured with a shark. James Bond vows revenge against Sanchez while ducking his duty for King and Country. He gets involved with Carrie Lowell (one of my favorite Bond women) and sets off to South America. The way Bond plays the drug lords against each other is fun to watch. It is also fun to see the stunts like skiing behind an auqua plane, and do some fancy truck driving. It also shows a vindictive and reckless side of Bond. His vendetta hurts more important missions like thwarting Sanchez's acquisition of stinger missiles, and the Japanese being able to stop his drug shipments. Still, Bond figures out a way to win--and without ending up super high in the air fighting Sanchez in the final battle. I know a lot of die-hard Bond fans did not like this one. I did. I wished Dalton would have done one or two more to keep taking it in the tough guy direction instead of back to the comic book style of the Moore and Brosnan eras. "},{"Title":"Dalton picks up the pace.","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This installment of the Timothy Dalton era as Bond does a little more to impress as it takes on a slightly darker edge.James Bond becomes a rogue agent,having dismissed himself from her Majesty's Secret Service in order to avenge an attack on a close friend and his new bride.Dalton gives us a much more impressive performance this time out. The villains are also much more impressive,as Robert Davi was an excellent choice to play Franz Sanchez.Also,longtime character actor Anthony Zerbe is in excellent form,and if you are viewing the film for the first time,you will be impressed with a young Benicio Del Toro before he became much more well known.Also,look for the much beloved Q(Desmond Llewelyn)to take on a much more active role than usual here.Despite a better performance in his second and last turn as Bond,I still have to put him behind Connery,Moore,and Brosnan in terms of most memorable Bond.He just never quite exuded enough charm for the role to make me rank him any higher.Overall though,the film is a worthy watch. "}{"Title":"Bond number 16 Bond's dark side","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond and CIA pal Felix Leiter arrest drug kingpin Sanchez, who retaliates by having Sanchez brutally killed. Denied the mission for his obvious emotional involvement, Bond goes rogue, intent on getting Sanchez himself.It was quite daring to stray this far from the formula, especially in the mostly uninspired 80s, and Liscence to Kill's meager box office was disappointing. In retrospect, however, we can draw very different conclusions. Time has been kinder to Dalton's Bond films than to any other Bond outings (Brosnan's output included), because the gritty, tormented character is more timeless than Connery's 60s charmer, Moore's blander gentleman or Brosnan's more diluted action man. The tone of the film and the rawness of style also make it timeless.The thought of Liscence to Kill mostly evokes its many violent scenes (by any standards and mostly by the usual Bond standard) Shark and decompression chamber executions, torture, rape, drugs, ruthlessness galore. This is the dark side of James Bond, one that was often hinted at during the Connery period and was almost completely absent from the Moore era. That is not to say that this doesn't have its funny and sometimes genuinely inspired moments the action scenes never disappoint and the crazy ending truck chase is a hoot. The use of an evangelist's TV show to publicly broadcast drug prices in code language is a nice novelty, and Bond's Yojimbo-like plot to tear Sanchez's organization apart makes this one of the few films where 007 actually takes some initiative and makes things happen, rather than just blunder about yet survive thanks to superhuman skills.More than ever, Bond's nemesis is a mirror image. the Dalton years were very concerned with showing what Bond might have become under different circumstances, and the idea is developed to its fullest in Liscence to Kill the suave, violent Sanchez is Bond as a drug baron. The Bond girls also come with their own troubled history and the role of soulless killing machine is assigned to a very efficient, very young Benicio Del Toro.One of the best Bond films of the series and a great revenge story. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton plays Arnold Schwarzenegger playing James Bond","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill is a poorly mixed mishmash of '80s trash. It's as if Timothy Dalton is playing Arnold Schwarzenegger playing James Bond, who is making a guest appearance in an episode of Miami Vice. While Dalton's no non-sense, sarcastic portrayal of Bond is perhaps my favorite out of all his different incarnations, I'm afraid he's wasted in this film. LTK just has too many silly stereotypes for me to get past the menacing Latino drug lord, the pastel colored clothing and loafers, and Bond's clothing getting ripped to shreds, a la Indiana Jones. I also thought the whole rogue agent theme was badly played - Bond is supposed to be on his own, out of MI6 and without his licence to kill. Sounds dark and taught, right? It could have been, but any semblance of seriousness is tossed out the window when Bond gets an assist from the sudden appearance of Q (the matchless Desmond Llewellyn). A scene at a Latin American drug production factory is also ridiculous - the factory is hidden inside a fake religious compound run by a nonsensical television pseudo-preacher. On the plus side, LTK is an entertaining enough film; the ladies look great, Dalton is superb, and a young Benecio Del Toro gives a very solid performance as a detestable henchman. Overall though, I couldn't help feeling that I'd seen it all before, in places James Bond films shouldn't be drawing their inspiration from. In the end, this one's really only worth watching twice to see Dalton's lamentably unpopular but truly excellent take on Bond. It's just a shame the script didn't match the caliber of its star. "},{"Title":"...the franchise ?","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film strays from the usual Bond formula, which in itself might not be bad, but the way in which it is done, or should I say the actors trying to pull it off just do not work. The writers undoubtedly tried to give Bond (Timothy Dalton) a more realistic touch by sending him out on a mission of revenge, but it didn't appeal like that to me at all. Timothy Dalton just never was so infuriated that I believed him and therefore I never felt for him or understood his emotions. On top of that there was no chemistry at all between him and any piece of crumpet he was with. Granted, Dalton tried to pull off a darker, vengeance fueled and yet sensitive Bond, but he failed utterly. The acting on his part just wasn't good enough. Add a Bond that isn't cheeky; a Bond that doesn't act like Bond when it comes to women and a couple of stupid action scenes, involving him driving a truck to that and you've got a pretty bad James Bond film. This might be an OK method of operation for any other movie, but this hardly qualifies as a James Bond film. This doesn't mean I do not tolerate changes. Hell, I accept gradual change, even radical change if it is executed well, but this??? The method of operation might be OK for any other film, but the quality of the acting and characters weren't interesting enough to make any film good.5,5 out of 10p.s. I enjoyed seeing Benicio del Toro as a bad guy. He did a pretty good job. As well as Robert Davi. "},{"Title":"Almost as gritty as the books, tears, fear and blood from Bond.d","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dalton IS the Bond of the books, as opposed to male model Brosnan in Goldeye (although he has filled out and is weathering nicely) The last Bond film not to refer to itself as part of the BOND FRANCHISE...it used to be a 'series of films', the Brosnan Bonds are now tie-ins with the product placement items~ cars, albums, DVD's, scratchcards, razors, posters etc  Licence to Kill has the best villain since Goldfinger, Sanchez has some wonderful lines, and the two Bond women are contrasting and a relief from the self-concious smirking of Halle Berry in Dire Another Day. In the film, as in the 1960's films, Bond is just believable not just a fashion plate close up for stuntmen.  "},{"Title":"Film loaded with problems...","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I don't get the feeling I'm watching a Bond-film, here. The idea of Bond busting off the MI6 and showing off his nasty side, was decent, but a Bondfilm still has to be a Bondfilm dammit! This is more of a mad cross between Lethal Weapon and Miami Vice.James Bond is all about customs and traditions. If it's not witty, it's pointless If it's not pure fun, it's pointless aswell. Why make a Bond-film without wit or fun? Naturally, this being the late 80's, Bond being more raw is just as logical as the ill-paced sequels to Psycho and Grease; it can only be the 1980's. Casting Timothy Dalton as James Bond, and Robert Davi as the villain, was the final guarantee for the judgement day of the series. Now it was impossible to have any wit in it. George Lazenby was a terrible actor, yes, but at least he knew what Bond was all about, Dalton (and everybody else in this movie) simply takes it all to serious. License to Kill is more of an american actionfilm from the 80's than a Bondfilm. I mean, seriously, Bond, M and Q the only brits around!To be fair there is only one (and a half) Bond; SEAN CONNERY! Lazenby was a horrible actor, Roger Moore took it way to jolly-good-old-chap and Dalton took it way to serious. The half is Pierce Brosnan, who does by far the best Bond since Connery, though all he really does is balancing Moore and Dalton instead of finding his own nisch.In all, License to Kill is one of the worst Bonds, only beaten by the notoriously boring Moonraker and the awful Tomorrow Never Dies (the only Bondfilm that really is BAD), but as any other actionflick it's pretty OK. 6/10, but nothing for the fans.  "},{"Title":"Licence to Yawn","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  So they take away Bond's licence to kill. Interesting idea, but ultimately flawed. I don't want to see a realistic Bond- to do that would be to defeat the whole concept. Timothy Dalton is a good Bond but he was far better in the previous movie. Meanwhile, we have splatting heads and lorries on fire. Sure to appeal to the no-brainer action freak. Licence to Kill looks and feels like a cold movie to watch. It's long-winded and gritty and totally un-Bondish. No wonder it nearly spelled the end for 007, a character who in my opinion was past his best in Octopussy, although The Living Daylights was enjoyable. Still, I get no satisfaction from this and I doubt if any Bond fans really do. 4/10. "},{"Title":"bad James Bond film","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  one of the worst entries in the series. By the time of this movie, Bond films turned into unpleasant and boring films starring a wooden actor in the role, Timothy Dalton. This movie is way too violent and dark and plays more like a DEATH WISH movie starring Charles Bronson than a Bond film. There is absolutely no humor or women in this hard-edged and boring movie. And, most importantly, it ain't FUN! Overall I would say this is the worst James Bond film ever. (At least MOONRAKER and A VIEW TO A KILL weren't this boring!) "},{"Title":"Interesting end to a 3rd Bond decade.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Latter half of the '80s was the most boring, unsatisfying and laziest time in the history of James Bond movies. In 1985 aged Roger Moore tried for the one last time to play the part of a British agent in a barely adequate Bond-adventure A View to a kill.  A pair of cold and humorless films starring Timothy Dalton followed in 1987 and 1989.The Living daylights was a fine movie but Timothy Dalton almost ruined it with his too stiff and drastic measures. Licence to kill is the second Dalton-Bond and clearly the better one. There's no way to modify Dalton into a perfect James Bond but he evidently internalized the role of 007 much better in his 2nd attempt. He was smoother, more relaxed and more confident Bond and his performance was practically pleasure to watch.Licence to kill is perhaps the cruelest, violent and darkest Bond-film. Some of the scenes are brutal, absolutely brutal indeed. It's whole idea is based on revenge. Movie is very likely written for Tim Dalton because it's hard to imagine anyone else in a leading role. I think the plot doesn't really fit the Bond-film's nature but in a series that usually just repeats same routines, slight exceptions are of course welcome.Serious topic doesn't offer much of a humor but luckily Desmond Llewellyn's magnificent Mr. Q provides some comic reliefs. Oil tanker sequence at the end of the film is as crazy, unlikely and unimaginable as it can get but in itself it's so striking, splendid and a glorious watching experience it has to be named as the best action scene of the Timothy Dalton era. Licence to kill closed one chapter in the history of Bond movies. Very good film but third Dalton-Bond was still not missed - at least by me. Six years later Pierce Brosnan was like a gift from heaven in Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"Licence to Suck...","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill is the most violent and serious of the series to date. This is also the last film that stars Timothy Dalton (thank god). James Bond resigns from Her Majesty's Secret Service after he finds out drug lord, Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), feeds his friend Felix Leiter (David Hedison, reprising his role from Live and Let Die) to a great white shark and kills his new wife. The plot has something to do with drugs and smuggling, I think. I don't know, this film is so laced with violence that it shadows the actual plot. Let's see, Sanchez throws a henchman into a decompression chamber and makes his head explode, he guns down tons of people, he whips his girlfriend, Lupe (Talisa Soto) and the list goes on. Bond also romances Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell), a BLAND Bond girl. She doesn't even seem interested in him, but it's the Tim Dalton Bond and he exhibits from what the previous comment said, zero charisma. Thank god the next film in the series, Goldeneye, makes up for this mess by introducing a new Bond and tones down the violence eneough so that the plot actually works. The only thing about this entry is that it has a great theme song sung by Gladys Knight. For die hard Bond fans only. "},{"Title":"Licence To Kilt","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton's era as Bond is a brief excursion from the norm and is painfully underrated. An intense, mannered actor who deliberately underplays the role, this is often interpreted as woodenness by many. Personally, I rather like his portrayal, particularly the subtle way those icy eyes of his scan every room in which he enters. Perhaps the main flaw with Dalton is that he doesn't (so I'm told) possess sex appeal.The Living Daylights was a magnificent debut for Dalton, one which completely redefined what the franchise was capable of and pushed it into wholly new areas where it wasn't believed a Bond film could go. The most European of the movies, it almost touches noir at points, with Maryam D'Abo the most sophisticated Bond girl. In fact, so reworked is the formula that the only times this intelligent 007 gets outwitted is by women. Perhaps slightly camp with his out-of-character cigarette smoking, this is the only Bond that (almost) never takes his shirt off and only has four sexual encounters in two movies of a post-Aids era. For Bond, that's practically celibate.Arguably the best directed, the most complex - certainly the most mature - 007 picture, The Living Daylights is the Bond movie to show people who don't like Bond movies. The only thing it lacked was a decent theme. For the first time, a different song was used for the end credits, where a Pretenders number took precedence over an appallingly flaccid theme by A-Ha.Licence to Kill, unfortunately, didn't manage to capitalise on this impressive new direction. Lacking the intellect and complexity of its predecessor, Licence To Kill has so much violence it pushed the certificate rating in England for the first time away from a A/PG and into a 15. This seems to have hindered its commercial progress, holding the distinction of becoming the only flop Bond movie. With its estimated $42 million gross the equal of its production costs, and the mounting litigation between the production company and Kevin McClory, this would be the final Bond film for six years.In it, a Dalton with a receding hairline is consistently beaten, spat on and bloodied. While this all-fighting, all-swearing Bond could have added a depth to the character we were previously not privy to, it instead feels gratuitous, particularly over-eager scenes of shark dismemberment and exploding heads.The film begins with 007 attending the wedding of Felix Leiter. (After OHMSS, you'd think people would realise Bond and weddings don't mix). They exchange presents, Felix and his bride giving him an engraved cigarette lighter (a Felix lighter, perhaps?). Soon afterwards, a drugs baron bumps off Felix' new wife and mutilates Felix in gory detail, presaging a personal vendetta by Bond that results in him leaving the service. More Rambo than James Bond (007 This time it's personal), this sees a non-stop cavalcade of crude violence playing out on screen. Dalton is given no real chance to act amid all this high-octane action and singular plot thread, though at least he tries. The rest of the cast, particularly Hedison as Leiter, contribute towards making this the most badly-acted of all James Bond films. More like a third-rate tv movie than an ongoing commercial franchise, this uninvolving dirge sees Desmond Llewellyn thrown back into the mix as a one-dimensional, plot-device Q. Even more one-dimensional than usual, that is. Women again have a pro-active role, saving Timothy's neck on more than one occasion, but the amount of crotch and cleavage on display more than detracts from this positive updating of the series.The major problem with all this is that it has no connection whatsoever with the series, abandoning its own mythos and flailingly trying to imitate the violent action movie excesses of the late 1980s. Thankfully we live in a time where Schwarzennegger et al have all but disappeared, yet thankfully Bond managed to hold on... just. The Living Daylights is a classic Bond movie, yet Licence to Kill is the sort of film that makes you feel nostalgia for The Man With The Golden Gun ... and that's as bad as gets. Quite possibly the most unappealing James Bond movie of all time.As for Dalton overall, maybe the real reason for the dislike of this 007 is the actor's real-life name... all three of the actors which gain the least respect have decidedly un-macho names... be it Roger, George and now Timothy. In contrast, we have Sean and the new flavour-of-the-month, the impossibly masculine-sounding Pierce Brosnan. One last point - has anyone ever noticed that Gladys Knight actually sings Licence To KILT in the released version of the theme song? I kid you not! "}{"Title":"Gritty","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton never seemed to win over the majority of the Bond fans with his portrayal, but in truth his Bond is probably the closest to Fleming's character. I think when compared to Connery (who is still my favourite) Dalton does lack in the charisma department, but he plays Bond with a gritty edge and a recklessness that makes him very realistic.Licence to Kill is the best of Dalton's two films (he definitely should have replaced Roger Moore earlier) After Felix Leiter is left for dead, James Bond goes against the British government (who revoke his licence to kill) and sets out to get revenge.8/10 up there with the best "},{"Title":"Dalton bows out as Bond in dark, hard-hitting style","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill was the second and last of Timothy Dalton's Bond films, and it saw his mission of taking OO7 back to his Fleming roots being pushed to the extreme. This is one of the toughest and darkest films in the series, certainly the most violent, and perhaps because of this it did not do that well at the Box Office. However, it is also one of the best Bonds ever made, and it deserves a much better reputation than it enjoys.Many complain that LTK is not like a Bond film, and while to an extent this is true it actually works to the film's benefit. There are no groan-inducing one-liners here, no spectacular gadgets or cartoon villains. Instead, we have a tight, simple plot that sees Bond resign from MI6 to pursue a ruthless vendetta against evil drug baron Franz Sanchez, who has murdered the wife of Felix Leiter and fed Leiter's legs to the sharks. As he goes after Sanchez Dalton's Bond shows himself to be a complex, realistic character, both driven and determined but also capable of showing human emotion, as he notably does when he is inadvertantly reminded of his late wife.  It was always Dalton's intention to make his Bond as realistic and Flemingesque as possible, and he certainly succeeds here; only his rather dodgy hairstyle lets him down.Dalton is well supported by other cast members. Robert Davi's Sanchez is in the top league of Bond villains, a ruthless and sadistic killer who is nevertheless fiercely loyal to those who serve him. He may only be a drug baron with no plans for world domination (which helps the film's realistic tone), but he is far more menacing than some of Bond's opponents who have had such plans, and Davi captures the contrasting sides of his personality very well indeed.  As well as a quality villain, LTK boasts possibly the best Bond girls since the 1960s. Talisa Soto is suitably sultry as Lupe, the girlfriend of Sanchez, and Carey Lowell is very impressive as the gun-toting Pam Bouvier, who proves herself to be just as tough as Bond and is arguably the first truly liberated woman to share the screen with him.  Pam's self-reliance discomfits OO7, and the verbal sparring between the two is one of the film's highlights.  Also in good form is David Hedison, who becomes the only actor to play Felix Leiter more than once (he first did so in Live and Let Die).  LTK will probably remain the final Bond film to feature Leiter because of the injuries he suffers, and Hedison rises to the occasion with a good performance, although he does look rather more cheerful than he should be at the end, considering he has just lost his wife and his legs. The regulars from MI6 are all present and correct, with Robert Brown and Caroline Bliss making what would prove to be their final appearances as M and Moneypenny. Desmond Llewelyn returns yet again as Q, and he enjoys his biggest ever part in the series, actively helping Bond in the field. Q's role was perhaps expanded to inject some light relief into what is essentially a dark film, and Llewelyn is excellent as always, his greater screen time enabling his relationship with Bond to be explored more deeply than usual. The film also features an early performance from Benicio del Toro, who is suitably sinister as a henchman of Sanchez.As far as the look of the film is concerned, it does perhaps stray too far into Miami Vice territory on occasion, but makes up for it with some superb action sequences, particularly the climactic truck chase. This was veteran Bond director John Glen's fifth and final entry in the franchise, and it enabled him to go out on a high note after many years distinguished service to the Bond series in a number of different capacities. LTK marked the end of an era in several other ways, being the last Bond to be produced by Albert R Broccoli and the last to be scripted by Richard Maibaum. Michael Kamen provides the music, and Gladys Knight performs a decent, if unspectacular theme song.Overall Licence to Kill is a highlight among the Bond films, delivering plenty of thrill and spills along with an unusually serious and hard-nosed plot. Naturally, some elements of the film do not stand up to close scrutiny. Would Bond really resign to pursue an illegal vendetta? Would Q risk his own position to help him? However, it is only a film, and I don't think this really matters very much. It is just a shame that the legal wrangles which stopped another Bond film from being made for the next six years led to Dalton leaving the series, because his two turns as OO7 certainly breathed new life into the part, and remain among the best interpretations of Bond in the history of the franchise. "},{"Title":"Miami Bond","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" John Glen's final Bond film stretches itself in all sorts of directions. A Bond film this is in very few facets, preferring an up-to-date cartel- busting thriller as its proforma. Indeed as the film transgresses its genre fences, so Dalton's Bond makes the most serious attempt to go AWOL since Lazenby dictated a letter in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. There's no co-incidence that there's a weeding, clearly anathema to Bond, in this film too.The standard three acts move rather slowly, with the action sequences beautifully filmed but spun out too long, laboured in dramatic construction. The real interest is in the drama as Sanchez loses control of his operation. Robert Davi plays the capo superbly, menacing and calculating but not simply smug. The rot in his outfit is slowly exposed by Glen but the inter-personal tension really well done. It's a great contrast to the almost incestuous opening between the good spooks. Priscilla Barnes' Della is clearly as in love with Bond as with her new husband Felix. The relationships Bond has with the women are also well- rendered, building, not simply turning on a sexual impulse. It's just a pity that these aren't woven into the story more, which remains - as Bond says of South America - a man's world.Dalton is fine is this more complicated, more personal film. Carey Lowell is out of her depth against Dalton although not out of depth with the genre to which the film tends, oddly enough. Despite being an active sidekick though she is still painted as totty (I use the term pointedly) on top of the typical clothes-horsery, Dalton's Bond talks down to her, tries almost successfully to get rid of her on at least 3 occasions and - watch it - pats her bottom in many shots. Almost more credible is the tough, self-preserving moll of Talisa Soto. Desmond Lewellyn has his most expanded role to date as an avuncular Q branch co- opted in the field. It's also nice to see Benicio del Toro as the notably excellent henchman Dario.The film both risks and satisfies. But is it a Bond film? Bond has little charm and certainly requires little of it. There is no sense of spying in this film. What is borrowed from the previous outings is set piece technical know-how, scenarios from the likes of Goldfinger, Thunderball and Live And Let Die and even a line from Fleming's text for that latter film 'He disagreed with something that ate him'. Maybe that's why David Hedison was invited back to reprise the role. A two-star B movie that might be three if it weren't so long. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A failed and unnecessary experiment","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Dalton Bond movies are often praised for making 007 seem more dangerous, recalling the so-called glory days of Connery.  While to an extent this is true, and though it's reasonable to say that the production staff needed to rethink the formula following the unsatisfying Bond-by-numbers View to a Kill, to suggest that Bond needed to be reinvented as a sociopathic maverick does seem something of an overreaction.Reactionary sums up Licence to Kill.  In itself it's a fine movie, well directed and packed with praiseworthy action sequences.  However, as a *Bond film* it misses the point entirely.  The almost total absence of humour is clearly a reaction against the excesses of the Moore era, as is Bond's ruthless edge, the lack of glamour, and the ordinariness of the villain and his plot.  But by shunning the wit, sparkle and hyperbole, the resulting film is a simple action blockbuster with nothing to distinguish it from any other vacuous Hollywood romp.  The grandeur of Goldfinger and You Only Live Twice is dumped in favour of some worthy but dull sermon on drug barons in Latin America.  The baddie doesn't even have a fiendishly masterful plan a la Grand Slam or Moonraker for Bond to foil - just some drug smuggling that's been going on for years and that the CIA could probably have sorted out without the help of Britain's finest.As for Bond's resignation - it's a horrible, cliched and utterly uncharacteristic gesture that belongs in a B-grade US cop show (where the hero rails against the pen pushers at city central) and not in a series whose star embodies loyalty to his country and service, heroism, and the sacrifice of personal vendettas to a greater cause.Quite why Bond's makers felt Licence to Kill was needed is a mystery.  After all, they'd already produced a movie that toned down excessive humour and fantasy while still managing to retain the essential Bond spark For Your Eyes Only.  Licence to Kill hasn't got wit, escapism or glamour.  It's not even a spy film, and it's definitely not Bond. "},{"Title":"007 Licence To Kill Gets A 001","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I Have What Is Considered A Weird Taste In Bond Movies (I Hate Craig) However I Think That The Fact That This Is The Lowest Grossing Bond Film Of All Time Has To Say Something And It Does.The Biggest Problem Is That It Took Itself Too Seriously, 007 Has To Have A Hint Of Sunlight If Your Going To Make It Dark However This Didn't Do That.Another Problem Is That Bond Isn't Actually Bond. Daltin Is Playing Some Action Hero But It Isn't Bond, Bond Is Not This. Bond Is Supposed To Be A Dangerous, Womanizing Action Hero, It Only Fits In One Of These Categories Action Hero.The Gadgets Are Stupid; A Camera That Takes Photos Of X-Ray's How Is That Going To Happen? Bond Enters The Party Scene Can I Take Your Picture? At Best The Person Would Run Away. Oh And I Don't Recall It Being Used (I Might Be Wrong I Only Saw This Once But I Wasn't Particularly Impressed By It).Overall I Suggest Skipping This And Going Onto Goldeneye Which Not Only Supresses This But Every Other Bond Film In Every Aspect. "},{"Title":"Not my favorite Bond","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill has a new Bond played by Timothy Dolton, he's a pretty decent Bond, but my problem with the film was just that it seemed not as close to the other Bond movies. Basically, Bond this time is just trying to avenge the death of a friend, Felix and over throw a drug lord. You know, it's a usual day for Bond. D But I just wasn't into the different road taken for the Bond stories, it just seemed darker and too mobster. But still, like I said, I think that Timothy over all made a lovable Bond, just he's not Connery or Moore, let's face it, those are the original Bonds and could never be replaced. But then again, I haven't seen Pierce or George, so, we'll just have to see.3/10 "},{"Title":"The worst Bond film yet.","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was the worst Bond film ever. I disliked it for two main reasons Firstly for the premise/plot of the film, and secondly, for Dalton's performance.The idea that Bond would completely abandon Her Majesty's Secret Service to pursue his own ends goes completely against everything that James Bond stands for. He does not let his feelings (although he has them) get in the way of the mission. He goes absent without leave, and once tracked down resigns his 'licence to kill'. What were they thinking? How can you make a spy thriller if there are no spies, just an angry man who wants revenge? Timothy Dalton was the worst Bond to date. The 'vulnerability' which he brought to the character was more like wussiness. Upon finding the tragedy that sparks off his revenge mission he makes a sound which can only be described as a girly scream. This is not something you want from any spy, least of all hard-boiled Bond.Also sadly absent were the multitude of factors that make a Bond film what it is. Dalton has no good one-liners, there is no decent Bond car (does Bond use public transport? I think not), and the Bond gadgets (namely a gun/camera) are unoriginal and boring. This film also went against the traditional vein of Bond films in that it was rated a '15'in Britain. This was because of the strong violence (exploding heads...)which may be fine in most thrillers, but is not what you would expect to find in a Bond film, which can usually be enjoyed by all the family. Worst of all, the Bond girls also lacked any class - the American one carries a shotgun, and what sort of Bond girl uses swear words? This film was a blot on the Bond franchise, which was thankfully covered over by the excellent Pierce Brosnan and Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"Who let Timothy Dalton be James Bond??","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  UGH... As an adorer of the James Bond character, I have to call Timothy Dalton a sacrilege!  And apparently, this movie was his satanic shrine.  YUCK!  This film has nothing of the appeal of the great old bond films nor any of the thrills of the new ones.  It was nothing but scene upon scene of 80's superficiality with nothing underneath.  There were none of the fantastically witty Bond lines nor of his legendary charm.  Dalton drained him completely.  And what was with that horrible wedding scene?? It was like a bad remake of The Godfather.  Really, I couldn't stomach the thing, it was all just too awful.  As for those who credit this as being a great Bond film because of its likeness to Ian Flemings work... so what?  If you want to read the book, go to the library.  This is a fictional movie and one that, in my opinion, could have been done A LOT better. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, mediocre action film that loses all of the Bond charm","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill is shockingly bad when you consider its intentions. The plan was to make the grittiest Bond yet, and what do the producers do? They make Bond an average vigilante by removing him from Her Majesty's Secret Service, they thrust him in the middle of a clichéd Latino drug lord story, and the rest of the movie plays out like some horrible hybrid of Miami Vice and Lethal Weapon without the laughs, 'viciousness' coming off as processed cheese 90% of the time as well. John Glen, who did an astounding job with The Living Daylights, directs this film so lazily you'd think it was some sort of cheap TV movie, which is exactly what it looks like.Licence to Kill barely registers as Bond. It bears as much resemblance to Fleming's work as Moonraker or Diamonds are Forever do, outside of some characterization that is closer to Fleming's Bond than the cinematic Bond, and it doesn't really beat much resemblance to a James Bond feature either. Change the name of the lead character and leave out the distinctive Bond theme and one would never think this was a Bond feature. I'm shocked that many Bond purists take to this movie, as if there's one thing that is absolutely necessary for Bond to work, it's for him to be, well, a spy. I am capable, even as a Fleming fan more than a cinematic Bond fan, to accept characterizations of Bond which don't match Fleming's vision at all if the movie is good. Here the movie isn't good and the very basic underlying identity of Bond is taken away. He's an ordinary man fighting cliché villains for a cliché reason (he's been pushed too far? Really? Couldn't you be a tad bit more original?), and he's just not interesting. There's an almost complete lack of character development here, and when you're making a mostly character-centric movie, that's sort of ridiculous. Licence to Kill can't even claim to be the dark and gritty tale many claim it is. There's far too much misplaced comic relief for that aspect to work properly, and even some unintentional comedy courtesy of the outrageously silly villains in this movie. Is this not supposed to be a serious, gritty action film? Oh, sure, it's more violent than most Bond films, but the writers and producers seem to be mistaking violence for grit and even worse, for quality. This movie simply comes across as a sellout to the US audience, and loses the last crucial part of its identity in doing so its Britishness. It's not quite the worst film of the series, but it is in no way a welcome addition and it is really sad that its lack of quality led to Dalton leaving the franchise. Nonsense. Absolute nonsense.4/10 "},{"Title":"Much like Dalton's First Bond","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I loved Living Daylights, but this film seems to be almost interchangeable with that film, at least insofar as it suffers the same lack of conviction in terms of plot despite the interesting premise.This film could have been so much better than it actually ended up, which is a shame. As with the former Dalton Bond, half the cast seem to be acting in different films, and the lack of determination in making Bond truly Bond really spoils the whole affair. This really is a case of less would have been more, and had they dispensed with the lame jokes, every part of Q's contribution and the tedious villain-hideout-that-goes-boom ending, it would most likely have been a much better film. As it was, it stalled the franchise for a few years and a very promising Bond was left out in the cold. Where have you gone Sean Connery?? "}{"Title":"Bond #16 The basics","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After &#132;The Living Daylights fully restored Bond's damaged credibility and established Dalton as a really good Bond, &#132;License To Kill boldly went even a step further, telling a story of personal vendetta, as Bond quits Her Majesty's secret service. Rough, violent funny gadgets weren't necessary. Q turns up at Bond's hotel unexpectedly, as if the writers almost forgot that Bond had any connexion to the secret service. This is the man on his own, and when Dalton says to Talisa Soto, &#132;you better find yourself a new lover, we know Bond will not accept any compromise. &#132;One of the interesting things about Bond is that he is just as bad as they are, Dalton said in an 1989 interview. &#132;He is a killer (who) just happens to be working for the side that's called good. Insofar, &#132;License To Kill is the stripping of the myth, down to the basics. A man with a gun and a lot of determination. It works. I remember I didn't like &#132;License To Kill much when it came out, but over the years it grew on me, even if it'll never be one of my faves. "},{"Title":"Looks very promising around the beginning, but gradually loses it","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This sixteenth official Bond film, the second of two starring Timothy Dalton, is a little different from what you would probably expect. As others have pointed out, it's darker and more serious. Before watching it, I had read about those differences, so I was prepared for what wouldn't be typical for James Bond (at least not for the movies, I don't know about the books), which may have been a good thing. Around the beginning, it seemed to me like it was working, and it looked like it would be superior to Dalton's first outing as Bond, 1987's The Living Daylights, which some think it is, but for me, it got less intriguing as it went along.After James Bond and CIA agent Felix Leiter capture drug lord Franz Sanchez, they immediately go to Felix' wedding, where he is to marry a woman named Della Churchill, and Bond is his best man. Unfortunately, Sanchez manages to escape, and after the wedding, the couple are captured by henchmen of Sanchez! After Bond finds out about Sanchez's escape, he soon finds Della dead and Felix seriously injured! Now seeking revenge, he plans to track down Sanchez, but MI6 are not concerned about the drug lord and M tells him to move on to his next assignment. So, Bond resigns and is stripped of his license to kill. He then continues on a personal vendetta, determined to have his revenge on the criminals, but unlike any of his previous missions, he is on this one as an outlaw, no longer working for the government, so the criminals he is after are not the only ones who are against him!The beginning of the film looks promising, with the drug bust, and the film doesn't falter with the wedding. Also, the action and drama that ensues when things get ugly keeps the film going steadily for a while. It didn't fail to make me feel the tension, and the scene where Bond finds Della dead and Felix in critical condition definitely moved me. No, it's not the kind of scene you would usually see in a Bond film, but that's not necessarily a bad thing, if you realize this isn't exactly a typical film in the franchise. Aside from learning about how dark this movie was before I watched it, I also read that it was devoid of any humour, and after watching the film, I pretty much agree with that (some very mild humour that occasionally made me smile, but certainly not even much of that), not that I'm complaining. If the action and drama could keep the film going steadily, it could have turned out to be the best Bond film in quite a while, but unfortunately, during the movie's long run, it gradually spirals downhill, with a rather poor performance from Carey Lowell as Bond's ally, Pam Bouvier. There's lots of action in the film, but it doesn't usually tend to work, and like a number of previous Bond films, this one seems a bit too long. The once intriguing revenge story gets a little tiresome.With a different kind of premise, Bond doing something he had never done in the movies before, turning against Her Majesty's Secret Service for a personal vendetta, which may not seem like something he would ever do, some fans obviously don't like this film. However, this premise didn't tend to bother me, and maybe if you don't exactly look at this as another Bond film, but more as a dark revenge story, it just might help. Still, while it looked like this film would really do it for me, it was disappointing, and I'm going to have to disagree with those who say this is the superior of Dalton's two films in the franchise. Neither are the best, but I think this one is slightly inferior. That obviously doesn't mean you'll think the same, you could be very impressed with this different type of Bond. For me, however, it looked like it was going to work (it looked like I would be able to rate it 8/10 around the beginning), but there aren't too many other Bond films I've seen that I can say seemed very good around the beginning and then stumbled and couldn't redeem themselves. "},{"Title":"The Last James Bond Movie Licence to Kill (1985)","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Last James Bond Movie Licence to Kill (1989)James Bond doesn't need to show us the 'way we live now.' This isn't Le Carre or Buchan or the great Geoffrey Household. Bond's role is as a simulacrum permitting us to rationalize anxieties bred by the commodity fetish in others and ourselves. The books, and much more the movies, show us how to worship at the altar of the good life and repress all our doubts and fears, as good citizens of any empire should. Bond allows us to hunger after the life of plenty, of good taste, and use it to build a psychological carapace over our dread and alienation at the ravages of the wages system in the most socially useful way possible we consume.007 consumes women, sunshine, very dry martinis, fine furnishings, splendid cars. He visits the very heavens of this world Alps, Dolomites, Aegean, Orient, Bahamas. His job, the thing that hands him upper class consumer culture on a silver platter, is simple enough. Each day he cocks a snook at his hopelessly serious boss; from time to time he deflects a steel-brimmed bowler hat or blows up a blimp. Licence to Kill (1989) was the last Cold War-era Bond movie. But it doesn't even pay lip service to Russia, Europe, or any of Bond's old hunting grounds. This movie looks forward to the villains ordained by the first Bush regime making war against drugs and Manuel Noriega. (The drug emperor Sanchez lives in a country called Isthmus,and runs it behind the scenes. When President Lopez confronts him about a reduced paycheck, Sanchez raises a Grinch-like eyebrow and tells him Remember, you're only president for life.) It also proposes a Cuban connection in the drug trade; a month after the film's release, the Cuban government executed General Arnoldo Ochoa for drug trafficking. The whole south Florida and Central American milieu of Licence to Kill is steeped in the double-dealing criminality opened by Washington's proxy counterrevolutionary war to topple the FSLN government in Nicaragua. The contra war was only the most recent imperialist pro-drug war; a previous one was called The Opium War; so may be the next one.Sanchez, played by the find actor Robert Davi, is not a maniacal Blofeld-style super villain. He does not want to irradiate Fort Knox or provoke World War Three or sink California into the Pacific. All he wants is market expansion into the Orient; he revenges himself against the DEA, Felix Leiter, and Leiter's new bride Della so as not to lose face with prospective partners.Licence to Kill has the usual yachts and scuba battles. But there are also characters like Professor Joe Butcher, played by the singer Wayne Newton. While he has only a few minutes of screen time, Newton turns Butcher into the acme of all seedy, hilariously crooked late-1980s televangelists. When Butcher is ripping off, or being ripped off, he says Bless your heart as though marveling at the glory of his own cruelness.We might call Licence to Kill James Bond vs. Scarface. At one point in the film Sanchez tells a business partner It's not personal, it's business. This echoes the mantra of both Scarface and The Untouchables.Production designer Peter Lamont gives Sanchez's drug factory (hidden beneath a Mexican pyramid) a high-industrial aluminum cleanliness; it looks more like a pharmaceutical or computer plant than a common or garden drug lab.This is the law of value at its most exotic. Sanchez hides his drugs for transport by dissolving them into the holiest of holies, gasoline. They are safely reconstituted at the other end of the pipeline provided his partners in other countries buy rights to the formula. Above all else, intellectual copyright must be upheld.Licence to Kill wraps contemporary headlines around the bourgeois fantasy of the revenge-filled killing spree. The glee with which Bond destroys a fortune in drugs being shipped in a mini-sub, and later throws two men out of an airplane he needs for escape, capture many viewers in their emotional back flow. Revenge is a normal category of activity in our ruling class, and between individual capitalists. We become intoxicated by its much-advertised charms, too. Righteous revenge features in the plots of most thriller novels and movies, which are the dominant genre today. Many dream of sticking it to their enemies and competitors. Movies permit us to train our imaginations that way. The problems we face require not collective action in our unions and mass organizations, but a decompression chamber or a stinger missile.This was not the last James Bond movie, but it certainly feels that way. Six years would pass before the release of Golden Eye in 1995. The measured tempo and four-square mies-en-scene of Licence to Kill are a pleasure, as are the performances. Dalton in particular achieves an almost constant agonized stillness, simply poised and waiting within his body. It is an impeccable turn by a versatile actor.Politically, Licence to Kill is another in a long series of anti-political non-political political films. A particular capitalist enterprise makes a movie depicting some specific crimes and misdemeanors of specific capitalists, companies, countries, or industries which demonstrably must be cleaned-up. Nothing systemic, you see. Criminal activity in the business world is abnormal, you see. Decisive individual action, not collective class action, rectifies all, you see. Thus are we safe and satisfied to remain at home, purchasing and consuming until the next sequel. "},{"Title":"This is the first PG-13 Bond flick, and you'll either love it or hate it...","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ... and I personally loved it.(possible spoilers)This is Dalton's second, and sadly last, film in the series, one that stays much truer to Ian Flemming's original character from the 1950's.  Bond wants revenge on a drug lord that has nearly killed his best friend Felix Leiter(David Hedison, reprising the role from Live and Let Die), feeding him to the sharks, an event that happened to Felix in the original Live and Let Die novel.  The authorities are to slow to act on what the criminal has done, and finding that MI6 has refused to allow him to be involved in the matter, Bond quits, and now on the run, has only two allies in his search for Sanchez, Pam Bouvier, a tough-as-nails ex-army pilot, and Major Boothroyd himself, Q, who not only provides the usual assortment of deadly devices, from an explosive alarm clock(which is never used, I might add) to a camera that turns into a sniper rifle, but also actively aids Bond in the field as well this time around.  Sanchez himself is also a great villain, he is not the typical conquer-the-world, villain like Blofeld, Drax, or even Trevalyn, he is just a crook trying to control his area of his crime market(drugs).  The film is the most violent of all 20 movies, so much in fact that the film almost received an R rating.  Sadly, these factors, as well as the huge supply of big named films that also came out in 1989, resulted in why the film bombed, as well as leading into one of the factors of the infamous Bond franchise limbo period.  The film was bashed by both critics and moviegoers alike.  However, that is not to say that LTK has gone completely without any success.  The movie has become a cult classic among many hardcore Bond fans for these reasons, so it's not that the movie was a complete failure, just something that the public may not have been ready for.  One can only hope that someone will eventually try to once again revisit the darker aspects of Bond, as they would certainly be preferable to the mess the more recent films have made out of themselves. "},{"Title":"Bond's REALLY dangerous side comes through!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights was a great debut for Timothy Dalton, but when I heard the new direction for James Bond entailed him quitting MI6 and going off on a personal vendetta to avenge Felix Leiter and his new bride (killed on their wedding day a'la James and Tracy Bond,) I thought Licence to Kill would be the worst Bond film since Live and Let Die (sorry LALD fans.)  Instead, I walked out of the theater and promptly bought a ticket for the next showing.  Licence to Kill easily ranks as one of the best Bond films.  It's certainly the darkest. Plus, it relies more on acting skill than gadgetry, something a few films in the series suffered from, most notably Moonraker and The Spy Who Loved Me.  I'm with a lot of Bond fans in saying it's a shame Dalton only did two turns as Agent 007.  I really think he would have fared rather well in A View to a Kill to replace an aging Roger Moore, who I really like, but the sad fact is that he stuck around one Bond film too many.And I can't say enough good things about Robert Davi.  Robert's Franz Sanchez is simply an awesome villain.  I hope he's getting the credit he deserves. Wayne Newton (Professor Joe Butcher) has an interesting role and the two leading ladies (Carey Lowell and the incredibly hot Talisa Soto) provide Bond with some um... interesting diversions.  Hey, what's a Bond film without 'em? Desmond Llewelyn as Q had longer-than-usual screen time, and that was well- deserved.   Remember the alarm clock that's guaranteed never to wake you? I can believe the C4 toothpaste, too.  Another nice touch and a nod to the past was the casting of Pedro Armendáriz Jr. as President Hector Lopez. Pedro's father, Pedro Armendáriz Sr. (Kerim Bay) was gravely ill during the shooting of the second Bond film, From Russia With Love.  Sadly, he committed suicide rather than go through the hell of dying from cancer.I've read where Licence to Kill is among the lowest-grossing Bond films. It's a shame that it was released the same summer as Batman and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.  In retrospect, it really should have been held back until at least the winter of that year, when BatMania had died down and more substantial films actually made money. "},{"Title":"The last great Bond movie","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill is, in my own opinion, the last really good bond movie, in terms of both plot and originality.  I thought it was a really good idea to break away from the usual formula and create something that stands out above other entries in the series.Sure, the film failed at the box office, perhaps because it was not what regular cinema audiences expected from the Bond formula, but I think it is a real Bond fans delight and should be allowed more respect over time.  The same can be said for Timothy Dalton as Bond, the most underrated actor who portrayed the role.  Personally, he's the best Bond and dwarfs the much-loved Pierce Brosnan in the role-his three Bonds are not a patch on the two Daltons or any of the other films for that matter!Everything works well about this film The villain-Franz Sanchez-perfect for the tone of the film. The girls-not just eye candy and contribute well to the plot. The direction-the Dalton films are John Glen's finest. And many more good factors (watch the film and see...)Overall, I love both Of the Dalton Bonds, but The Living Daylights just wins over this (due to it having a better score-John Barry's best)but they both make my top 5.So, if you call yourself a Bond fan by only considering the Brosnan films (which many young fans do)why don't you take a look at this little gem and judge for yourself.VERDICTIn theory, the true Bond fan should consider it one of the best! 9/10  "},{"Title":"Not the best","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The second installment from Mr Dalton bond movie. This one is not really good, do not enjoy much cause the plot is too similar with other bond movie, big building being blown up etc.The thing that i enjoy most from this one is the locations which are very beautiful and exotic. Also, the performance of Ms Lowell, she is brilliant, like her acting, very real and original and funny too. "},{"Title":"Licence to thrill","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton returned to James Bond's role in 1989 for the very last time.With Robert Davi as the bad guy Franz Sanchez and Carey Lowell as Bond woman Pam Bouvier.Licence to Kill is the darkest Bond movie ever.Some people like it, some people don't.I'm somewhere in the middle.I must admit that I like Bond movie with humor more.Timothy Dalton was good as James Bond but he wasn't great.Licence to Kill has some thrilling moments so there's no fear of getting bored while watching this movie. It still is very entertaining like Bond movies always. After this James Bond had a 6-years break.Pierce Brosnan just waited  for his turn.  "},{"Title":"His bad side really is a dangerous place to be!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was the first ever James Bond 007 film that I'd ever seen; AND I WAS VERY IMPRESSED! Timothy Dalton (AT 43) was clearly the most toughest of all James Bond actors. Disobeying his Majesty's Service, he goes on a journey of revenge against a Drug Dealer called Sanchez for nearly murdering his friend Felix Leiter and murdering Felix Leiter's wife Della Leiter. This was an action-packed blockbuster from my POINT OF VIEW! "},{"Title":"This time, sombody could have done it better.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I found a lot of things wrong with this film.  First of all, Bond never gets this emocional about his work and always stays cool; the use of phrases such as p**s off just doesn't work in a Bond film.  This film was also too politicaly correct; or at least politicaly correctness wasn't pulled off in this one as well as it was in the later Bond flick, GoldenEye.  This film is so P.C. that is actually has a Surgeon General's warning because Timothy Dalton smoked occasionaly (check the closing credits).  And finally, the scene where Bond gets captured (and udderly dominated) by the ninjas.  This is the first time I can think of where Bond gets beaten up, which just shouldn't happen.  This was a decent film, however, it just wasn't as good as its predecessor, The Living Daylights.  Timothy Dalton does a good job, the action sequences are pretty good, and it was nice to see David Hedison reprising his role as Felix Leiter.  It was also nice to see Desmond Llewelyn (Q) get a larger role.  Good film, but just doesn't meet up to standards for a Bond film. "}{"Title":"New Kind Of Bond Movie.","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie had some bad luck, surely lost some of the earnings to rival movies in the summer of 1989. Sequels to both Lethal Weapon(2nd) and Indiana Jones(3rd) series made things tough for this movie becoming an absolute blockbuster success.And sadly to be the second and last Timothy Dalton show as 007, when the James Bond project was put on ice for a while after this film. Mark IV in the continuing story of the MI6 agent was abruptly ended here. But the movie itself didn't show any signs of that at the time Bond/Dalton here goes into a psychological and personal war with a drug baron, who kills someone close to him. Too personal according by his boss (M) standards, who gets forced to put Bond off duty, almost by violence.The script was kind of fresh thinking, after almost too many cold war-stuff during the 80's, with Russians and so. This movie has the most Down To Earth-feeling of every 80's Bond. Dalton playing a frustrated but patient man, with everything he can squeeze out of his acting talent.The girls who adorn this movie are well casted. Carey Lowell as a tough and smart, independent woman, who's love to 007 grows during the trip. Talisa Soto is the wonder beauty, kept imprisoned by the movie's villain just as a trophy, and for amusement. Both gets struck by 007 charm and (of course) falling in love with him.Robert Davi is excellent as the cold, mean drug producer/dealer who plans to avoid interruptions of his business by recruit - what he think is - loyal and devoted men. One James Bond was never taken into account....Q (Desmond Llewelyn) gets a bigger part than before in this, which contributes to more of that human feeling in the movie. Backing up (of course) with gadgets and some other achievements, in a more personal way than ever before...quite touching.But...sadly this was the last 007 movie for six long years. The production team struggled with a lot of things for years, Dalton got impatient and restless over the inertia. The contract over four movies broke up somewhere in the early 90's, and we never got the pleasure to see further character development from Timothy Dalton as James Bond. Very daunting at the time that was for me; I thought he left with his best 007 movie still to do.But otherwise, the quite long pause that was to come, turn out pretty well. "},{"Title":"License to avoid this movie","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I loved the previous movie with Dalton but really dislike this one. The main character of the film is not Bond, it's some revenge-driven psychopath. Parts of the story seem to based off Live and Let Die, making this feel like a hard-edge remake of Live and Let Die. The movie is also quite boring and not that easy to watch. This is the last movie John Glen directed and it's definitely his worst, i'd rather even watch A View to a Kill than this. Carey Lowell plays a boring, uninteresting, dull Pam Bouvier, the main Bond girl of the movie. We have a new composer Michael Kamen who does a great score that is pretty underrated in my opinion, it's not John Barry but it's still good. The main theme sung by Gladys Knight is also great, it's reminiscent of Goldfinger theme. Bond also retires from MI6 to do his own mission... gee... we've never heard that before... But we did in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Robert Davi plays a pretty cool villain, Franz Sanchez and Benicio Del Toro plays a pretty cool henchman, Dario. Q appears more in this film which is the best redeeming quality of this movie. But other than that, we've got a movie where nothing interesting happens, where we have a reused story, where we have a reused plot point, takes itself so seriously that it loses it's Bond feel. This is also the least successful Bond film because nobody even cared for this atrocity. It would take 6 years to release a movie that saved the franchise. Anyway I have a license to give this movie a 3.5/10. "},{"Title":"This Time It's Personal","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill marked the end up of a lot of things for Bond. It was the last for Dalton as 007, Robert Brown as M, Caroline Bliss as Moneypenny, and plenty more behind the scenes people as well. It also marked the first time a Bond film was absolutely not full of humor and tongue and cheek in tone. Some people say that was the downfall of the film from the beginning. I didn't have a problem with it. Yes, sometimes the deaths can be a little jarring in terms of Bond's history, but the dark tone was needed for the story they were trying to tell.We begin with an electrifying pre-credits sequence. One that closely resembles the opening scene of 2012's The Dark Knight Rises. I don't think it's a coincidence considering how big of a fan Christopher Nolan is of the franchise. His best friend Felix Leiter of the CIA, who he just helped take down a drug lord, was left for dead right after his own wedding. The drug lord, named Franz Sanchez, also murdered Leiter's wife after feeding Leiter to the sharks. After Bond finds out that Leiter is close to death and his wife's murder, he sets out on a path of revenge. It's a different take on the Bond story and one that Quantom of Solace somewhat follows years later. Bond goes Rogue from MI6 and goes undercover under Sanchez in hopes of taking his entire operation down.Although him leaving MI6 doesn't do much to help the story because he usually works by himself out in the field after getting a mission, the film felt different anyway. Plus, Q has a bigger role which is always warranted with Desmond Llewelyn. The action is fantastic for the most part including a seemingly Raiders of the Lost Ark inspired end chase sequence and not a single ski chase! Although there is one underwater action scene, but it's not as distracting as years past. I don't think Moore or Connery would have pulled off the Rogue Bond as well as Dalton, but they always pulled off the romances. That's the one complaint I have with Dalton, he never sold me on any of his relationships in either of his two films.Dalton is a rougher Bond than his predecessors and so are his two films. But it served as a welcomed change to the franchise. I really enjoyed both of his films and it's unfortunate he didn't get a chance to do more films. The over the top action and humor is not here and it gives the films the realness they deserve. On a side note, it was cool seeing Benicio Del Toro show up as one of the villains.+Dalton goes Rogue+Grounded+Real stakes+Action-Romances-Deaths can be jarring and graphic for the series7.0/10 "},{"Title":"A Bond that feels human","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond Review.Title What Bond is all about and links to the films main themes.Pre-Titles On the way to Felix Leiter's wedding, he and Bond are informed that drug lord Sanchez is in the area. They manage to capture his plane and get to the wedding just in time. The opening may seem a little light compared to the rest of the film, but it is still entertaining. It's nice to see Bond and Felix team up, while the stunts are excellent and the backdrop of the wedding gives it a unique twist.Theme Song Gladys Knight delivers a soulful theme. It has a big and important sound in the same vein as Bassey's theme, while Knight croons through it excellently and the melody is also very good. The only issue is that it doesn't really fit given the films tone.Plot Felix Leiter is left close death and his wife killed when Sanchez escapes and takes revenge on them. Bond then quits MI6 in order to take his own revenge on Sanchez by infiltrating his drugs empire and destroying it from within. This is a fantastic plot as it moves away from the well-worn formula and shows us a completely new side of Bond. It's great to see Bond operating on his own terms against a different type of villain, whilst because of what takes place this is a much more personal and emotional film which only makes it more engaging.James Bond Timothy Dalton is truly superb here. He perfectly captures Bond as someone who is obsessed with avenging his friend and he nails the dark, brooding side of the character. Dalton is simply brilliant at knowing how to express pain and in emotion in both his actions and dialogue. He also gets involved in the action which is always good to see.Bond Girls Carey Lowell is excellent as CIA operative Pam. She's tough without forgetting to show sensitivity, while she adds believability without losing the Bond girl glamour and she has great chemistry with Dalton. Talia Soto is just okay as Sanchez's mistress Lupe. She's beautiful and shows vulnerability, but her delivery is very wooden and she doesn't quite know how to show emotion.Villains Robert Davi is fantastic as Sanchez. We get a villain who is both a mental and physical threat, whilst having an unpredictable edge that makes him always a threat. Sanchez caring more about loyalty is a great twist, while Davi switches between menacing and charming flawlessly. A young Benicio Del Toro does a great job as the creepy henchman Dario, something about his look here is just intimidating. Anthony Zerbe also does a good job as the slimy Krest.Support David Hedison makes a return as Felix and does a solid job. He does have chemistry with Dalton and his laid-back style makes him likable. Desmond Llewelyn is great in a bigger role as Q goes into the field, his interactions with Dalton are a lot of fun and he shows Q's caring side well.Action The action is effectively gritty and more violent than before. Bond is much more no-nonsense here as we see him killing a fair few people without a problem. The scene where Bond water-skis and then catches onto Krest's departing plane feels like classic Bond, while the fight with Pam in the bar is good fun. Along the way we see Krest's head explode in a decompression chamber and Dario being pulled into a grinder, both being extremely brutal but very effective. The climax is as exciting as you could want as Bond pursues Sanchez via trucks holding tankers, with fights at break- neck speeds and explosions aplenty. Not to mention a satisfying pay- off.Score Michael Kamen provides a more intense score filled with energy. Kamen does a great job of getting across the tension in many scenes and many of the action sequences seem grander as a result, while he also does fine job at providing some slower pieces.Production Values The directing is very good here as John Glen's low-key direction adds more realism and grittiness to the film brilliantly. Despite budget issues the film looks pretty good, I actually think the less glamorous and dirtier look again adds to the grittiness. The writing is excellent. There are a number of memorable lines, most of them coming from Sanchez, but the conversations feel real and it's easy to see where the characters are coming from. However Felix does act way too happy in his last scene considering his wife's dead. It is interesting to look at themes like betrayal and loss, which are never focused up on enough usually. The pacing is again great. The film starts slow and sets things up well, before moving along at a perfect speed and you're gripped by the time everything is in full flow. The locations are all good, some might look a touch cheap, but they are tropical when needed and most look suitably classy.Conclusion Licence to Kill is one of the most personal and real films of the series. This is Bond doing something different and we get a much deeper look into the characters psyche. Dalton could easily have been the definitive Bond as he gives a performance packed with emotion and darkness. Robert Davi makes a truly brilliant and unique villain, Carey Lowell does a great job and the action is as entertaining as always with a vicious twist. This is a Bond you can relate to and a story you can get behind thanks in part to some really effective writing. This was the final film for many long time series regulars and it is a tragedy Dalton didn't get a longer run as Bond. "},{"Title":"A More Violent and Intense Bond for the 80's,","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kil is a great movie with a very well developed storyline and a talented cast. It's action packed and entertaining, a lot of people didn't like Timothy Dalton's James Bond but I think he was terrific, he's very confident and charismatic in the role, and he also brought his own original take on the portrayal of the character, he wasn't just going with the way Connery or Moore did it. The set up for the movie is good and it's more personal than a 007 film usually is, but they should have shown how close Bond was with this friend of his, they did to a certain degree, but they really should have conveyed it more and made it emotional, to let us know how much this man meant to him so we would understand his intentions more for the rest of the movie. It's one of he most violent Bonds I have seen yet, it dosen't hold back like the films proceeding it did quite regularly, and the finale is absolutely outstanding, it's very intense and it left my mind blown, incredible film making. More violent and dramatic than previous editions of the franchise, Licence to Kill is a really great movie that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good action or adventure film. Agent 007 is in pursuit of a brutal drugs baron who is responsible for killing his best friend and his wife. Best Performance Timothy Dalton Worst Performance Benicio Del Toro "},{"Title":"Preview of things to come..","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside!***In what turned out to be the swan song of long time Bond story writer Richard Maibaum, we are given a future look at 007 , through the lens of the 1989 release of Licence to Kill.It is happy times for Bond as his long time friend and brother from Langley is about to wed. After the celebration he returns to find the newlyweds brutally victimized by the notorious drug czar Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi). This is a tale of vengeance.The reaction to this movie was mixed, and even to this day is a hotly debated subject in purist circles. No one can doubt the vision Maibuaum had in writing it , as the Neo-Bond era of Daniel Craig proves. Timothy Dalton (Bond), who was at the time pushing for a harsher portrayal of the character, brought his talent to bear well. Even veteran Bond director John Glen clicked right. The truth of it was no one wanted the change , it was too early for it to be accepted. The fault lies not in the acting of Dalton being unbelievable (The Connery Crowd) , or the movie being too violent( a common reaction from those of the Roger Moore persuasion). We the audience failed to see the vision. On rare occasions that too can happen.Notable support was turned in by Cary Lowell (Pam Bouvier), Wayne Newton (Professor Joe) and a young Benicio Del Toro (Dario). The exploding semi truck sequence would have wowed anyone in the early 1990s effect's world. This movie removed from it's franchise arguments would stand alone as one of the 1980's best action outings.Ever controversial. Still the best.Four Stars(of 5). "},{"Title":"Time to cash in your Bonds!","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This laughable episode of the series just can't get out of its' way. It looks like a made for TV production. The locations are small (casino and hotel are unconvincing) untapped (Key West and Ithsmus) or just plain cheesy (drug plant where the TV evangelist broadcasts from. The final truck/tanker chase scene is a bit confusing as the tankers are all identical. Bond movies don't end on single lane roads with explosions to cover up the lack of drama in regards to the inevitable Bond conquers, villain, Bond conquers woman, Bond conquers box office? OK, I guest the Broccolli clad got wise in time. The American actors do nothing to add to your sense of disbelief, although seeing Carrie Lowell pre-Law & Order was a bit fun as was Benicio del Torro's bad boy #2 act. Dalton just gives little to sense of intrigue. We know what he's thinking which is a Bond cardinal sin. At least his hair stayed in place while he was dangling from a helicopter while chasing and roping the get away plane! The miracle of a Bond film in 1989! "},{"Title":"Darker James","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The 007 franchise takes a significant turn here with this outing. It is Timothy Dalton's second and final time as Commander Bond. Dalton brought a darker, more human feel to Bond with The Living Daylights less humor, less cheese, less male slut, more down to secret agent business. Here he plays the British agent suspended and on a mission of revenge. It really does have quite a different feel. At the same time he is still James Bond doing what 007 does. It's action packed and moves swiftly but has no particular greatness to it.It's okay for just my 3rd or 4th time seeing it since it came out. I would watch it again one day.6.9 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"Starts off a bit slow, but really kicks into gear after a bit. It's a pretty entertaining Bond film overall!","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This one isn't quite as good as Living Daylights, but it's still a good Bond film, that I always manage to enjoy. This is Timothy Dalton's final Bond outing, and he picked a good one to go out on. The action delivers, and it also has an excellent bad guy in Robert Davi. His sleazy portrayal was a hoot to watch, and I felt he played off Dalton extremely well. The choice of Bond girls is also very impressive. Carrey Lowell isn't quite as sexy as Talisa Sota (Not many people are) but her sass was a lot of fun to watch, and she had great chemistry with Timothy Dalton. The finale is especially explosive. It's filled with non-stop action. Sean Connery is the most charismatic of the Bonds, but I still feel that Timothy Dalton resembles the Bond in the books the most closely. He just might be my 2nd favorite Bond. It's a real shame he only did two movies.Final Thoughts This was a great follow-up to Living Daylights. It's a very entertaining Bond film, and one I recommend without hesitation7.8/10 "},{"Title":"Where Licence To Kill Stands","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to kill is one of the best Bond movies of all time. It stands 2nd on my list where I have ranked the Bond films from worst to best. Licence to Kill is very underrated and Im very shocked that people could not accept the serious Bond in this film as thats the way Ian Flemings wrote him in the books. Besides, Bonds anger in this film makes him cooler to watch. Timothy Dalton acts Bond better in this film than in The Living Daylights. The film has a very realistic villain,and very realistic everything! This Bond film is much more entertaining than other Bond films and includes some notable actors. This was the first Bond film I had ever watched and for many years was my favorite.Sadly this was Timothy Daltons final performance as Bond. Licence To Kill is an awesome Bond film and could very well be the best. Unfortunately some people think it wasn't good that Bond went serious, its better than him being as cheesy as cheese in the previous films. Licence To Kill has always been a favorite of mine but I cant understand some of the hate towards this film... "}{"Title":"A very different Bond film.","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" License to Kill is another very underrated Bond, along with On her Majesty's Secret Service. Whilst Licence to Kill doesn't quite tick all the boxes, it really does try to take Bond into a different, darker and more realistic world than before. This is the most violent Bond, and probably has the grittiest and most realistic plot. License to Kill starts with James Bond and Felix Liter travelling together to go to Felix's wedding. However, given a tip that a big Drugs Dealer, Franz Sanchez is near, Bond and Felix go to apprehend him. They successfully apprehend Sanchez, who is transferred to prison. During the transfer, Sanchez escapes, and decides to to take revenge on Felix Liter. Bond, in return, goes after Sanchez using brute force, and absolute ruthlessness.It's interesting that at the time, this wasn't massively popular and Timothy Dalton was seen as too serious. Yet, since the 2006 reboot with Daniel Craig, Bond has become the Bond we saw in Licence to Kill. In many ways, you could say that Licence to Kill was just ahead of its time. Dalton really takes the dark side of Bond to a whole new level. No one acts Bond as ruthlessly as Dalton, and no one could have brought it of like him. There are some fabulously acted moments, in which we really do see Bond's true character - dark, dangerous, borderline psychotic, yet incredibly loyal to those around him. Complementing Dalton's Bond is Robert Davi's superb Franz Sanchez. I would say that Davi is easily one of the best Bond villains. He's incredibly realistic, and it's such a shame that Davi hasn't acted in more. In many respects, Davi's Sanchez is what Bond could have been, have he been a criminal. He's as smooth, as dangerous, as loyal, and it really is a personal affair between him and Bond. Where the film is let down is with some of the supporting cast. Robert Brown's 'M' is shown as too mild mannered and weak. We needed a stronger M for this film. And the Bond girl, Carey Lowell, simply doesn't cut it as a CIA spy. I'm also not sure about the Bond theme in this film either! A little too upbeat,maybe, for the dark storyline. On a final note, this film also contains some exceptional actions sequences, specifically towards the end. All in all, underrated, which is a shame. I recommend this one at 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not up to Bond standards","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- License to Kill, 1989, South American drug lord takes out his vengeance against international police agencies for his arrest and escape by increasing his cocaine trafficking with several Far East crime rings.*Special Stars- Timothy Dalton, Carey Lowell, Robert Davi, Anthony Zerbe, Talisa Soto, David Hedison.*Theme- The drug war becomes too large and too personal*Trivia/location/goofs- The maggots in Krest's lab in Key West are actually fishing grub rubber lures. John Rhys-Davies was offered a cameo role as General Pushkin but declined the offer. David Hedison became the first Actor to play the role of Felix Leiter for a second time.*Emotion- Essentially a CIA Felix Leiter story that moves to south American locations. Bond resigns in order to honor his good severely wounded CIA friend and dead wife to get a drug lord. Nice to see more plot and story about Mr. Leiter, but the story losses large scope by becomes a crime drama. Not up to Bond standards as an escapist saga. "},{"Title":"A farewell to arms for Dalton","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Originally titled 'Licence Revoked', this - the final Bond film of the 80's - was to be the last one for Timothy Dalton, Cubby Broccoli, Richard Maibaum, Robert Brown, Caroline Bliss, Maurice Binder, and John Glen. As 'The Living Daylights' had not done terribly well in the States, it was decided to up the violence level and put Bond firmly in 'Die Hard/Rambo' territory ( with a nod towards the 'Miami Vice' television series ). It opens with our hero about to attend the wedding of his C.I.A. buddy 'Felix Leiter' ( David Hedison, last seen in 1973's 'Live & Let Die' ) when news comes through that drugs baron 'Franz Sanchez' ( Robert Davi ) has been located. Still clad in their top hats and suits, Bond and Felix go after Sanchez and capture him. Sanchez then makes a deal with a greedy D.E.A. agent and gets free. He kills Leiter's bride 'Della' and cripples Leiter ( a scene lifted from the novel of 'Live & Let Die' ). Angered, 007 vows to track Sanchez down. When 'M' orders Bond not to interfere, the latter resigns from MI6 to go it alone...Michael G.Wilson and Richard Maibaum's script is better than the one they wrote for 'Daylights' - it is easier to follow for one thing, and gives Dalton some excellent scenes, such as his confrontation with 'M' at Ernest Hemingway's house. As the story unfolds, it turns into an adaptation of 'The Man With The Golden Gun' book as it also has Bond getting pally with the villain and joining his organisation. The 'rogue agent' element of the plot was later reused in Daniel Craig's disappointing second Bond movie 'Quantum Of Solace' ( 2008 ). Some tremendous action scenes include Bond being attacked by Ninjas and the battle at 'Professor Joe Butcher's' ( Wayne Newton ) Meditation Institute. Carey Lowell's 'Pam Bouvier' is one of the best Bond girls in years. Desmond Llewelyn benefits from his extra screen time as 'Q'. In a nod to the past, the role of 'President Hector Lopez' of Isthmus City is played by Pedro Armendariz, the son of the actor who was 'Kerim Bey' in 1963's 'From Russia With Love'. The climax on the road with the trucks ( one even does a wheelie! ) is one of the all-time great Bond finales. Gladys Knight performed the bombastic 'Goldfinger'-style theme tune. Unfortunately, it opened in the summer of 1989, only to be thumped at the box office by the triple whammy of 'Indiana Jones & The Last Crusade' ( featuring Sean Connery, incidentally ), 'Lethal Weapon 2', and Tim Burton's 'Batman'. The decision to increase the violence was also criticised. In Britain, it got a '12' rating, meaning young Bond fans could not see it. Six years passed before Bond was seen on the big screen again, and then it would be with a new star - Pierce Brosnan. Since 1989, no Bond film has opened in the summer months. Dalton may not have been a big hit with the public, but there is no doubt in my mind that he was a very fine 007. "},{"Title":"The Best Bond Film","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'License To Kill' was the second and last Bond to star Timothy Dalton as 007 - despite playing Bond closer to Ian Fleming's original creation than any other actor given the role before or since, 'LTK' & 'The Living Daylights' were both relative box office disappointments, especially at the U.S Box Office as 'LTK' barely broke even on it's original release stateside although it did relatively well Worldwide but has consistently been voted the worst Bond Film in various publications over the years, which I think is very unfair as I believe 'LTK' to be the Best.The story has Bond going rogue after his friend Felix Leitier is fed to a Shark & his Wife is brutally murdered on their wedding day, so Bond goes after the drug dealer responsible.It has great co-stars in Carey Lovell, Robert Davi & Talisa Soto, Wonderful Locations and a great Title song by Gladys Knight.'LTK' was at the time the most gritty and violent Bond movie made and was given a PG-13 in the U.S and a '15' rating in the UK which would have limited it's Box Office potential to a certain extent - but was such a breath of fresh air after Roger Moore's Sexist,camp & misogynistic portrayal.At the Time Bond Producer Michael G. Wilson blamed budgetary problems, and Producer Albert Brocolli blamed poor marketing & a late name change from 'License Revoked' to 'License to Kill' for it's relative theatrical disappointment.'LTK' is by the far the Best Bond Film made to date & Dalton played the role perfectly it's just a shame that he only has two Bonds to his name - both are far better than their reputation would have you believe. "},{"Title":"All very silly,but a rare chance to see a straight James Bond.","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rather like the Carry on series,James Bond movies started with a short,sharp well-written and entertaining episode that caught the public imagination then gradually degenerated to the bloated,self-satisfied,auto-pilot jobs with Podgy Rog not far off sixty before he was finally pensioned off.Mr Timothy Dalton,lean and relatively mean,was a refreshing change but perhaps just a little too real so a twinkly-eyed Irishman with a happier way with the wisecracks was hastily brought in to restore the mediocrity factor.Pity,that,because Mr Dalton was in the process of reducing the dumbing down process when it was all whipped away from him.Not that Licence to kill was actually King Lear mind you................in fact it is pretty preposterous stuff all round,but Mr Dalton was a welcome fresh face and 16 years younger than his predecessor,thus rather more limber. The movie is stolen from bits of real Ian Fleming stories and cobbled together with fine disregard for lovers of his books. It features the splendid Mr Anthony Zerbe,always a pleasure to watch,and Mr David Hedison adored by my children's generation for his TV series Voyage to the bottom of the sea which seemed to consist mostly of the submarine's crew rushing from one side of the ship to the other in a crowd of sparks as it was attacked by some huge sea monster or other. It has a very 80s plot about drug dealers that is frankly a bit racist. Just as silly as nearly all the later Bond movies,it would sink without trace but for Mr Dalton who is forced to carry its not inconsiderable weight on his slim shoulders.That he succeeded was to be of no avail. "},{"Title":"Awesome James bond movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is another awesome James bond movie and for all the same reasons it has lots of action in it it has a good screen play to it timothy Dalton once again does a great James bond also this is timothy Dalton's last time playing James bond and he does it great this is my favorite timothy Dalton James bond movie. It has good acting in it and it has good actors in it the villains in it are good i think Robert davi does a great villain in this movie. I'm sure you will not be disappointed with license to kill. I'm sure you will have a good time watching it and you will watch it over and over again. Great adaption of license to kill. So make sure that you buy or rent license to kill because it is an awesome James bond movie.Overall score ********* out of ********** **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A very different Bond.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The plot line of Licence to kill is very different from the normal James Bond plot formula. Bond's friend Felix Leiter is getting married, and it's all going well, when suddenly...Some Latin Americans murder his wife and cripple Leiter. MI-6 is aware of what happened but is (apparantly) unaware of how emotionally upset Bond is. They tell him to take an assignment. Bond wants to hunt down the killers, but MI-6 won't let him. 007 then gets really ticked off and revokes his licence to kill. He goes out on his own, hunting down Sanchez and attempting to destroy him and his drug ring.This film is amazing and, in my opinion, the second best of the 007 film series (the best is Thunderball). Definitely worth a buy, and if you're one of those people who doesn't like to even risk wasting a few bucks, it's worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" And with that, the eighties were over. Bond didn't know where to turn after this film, legal squabbles and other nonsense meant the series was hanging on by a thin thread. Could this be the last Bond film? Of course we know it wasn't, but it was the end of Dalton's short reign, and it is a very respectable entry, if one of the most violent and sinister. Like the previous entry, the tone is more serious than comic and this builds upon TLD's mistakes. It could have been better, but is definitely an above average Bond film.When Bond's old friend and comrade Felix is almost killed on his Honeymoon, Bond leaves the Secret Service, going out on his own to find the culprit, unwrapping a drug baron's schemes. The scene with Felix and his wife is shocking, and more violent than most scenes in previous films, setting the tone for the rest of the film. Bond works purely on revenge which some may find too much of a departure from what made Bond in the first place. However, it works well, there is room for comedy, but it is more tongue in cheek than slapstick, and there are plenty of stunts, one-liners, girls and bad-guys in the complex plot. Sanchez is an underrated villain, and Davi is perfect in the role, ruthless and charming. Benicio del Toro is terrifying as Dario, one of the most deadly villains Bond has come up against, and the two female leads are also good. Talisa Soto stands out as Sanchez's woman, but is unfortunately given a rubbish name meaning she is less memorable. Her character is very interesting and it is a strong performance. Lowell is also good in a bigger part, but is overshadowed in talent, beauty and mystique by Soto. She is another strong character and a match for Bond.As Bond is on neither side of the law, he is being attacked from all sides, giving the film a constant feeling of tension. The final chase scene is very good, owing much to Mad Max, and the fight between Bond and Dario is good. There are several funny cameo roles to relieve the tension, but overall the film retains its serious tone throughout. The song is OK, and the sets are pretty good. It would take a while for the series to get on its feet again, but this was a good enough farewell for the time being.7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Taut, almost realistic Bond movie (spoilers)","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill marks the last of only two outings for Timothy Dalton as James Bond 007.  This entry was released in 1989, and had a lot of competition from similar action movies such as Batman and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.  The film's poor showing saw the Bond series put on hold for six years.  This is a pity, because this is a marked improvement over The Living Daylights and is up there with the best of the series.The usual pre-credits frolics sees Bond in the Bahamas, where he helps his old CIA friend Felix Leiter (David Hedison) snare Sanchez (Robert Davi), a suave, sadistically violent Mexican drug dealer, He then parachutes with Leiter down to the latter's wedding.  Later, Sanchez escapes from prison, disfigures Leiter and kills his bride (Priscilla Barnes).  Resigning from Her Majesty's Service, Bond goes after Sanchez on a relentless vendetta.  But Sanchez is a far more complicated and powerful figure than he first appears, and soon 007 is in over his head...The film is very unique from it's predecessor and indeed most Bond films overall.  The storyline and the film's villain are more plausible and realistic than usual, the storyline featuring a minimum of smug humour and preposterous stunts, and the villain is (for once) not a megalomanical buffoon after world domination.  As with Living Daylights, Bond's womanizing instincts are toned down.  Only the presence of Q (Desmond Llewelyn) and his gadgets is any real reminder that this is a Bond film, and not a generic spy/action thriller.  Bond's vengeance quest is what drives the story, but in the second half things get more complicated yet thankfully remain comprehensible.Some superbly directed action (by John Glen, who also directed The Living Daylights) maintains, if not exceeds the Bond standard for inventive and enjoyable action sequences.  The best one here is an underwater fight scene that develops into a mid-air scuffle for control of a plane.  The finale, a chase with petroleum trucks, is similarly well-staged.Dalton is superb as Bond, as close in this film to Ian Fleming's portrait of the character as Sean Connery was.  Bond is ruthless, cruel, strong-willed and displaying (more than once) a bit of a sexist streak.  Robert Davi is more than a match for him as Sanchez, smooth, subtle and charismatic.  In many ways, he's Bond's Spanish double displaying a similarly cruel streak towards his foes, devoted loyalty to his allies, and a calculated, intuitive survival instinct.  It is where their respective true loyalties lie (Sanchez with himself and his money, Bond with his friends and country) that really tell them apart.Carey Lowell is tough but engagingly sexy as a fellow agent who helps Bond on his mission, and Talisa Soto radiates barely concealed vulnerability as Sanchez's mistress Lupe.  Anthony Zerbe is wonderfully detestable as Sanchez' henchman Krest, but still wins audience sympathy when he comes to a very painful demise.  It's great to see Desmond Llewelyn's Q helping, rather than berating, Bond for a change and Llewelyn enjoys his much expanded screen time.This effort may have been a little too serious for most Bond fans, who stayed away in droves.  When Pierce Brosnan became 007 in 1995's Goldeneye, a certain degree of self-knowingly ridiculous humour had returned to the series.  That element may be lacking somewhat in Licence to Kill but it remains, if not quintessential Bond, then still a riveting and intelligent action thriller. "},{"Title":"Memorable - so good, it's almost not part of the series","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the best written of all the Bonds. I just saw it for the first time and was blown away by how good it is, especially compared to the turgid fecal mass that is Die Another Day. After that pile it was hard to even think about watching another Bond; I had the DVD sitting around for months before I finally gave in. Boy, am I glad I did. Imagine a post-Connery Bond that is actually thrilling!License To Kill doesn't throw away the Holy Book of Bond Conventions, but streamlines it almost to the breaking point. The girls, gadgets and gags are all there, but never make you want to cringe - in other words, they're never stupid. And the action NEVER stops and is absolutely first-rate. None of it is SFX, so the sense of real peril is always right in your face. Death seems like death in this Bond, not just the elimination of another video game entity for another 10 points. And the plot is actually credible - no privately financed multi-billion dollar Star Wars satellites or other such nonsense.This is obviously the Bond that Timothy Dalton wanted to make; when it didn't kill at the box office, he walked rather than make himself into Roger Moore. Good move. Someday he will get the recognition he deserves as the best post-Connery Bond - probably better than Connery for the times in which this film was made. At this point, the Connery Bonds exist in a kind of dreamy, half-camp alternate universe from all that came after him.Robert Davi's Sanchez is the best Bond villain since Goldfinger, period. Gets the best send off, too. Number Two bad guy Anthony Zerbe is first-rate as always - both of these guys are real actors who are earning their money rather than phoning in cartoon performances, as so many Bond baddies have. Carey Lowell is outstanding as Bond Girls go; if only Halle Berry had been as lucky in terms of a script. Watch for Carey's marvelous post-feminist use of the word Bullshit! near the end. The almost painfully beautiful Talisa Soto is the only weak player, but her part is kept small and she looks so good you'll hardly notice she can't act.This is a genuinely thrilling film that kept me awake thinking about it - unheard of for a Bond flick. Even if you, like me, gave up on the franchise long ago (the awful, pathetic Moonraker did the trick, in my case), you really owe it to yourself to see this singular example of what Bond can be, if handled with intelligence and restraint. Too bad it will almost certainly never happen again. Quentin Tarantino directing Clive Owen...well, I can dream, can't I? "}{"Title":"9 out of 10; a very dark film","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Could contain spoilersLICENCE TO KILL, released in 1989, was an effort by Timothy Dalton and the screenwriters to remain true to the spirit of Ian Fleming and have a hard-edged, dark Bond. The results broke several inter-national box-office records and it was only in the U.S.A. where LTK did poorly at the box-office. This is, for me, the second best Bond film, surpassed only by ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE.The casting and characterization is terrific in his film. Timothy Dalton gives the best, most emotional, and most convincing of any performance by anyone as Bond. He plays Bond as a conflicted, tough, dark man who is very vunerable; a real human being. It works very well, and shows the most when Bond finds the Leiters at their home and after he kills the villain. This time around, Bond has resigned from MI6 and has become a rougue agent, acting on his own for revenge. Robert Davi is terrific as Sanchez. It's very refreshing to see a villain who keeps his word, cares for his men, and isn't money-obsessed. These are some re-deemable features for the character, but his feeding Felix to a shark and the deaths he orders for those who cross him make you relish his death at the end, caused by the same lighter Bond recieved as a gift from the Leiters. Dario is the head henchman for Sanchez, and like his boss, is a refreshing change. He's competent. Milton Krest is another villain, and a character you feel sorry for when Sanchez kills him in a high-pressure chamber despite his wickedness. Rounding up the villains is Killifer, the treacherous CIA agent who turns on Felix by letting Sanchez escape for a bribe of $2,000,000. He is later fed to the same shark that ravaged Leiter.Bond's allies and women are also great. Not the least of them to mention is Q, in his biggest role ever in the series where he takes a leave of absence to assist 007 in his private vendetta. Q would make one heck of a field operative. Sharkey, Bond and Felix's friend, is also a great ally and it's a shame he's killed so soon in the movie. Robert Brown finally plays a good M and Caroline Bliss is again great as Moneypenny. Felix Leiter returns in this film in a much more important role from THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS. Played by David Hedison, this is the best appearance of the CIA agent. His wife, Della Leiter, is also a great character. Her death and Felix's being fed to a shark alive are very chilling sequences. Bond's two ladies, Pam and Lupe,are also pretty interesting but more of a throwback to the old sixties women, Lupe being THUNDERBALL's Domino and Pam being GOLDFINGER's Pussy Galore.Like OHMSS and TLD, it's hard to find much fault with this film. Everything goes well together. But there are some bugs. Pam's whining over Bond's seducing Lupe is completely out of character for here and ridiculous. Q and Sharkey should've been in it longer. And at the end of the film, Felix seems just a little too happy for someone who's wife was just murdered and his leg ripped off.Still, this is a great film, and gets a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dalton's only good bond film","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  License To Kill in my opinon is a much better Bond film than The Living Daylights. This time the action sequences are more intense which I like and Dalton is more ruthless in his hunt for the bad guy. The film which was directed by John Glen gives more action sequnces an upping this time around. Extra points go to Talisa Sota for being a sexy Bond girl "},{"Title":"Here's why it's one of my favourites (and why you could like it too)","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill is one of my favourite James Bond movies because I prefer the smooth, hard and cruel yet social and outgoing demeanours of Bond and Sanchez over the suave, womanizing (though that's fun too) connoisseur of fine things and the over-the-top criminal mastermind.I have read a number of Ian Fleming's novels, and I prefer the cold mortal get-the-job-done Bond in the books to the fun almost-invincible Bond in the movies. Because of that, I consider Timothy Dalton the best Bond; his portrayal most resembles the Bond of the books.  Next behind him would be Moore and Brosnan and Connery, then Lazenby.  That's just my rating of the 007 actors of their similarity to the books.  After Dalton, my favourites do not follow that order, but they're mostly all tie because I enjoy almost all the rest of the movies.  They're just great fun to watch!I like The Living Daylights (though I've always thought the title is one of the most obscure titles of the series even when knowing the etymology of the phrase) but as with other fans who like Dalton, I think Licence to Kill is the better.   The plot is half pulled from the separate Ian Fleming novel Live and Let Die (the movie L&LD is not closely based on the book), and so has its roots in the original Fleming stories.  And for people who need gadgets and fast cars, and explosions, you'll get your fill, but these are to get the job done  _and_ they're realistic!  Not like the silly winter coat in The World is Not Enough or the crazy (but hilarious and cool) car in Die Another Day.With memorable characters, great action and a great plot based on the original series of Bond books, plus decent acting, it is definitely one of the top Bond movies in my opinion.It maybe could be said that what was lacking with Dalton for Bond fans who dislike him was added to the mix in the following movie, Goldeneye.Watch Licence to Kill.  Then the rest of the James Bond movies.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this film a lot, but Dalton needed some humor. . .","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dalton didn't have to be Roger Moore comical. He just needed tobe a little humorous. Like this, he makes a good action hero buthe isn't how Bond should be. Despite this, it's a good Bond filmthat I enjoyed. It's really the first entry in the series since On HerMajesty's Secret Service to show that Bond's life isn't all fun andgames. Sure, he gets all the women, and he gets to gamble andparty. Yes, he is immortal despite all the drinking. Who wouldn'twant to be this guy? But here, as we saw in OHMSS, we see thereis a down side to being Bond- he can't really have close friends.Dalton helps make Bond a human being- that's good. And themovie has some great action and is a good time. But a little humorwould not have killed them. . . 8/10.  "},{"Title":"History will judge Dalton as the REAL James Bond","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Most people will tell you that the James Bond series was nearly killed by the casting of Timothy Dalton as 007, and his movies are among the worst in the series. These are the people who know nothing about Bond and don't care about the series past the Roger Moore grin and the overly sexed quips and double entendres spouted by every past Bond actor. Dalton is the only Bond actor who was actually playing Bond as tougher than Sean Connery. Dalton's two films, so disliked by the general public as not being true to Bond formula have obviously never read an Ian Flemming book. Dalton IS James Bond in both his films, which I consider to be the best in the series. Dalton's Bond is dark, sometimes brutal, angsty, and a true professional assassin that just happens to be in the employ of Her Majesty's Secret Service. This Bond would kick the butts of Pierce Brosnan, Roger Moore, George Lazenby, AND Sean Connery. Sorry, naysayers, this is the real James Bond that Ian Flemming envisioned. I know, I read the books.In both Dalton's films the main villain is not some wacked out nutjob who wants to remake the world, but a military man who is defecting in order to give misinformation to the British (The Living Daylights) and in this film, a Columbian drug lord, a far cry from the Odd Job's, Dr. No's, and Hugo Drax's we see in the films. These are real guys who happen to be real villains, a refreshing change IMHO, even as much as I enjoyed the Blodfeld's and the Dr. No's.There were several summer blockbuster's released in the summer of 89, and License to Kill was the second best of them all (including the highly over rated Batman), beaten only by the incomparible duo of Harrison Ford and Sean Connery (playing one of his best post-Bond roles)in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. The film has loads of Bond relying on his wits and brain rather than gadgets, and yet there's a sizeable role for the beloved Q, one of his best appearances in the field with Bond ever. The girls are beautiful, especially Talisa Soto, the villain is evil and lethal, the action is wild, and the story compelling (simple but believable). If you like fantastic action films, and you don't expect a Roger Moore era Bond (good as they are if you're in the mood for that kind of thing) with the smile and the innuendoes, this film is for you.I repeat, Timothy Dalton IS 007. The BEST 007. Get used to it.McQ "},{"Title":"bet on a dark horse and win","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill frequently flirts with the bottom of favorite Bond movie lists, but it's the best of the series in several important categories. Skeptics might keep in mind that Bond movies blend formulaic elements of fantasy with a realism that is appropriate to the theme of international intrigue, the backdrop for all the films in the series.Licence to Kill is the most realistic Bond film, including the classic contenders From Russia With Love and On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Only one small scene is unlikely to the point of implausibility the truck wheelie. The movie's down-to-earth feel sits neatly beside the sensational qualities that infuse all Bond movies with a sense of adventure and fun.Timothy Dalton gives the best Bond performance of all in several ways closeness to the character created by Ian Fleming; well-rounded acting ability; and portrayal of a man who is clearly dangerous but complex and human. Dalton displays emotional resonance that is consistently relevant to the situation at hand, whether it requires charm, bravery, or lethal action. He's an intelligent and athletic actor at the top of his game in Licence to Kill.Although it's lean on mystery, the script employs a well-balanced blend of most other successful ingredients for good Bond suspense, action, drama, and humor. Some feel that there is little to no humor in Licence to Kill, but the humor is either of the gallows variety or just less simplistic, childish, and pun-based than it was in the Roger Moore Bond films. Some examples of humor that is more sophisticated than usual for Bond are in the following scenes the reactions of the henchmen as Bond insults them in Sanchez's office; the coy suaveness with which Sanchez serves Bond morning coffee; or the look on Q's face when Lupe Lamora tells Pam Bouvier that Bond spent the night with her. Even the presence of Wayne Newton lends a funky, goofball charm to the proceedings. The movie contains plenty of humor--it's just not the kind of humor that hits the viewer over the head with a brick.In short, Licence to Kill strikes a superior balance among spectacle, realism, drama, and fun. Given comparatively modern production technology and values, it's also better filmed than the 1960s-era Bond movies. Licence to Kill is close to, if not at, the top of the Bond heap.  "},{"Title":"Unique Bond film - well worth another look","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence To Kill - I watched the DVD the other day and was pleasantly surprised, after all these years, to see how well it stands up. Oh, not as Bond film of course, that's a very warped world to conform to at the best of times - but as a thriller it's right up there.Dalton, who was like a rabbit caught in the headlights of the more Bondian Living Daylights, is right at home here. Robert Davi and Benicio Del Torro are excellent villains. Look out for the scene in the cocaine factory near the end where Benicio meets his end; never has Bond's imminant demise been more hidiously contrived than his hanging by his wrists over the whizzing jaws of the cocane grinder, Benicio leering down at him and cutting the thin binding that will surely send 007 to his awful doom...Best of all is the gob-smacking finale with the trucks - excellent stuff "},{"Title":"Dalton's second Bond film is a better one","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  License To Kill in my opinon is a much better Bond film than The Living Daylights. This time the action sequences are more intense which I like and Dalton is more ruthless in his hunt for the bad guy. The film which was directed by John Glen gives more action sequnces an upping this time around. Extra points go to Talisa Sota for being a sexy Bond girl. "},{"Title":"The best Bond ever.....","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, I think this is the best Bond film there is. It has more action, never gets boreing, and it has Dalton!I like all the Bond films, any fan would, but I just do not think that Bronson is a good Bond, he is more like Moore and Dalton combined trying to act like Connery. I view these films in this order, Connery, Bronson, Dalton, and then Moore. The age is better this way with Dalton and Moore being more mature. This was however the last great Bond film ever made, then we get stuck with this new Bond person, I like all the films and like I said any true Bond fan would, I just feel that this is the best, and it was sad to see Dalton as well as Director Glenn leave the films. 10/10 Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"The best film in the series with the best Bond.","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"    I taped most Bond movies except than a few parodies.Mostly because my family enjoys watching them.Most movies of this series are mediocre with some highlights being Dr.No,On her Majesty's Secret Service(Blofeld and Tracey are shining,Bond's only worthy scene is the last),The Spy Who Loved Me and GoldenEye.But this one is the best.This Bond is human,he finaly takes things personaly and acts realistic.No cheap humor to ruin the movie.This Bond is also deadlier,more violent and quite smarter and moodier than usual.And all this having the Secret Service against him.Dalton plays like a theatrical actor.I would surely like to see more of this Bond.A Bond in nobody's service who thinks for himself instead of taking orders.Excelent movie for an adventure series. "}{"Title":"Bond is back (yet again.)","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent Bond film, and well worth watching. Pam Bouvier is one of the best Bond girls. Sanchez is not how I imagined him before a watch the film, but is still a good villain, and it's interesting to see how far Bond will go on a vendetta. 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Darkest 007 picture","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill was Timothy Dalton's second outing as James Bond. Even though it has some excellent action scenes and the presence of two terrific Bond girls, this is not one of my favorite 007 movies. The main reason this is the darkest, most grim 007 adventure to date. I give the filmmakers credit for giving the series a change in its tone, but it was just to grim for me. Not to mention, some of the locations this time around turned me off. Robert Davi is good as the bad guy, but he's not a great villain. In fact, this was a villain I couldn't stand because of his presence. He's the main reason this film is so dark in its tone. Villains in Bond movies are usually fun to watch, but I didn't find no fun in Davi's Sanchez. The other bad guys in the film aren't all that fun either. The parts of Licence to Kill that are fun are the Bond girls (played by Carey Lowell and Talisa Soto) and a big role for Desmond Llewelyn's Q. But enough said. Licence to Kill is just an average Bond picture and its dark tone hurts it from being a classic. **1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Tough James Bond thriller.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With Bruce Willis, Sly Stallone and Arnie storming the screens with violent action movies, James Bond decided to have a go with this gritty, violent film. In this Bond film, Felix Leiter (David Hedison) has just got married. Unfortunately, his wife is shortly killed by agents of a drug lord named Sanchez (Robert Davi), and Felix himself has his legs bitten off by a shark. James Bond (Timothy Dalton) quits the secret service and goes on a personal vendetta to eliminate Sanchez.Although Licence to Kill is fun in the traditional Bond style, it is sometimes grisly with the violence. The shark scene is bad enough, but the film goes even further with electrocution, a henchman getting chewed up, and even a head exploding! It all seems a little out of place in the Bond universe. Bond himself is tougher and more cunning he actually uses brain rather than stupid gadgets to get himself out of a tricky situation. Talking of gadgets, Q gets a meaty role for once, and the film is more enjoyable for it.The film features some excellent stunts, including an exciting truck chase at the end. The Bond girls are as stunning as ever. Sadly, there's a cameo by Wayne Newton, but if you have the stomach, Licence to Kill is one of the more better films in the series.(Action, 1989) "},{"Title":"Way too realistic, where's the FUN.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Okay the premise of bond having a temper holding a grudge and going for revenge is all very well. But why couldn't it have been done in a bondesque kind of way? Take out the character of James Bond from Licence To Kill and this could easily pass as a Die Hard or Lethal Weapon film. Dalton may have presented a darker side to bond but his films seemed to bring Bond down to earth where Bond just doesn't belong. Bond is there to save and get the girl (sometimes more than one), whilst saving the world at the same time.One other factor against Licence To Kill is that the violence in this film had taken on a realistic edge and instead of being outrageous and cartoonish at times for a Bond film it can be quite nasty. ItsLicence To Kill lacks excitement, plus it can be very slow at times and misses the fun factor present in other bond films. Okay the tanker chase at the end is edge of your seat stuff but the majority of the film is too deep and slow. What happened to sit back, enjoy and have a good fun time. At the end of the day James Bond films are about escapism not gritty. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Violence does not make a good Bond film","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, in my opinion, just doesn't stand up to the standards of other James Bond movies. In these movies, you expect Bond to be an unrealistic spy whose cracks keep the movie fun, and thrilling throughout. Timothy Dalton seems too much like a real spy and is far too believable. Some might find this a high point. This movies makes it seem like it only needs violence and explosions and bad guys to make it good. They forgot one of the best parts of Bond, humor. Dalton doesn't do as good a job as he did in The Living Daylights. One thing that upset me about the movie was the plot. Bond is not sent on a mission, but instead, he's got a personal vendetta against the bad guy. So Bond spends the whole movie shooting and blowing up everything along his way from South Florida to Central America. Violence is not the way for Bond to spend the whole movie doing. This is the first 007 flick to have realistic fake blood. In one scene however, the violence takes a humorous turn, in a scene at the bar where a huge brawl breaks out and everyone in the place is fighting. That's a funny scene.Unfortunately, that is the only high point in the movie. By this point in the Bond series, MGM is really starting to let down the viewers. This is the first one rated PG-13, and well deserves it. Bond wouldn't show up on the silver screen for another 6 years when GoldenEye premiered, another disappointing movie. Avoid Licence To Kill at all costs. "},{"Title":"The Worst Bond Movie Ever","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence To Kill is without question the worst Bond film of all time. For once, Albert Broccoli decided to give all the Ian Fleming purists exactly what they'd been whining for during their decade of bashing Roger Moore, and the end result nearly destroyed the Bond series forever.  What the purists have never realized is that Fleming's vision is not the one that audiences have come to expect when they go see a James Bond film.  They expect to see something stylish, entertaining and above all just plain old *fun*.  Fun however is totally lacking in this movie. It is just two hours of unending agony.Timothy Dalton may be a fine actor in films like The Lion In Winter but he has absolutely zero charm or charisma as 007.  Roger Moore may not have been physically intimidating, but he always managed to bring style and fun to the proceedings, and the audiences clearly enjoyed it for a decade because Moore would not have lasted as long as he did in the part if the audiences didn't think they were having a good time, even when things got too out of hand in Moonraker. While I do prefer the early Connery Bonds as the best films in the series, I think the Moore films outclass this one any day of the week. Watching Moonraker again will at least keep me entertained, unlike this film which goes out of its way to be more brutal, more violent, more graphic and less humorous than before.Mercifully, the Brosnan Bonds have swung back more in the direction of style and charm.  For me, Licence To Kill marks an end to the most misguided chapter in the history of the James Bond movies and is a film that deserved its fate at the box office of abject failure. "},{"Title":"Bond the way Fleming meant him to be!!!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Every memorable character is a study in contradictions. James Bond is a gentleman and a killer; a sensualist and a patriot. In spite of some of the weaknesses in the script and direction, this is the closest to the genuine Ian Fleming character since the early Connery films and ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE.It's unbelievable that MGM dumped this picture into the marketplace without any adequate promotional campaign. Yes, it was the summer of BATMAN, but that was no excuse.Perhaps MGM was uncomfortable with the lean and mean Fleming conception. It's a real pity. After Dalton left the series, I vowed I would never pay to see that Roger Moore knock off, Brosnan. When I saw GOLDENEYE on cable, my worst fears were confrmed. Pierce Brosnan is a wildly miscast, light weight, only suited for light comedy. Brosnan is not even worthy to shine Dalton's shoes!As far as miscasting goes, some people may have actually liked Tom Cruise in INTERVIEW WITH THE THE VAMPIRE. Maybe they like Brosnan as well. No one who has read and liked Ian Fleming's books can think much of him.  "},{"Title":"Probably the best movie in the series","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is undoubtedly the most under-estimated film in the series, which is a shame, because it's also one of the very best. As with Dalton's previous Bond outing, The Living Daylights,  Licence to Kill is cleverly stitched together from unfilmed short-stories and parts of novels written by Ian Fleming. Chapters from Live and Let Die, unfilmed for the Roger Moore version, and the story The Hildebrand Rarity (in For Your Eyes Only) are added to a tough, contemporary storyline (based upon the activities of Gen. Noriega). This fidelity to the tone and spirit of Ian Fleming's original stories, with a hard, tough 007 who, like the Bond in the books, isn't a wise-cracking fool like Connery, Brosnan, et al, lifts Licence to Kill to a new plane, one which I suspect doesn't sit easily with movie watchers who've not read the books. Licence to Kill starts with Bond's pal Leiter being fed to a shark on the day of his wedding by an escaped drug czar (an incident borrowed from the novel Live and Let Die). Bond swears revenge, even if he has to quit the secret service to complete his personal mission. Dalton's portrayal is of a tough, hard man who won't quit. He is angry, hurt and yet never falters. He uses a hitherto unseen Machivellian streak to infiltrate the camp of Franz Sanchez (an excellent Robert Davi) and uses the drug boss's own methods to eliminate the members of Sanchez's organisation, turning the druglord into the instrument of his own henchmen's destruction. The finale, in which Bond is unmasked and a hugely thrilling chase with drug-filled petroleum tankers ensues, is possibly the best of any 007 film in the last dozen years -- it certainly knocks GoldenEye and Tomorrow Never Dies into a cocked hat. Unlike the poor Brosnan efforts, Licence to Kill has a sure-footed script by Wilson and Maibaum, with twists, turns, double-crosses and yet a defined beginning, middle and end. It was the last Bond movie to date to have anything like a decent script and this is nowhere more evident than in the villain's motivations. Check out the motivations of the bad guys in GoldenEye and Tomorrow... They don't have one. The film also has a believable leading man in Dalton. Unlike the slimmed-down Brosnan, who doesn't look like he could fight his way out of a wet paper bag, Dalton looks as if he means business all the way through. He delivers lines as if he means them -- Brosnan often looks like he doesn't know what they even mean. It may be true that not enough of the Bond film elements were in place to guarantee the success of this movie at the box office, but something more valuable was portrayed instead -- the Bond that Fleming created was shown on screen for the first and only time in the movies near 40-year history. For that reason, and that reason alone, true 007 fans should be grateful to it and to Dalton. If anyone out there who calls themselves an 007 fan doesn't like this film, then they don't like Fleming's Bond. The truth is as simple as that. "},{"Title":"a very adult 007","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Just re-watched this film after quite a while. I really forgot how good this one was. If i had to rank the 23 films in order of preference, License to Kill would certainly be up there (my favourites being goldenye, goldfinger, thunderball, and of course From Russia With Love) but this probably comes next.My dad really hates Dalton as Bond and believes he overacts in the role that requires the guy to simply 'be cool'. I agree to a certain extent Dalton does throw more emotion into Bond here, but i'd say its warranted; his closest friend has just been amputated by a shark while his wife killed on her wedding day. Reference to Bond being married is made early in the film and no doubt seeing the parallel fates of Felix's wife killed on her wedding day, and that of Bond's own wife shot on her wedding day, would evoke emotion from even the sternest of characters. So basically what I'm saying is, yes Dalton acts a lot more than the others, but with good reason in this film.At times early on this felt like an 80's cop film to be honest, with the plot embroiled in narcotics and a plain and simple drug lord as the villain. Sanchez is a great villain because whenever Bond is around him under the alias of a hit-man, you genuinely fear for Bond. You never got the sense of danger with Roger; raise an eyebrow and retort a cheesy line in the face of danger and he's out of trouble. Like i said the plot involving a drug lord seems very grounded considering what Bond had brought us before this, but thats a pro rather than con. It was just getting silly at times during Rogers tenure (through no fault of his own might i add, in case you think I'm hating on Roger) and Dalton brought things back down to earth a little.One thing that bugged me, the canoodeling (yes i said canoodeling) in the boat following the bar brawl. Bond's literally just met this person yet their getting it on. But you know, Bond is often cluttered with surrealism so a little here doesn't damage it too much i suppose. 8 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have never quite understood why Timothy Dalton gets no respect for his two entries into the Bond franchise. Perhaps it is because he chose a much more serious and darker portrayal of Bond, which, ironically, is exactly what Dan Craig has done with his portrayal, and it has been received quite well. While Dalton is not the best Bond per se, this film in particular is a top five Bond film and I will tell you why. First, this film showcases perhaps the best turn by a Bond villain to date-Robert Davi as the ruthless South American drug-lord Franz Sanchez. He is vicious, calculating and suave-everything a Bond villain should be. The satisfaction the viewer feels at his downfall is genuine, owing greatly to Davi's strengths as a heavy, combined with some fantastically written dialogue for him. Secondly, the direction of John Glen is superb here, never letting up on the action for too long, while cooking up a well plotted revenge story with well drawn characters. Surprisingly, while Dalton's portrayal of Bond is dark, the film has some moments that are quite funny. Wayne Newton, an excellent choice of casting by the producers, is hilariously sleazy as the spiritual leader of a meditation church that fronts for Sanchez' drug operations. Of course, no Bond film can be complete without great Bond girls, and here we have two of the best-the beautiful Carey Lowell and the ravishing Talisa Soto. License to Kill is by far Carey Lowell's best work, as she portrays the tough as nails yet gorgeous Ms. Bouvier, a former chopper pilot and CIA operative. Benicio Del Toro, in an early role, brilliantly plays Davi's psychotic right hand man, giving us a preview of his greatness to come. Everett McGill and Anthony Zerbe give nice turns as supporting players as well, rounding out a strong ensemble cast.Lastly, there is Dalton, who smolders as an extremely angry Bond who is on the war path. American audiences are probably ignorant to the fact that he is the only Bond actor to come from a rich Shakespearean tradition, making him the most well schooled actor to play Bond. He matches Davi's ruthlessness pound for pound, and he carries out his revenge with ferocious efficiency. No longer held to the rules and protocol of MI6 as he is a rogue agent, Bond is a one man army that answers to no one, which makes him even more dangerous than he already is.This film should be right up there with the best in the Bond franchise, a great ride from beginning to end. "}{"Title":"The natural progression.","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Every Bond actor gains experience with each passing film, and in turn their style of how they play Bond also changes, subtle at 1st then you notice the changes. And with this (after 1987's The Living Daylights) Licene To Kill (I will refer to as LTK from now) would blur the line between the cinematic Bond and the novel Bond even more than in TLD. Sadly this would prove to be Daltons 2nd and ultimate last outing as Bond due to a number of rumoured reasons, some being poor advertising in N.America others believe that that certain something that Bond once had just wasn't there anymore. Number crunchers against LTK will also tell you that if you include the inflation, then LTK becomes the least successful Bond film, but if you're like me (a Dalton as Bond fan) then it won't make a difference. When I watch LTK, I see Ian Flemings Bond before my very eyes. All the previous and following Bonds put their own spin on Bond, but Dalton WAS Bond. You can tell this by watching any number of on set interviews Dalton gave for this film, that he did all his homework by reading all (or at least some) of Flemings books to get inside the mind of James Bond.For anyone wanting to see LTK I would advise you to see it on the Ultimate Edition for those extra little bits you wont see on the t.v. like one characters head exploding and a leg stump I've given LTK 10/10 pure because it's my favourite Bond film, you don't have to listen to everything i've said (I never take reviews as the gospel truth), but just try it out, you may even like it. And let this be proof that Bond was getting' down n' dirty before Matt Damon was a twinkle in Robert Ludlums eye. "},{"Title":"Bond gets down-to-earth and dirty","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite Bond-films solely because it's so down-to-earth. Not only that, Dalton is my second favorite Bond (after Connery) because he has the type of dark Bond-thing which I would hope to see more. The plot is strong enough to hold the film afloat, there's no need for a grand space-adventure as in Moonraker or a world in peril like in Golden Eye.The only thing Dalton doesn't seem to grasp are Bond's witticisms which always sound out of place with him (but since it's a trade-mark of the series I guess I can't really complain).The climax was also extremely satisfying. "},{"Title":"The end of an era","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ...and not just in the way you think. Yes this was Dalton's second and last outing as Bond but, due to various legal problems over who owned the rights to the character and all that sort of business, this would be the last Bond film for 6 years. By the time the series returned things would look very different behind the camera as well as in front of it and the dangerously long period of reflection, coupled with the negative reaction to this particular film, would have dire consequences for the quality of subsequent entries.There's a lovely little story about Licence to Kill, namely that it would have been called 'Licence Revoked' but the studio's market research suggested that an American audience wasn't sure what Revoked meant. Whether it true or not its the only point in the production of LTK that the target audience were really thought about and for that we can be grateful because its a safe bet that most the people reared on Moonraker and Octopussy would have reacted in horror at this occasionally brutal, always brooding revenge thriller into which their beloved super-spy had been inauspiciously inserted. This is the logical extreme of Dalton's take on the character - very hard, very unpleasant, very cruel but often very enjoyable. If Roger Moore skiing to the sound of the Beach Boys is one extreme in the series then LTK is the total opposite - A Bond adventure that Fleming might recognize as tonally authentic but general audiences did not. The story allows Bond to be probed in a three dimensional way for the first (and last) time. In a story which deliberately resonates with On Her Majesty's Secret Service and in doing so gives the audience a cue as to the character's motives, Bond is in Florida to attend the wedding of friend and series stalwart Felix Lighter who is subsequently visited by the henchman of escaped drug lord Sanchez (Robert Davi) who kill his newly minted bride and then feed the great man to Sharks before returning the chewed up CIA agent to his adobe, just in time for Bond to arrive and discover the macabre scene. Sanchez flees to a fictional south-American country (does he know its fictional?)where he beyond the reach of the authorities. When it becomes apparent they can't and won't do anything, Bond sticks two fingers up at M, does a runner and goes off to get his own brand of fast track justice. If Licence to Kill has a problem its that it divorces Bond from his natural surroundings to such an extent that he runs the risk of looking like a guest in someone else's film. The movie is a little too eager to embrace the language and conventions of American actions thrillers, including the level of violence and so perhaps it lacks the balance of hard-edge and secret service theatrics that made the previous film so enjoyable. The other niggle is that Glen's direction remains decidedly flat, although he does manage to pull off a bit of a showstopper with tanker truck chase toward the film's climax. Ultimately though we have the purest portrayal of Bond yet seen trapped within a revenge story that doesn't feel like a Bond adventure at all. Some nice ironies aside, Sanchez is torched by Felix's Lighter (geddit?), Bond's 'farewell to arms' jibe etc..., it doesn't hold up as one of the better entries in the series because good as it is in places, it doesn't have the heart and invention of the series best.This was it for Dalton and what a shame because he was the first actor since Connery to actually take it seriously. We'll never know what he would have done with his third Bond but given the direction Brosnan's efforts have taken the series- wall to wall action, no plot, one dimensional characters, merciless product placement, self-parody - one half of him must wonder why so many more people preferred brain dead fodder like Die Another Day, while the other half laughs like buggery at the gap in quality between the two epochs in the series' history. Some so-called Bond fans have written off Dalton but perhaps they should give him credit for doing something different and, for the most part, succeeding. "},{"Title":"Worst Bond Film (and Bond) ever!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Many fans of Bond books and films have, on this site and others, said that Timothy Dalton is unfairly called the worst Bond ever. When my friend Seth and I saw these comments, we thought that they were only joking, but soon realized they were serious! Him and I both agree that Mr. Dalton is, by far, the WORST Bond ever. Seth put it best when he said, The first time I saw Timothy Dalton as James Bond I asked myself, 'where is Bond?' In this scene, there were three people in a limo and Bond simply dissolved into the background. I had seen other Bond films lately and I could always pick Bond right out, no matter who played him. But with Dalton, Bond was invisible. For a man who is 6'2, he has NO screen presence. The plot, while cleverly outside the box, fails on several counts. First, The acting is sloppy and sub par for these movies (which if anyone remembers Denise Richards in The World is Not Enough, this is saying an awful lot). Dalton never does anything but stare in confused concentration, without ever changing his face, to express all ranges of emotion. Some might take this as the steely-jawed Bond from the books, but to me and all of my friends(Bond-lovers all) it looks like bad acting.Some people have said that Dalton stands far above other Bond actors such as Roger Moore. They denounce Moore as silly. Seth shall hereby rise to Moore's defense. Dalton could not manage to be silly, or even be funny. The puns, which have become a staple to Bond fans, in Licence to Kill are atrocious. I myself wince at most puns, but in these movies I had to steel my stomach in order to prevent myself from losing my lunch. They were that bad. It may not be Dalton's fault that he was given such terrible material, but the manner that he delivers them only makes them worse. Something that Moore never had a problem with.Finally, Dalton-lovers often point out that he is the character that Ian Fleming wrote about. Well, I hate to break it to these people, but Movies and Books are different beasts completely. What works on the page does not on the screen, and vice versa. Just look at good book adaptations, such as Jurassic Park or Lord of the Rings, and BAD adaptations, such as Sphere or All The Pretty Horses. The key difference is not acting quality, directing, or the script. It is literalism and over-reliance on the book. Writer Orsen Scott Card said, There are a thousand ways to tell any story, choose the one most appropriate... Dalton may play it close to the book, but he does it too far into the series for it to be acceptable for the franchise, and thank God he didn't; because then we wouldn't have twenty Bond films, we'd have his two.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Bond film","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Finally after several misses throughout the decade the Bond series generates a good entry. Despite a perplexing lack of commercial success, License To Kill had all the elements of the Bond franchise working well. First and foremost, Dalton with his realistic approach was absolutely believable as Bond unlike Moore in his later physically creaky clunkers. Second, the villains were interesting both the main villain, Robert Davi and his sinister henchman, Dario played by a young Benicio Del Toro. Also the film didn't rely on guns, gadgets, girls, and stunts but on some actual pathos, a departure from the stereotypical comic book tone of many of the earlier entries in the series. The series hadn't done that since OHMSS. The stunt sequences were actually quite entertaining and didn't feel like set pieces between dialogue. The sequence with the oil tankers is particularly memorable. The Bond girls while not in the top tier are nevertheless not in the nadir of what was presented in Octopussy. All in all, this is a strong entry into the series, 8/10. "},{"Title":"the worst Bond film","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Al the Bond films wqhen one thinks of the high quality of The Living Daylights. This tries to be a Bond film in the style of an typical American action movie but because of this it loses most of the qualities which differentiate the Bond films from other action movies.Here,Bond is a Charles Bronson-like tough guy out for revenge. Nothing in itself wrong with that,and Timothy Dalton is convincing,but the trouble is you forget at times you're watching Bond. Likewise the villains are convincingly nasty but uncharismatic. All this would not matter so much if the film had still succeeded as a good action movie. However,after a pretty lively first third it slows rapidly down and only recovers near the end. There are just two notable action scenes,one where Bond battles underwater,waterskies behind a plane and commandeers it,and the climatic truck chase.Much else is wrong with this film. The clumsy pre-credits scene. Bond ending up with the least interesting of the two girls. The end fight,over before you can blink. Micheal Kamen's dire score. The extremely bland title song. One good thing is that Q has a great deal of screen time and his scenes lift the film somewhat. It's still a Bond film and therefore still entertains,but it's easy to see why it was a commercial disappointment and why there was not a Bond film for a while after this one. "},{"Title":"BEST OF THE BONDS","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a Bond fan since I first saw GOLDFINGER at the age of 10, back in 1964, and going to a Bond film has always been a special occasion. I thought the series was going to tank with the awful MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, back in 1974, but Lewis Gilbert, God bless 'em, re-charged it with THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. Since then, I've enjoyed all the Bond flics - they've had their ups and downs.                           In 1989, however, the series reached it's zenith with the incredible LICENCE TO KILL. Director John Glen (the BEST DIRECTOR IN THE WHOLE SERIES, bar none!) revitalized a silly Roger Moore and gave us his 3 best Bond portrayals, and then gave us the incredible Timothy Dalton in the PERFECT PERSONIFICATION of the Ian Fleming character. Dalton was off and running in THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS - he made the character HIS, immediately, and then came his 2nd performance, in what I consider to be the BEST JAMES BOND FILM.                                       Dalton gives us a Bond on a mission of revenge, plain and simple. Bond doesn't have a whole lot of really CLOSE friends, and when two of the nearest and dearest to him are murdered and mutilated, respectively, he throws his career aside and uses his resources and skills to make the people responsible pay dearly! Dalton gives an outstanding performance, as a James Bond full of controlled rage and hatred, who has to keep it in check until the time is right... Robert Davi plays one of the most heartless and cold villians in the series, and Carey Lowell plays the perfect female ally to Bond. The only weakness in the film is an incredibly bad performance by Talisa Soto, as Lupe, the villian's mistress. I understand that Dalton was set to do more Bond films, but then Albert Broccoli died and the series was quagmired in legal battles for about 4 years or so. It's a shame, because in my mind, TIMOTHY DALTON IS JAMES BOND! "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton will forever dawn the Tuxedo.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This my friends is the closest you will ever get to the actual James Bond that Ian Fleming had pictured in his mind. To back up this statement, I have read all of the Ian Fleming Bond novels, from 'Casino Royale' to 'The Man with The Golden Gun.' Also, 'Octopussy' which contains a set of his lesser known short stories that have appeared in Playboy and other such magazines. Licence To Kill is essentially the maverick of the Bond Film Series. Even more so than Never Say Never Again. The reason for this being is because it has everything that the Bond Movie fans do not want to witness. It is too realistic for the fans who want to see Bond accomplish fantasy like goals and escape without a scratch. This film does not have that. If you've never read a James Bond novel, and you're a Bond fan, than chances are you did not like this film. For those of you who will watch this with an open mind than you should not be disappointed. It rains of emotion (from most of the actors), has lots of action, and has the life support of an intelligent script. Timothy Dalton will not let you down with this performance. It is my belief that he will forever dawn the Black and white tuxedo, and with good reason. "},{"Title":"Simply one of the best!","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie, and I am more than pleased to say that I was satisfied. License to Kill, despite the fact that it has a non MI6 plot, is an exciting thrill ride. The movie starts with Bond escorting Felix Leiter to his wedding. However, Leiter's drug detection agency has just located drug lord Franz Sanchez, and the chase for him begins. After the awesome sequence when Sanchez's plane is hung from a helicopter, Bond and Leiter parachute down to the wedding. I was disappointed that they cut Gladys Knight's theme song in half during the awful credits. Knight's song for this movie is the best James Bond theme song and is one of the greatest songs ever in my opinion. But the movie stays alive and well with perfect action and a perfect cast. Timothy Dalton plays a perfect role as Bond, Robert Davi was a flawless and down-to-earth villain, Talisa Soto and Carey Lowell were very beautiful and awesome Bond girls, and Desmond Llewelyn was finally given a more practical and larger role which he had deserved for over 36 years. Wayne Newton was also a great supporting character, and Benicio Del Toro, despite his awful, Don't worry, we gave her a nice honeymoon! one liner at the beginning, played Dario very well and really kicked off his famous acting career. I also love the truck stunt sequence! The violence in this movie really isn't as bad as you'd think, but the death of Milton Krest is very disturbing and anybody in the room that is sensitive to violence should not see it. Simply put, this movie is awesome and is the third best on the long list of Bond flicks. 4 stars out of 5 and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Lazy 1980s film-making","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is lazy 1980s film-making . . . I was going to say at its worst, but, no, there are worse examples. It's lazy in nearly every aspect. The cinematography is functional. The editing is bland. The action sequences are surprisingly flat. The lighting is stagey. And the screenplay . . . are there words? Any first-year film student could tell you that for a revenge plot to work, we must care about the individual(s) being avenged. I cared not one bit for Bond's friends or the drug dealer that savaged them. Also, the climactic moment of comeuppance should be extended at least somewhat. The villain here (SPOILER ALERT--as if you didn't know the villain wasn't going to be killed!) is dispatched with haste. The villain has a grand total of one second to realize why Bond was hounding him. There is no emotional payoff. Indeed, some of the lesser baddies in the film die in much more interesting, gruesome ways. It's easy to blame Dalton for this, but it's the screenwriter's/director's/editor's fault. However if you compare it to other 1980s films, this was par for the course. "}{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies of all time","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have been a James Bond fan since I was 9 years old. I own all of the movies that are currently out there (Dr. No to Die Another Day) and as I have watched them, this one would have to be one of the best. Timothy Dalton brought a more serious edge to the Bond character which brought back life to the series after the Roger Moore years.There are many factors which made this a great Bond film. The first factor is that the story was not based on one Ian Fleming's novels. The second factor is the storyline. I mean who thought about James Bond going out on a personal vendetta would make a good story line? It was pure genius! The third would have to be the contrasting characters. You have the serious-edged Bond vs. the maniacal drug dealer. That is a great contrast! So, all-in-all, if you want to see a great Bond movie, this one you have got to see! "},{"Title":"Dalton's best Bond flick","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  LICENCE TO KILL (1989) ***1/2 Dalton's second and last performance as James Bond facing his own worst enemy his angry self in a personal vendetta against sadistic drug lord Franz Sanchez (the evil and oily Robert Davi) who used Bond's best buddy CIA agent Felix Leiter (David Hedison) as shark bait and his newlywed bride (Priscilla Barnes) murdered for the hell of it.  Dangerous in execution with some great moments particularly the sight of a truck careening off a cliff and flying over Bond Babe Carey Lowell's plane! "},{"Title":"Señor Bond, you got big cojones.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Actually, the only Bond film that I had not previously seen. I don't know why, because I definitely missed a good one.Personally, I am a Pierce Brosnan fan, but Timothy Dalton gave a good performance as the moody Bond. Some may prefer a bit more comedy with their Bond, but Q (Desmond Llewelyn) and Wayne Newton were there to provide that.Robert Davi was perfect as the drug dealer, and he had Benicio Del Toro to do his dirty work.Carey Lowell showed much more than we ever saw on Law and Order. The tanker truck action on the mountain road is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Definitely The Worst Bond Film","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm seeing a lot of reviews here for this film as a great Bond film by people who are admittedly not Bond fans. People who are saying that it is devoid of double entendres, gadgets, world domination plot lines, etc... In fact, all of the things that make a Bond film a Bond film. That means that it is a terrible Bond film. They are missing the point entirely. It's like reviewing a musical with no songs and calling it refreshing. Wake up! As for Timothy Dalton as Bond... Mr Dalton is a very good actor; however, he is completely lacking the charisma needed to play Bond. One could argue that it is a good action film but really, it could be any action film and that is exactly what's wrong with it. I don't buy Dalton as Bond- he could be anyone. There are no 'Bondesque' qualities to the story line. This could be any drug dealer, Die Hard, Dirty Harry, etc... The ONLY thing that hints at Bond is the surprisingly excellent score by Michael Kamen. Kamen has always produced excellent scores and he, quite smartly, kept the 007 themes in high profile throughout the film. Good actors, good production values just not a Bond film. "},{"Title":"Nasty and Boring","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie violates the James Bond character by making him nasty as the bad guys with no class. You end up not caring about the characters in the movie.Maybe the movie was made to complete a contract to make so many movies rather than some desire to be entertaining. There is no interesting badguy to make the film worth watching.  "},{"Title":"The worse James Bond ever!","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I love watching a James Bond. It's not very intellectual, granted, but it's fun. I know the basic difference between each James Bond are the bad guy, the girl and the bad guy's HQ which always blows up at the end(don't tell me this is a spoiler). But in this, the producers had a new idea for James Bond he will be on a personal vendetta... The idea was bad and so is the final product. Timothy Dalton is terrible. He was okay in The Living Daylights but this time, he is just awful. Everything about his Bond is wrong. He tries to be like Sean Connery, but never comes close to the Great One. I will add that the bad guy is just a crazy maniac that kills everyone in original ways. Bad, bad, bad... In fact, it is the worse James Bond, for now.If you want to see a James Bond today, don't watch this one. 4/10...  "},{"Title":"The worst Bond movie ever!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear...Roger Moore left and this is what happens? The film is just plain awful! It's a simple b-movie with b-actors. Dalton is just horrible as 007. He has the looks of an ice cube, no sense of humor and turns Bond into Shakespeare...I can't understand that there are people on this earth who like Timothy Dalton as Bond...This film is utter crap and we all know it... "},{"Title":"You don't cross a man on a mission.","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton's second attempt at playing James Bond. For the first time Her Majesty's special agent 007 disobeys orders and operates without his license to kill to battle an evil drug lord and avenge his best friend a former CIA agent. I can't say this is the best Bond film I've seen, but it is interesting just the same. The cast is  loaded with shining stars like Carey Lowell, Anthony Zerbe, Everett McGill, Robert Davi, Priscilla Barnes and Wayne Newton. Of course this movie would not be complete without the great gadgets and super F/X. Bond continues to rule you know. "},{"Title":"The darkest and grittiest Bond. I personally enjoyed it.","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a film with a story-line where Bond goes on a very personal mission. Where it focuses in on a revenge vendetta for James Bond and him becoming a vigilante for what happened to his good friend. I also liked how it slightly touches base with what happened in On Her Majesty's Secret Service as well. Timothy Dalton really wanted to push the limit when it came to the violent, more realistic and darker direction. And it really does show in this film, it probably is the grittiest Bond film compared to the previous ones. Bond is more of a gutsy fierce and tougher super agent in this one over a giddy playful charmer that is constantly obsessed with sex. The main theme revolve around revenge and loyalty after all. It's unfortunate this film wasn't a super smash hit at the time it was released. It was competing with a lot of blockbuster movies such as Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. Plus this is far from being a family friendly film, as a matter of fact this movie just isn't for kids. Kind of like how the Ian Fleming's novels aren't really for kids despite it being a bit campy at times. I guess at the time the viewers just wasn't fond of the changes in Bond as a more violent and serious character. People sometimes need time to accept changes. The action really was topnotch at the time and very well shot. Some viewers like the giddy campy Bond that goes in a more playful direction, which can be refreshing. But I like the more serious versions and the balance of both such as in Casino Royale (2006 film) is the version I enjoy the most in this franchise. And I enjoyed this one, it's a really good action flick.7.8/10 "},{"Title":"The Bond Identity","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill was in 1989 thrown aside by the fans. To this day it is still for the most part forgotten about and for good reason. Bond goes on a search for vengeance, after the near fatal harming of his trusted ally, Felix Leiter. The trail leads him to a drug lord with powerful and influential friends.Licence to Kill is commendable for taking risks with an already pre-established formula. However, this becomes redundant when the whole film begins to feel less and less like a Bond film as it goes along. Gone is 007's essence, style and charm, replaced with what essentially feels like just another 80s action film with the 007 brand tacked on as a mere afterthought. This affects everything from the subject matter of drug lords to the girls and the music. If I did not know any better I would be inclined to believe that this film belongs to the Die Hard franchise, not 007. Maybe for some people Licence to Kill does the trick. After all it is different, but when you try to tamper with a formula for success that worked fairly well for the previous fifteen entries, you are unlikely to come out on top.It is for the best that this is Timothy Dalton's outing. It would be far too dark and violent for any of the other incarnations of Bond to handle. Dalton is in his prime, such a shame that he was not granted another couple of films to showcase his talent. Carey Lowell who plays Pam Bouvier is uncharacteristically helpful to the mission and will not take no for an answer especially from Bond. Talisa Soto though as Sanchez's girlfriend seems altogether too young for an important film like Licence to Kill. Her acting range about as great as you would find in an average school play. Still the villainous Franz Sanchez is a challenge for Bond to overcome and has the wit and skills to be more than a match for our hero.Bond has never seen another film like Licence to Kill. That's probably because of the backlash it encountered from fans. It is an unfortunate departure from the series, though Licence to Kill does mix things up. But, that's not a great achievement when Bond loses his heart and soul along the way. "}{"Title":"Bond in America, takes on Sanchez' Law","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill may be one of the most American/Latino Bond movies. Also it is the film that tells us possibly the most about Bond's close friend Felix Leiter. Here he faces the same fate as Bond doe in On Her Majesty's Secret service when his wife is killed. There is also a reference directly to Bond's marriage with the garter scene. Not too common that they reference directly previous Bond movies, or even Bond girls. Tracy sure was something special. Only difference to Bond Leiter gets severely injured as well. So Bond is out there trying to catch or kill those responsible. MI6 does not approve, so Bond is out there pretty much on his own and he even has to hand in his license to kill, therefore the title. And Gladys Knight's title song, which is pretty good again as well. But don't worry, Q will help him out again and he will even play his chauffeur. Pay attention though to how it is not one of Q's gadgets that helps Bond in the final fight, but the lighter from his close friend.The intro to this film already shows us the movie's main antagonist, which is not always the case. Robert Davi plays Franz Sanchez, a super criminal to whom loyalty is everything. I really liked his performance and to me he is probably one of the five most memorable Bond villains. And Sanchez was quite a character, who has even business connection with the President and the President seems to be the one who needs Sanchez more than the other way around. The fact that one of Bond's helpers here (with a pretty unlucky fate himself) is called Sharkey surely has some irony as a henchman says as well at one point. Anyway, sharks in Bond films are always fun and if you remember Jaws (the character, not the movie), you will think of another interesting shark fight scene. Another interesting fact about this film here is that there is not really a giant muscular henchman in the likes of Jaws, Oddjob or Hans, but a mean knife fighter played by the very young Benicio Del Toro. And then there is also Krest, another henchman, quite an interesting character too. Especially his death scene is one of the most disgusting scenes in Bond history. But equally fascinating somehow.Another mention goes out to the way Timothy Dalton played Bond. Many say he is the closest to the books, but he is rarely in discussion when it is asked who was the best Bond. Anyway, Dalton portrays him as a stone-cold assassin who won't back down from anybody in his way. The scene when he kills the corrupt agent who was responsible for Sanchez' escape describes him perfectly. He gives him back his suitcase and pushes him down to the sharks this way. I though the first half of the film was slightly superior to the second, but the second is pretty good as well. Both parts offer great plot developments and approaches on loyalty, an interesting issue which is probably not dealt with in any other film as much as here, also because of the main antagonist's ideals. Oh and the Bond girls of course. They are crazy for Mr. Dalton too. Even if he does not get an Asian Bond girl so he would have them from all ethnicities as I expected before the Asian agent was killed, he has some great women drooling over him again and acting like angry jealous little girls when they won't be getting him seemingly. Carey Lowell (Richard Gere's ex-wife) and Talisa Soto, both in their prime, are as good as it gets.Finally I recommend watching this film a lot. It is pretty magnificent. I remember liking it a lot more than Dalton's other Bond film, but his first appearance, The Living Daylights certainly needs a rewatch. "},{"Title":"The Names Bond","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill is the 16th James Bond movie in the series and I have to say it is one of the most underrated bond movies ever, with one of the most underrated actors to every play the slick MI6 agent, and i can't understand why. All the actors that have ever played Bond have brought something new to the series,Sean Connery gave us style, Roger Moore gave us laughter, Timothy Dalton gave us bravery, Pierce Brosnan gave us cockiness, Daniel Craig changed the way bond is forever and George Lazenby gave us, while I am not sure what he gave us as he only did one Bond movie and that was rather disappointing. Anyway the film is full of action at every turn and it is one of the best Bond movies I have ever seen. A vengeful British spy goes rogue and sets off to take vengeance on a drug lord who tortured his best friend and killed his bride on the night of the wedding. This Bond movie is very different to the way the other bond movies have been done in the past. In the other bond movies it has been the British Government who has given Bond his assignments and he has headed off to take out his targets with a little help from the lovely lady's. However this allows Bond to have a vengeful side and this is what makes this Bond film fantastic. Licence to Kill 9/10 Action Blast From The Past!!! "},{"Title":"The Living Daylights (part 2)","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I watched Timothy Dalton's first performance (Living Daylights) just before his second (and final) outing as Bond. I have to say they were pretty much similar. Not in story, but the fact that he never seemed truly comfortable playing Bond. That - perhaps - was both films' major let-downs which means that cinema history has chalked both up to little more than footnotes in the Bond lore.However, just because Dalton isn't at his best (yet?) doesn't make them bad films. In both, the story (and of course action) rolls along nicely and carries both movies equally.If you're a fan of Bond in general, I can't see why you won't like either or both these movies, just on the story and 'fun factor' alone. Then, if you're not really into Bond in general and are looking for an action film, perhaps it may be best not to think of this as Bond and just enjoy if for a gritty revenge action film. The tone is definitely the darkest (Bond) to date and the 'humour' of the Roger Moore era has definitely been swept aside. Is it for the better? Well, the box office returns didn't think so. Most people judge it on Dalton. If you judge it on story and action, you may be a little more surprised.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Purely subjective.","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When Ian Fleming wrote his series of James Bond spy novels, he wrote the character of Bond as a cold, brutal spy with nerves of steel and a heart of ice. When Harry Saltzman and Cubby Broccoli produced their series of James Bond films, they made the Bond character into someone more suave and charming. But in the late 1980's, the producers decided to go back to the dark grittiness of the original novels in their films, resulting in possibly the most polarizing and underrated (in my view) film in the entire James Bond canon, Licence to Kill. I understand why a lot of people don't like the film. Many don't like darkness in their Bond films, and they don't like seeing Bond as a brutal killer. When it comes to the Bond films, I myself love the Bond campfest outings (Goldfinger being my favorite action film of all time), but I also love the darkness of some of the later series entries. Licence to Kill is sleek, cold, violent, brutal, and real. Sometimes it's a bit too much of these things to the point where the film is sort of alienating, but I still see it as a wonderful piece of cinema. While the earlier James Bond films were the pique of escapist action cinema, Licence to Kill is a realistic brutal crime thriller. It showcases Bond as a brutal cold agent, more gory violence, a slower pace, and a more realistic and frightening villain than showcased in earlier films. Bond (played powerfully by Timothy Dalton) goes on a vengeful private vendetta against drug lord Sanchez (played by Robert Davi) after his best friend American agent Felix Leiter is left close to death on his wedding day, and after Leiter's bride is killed. Bond is instructed by Bond to abandon his vendetta as it could badly effect the British government. But Bond refuses, resigns, renounces his license to kill, and goes on the run after Sanchez anyway. In this film, Bond is more human as he has ever been up to this point. He's passionate, cold, angry, reckless, and bitter. He is obsessed with avenging Leiter and his wife on Sanchez, and because of this obsession and anger makes terrible decisions. His choices ultimately endanger himself, his career, people around him, and even gets some people killed. His passion, which we can all relate to is taken too far and placed on the wrong things, which we can all relate to. For once, James Bond takes down his enemy by penetrating his organization, much like a real spy. Rather than outright attacking the villain, Bond slowly sews the seeds of doubt in Sanchez's organization and takes him down from the inside. Licence to Kill is obviously not for everyone. It's darker and more violent than earlier Bond films, much to the disdain of some people (understandably). Sometimes the darkness and violence become alienating, and the film could have used some more fire and passion, but I still see Licence to Kill as a marvelous film and even one of the best films in the James Bond canon. "},{"Title":"The best Bond film of the 1980s","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton's second and final Bond film, this is the darkest and perhaps the most realistic one up to this time. Dalton once again excels at playing Bond as a serious, moody agent who does not particularly enjoy his work. His acting style makes Bond's vendetta against Sanchez more believable than it would have been with an actor who did not take the role quite so seriously. The plot fits his Bond perfectly. The idea of Bond going rogue is a brilliant one which I'm surprised took them this long to use. For the final film of the decade, Eon pulled out all the stops and produced the best Bond film since The Spy Who Loved Me 12 years earlier.I always loved Robert Davi as Commander Acastus Kolya in Stargate Atlantis, perhaps that franchise's best human villain, and I'm glad to say that he gives a magnificent performance as Franz Sanchez, a fascinating character with a twisted sense of honour and code of ethics. He keeps his word, considers loyalty more important than money and rewards it handsomely but his vengeance is swift and brutal. He is cultured and sophisticated and consequently serves as a dark reflection of Bond. Carey Lowell is another actor whose work I previously enjoyed in a television series, namely Law & Order in which she played ADA Jamie Ross. Given that she is an ex-CIA agent, Pam Bouvier marks a return of the female agent character type previously seen, with decidedly mixed results, in the first four Roger Moore films. While she doesn't quite reach the highs of Anya Amasova, Pam is a great character and every bit Bond's equal. She is able to handle herself in any situation and her fighting and piloting skills often prove crucial to Bond's survival. Lowell has very good chemistry with Dalton. My only criticism of Pam is that having her act like a jealous schoolgirl over Bond's relationship with Lupe isn't consistent with the rest of her characterisation and took me out of the film, albeit briefly. Speaking of Lupe, Talisa Soto is very good as Sanchez's girlfriend and virtual captive living in a gilded cage. He demands absolute loyalty from her (as he does with everyone) and literally whips her when he learns that she is having an affair. The character is very written and believable; seeming vulnerable at first while displaying an inner strength which becomes more and more apparent as the film progresses. David Hedison reprises his role as Felix Leiter sixteen years after Live and Let Die, becoming the first of only two actors to play the role more than once. As in that film, he is charming, witty and charismatic. It was a very good idea to bring back one of the most memorable of the many actors to have played Leiter as it served to create a sense of continuity. In spite of being almost 20 years his senior, Hedison has great chemistry with Dalton and that makes his fate and the brutal rape and murder of his new wife Della &#x96; played very well by Priscilla Barnes &#x96; more harrowing for the audience than it would have been otherwise. In his fourth and final appearance as M, Robert Brown finally abandons his softly, softly approach to playing the character and his confrontation with Bond is the best M moment of the 1980s. Relegated to cameo of just about a minute, Caroline Bliss again makes a good impression as Miss Moneypenny in her second and final appearance but she never got the opportunity to show what she might have done with the role. In contrast, this film features Desmond Llewelyn's biggest role as everyone's favourite gadget man Q. He plays the role with his usual charm and wit and clearly relishes the opportunity to appear in more than a brief cameo role, ably assisting Bond in the field in spite of 007's initial concerns. The fact that he risked his career to help Bond is the best depiction of the affection between the two characters since the wedding scene in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Future Oscar winner Benicio del Toro is extremely menacing as Dario, both an extremely convincing and unusually realistic henchman. Anthony Zerbe is suitably vile as Milton Krest, though it was hard not to feel some degree of sympathy for him given that his fate is probably the most gruesome in the film and that's saying something. I was sceptical about the presence of Las Vegas mainstay Wayne Newton in a Bond film &#x96; particularly after his fellow singer Jimmy Dean's less than stellar performance in Diamonds Are Forever &#x96; but he played the role of Professor Joe Butcher very well as such televangelists tend to slimy and offputting. He isn't used enough to outstay his welcome, to the benefit of both the character and the film. It was nice to see Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa and Christopher Neame pop up in the film.The locations weren't quite as glamorous as usual but the action sequences were excellent, though none of them were on the same level as the cargo plane fight in The Living Daylights. Aside from being Dalton's last, this is the end of an era in several other ways as it is the last film produced by Cubby Broccoli, the last written by Richard Maibaum, the last directed by John Glen and the last to be made before the end of the Cold War, though the conflict plays no role in the plot and is not even mentioned.Overall, this is an absolutely brilliant film and one of the franchise's best. It's a shame that Dalton decided not to return as Bond after the lengthy legal battle delaying the next film was finally over. I'd have loved at least one more Dalton film. Still, it is a much better final Bond film than either Diamonds Are Forever or A View to a Kill. "},{"Title":"Superb action-thriller appealing most to people not into classic Bond movies","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My favorite Bond movie ever. But I must admit I am into thriller movies, involving some hard crime. Many Bond movies I like because of the personality of Bond, but I am not that much in all that cold war-spy-action movie thing. That is why license to kill is the ultimate Bond movie for me I guess it features a cold, angry Bond sucked into an ocean of organized crime and having to take revenge in order not to drown...But dam, this was a good movie. I only wish more of this sort of Bond movies were made, because Goldeneye was much of a disappointment to me, a bad Roger Moore movie clone featuring Brosman that had only talent for toothpaste commercials.... But when I many years later saw TAKEN with Liam Neeson as a Rogue Agent, I was like DUDE, this is what early 90s Bond movies featuring Dalton should had looked like! ﻿ But then of course, I am not all that into classic bond movies and some that are may not like this movie at all. It is a matter of taste I guess... "},{"Title":"An OK but darker Bond","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rating-6/10License to Kill is a Bond film that dared to be dark and brought what I felt was a whole new look for James Bond the spy extraordinaire. With a few stunts but not enough of them and action for this film to be great, you might think License to Kill sounds like a bad film to watch, not so because this has a good bit of drama and a performance from an actor portraying Bond who looked more serious in this role than ever before. I felt this was solidly OK, and here below is why.The story is slightly slower to start with than previous instalments but nevertheless shows us what the villain is doing and how vicious of a man he really is. I did think that this plot got slow through the middle and may leave you bored just for a little, but it depends on how much you are into the story. The story isn't bad or anything but what it doesn't bring is fireworks, the story just isn't fun enough to watch and even in the uneven plots in earlier Bonds they still brought an entertaining ride along with them. Timothy Dalton does a job here which I had huge respect for, he shook off what people such as Roger Moore made the role and made it his own, with his darker view of events he still manages to have a slight charm and seems sometimes like he could actually be a real special agent. I felt the villain also had an air of believability around him, the actor Robert Davi seemed to bring another rational character here and as the drug lord he is, he didn't come across as too ambitious as so many previous villains have had. Everyone else does a good job here too and the entire cast seem quite perfect for the characters they portray.Written and directed quite well, I did feel the writing could have been slightly better because it just seemed as previously said that the story doesn't offer enough to us the viewer, and Bond could have gone on a much more smartly made adventure. It lacks the major stunts we see all the way through previous films but does maybe two massive stunts which even for Bond are big on a large scale, they were highlights of this film.The film doesn't have a big mistake or something it does bad it just isn't full of entertainment and as you can see it is a running thing through the movie. The plot its much darker and maybe you could say that it is unnecessary violence but others may respect it, I feel people will be mixed as to whether much is wrong here. Bond fans should like it as it contains all the elements it usually does and all the trademarks of the franchise, although I feel because the dark element comes in some may dislike it's change away from big action/explosions and big stunts as it is subdued slightly. Anyone could like this who likes action adventure films as this has it all, but as I have said a lot now, the film maybe lacks the fun we expected to see from this and could not be the most entertaining of Bonds to see.Overall I give this a 6/10, a Solidly OK movie, not near being Good but it is far from just an average movie. With this just take it easy whilst watching, try to savour Daltons last performance as Bond and make for yourself where he ranks amongst the Bonds through the years. One last thing to say about this movie is this was also the last with a lot of people so this is truly the last film of the original creators etc, a sad thing to see to have them go but the future get's brighter trust me. "},{"Title":"One of the most realistic Bonds and one of the best","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill is grouped together with 'For Your Eyes Only' and 'From Russia with Love' was the most realistic of all the Bonds and all the better for it. Much as I love 'Moonraker' and 'The Spy Who Loved Me' really there was no place for the series to go in terms of spectacle so we were more back to basics which suited Timothy Dalton's more stripped down Bond perfectly. Lots of great stuff here, Carey Lowell is a brilliant Bond girl, the best since Lois Chiles in Moonraker and a match for Bond in every way (I really didn't take to her with long hair but once she's in short hair she's utterly stunning). Robert Davi makes an excellent villain who you see as pretty much a match for Bond, brutally handsome, ruthless, charismatic, valuing loyalty over money and not afraid to get his own hands dirty. His abusive relationship with his girlfriend is interesting too, any other villain would have casually killed her off but you get the impression that he genuinely loves her (or is at least obsessed with her?) in his own twisted way. David Hedison back as Felix Leiter giving a glimpse to a more human side of Bond and some genuine motivation on his part. Quite brilliant the way Bond quietly worms his way into Sanchez's confidence and begins to undermine him at every turn, turning his allies against him and working on his paranoia. This is a Bond who relies much more on his wits and cunning than on gadgetry, without MI6's resources to help him he basically has to make it up as he goes along. Some terrific set pieces too, especially the opening helicopter chase, the pursuit of the giant tanker trucks along the highway and Bond's attempted assassination of Sanchez in his casino (no face to face showdown, trying to kill him Punisher style from 500 yards with a sniper rifle). Brutal? Hell yeah, in a way we haven't really seen before and arguably won't see again until Daniel Craig comes along. The story is really not so far fetched when you think of Pablo Escobar and Noriega etc So undoubtedly Dalton's best and I think one of my top 5 ever. "},{"Title":"Bond Month #6 A vastly Underrated Film in the Series (The crappy 80s Bond streak is broken)","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the horrible streak that occurred during the early 80s with Bond, we finally get something that those films never tried, we get character development and complex stories and motivations. Licence to Kill unfortunately was not viewed as such and like The Man with the Golden Gun in 1974, was considered to be the death knell of Bond. Are these claims warranted? Yes and no.The story is actually a more realistic Bond film. After his friend Felix Lieter is mauled by a shark because of drug lord Sanchez, Bond decides he must kill Sanchez as vengeance. M doesn't like this and revokes Bond's vital killing license and actually puts a contract out on Bond. Bond worms his way into Sanchez's circle of trust, and gains an ally in CIA agent Pam Bouvier, waiting for the opportunity to murder him.This film is sort of like OHMSS in one aspect, they try to give Bond, villain, and girl character development. It works well enough, as Bond gives another side to a character we have never really seen. But the best example is Sanchez (played expertly by Robert Davi) he is more complex than just wanting money and power. While these things are important, the thing he wants and craves is LOYALTY. He actually begins to care about Bond, until he finds out Bond's true intentions and then he is as expendable as his henchmen (one of the played by young Benicio Del Toro) Then we have some of the best action scenes in the series, most notably in the tanker truck chase. Everythign looks so realistic we buy the fact that it's there and can do damage to both scenery and the people.But there are some things which have caused some controversy. This is the most violent Bond film in the series. Fact. Dalton is unbelievably dark in this movie, almost to the point of being unlikeable, and M actually wants Bond DEAD or ALIVE. It's not like he has saved the world a few times over or is your best agent M, he breaks one rule and he must die, Boss of the year. And I have to admit, some story ideas don't particularly work, like the ninjas that lasts for one scene. The death of Milton Krest and even Sanchez himself is so gory and dark that it feels uncomfortable to a degree. So my final weigh in with all these factors, I think this movie is good. It's undeniably flawed, but most of the Bond films are. It has good action, a strong villain, and good acting again from Dalton. It's a strange film in the canon, but I guess that's why I like it.This is actually the end of an era for most involved in this film. It was the last personally produced by Albert Broccoli, written by Richard Maibaum, and the las title sequence designed by Maurice Binder. The new comes in now...My reviews from For Your Eyes Only to The Living Daylights have not been favorably received by readers. The reason why I sounded so angry and ripped into them was because they were either not memorable or so tired and silly I felt that my intelligence as a viewer was insulted. But now that you all know why I wrote what i wrote about those films, we are now going into the movies that are very well thought out and memorable. Nowhere is that more apparent than in the next film, the first with Pierce Brosnan, GoldenEye. "},{"Title":"Licence to Kill","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton's follow-up to his excellent The Living Daylights has a much weaker plot, about Bond avenging his colleague Felix Leiter, but the angrier agent on a personal vendetta plays well into Dalton's strengths, and makes up for any weaknesses with attitude and good airborne action set pieces. Licence to Kill is both tougher and punnier than its predecessor (case in point the scene taking place in Hemingway's house in Key West seemingly for the sole purpose of squeezing in a line about saying farewell to arms). The best thing is otherwise when Bond hits a guy with a cube of money and is subsequently attacked with a stuffed swordfish, with Q disguised in sombrero and moustache a close second. "}{"Title":"If only this had come out at the time of Casino Royale.......","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Non-spoiler summary License to Kill is a different kind 007 mission in which he avenges his friend's dismemberment on a multi-millionaire drug lord named Franz Sanchez.Comments and ThoughtsAfter finally getting to this rare film, I can fairly say that this is one of the most underrated Bond films out there on the DVD shelves. To the point, it greatly deviates from the Bond formula that the directors were going for in the last 15 films instead of a rather humor-full mission, 007 stalks a drug lord. It also is more true to the Flemming novels that showed Bond as an alone, faulty, but justice-desiring avenger. Those of you that have read the original novels will ultimately enjoy.Positives-Excellent lead role by Timothy Dalton -Interesting story line -True to the novels( where Bond's character is concerned)Negatives -At times, can be very boring -Some corny and lame acting (but not too much)Overall Verdict A must see for a die-hard Bond fan. "},{"Title":"I love this Bond adventure","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I was 3 when this movie was released and I can't quite remember what age I was when I saw it, but I've now seen it many times and I regard it as one of the best Bond films in the series. It's very much similar to the new QUANTUM OF SOLACE film but is able to take its time in between the action scenes and build the characters and develop the plot. Going through the series which I've done many times, I always love it when I get to the Dalton films, thats because though I liked Roger Moore, it just needed something fresh, and Dalton's take on it is very similar to that of Daniel Craig. This is a Bond who means business, he's a tough nut, and completely opposite to Roger Moore in every way. This films mixes together exciting action set pieces, a very good cast, a top notch script and two beautiful Bond women. The villain is also one of the best in the series. It's a shame Dalton didn't get to do any more Bond films, as he deserved to be in a couple more. If you like your Bond films gritty (ie FROM Russia WITH LOVE, CASINO ROYALE, QUANTUM OF SOLACE, FOR YOUR EYES ONLY) then you'll love this. It's a very refreshing Bond adventure and the perfect way to finish of the 80's for Bond. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Dalton's back and better than ever!","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When Licence to Kill was released in 1989, the Bond series had been going for 27 years at that point. And when the film proved to be a less than stellar hit, the series went on hiatus for a full six years before making a triumphant return with GoldenEye. But in the interim between the two, a lot of people were convinced the days of Bond were dead. Licence to Kill opened to indifferent response. It starred the hated (and underrated) Timothy Dalton. And if you stay all the way through the end credits, there's a disclaimer warning about the dangers of smoking. Tough times for 007.The problem may have been that the days of the Cold War had thawed. The USSR had disbanded. And James Bond suddenly found himself without any enemies to fight. Indeed the villain for Licence to Kill is a much more down to Earth and harshly realistic Bond villain, a drug baron. Its certainly understandable why people thought the series had run itself dry.But I like the recent Bond films for the way they realise how the series was in danger of becoming stagnant. They took Bond out of the Cold War and into the real world, and while Pierce Brosnan's outings took the idea to even greater heights, you can already see some of that in Licence to Kill.Because this is a gritty, fatalistic Bond movie. Quite possibly the darkest chapter in the entire series...well, up until Casino Royale at least. This movie dispenses with all of the usual trademarks. Dalton's previous outing, The Living Daylights was a fairly straightforward Bond movie, but the great thing about Licence to Kill is that it is so unpredictable.This is not a typical Bond movie. The villain of the piece has no grand plans to rule the world. Bond doesn't get involved with any women for a full hour(!). There's hardly any of Q's usual gadgets. Both Bond girls are alive and well at the end. And best of all, the film is driven by a sharp, intense revenge plot.Bond's best buddy Felix Leiter is almost killed by Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), a ruthless drug lord. Leiter is almost devoured by a shark (all it gets is his leg), and if that weren't bad enough, his wife is killed (and possibly raped) too. Bond takes control of the situation with a vengeance, at the cost of his licence to kill.Licence to Kill was the first film in the series to have a 15 certificate. And anyone who's seen the film will know why. This is a frequently bloody, violent movie. At the end, Bond looks more battered and bruised then in any other film. This is a Bond film that feels like its actually taking place in the real world, and not some cartoonish farce like it was under Roger Moore's tenure.Timothy Dalton has fine-tuned his performance and turned in an even greater take on the part. In spite of the fact that so many people hate him, I think he does 007 justice. Bond is supposed to be a ruthless agent with ice water in his veins. And Dalton really brings out that quality superbly. You're never in any doubt that this is a Bond with a dangerous edge.And up against Dalton, Robert Davi is an impressive villain. He may not possess the lip-smacking, larger than life charisma of a Goldfinger, but Sanchez is an excellent villain in his own right. Since this is a much grittier Bond adventure, Davi knows its best to play the role as harshly as possible. He's a tightly wound sociopath who demands loyalty from his underlings. And when anyone dares step over the line, the rage he unleashes is scarily intense.The film's only weak link are the Bond girls. Talisa Soto plays Sanchez's girlfriend, and while ravishing, she's thoroughly insipid. She's quickly forgotten mere minutes after the film is over. And as for Carey Lowell, although she's placed in the role of a tough as nails CIA operative, Lowell's performance is equally bland. She never plays up the feisty nature of the character. She could have been an admirably tough heroine, but she doesn't have the acting ability to pull it off. Its certainly nice not to have her as a vapid annoying screamer, but Lowell is one of the more forgettable Bond girls.Elsewhere, Licence to Kill succeeds at what it sets out for itself. The action scenes are terrific (if a bit improbable), like one plane fishing for another in midair in the pre-credits teaser, and the grand finale of four tankers on a twisty mountain road is superb. There's some gorgeous location shooting, and in a nice touch, Q (Desmond Llewelyn) gets the biggest role he's ever had in a Bond movie. He even gets to help out with the hands on stuff.Licence to Kill is a much more successful Bond movie than people give it credit for (although having Felix in such high spirits at the end is daft). It was a brave attempt at something new, and did a great job of reigniting the series. This is a Bond adventure that will leave you shaken and stirred! "},{"Title":"Licence to kill - Dalton better the second time round","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This has to be one of my favourite Bond movies, along with Goldfinger,The Spy who loved me,Goldeneye and Casino Royale. This was a childhood favourite of mine and I can still enjoy it today. Timothy Dalton returned after the Living daylights. This was the first of the more brutal Bond, in fact it is the only Bond movie to be rated 15. David Hedison was good as Felix Leiter, in fact this was the second time he played Felix he also played him in Live and let die.Robert Davi was superb as Sanchez. Unfortunately it is one of the more overlooked Bond and it was the least profitable in the series. One reason for that is because there was a lack of publicity. Another reason was the competition it faced, it was released in 1989 which also saw the release of Ghostbusters 2, Indiana Jones and most importantly Batman. The fight scenes are simply the best Bond had to offer, especially in the finale. The theme tune is one of my favourites. It is a shame Timothy Dalton only made 2 Bond movies because he was actually very good. Simply awesome. "},{"Title":"Dalton's second entry a dramatic improvement","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a dreadful debut film, Timothy Dalton and the series opt for a harder edge change of pace and the result is a dramatic improvement that is both a bit of a departure for Bond films and one the better entries. Unfortunately, it was released smack in the middle of an action film/blockbuster crowded summer season and got lost in the shuffle.Bond Dalton was definitely an edgier, more serious Bond, but he actually tried to inject a bit of humor into the mix this time. There is strong evidence in this film that he could have conceivably grown with the series and become an enduring presence, but this alas would be his last. As such, he makes his departure from the role on a definitive high note.The villains Robert Davi eschews being the usual clichéd drug lord and creates something a bit more substantial as a Latin American baddie with far-reaching schemes. He is surrounded by a refreshingly inventive gaggle of assistants, including Yuppie accountant Jonathan Starke, an intimidating Benicio del Toro and the inspired casting of Wayne Newton as a phony, glad-handing televangelist.The women Carey Lowell is one of the best of the Bond women. A two-fisted, tough-talking, no-nonsense fighter, who also manages to look chic and classy when called upon to do so. Her banter with Bond is refreshingly frank and she is one of the few Bond women who not only do not need the hero to pull her fat from the fryer, but also ably assists and rescues him from several predicaments. Proving that you cannot have everything, the secondary female lead is played by exotic Talisa Soto, who reads her lines as though they were technical instructions in a foreign language.The film is gritty and arguably more violent than its predecessors. The style ably compliments the outgoing leading man. The action scenes are impressive and having Bond go rogue to avenge the attack on friends gives the film a new territory feel that spices it up. David Hedison makes his second appearance as Felix Leiter. It is also nice to see Desmond Llewelyn's indispensable Q get out into the field and prove to be such a first-rate assistant. Gladys Knight provides the first in a series of monumentally atrocious unendurable wailing diva title songs that would not mercifully end until Casino Royale in 2006. "},{"Title":"A good effort spoiled....","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You thought i was going to say story didn't you, i will admit the story is sketchy but at least he isn't cracking a one liner every 10 seconds like a certain bond.Still, less of my Moore bashing and on to my small review of one of my top 5 bond films (2/5 of them are Daltons). So then, what can i say about this film which received one of the most negative reviews from the Moore going era of bond. Well for a start how about Dalton isn't Moore, i cant stand when people go but he isn't funny like Moore.The point of Daltons performance isn't to be funny, its to take bond back to his roots. Much in the same way as the fabulous Casino Royal has done thanks to Daniel Craig. This is what i love most about License to Kill, it is bond in his true self, not the bed a women minute the screen has made him but a man with emotion and feeling.The whole story is brilliant, the reinvention of him from 00 agent to a man out for revenge for his best friend is breathe taking. Combine with some amazing action and stunt scenes and you have in my opinion one of the greatest bond films ever.Suppose it could be down too i watched this before the Moore Era films, still its my opinion. If you don't like it then click no on was this helpful and have it taken off but know this, i like this film and there's nothing you can do to change that "},{"Title":"response to a bad review","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Felix's maiming (Who the heck came up with that idea???) If you were a real Bond fan, you would know that Ian Fleming wrote that, but in another story -Live And Let Die. While the movies never follow the books faithfully, many of Fleming's scenes do eventually turn up. Bond is essentially a government hit man, so don't be shocked when he kills some people.Dalton did a good job. He was closer to the real James Bond, as defined by the original novels, than anyone since Sean Connery's early efforts. Brosnan was trying to bring Bond back to Ian Fleming's original concept when he decided to quit the role. "},{"Title":"Revenge in the Bond-film closest to the books.","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Casting Tim Dalton, a wonderful Shakespearian actor, to replace the  aged and rather dull Roger Moore, was one of the bravest and best things the the Bond producers ever did. Dalton made his two films highlights in the series, portraying a more realistic and Flemingsh Bond. Licence to kill, although not quite as good as The Living Daylights, is just as hard-edged and witty as the real Bond-episodes, those in the books, and is driven by a brutal brilliance rarely seen elsewhere. Of course it is miles away from the comic, charming Bond we had gotten used to during the Moore era, which was probably the reason why it was a commercial disappointment. However, this is not interesting, I am convinced that Licence to kill will by future generations be considered, as it deserves, one of the great Bond-films.  "},{"Title":"Dalton's Finest Bond, in Troubled Times...","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  LICENCE TO KILL is, arguably, the film closest in spirit to Ian Fleming's vision of James Bond, offers Timothy Dalton's finest performance in the role, and is nearly always listed among the 'best' Bond films...but it failed to make a profit in the U.S. when released, in 1989, and it would mark the last 007 appearance for six years.MGM/UA, the home studio of Albert Broccoli's Eon Productions, had fallen on hard times by 1987, and the disappointing box office of THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS had forced the studio to keep LICENCE TO KILL on a very strict budget. While China had offered locations for the film, production costs would have been staggering, and Mexico and Key West, Florida, were chosen, instead. This turned out to be a blessing, as screenwriters Michael G. Wilson and Richard Maibaum, working closely with Timothy Dalton, hammered out a screenplay utilizing many unused sequences from Fleming's Live and Let Die, requiring a more tropical atmosphere. Dalton, 43, who had been forced by necessity to work from a script written for Pierce Brosnan in DAYLIGHTS, finally had a script geared towards his own 'vision' as Bond, action-oriented, dangerous, and with a minimum of the comedy elements of his predecessors' films.The story, opening as Bond and best friend Felix Leiter (David Hedison, looking remarkably fit in his second appearance as the CIA agent, after an absence of 16 years), prepare for Leiter's wedding; hearing of drug czar Franz Sanchez' escape from custody, in full tuxedos, they give chase, lassoing the villain's plane from a helicopter, then parachute in for a 'perfect' wedding. Sanchez (played with cool bravado by veteran actor Robert Davi), plots his revenge, and soon murders Leiter's bride, feeding Felix to sharks, which mutilate him horribly. Bond goes ballistic, wanting to go after Sanchez, but M orders him to stand down. Bond quits, has his 'licence to kill' revoked, and begins a long mission of vengeance, aided only by CIA operative Pam Bouvier (breathtaking future Law and Order star, Carey Lowell), and ever-loyal 'Q' (Desmond Llewelyn, in the finest performance of his long 'Bond' career).As Bond, now officially a 'renegade', joins Sanchez' outfit, he begins a plan of subterfuge, convincing the czar that everyone is working against him, even his number one hit man (future Oscar winner Benicio Del Toro), in a variation of Akira Kurosawa's YOJIMBO. The climax of the film, as Bond faces off against Sanchez and a fleet of drug-loaded 18-wheelers (on a stretch of road in Mexico that is actually  considered 'cursed', and lived up to it's reputation), is so well-done that it would be recreated and expanded upon in 2003's THE TRANSPORTER.Filming was difficult in Mexico City (the studios were earthquake-damaged, and the air was so thin and polluted that Albert Broccoli collapsed, and had to be returned to England), but the end product was a tight, taut adventure that everyone was proud of...except the public! In a year when BATMAN, LETHAL WEAPON 2, and INDIANA JONES AND THE LAST CRUSADE were released, a 'smaller-scaled' Bond film didn't have a chance. The film lost money in the U.S., and serious questions were raised, concerning whether or not Bond had a future...The question would take six years to answer...   "},{"Title":"Just not the way a Bond movie should be.","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I will give this film some credit that is is an okay movie, but it totally stunk as a Bond film. I love the whole idea of Bond leaving Her Majesty's Secret Service to go after an evil drug lord. It is one of the few movies that shows something about how Bond will go after you if you mess with him, even if it means temporarily losing his job and his license to kill. But it could have been played much better by either Sean Connery or Peirce Brosnan. It has great potential, but Dalton just didn't play the role right in this movie. Here are four major things that are major flaws.1. The biggest thing was that Dalton didn't show the tough, suave, sophisticated Bond style. He didn't have the Bond voice, looks, walk, or anything. There were times towards the end of the movie when they played the Bond music, and that was what reminded me it was a Bond film.2. I didn't like the gadgets. Explosive tooth paste?? Enough said.3. This was a major thing for me, though many people may disagree. Bond laughed. If I remember right, he laughed two or three times. Bond DOES NOT LAUGH. Yes, he may make some jokes (Roger Moore), but he doesn't laugh. Sad.4. The action was awful. Bond had no license to kill. The little action there was was, for the most part, them trying to kill him. Okay, so maybe he couldn't kill them, but he could still knock some people out or something. I hated the whole idea of the big truck chase. I can't picture Bond driving an eighteen-wheeler.  "}{"Title":"delivers a punch, but also delivers a poor performane by Daltin","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  License to Kill is a Bond flick like any other, suspense, good women and high octane action. But what about Bond? Timothy Daltin made the sly and charming James Bond look like a psyco!!! His performance was not like the James Bond in the sequals before this AND The Living Daylights. Anyway the main plot IS after James Bond 007 learns his best friend Felix Lieghter was left for death, he leaves the secret service and begins a personal quest of revenge. This sounds like just another excuse to make money, but the movie does deliver some non-repeatable action scenes. The only downside is Mr. Daltin's performance. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Best Bond Ever?","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond-Style is completely new. I've grown up with the Roger Moore's Movies and so the Bond Series was always a kind of comic put on cinema for me. But this movie changed my whole attitude towards the series. It finishes up with the comic style and puts the series in a complete new direction. It's kind of progressive for it's time - and of course most of the fans didn't like it. Such a film can only be made once and that's what it makes me a masterpiece and the best bond ever.The atmosphere is very realistic and the funny or not-so-funny jokes  of the 70's Bonds are missing. The situation is serious and Timothy Dalton is acting like that. That gives a depth to the typical one-dimensional shown character compared to the other movies. The film is violent and somehow disturbing. It shows that JB is still a human and not a superhero He seeks for revenge, he feels messed up with everything and suddenly we can see that there are in fact some things which are of high importance in his life, that there are some important aims in his life he wants to achieve.Another point which is completely different from all other Bond movies is the attitude towards women. He is faithful, he's coming back to his love; he is not cheating on her. Besides, for me, Carey Lowell is the cutest Babe which ever appeared in a Bond (ok, besides that Pussy Galore thing). She is not only nice but also very tough and that makes her the only women who can compete with him - and that is obviously very attractive for Bond himself.All these things make License to Kill a serious movie and that is not what most of the fans gain for. But for me it's a very unique movie and that's why it's the best bond in the whole series... "},{"Title":"I'm not a 007 fan, per se... but I *really* enjoyed this movie.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've never really been into James Bond flicks. I saw my first one, A View To A Kill, when a friend talked me into seeing that particular title on its opening night. I wasn't impressed it, as well as the couple others I saw later, struck me as being incredibly chauvenistic and ridiculous (Bond fans would later tell me I was shown the wrong first movie to be introduced to the series as a whole--these days, I think I agree).So it wasn't until recently that I began cautiously checking out a few titles. One of them I was bored by (GoldenEye), one I couldn't get into until over an hour through it (For Your Eyes Only) and then I enjoyed it. I really liked Tomorrow Never Dies though, as I thought it a great change of pace to see James paired up with a female lead even more cocky than he was! That latter title was so good, in fact, that it perked my interest in the series as a whole altogether.But this one is my favourite so far. (Warning possible spoilers ahead.)For one thing I love the plot, which strikes me as a refreshing change of pace for the 007 films I've seen so far James is out seeking revenge for the murder of his best friend Felix (who's wife was also murdered)--against the wishes of his superiors. Q lets James know flat out his opinion regarding the super spy's intentions. Rather than the usual save the world routine, this one struck me as being a much more personable and easily identifiable story, and helped shed more insight and character development on the James Bond character as a whole somehow, I had never thought of James as being someone who genuinely cared much about anybody on a personal level until I saw this film. I was genuinely moved to see his hurt and determination, and Dalton gives a spectacular performance that drives the motivation home. In fact, *all* of the cast here is incredibly top notch.I also enjoyed the small glimpses which helped me understand James himself (and his notorious famous love life) more. These details are probably already known to fans and may even be mentioned in other films I haven't seen yet, but nevertheless I had never known before watching Licence To Kill that James was once married and what had occurred to him as a result! Suddenly, I got the impression for the first time of him as someone undergoing personal struggles and pain, even a tragic figure, as opposed to being merely a cardboard cutout.The story was emotionally relatable and had me rooting for the outcome, the acting and scenery were fantastic and it also has a hot soundtrack to boot. I can't think of a better time I've had watching a home rental in a long while than this one. After all these years of popular lore leaked into modern culture about the guy which had me thinking I already knew the spy James Bond in a nutshell, it sure is great to see him here showing a genuinely caring emotion other than let's-get-the-latest-Bond-girl-into-my-arms for a change.Go for it! I think you'll enjoy it a lot.   "},{"Title":"Underrated Bond - worth watching MINOR PLOT SPOILERS","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start this review by saying that this a good film. It has earned its ill deserved reputation because it is a hard film for bond fans. That fact that Bond goes AWOL to avenge Felix Lieters' maiming (and his wife's death) is refreshingly un-formulaic but it actually works. It is also the most violent film in the series and is often edited for TV. It was given a PG-13 (USA) and a 15(UK). These factors make people feel that this is too far away from what Bond is all about. I think the plot is refreshing and new, yet still works within the parameters that make it a bond film. This film shows Bond's human side, and we see new parts of his personality - he is not a one-dimensional deliverer of one liners and eyebrow raising. Sanchez was a surprisingly good bond villain, and Dalton is at his gritty best. License to Kill doesn't really deserve its reputation as the worst of the lot, and is worth viewing. "},{"Title":"my oh my","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is easily the best of the bond series and it owes its success to the presence of a truly remarkable actor, Branscombe Richmond. His show stealing performance as Barrelhead Bar Patron brought a tear to my eye and if i had any hollywood influence i would have touted him for an oscar. "},{"Title":"Sheer coolness","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  1. Timothy Dalton may only have appeared in only two Bond films but his Bond's have a 100% quality record which is more than I can say for the Moore-era.2. This Bond doesn't have style per se, the effects aren't the best, there is no grand scheme. For those who say that a drug baron is to lower class an adversary for Bond let me just say this.This is not about drugs. A guy, who happens to be a drug baron manages to take out the newlywed wife of Bond's best friend(and nearly takes out the friend). As a result Bond is pretty pi$$ed off. The fight is personal. And in this fight James Bond is ice-cool.Nothing more to say really! "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond's - no question!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite Dalton's unimpeachable credentials, professionalism and arguably accurate interpretation of Fleming's character, I personally found him a total pain in the ass as Bond. Way too short of stature, robotic and without any shred of spontaneity. Despite this however, I believe LICENCE TO KILL so completely overshadows the static and dreary THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS that it stands on its own as one of the Bond greats. Many have commented that Dalton indeed projected an air of vulnerability that Connery could not. Perhaps this is so - if you WANT your Bond to look vulnerable. I rather doubt the British Secret Service had this down as a pre-requisite.  Besides, Dalton was not the first to exude this trait. George Lazenby struck the perfect balance of strength and vulnerability (recall him running from the assassins just before Dianna Rigg rescued him?) I still hold ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE as being in the top three!Anyway, back to business! Robert Davi pulled off his greatest characterisation in this film and was undoubtedly one of the most entrenchedly evil and vicious bad guys in the entire series. Top little entry for Benicio del Toro too (Does he look young or what, in this?). Despite Dalton, this film had it all - suspense, pretty girls (Lowell and Soto - yum!!!!) action aplenty and ANTHONY ZERBE - character actor par excellence! (Still remember him in THE COWBOYS!!)None in the Bond series top the general inertia of this one. If you haven't yet seen it, do so immediately! "},{"Title":"SPECTACULAR BOND FILM","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton was a fantastic Bond and this is one of the best Bond movies ever for so many reasons.Firstly, it was so unique. No longer was Bond working for the British government, he was operating on his own on a mission of personal vengeance. The villains were refreshing and realistic and the action scenes were truly great.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD) This Bond film had the perfect ingredients. I thought it was really interesting the way Bond had his licence revoked and became a wild card operating on his own. This was a brave move by the writers. Also, Carey Lowell made a great Bond girl. She was beautiful and intelligent and equal to 007 in my opinion. The other great thing about this movie was the extended appearance of Q (God rest Desmond Llewelyns soul) who didn't simply give 007 a load of fancy gadgets but actually helped him out on the mission.Robert Davi (a fine actor) made a good villain. He was interesting and so different-he wasn't interested in world domination or anything like that. He was a drug dealer who stepped on anyone who crossed him.(MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD) The ending scenes were the best ever done in a Bond film. I was flabbergasted when 007 did a wheelie in the truck and turned a huge lorry over onto it's side. The special effects department deserve huge credit for this.Some people criticize this film saying Bond would never disobey orders from M to pursue personal vendettas. I believe he would in this film. Felix Leiter was one of his best friends and his wife was killed on his wedding day (like Bonds wife was on his wedding day). This would have sent Bond over the edge particularly when the American authorities refused to do anything about itThis truly is an underrated classic and it is so sad to think that Timothy Dalton only did two Bond movies.I do have two very minor criticisms about this movie (SPOILERS AHEAD). Firstly, at the end Felix Leiter seems too happy considering his wifes been killed and his leg is gone. I find it astonishing when he discusses going fishing with Bond when he comes out of hospital. Wouldn't he rather spend the time mourning the loss of his wife? Secondly, it's amazing that Bond gets his job and licence back considering he broke every rule in the book. But I'm not complaining too much-if he hadn't have got his job back we wouldn't be watching his adventures now would we.That's all I've got to say except that it would be really nice if Timothy Dalton came back as Bond one more time (like Sean Connery did in 1983 with Never say Never Again). "},{"Title":"Dark, realistic, vicious and compelling Bond film, one of the best in the series.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  License to Kill stands out as one of the more radical and impressive Bond films.  Dalton continues what he started in The Living Daylights by making Bond even darker, even more human and ultimately more dangerous.Bond is no longer the guy you root for because he embodies everything that we want as a hero.  We root for Bond in this film because he has become someone you would not want to cross.Dalton's last outing in a very short career as James Bond.  While the series has backed away from the changes made during the Dalton era, more recent outings have not returned all the way back to the Moore type Bond.  Dalton changed the face of the series, and it can never go back to what it was. Dalton was a revolutionary choice as Bond.  the character will never be the same again.  "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton's 2nd and sadly last bond film.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Out of all the James Bond films licence to kill whould be one of my favouits.  I think Timothy Dalton did a very good job in the role of 007 and it is sad that he did not wish to do more.  After Pierce Brosnan retires who is also a good bond I think that Timothy Dalton should make a came back. Hes still young,suave,charming,And he still has good hair.  In licence to kill bond leaves mi6 to have revenge on the man who bruttaly wounded his friend at the cia Felix Leiter.  that man is franz sanchaz the drug lord played by Robert Davi. "}{"Title":"Broke the formula, excellent!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dalton's final Bond picture breaks the 007 formula, there's hardly a comedic moment in this one, the feel is different and so is the narrative.Dalton is my favourite Bond player, he took on the role with serious intentions, he made Bond moody, human and a spy!!!Licence To Kill is an enjoyable Bond film, although it's not quite as good as 'The Living Daylights'. The villain is much more evil and more believable here. Davi plays the character very well.Q has a bigger role here, he really deserved his chance, and he does shine here.There's less gadgets here, Bond uses his wit and own intuition to get him out of trouble. The Bond girls are okay, nothing too great.The film score is poor, with the exception of the Bond theme and the songs, the rest is boring.The direction is very good, but by now, John Glen probably had enough. Overall, Dalton's final appearance as 007 is very good, but he should've had another go.Bond returns in Goldeneye (1995). "},{"Title":"Movie gets better with age.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill brings realism to Bond like never before, with help of a great story, and a very good performance from Dalton, who in my book is every bit as good as Sean Connery in a more realistic way, makes this Bond film perhaps the best, alongside Goldfinger. Future Bond movies may get better special effects and action sequences, but good stories, villians and performances is a hard mix to come up with all the time, Licence to Kill does it with class. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm going to be short on this one. This movie and The Living Daylights are my favourite Bond movies (and maybe For Your Eyes Only, In Her Majesty's Secret Service and maybe even Octopussy) because of the storylines and different approach. The stories aren't some sci-fi fiction but very believable ones and the Bond character played by Timothy Dalton is more human than ever. Now, a lot of people have problems with that because they don't get the real Bond thing. They consider Bond movies to be a two-hours-of-fun-and-nothing-else. Well, I don't like that approach and all those extravagant weapons and gadgets. Dalton is actually a theatre actor so his performance is probably the best (he's not charismatic like Connery but Connery looked great in those older movies; these are newer times and Dalton depicted Bond perfectly). These never Bond movies are a disgrace. Golden Eye was still enjoyable but those later movies are a farce. Too bad for Brosnan. He's actually quite good in the Bond role. "},{"Title":"The 2nd Best Bond Of All Time","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  'Licence To Kill' goes a bit further than 'The Living Daylights' in the 'back to Fleming's Bond' stakes. And the films all the better for it. Dalton is very good and very underrated - only Connery is better... obviously! But well done Tim and its a shame that Pierce Brosnan is recognised as the actor who gave Bond another side to the character when Dalton had already done that.The film also has a tight script, an inventive plot, a nasty villain for a change (none of that I vill kill you Mr. Bond ha ha ha... ) and fine acting all round. Particular praise should go to Robert Davi. And the songs good. What more do you want??? "},{"Title":"the Best bond ever","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dalton was brilliant in this showing real presence.people say he couldnt deliver the funny lines nonsense.most people say moore didnt gel in the part until the spy who loved me.Connery was never better than in goldfinger.i recall connerys bond asking do you expect me to talk.begging for his life.just like daltons character.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Best Bond, Best Story, Best Villain","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  People often criticise Dalton for being far too serious as Bond, forgetting that he read every Flemming novel in order to make his character as true as possible. Personally, I think he is the best Bond by a long way and it's very sad that we only saw him make two movies as 007. However, the two he made are fantastic achievements.License to Kill is unique in the way that every character is played by a fantastic actor. Robert Davi's performance as Sanchez is a career best for the chap and Dalton's hard, moody portrayal as Bond is simply amazing. The action scenes are beautifully choreographed and obviously are helped by Dalton doing many of his own stunts. Everything about this movie has a gritty realism to it and the addition of more violence and bad language works incredibly well.Forget what the critics say, if you want the definitive Bond film then look no further than this masterpiece. An unprecedented 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Goddam, another underrated classic. But how?","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  ***By the way there might be some SPOILERS in this comment***This film is like the drink Guinness i.e an acquired taste. I missed it in the cinema when it first came out, which surprises me as I loved Dalton's Bond in The Living Daylights. It is a film that just gets better with every viewing, which is not always the case with other Bond films.The way that Dalton just builds the character as the film progresses is great to watch. He plays the part from several dimensions, and avoids being samey. He is not trying to sell himself to the audience within the first ten minutes by trying to be cool or funny, which takes a lot of guts.Some people say he lacks the charisma and presence which is like saying that a Ferrari lacks speed, and performance. He has unbelievable screen presence. Just watch the scene where he first meets Sanchez in his office. As he is waiting for Sanchez, he strolls up to the window, and utters  Lovely view. His face expression is wolfish, and his tone of voice has a coolness one would expect from Clint Eastwood. As the scene progresses, the way he handles himself is brilliant, and his approach is cool in a deadly way. In this scene, Dalton has an unusual confidence in the way he introduces himself to Sanchez and sells himself; and bearing in mind who Sanchez is and what he is capable of doing if he takes a dislike to you makes the scene all the more dramatic and great.As for humour, well it is not instant where one works it out on first viewing. Take for instance the scene where Bond meets Q. That is dead funny, with Dalton playing off Desmond Llewellyn. Just watch Dalton's extremely subtle expressions using his eyes which give off a sarcasm to Q without saying anything (The scene which I am referring to is where Q says If it hadn't been for Q branch you would have been dead a long time ago.. Also on the subject, the villain played by Robert Davi is funny but in an evil way. His humour is in some ways literal and in others sarcastic. Although he is evil, you tend to have a liking for him which takes a certain skill as an actor to achieve.The villain in this film also has an incredible inner confidence, and in my opinion is one of the best villains in the series. He is believable as a drug lord, and just in his conversational ability gives off an immense sense of power. He can say it all with just one word in some cases.The bond girls as always are very pretty. There is an unusual approach in one scene which should have led to a love scene but didn't. When Q retires for the night, Bond assumes that he is going to share the room with the girl, but in this case she decides that perhaps he has been unfaithful and says  Sweet dreams Mr Bond and closes the door on him. This scene is provocative without anything happening between the two characters because of how she is dressed, how she plays it sexily and the sense that Bond really looks like he could have done with her company that night, but instead must share a room with Q!. Certainly an interesting twist for a James Bond film, and very effective, not to mention humorous.All in all, Licence to kill is unjustly underrated, but will not date because of great and well developed acting performances especially between Dalton, and Davi give it a timeless appeal;in a way like a spaghetti western with Clint Eastwood. Also it is not technologically driven but psychologically, and good psychology cannot date.Dalton's Bond may not be the most popular or acclaimed, but that is because people base their opinions of him on what others have told them, and by wanting to fit in with popular consensus, because that is the easier and more comfortable option. Their arguments against him clearly sound badly thought out and what is worse indoctrinated, which makes them easy to break down as I have found out on several occasions. But then again what do you expect, when you read a film poll saying that Star Wars is the greatest film of all time or Steven Spielberg is the greatest director!A real shame that we didn't get that third Dalton Bond film because of the legal battle between MGM and Danjaq Inc. I just imagine how good that one would have been. "},{"Title":"The best bond movie ever","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Why did this fail,in 20 years time this will age less badly than more recent efforts.daltons bond uses manipulation to beat his enemies like he did in the novels.i wish tim had been in o.h.m.s.s.the supporting cast are excellent only david hedison who seems too old old for the role  is poor.the music is less intrusive.even wayne newton is perfect as the sleazy preacher.as for carey lowell thats one lady cinema has truly missed "},{"Title":"Bond is Back, Badder than ever.","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Most Bond fans will dismiss L2K straight away because over the years they have had the charismatic Connery, Lazenby (who does not really count in my opinion) and the sophisticated Moore.  Each of these actors bringing a new side to James Bond 007.  People under-estimate Timothy Dalton.  He was a perfect choice for 007 because he brought that dark side of 007 out in the open. In the Living Daylights he played a more broody Bond and by the time Licence to Kill came out he showed us that Bond had literally been pushed too far.  This all starts of with Leiter getting fed to the sharks by Sanchez, the same Sanchez who he just arrested that same morning.  When James Bond finds out about this he starts out on a mission of personal revenge on which his Licence to Kill gets revoked, he attacks M, ruins an operation run by the Chinese secret service, steals a chunk of Sanchez's money and then eventually killing a few men in cold blood.The Tanker chase is by far one of the best action sequences in any of the 19 Bond movies due to the build-up of hate between 007 and Sanchez.I rate this movie 10/10  "},{"Title":"Things are looking good for Licence to Kill. Quite marvellous in fact!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not one of the best, but still a very good film. One of America's most powerful drug dealers escapes from jail, Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi) and his shark infested pool are off to make some big loot. His only problem..... Bond. James Bond (Timothy Dalton) who is not allowed to make a showdown with Sanchez. With his licence to kill revoked, Bond really is on his own.... Until Pam Bouvier and Q (Carey Lowell and Desmon Llewellyn) turn up to help. Now Bond is off to one of the most wildest adventures of his life! "}{"Title":"The most realistic Bond film to date.  Ian Fleming would have approved.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence To Kill was a bold departure from the larger than life (read cartoonish) adventures that had dominated the Bond series for the previous 22 years.  In fact, it works both as a Bond film (re-watch From Russia With Love and For Your Eyes Only and you'll see how it fits in) AND as a straight action/adventure thriller.  With the plot ripped straight out of newspaper headlines Licence To Kill will seem less dated in 20 years than Goldeneye or Tomorrow Never Dies (both of which I love).  Why?  There are very few (if any) references to current events, and it is much less tech driven, so neither the political geography nor the technology in the film will be outdated in 20 years.  Timothy Dalton gives one of the most inspired performances as Bond to date as well.  Some have criticised his performance as cold and humorless, but the truth is he plays the part perfectly for the story.  Remember, Bond's wife Tracy was murdered on their wedding day by Bond's nemesis (at the time), Ernst Stavro Blofeld.  Seeing his best friend Felix Leiter maimed, AND his Felix' new wife raped and murdered, under orders of HIS nemesis hits too close to home for 007.  He becomes obsessed with revenge, which is a realistic reaction.  Any other response would be fake, and would detract from the film.  Dalton gives the movie the tough, realistic edge that the Bond series had been lacking since 1969.  His interpretation of Bond is straight out of the Ian Fleming novels (which he re-read before The Living Daylights).  Read Casino Royale, if you're not convinced.  The direction of John Glen on LTK is fantastic, and the supporting cast (including Robert Davi, Anthony Zerbe, and David Hedison) is among the best in the series.  The dialog is excellent, and the characters well rounded.  There may not be a threat to national security or world peace in LTK, but that doesn't matter.  You can't keep replaying the same type of movie for 40 years.  Thankfully neither The Living Daylights nor Licence To Kill followed the Roger Moore Bond Formula.  It was time to update Bond, and Licence To Kill worked flawlessly in that regard. "},{"Title":"Dalton's version of Bond in Licence to Kill, makes him by far the best of all the Bond's.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Without question, Timothy Dalton's performance in Licence to Kill, as James Bond 007, is the best portrayal of Bond in the entire film series. Dalton's Bond, is the only one that can be compared to Connery's in terms of it's believability and the aura of danger that Dalton brings to the role, even more so than Connery's depiction of Bond.  Yet, it is the brooding and relentless style in which Dalton plays the role of 007, in Licence to Kill, that really separates, and places him above even Connery, as the greatest Bond ever. Compared to the other Bond's, Dalton is simply better than all of them. He is a far better actor and much more convincing in the role of 007, than George Lazenby was.  Dalton is clearly a stronger, more physical, and much more aggressive Bond than Brosnan could ever be, and in comparison to Roger Moore's Bond, Dalton's Bond, has the intensity, the facial realism, and the important depth to the character of 007, that Moore's Bond always lacked. Although Dalton, does not have the personal star power and presence of Connery, the charm, wit, and charisma of Moore, the overwhelming confidence and physical presence of Lazenby, or the style, smoothness and sex appeal of Brosnan, Dalton has always been the best actor, and for that reason, along with the others that I have already stated, he is by far the best Bond as well. "},{"Title":"Underrated, and One of the Best","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw License to Kill, I agreed with those who criticized it for being overly violent, for its lack of the campy-lightheartedness associated with the series, and for Timothy Dalton's overly serious and intense approach to playing James Bond.  However, in the many times I have seen it since, I have found these aspects to be positives, not negatives, and they contribute to L2K's success as one of the best Bond films.  In fact, L2K possibly holds its own as a movie (and not just another Bond-flick) better than any other film in the series.License to Kill has a great storyline, with well fleshed out characters, all with clear motivations, and excellent performances.  I know he might be considered the least popular, but Timothy Dalton makes a perfect James Bond.  He is possibly the toughest of all the actors to play him, and I actually like him better than Pierce Brosnan.  His goal is to kill the man who ruined his friends life.  Dalton's JB is vengeful, and unflinching--I really like seeing Bond's darker side.  One of his best moments is when he spear-guns a henchman who murdered one of his friends, exclaiming, Compliments of Sharky.  Robert Davi as Sanchez makes an excellent villain, something that was many times absent in the JB movies of the 80's.  He is a powerful and realistic character, who honorably believes that loyalty is more important than money.  Then there is Carey Lowell as Pam Bouvier, who has great chemistry with Dalton.  Although she is not my favorite Bond girl (but she'll do JUST FINE!), she definitely adds an aura of credibility to the movie, and possibly gives the best performance of all bond girls.  Standard plot-developing lines that would be weaknesses in the script are somehow made believable when she delivers them.  It is also nice to see Desmond Llewelyn given the most screen time ever as Q in this film--he plays a necessary character here, not just a cameo role to introduce gadgets.At the same time that this film is a Revenge Story atypical of the Bond series, there are also plenty of things here to satisfy loyal fans.  There are some great action sequences and excellent set pieces.  The final chase scene involving several big-rigs, an airplane and a rocket-launcher is exceptionally filmed and features some incredible stunt-work.  Although I can never say it comes close to being as good as this, it DID remind me of the climatic truck chase sequence in Raiders of the Lost Ark.The film does have a few weaknesses.  Bond's final showdown with Sanchez isn't as satisfying as it should have been, and Benecio Del Toro was too young to play a hateful Bond-Villain's henchman, no matter how evil he was.  However, since L2K has such a good story, great characters and performances, and some exceptional action sequences, it deserves to break out of its underrated status, and be known as one of the best James Bond films.  Grade A "},{"Title":"one of best bond film","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy dalton played bond brilliant but connery still is my fav. Dalton played bond more like an assassin.that dalton showed bond more like a hired gun,not a spy thats what i tend to think.LTK has great action like the plane scene and sking on the water and the truck.Its my 2nd favorite bond film. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Well.....","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really like this one. I'd probably stick it at #4 or #5 as far a Bond movies go. The fact that there was less humor and witty lines didn't bug me; in this one it made the entire film stronger. Yeah there are some truly unrealistic scenes, even for Bond. BUT, in that boathouse, the one with the maggots, was that guy actually RELOADING his weapon? Wow! Q shows up to add his charm to this one. And what charm it is! The little humor that is in this movie usually revolves around him. Anyway this is arguably one of the better entries in the series, inferior only to Goldfinger and On Her Majesties Secret Service. "},{"Title":"A very different Bond film","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have just seen LTK for the first time and I am impressed. It stands out in the series in the same way as On Her Majesty's Secret Service. It presents Bond as an intelligent human being, not an indestructible superman. He uses brains rather that brawn (or a garage full of convenient gadgets) to destroy Sanchez.This is a Bond who feels anguish for his friends, frustration and anger when his superiors refuse to act, and who can turn his skills as a 'legitimate' agent to awesome destruction.Perhaps Bond is a little too cold-blooded. Ian Fleming always shied away from his hero committing actual murder. Here Bond kills several defenceless (although murderous) characters.Sanchez is an excellent villain, a man so used to ruling by fear to ensure 'loyalty' that he can't conceive of anyone infiltrating his inner-circle to play all sides against the centre, and who ends by destroying himself.Only two things strike a wrong note the phoney religious leader (very heavy-handed comic relief), and; the last view of Felix Leiter in his hospital bed, looking remarkably cheerful for a man who has lost his new bride and half his body on the same day.Timothy Dalton has long been my second-favourite Bond (after George Lazenby). Now Licence to Kill has become my second-favourite Bond film. "},{"Title":"Don't you want to know why?","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Exactly a year ago I slated Licence to Kill on the IMDb, claiming it lacked depth and was gratuitous in it's violent content. Saying it was almost as bad as The Man With The Golden Gun was downright cruel, and I concluded that it was quite possibly the most unappealing James Bond movie of all time.Well, one year later and I'm happy to report that I was wrong. Licence To Kill is a much, much better movie than I previously gave credit, and has a great deal of integrity.   Differing reports abound about how much this one made. Early reports alleged that the film only made back it's production costs, thus becoming the main cause of the franchise's hiatus. However, later evidence reveals that Licence To Kill grossed over $156 million world-wide, considerably more than it's $40m production.One factor of my original review &#150; the weak acting &#150; does still stand. However, if you isolate Carey Lowell, Talisa Soto, Everett McGill, David Hedison and Robert Brown, then it's possible to see the rot is not all the way through. It's a pity that the poor performances are so high-profile, though Robert Davi (hindered by having stereotyped Latin-American incidental music in virtually all of his scenes) is appealing as the lead villain, and Dalton, as ever, turns in a great performance, suitably underplayed. Bond is often unshaven, has a bad hair day, and looks scared on no less than four occasions. Not quite the suave, unflappable gentleman spy.What makes Licence To Kill different &#150; and unique in the Bond canon &#150; is that this is Bond without the fabrications of cinema. All fantasy parameters are lifted, and we get to see the 007 of real life. Hence, when Bond gets hit, he bleeds (a lot). The villain, Franz Sanchez, is an established drug dealer, not a megalomaniac trying to take over the world, and, though he does have the requisite shark tank, here the shark in question does get to have a snack. When criminals capture women, they are not tied up awaiting rescue, but they are raped, or beaten with crocodile whips. Men are garrotted, or have their hearts cut out, while bad language can be heard, and Bond tells an agent to p*** off. Bond's latest attachment gets upset and refuses him comfort after he's been caught sleeping with another woman. In the most obvious nod towards the cartoon-like Bonds of yesteryear, Sanchez has a pet with a diamond necklace &#150; but instead of a fey pussycat, it's an iguana.James &#150; who claims to come from Universal Exports &#150; is here in America to take on the US at it's own game. At a time when action movies were at their premium, Bond does it better than most, and ignores M's pleas to attend another, more exotic, mission in Istanbul. Leave it to the Americans, he's told, it's their mess, let them clear it up. But Bond won't leave it to the Americans; he's determined to show us he can do it better. Before a well-shot action finale, Dalton gets to play detective, the first time in recent memory the Secret Service Agent had actually gone undercover, which is, after all, his job. When James drops an enemy into a fatal tank full of electric eels, he no longer makes a quip (Shocking is probably what Roger Moore would have offered) but looks on in askance. Dalton plays a particularly bitter, disattached 007 and it's easy to see why some regarded him as uncharismatic. Like Davi, his underplaying of the role is out of character for a Bond film, and audiences weren't used to having their intelligence respected. A James Bond film where he opts out and is no longer a member of the Secret Service? No, the audience wanted smuggy Brosnan and his by the numbers set pieces. They wanted cars, girls, explosions, and to hell with character and original plotting.Into all this, the comedic set pieces of Q's gadgetry seem oddly out of place. Pay attention 007, proffers the old buffer, reciting his catchphrase for the millionth time, yet there's no smart reply from a Connery or a Moore to interrupt him in the first place. Dalton is a dutiful son, attentive to the last, and his deadpan delivery actually adds more to some of the funny lines. I particularly like the way he delivers the line to the barmaid who asks if a henchman wants a drink. After smashing his head on the table, Dalton replies He's had enough &#150; run the tab. Some of the plot devices used to push forward the story are also a little suspect. What's going on? Bond asks an airport receptionist, on hearing alarms. Some big drug dealer just escaped, she explains. I bet she didn't win any awards for good customer relations. Similarly, Bond's ingratiation into Sanchez's inner circle is not through his own skill, but via coincidence/contrivance. In fact, this is the least satisfying element, as it means the central premise is shaky in its credibility. Certainly not perfect, but a hell of a lot better than first viewing may make it appear; Licence To Kill has average opening titles, but a pleasing theme song, and, in Bond's last words to Sanchez, one of the most satisfying pay-offs of the whole series. Well worth another look. "},{"Title":"Still very underrated","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film in the cinema when it very first came out eons back. And I thought what an amazing film. It had, and still has, the best soundtrack to any Bond movie (and that's saying something considering A View to a Kill was only produced a few years before). Then the characters came into play.Every actor in this movie performed to their peak, and I could relate to or understand the emotions behind all of them. From Dalton's angry Clint Eastwood type character to the main baddie. The storyline was very well written and executed. The action scenes were better than average Bond stuff and just when you thought you couldn't squeeze any more good stuff into the the film, there were two beautiful and intelligent leading women.I have tried to watch Pierce Brosnan as the new Bond but it just isn't the same. Not after this masterpiece. My favourite Bond movie so far. "},{"Title":"Good action, but Dalton is wrong choice as Bond","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dalton's second time as Bond is different than many other Bond films; unfortunately, that doesn't mean that it's better.  This is a leaner, meaner Bond film, devoid of humor, and with a truly nasty drug lord as a villain, well played by Robert Davi.  There's also a tough Bond girl (Carey Lowell) who has to compete for attention with the villain's girl (Talisa Soto).  One thing I couldn't understand Lowell's character is portrayed as tough and independent, yet at times, she's whining that she doesn't get enough attention from ol' James.The biggest problem is Dalton. Like The Living Daylights (which is the worst Bond film ever), Dalton is dry, and displays none of the class, style, or sly humor which Connery, Moore, or even Brosnan have displayed.  This isn't a bad thriller, and the action sequences are terrific, but I can't say I was sorry that this was Dalton's last turn as Bond. "},{"Title":"The best, and sadly, most underrated Bond.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'll be honest, I've never been a Bond fan, at all. I hated all the Moores (GOD HE'S AWFUL), I think Connery is good, and Brosnan is fun to watch. But this film is the only bond that diplays everything that is great about these films Smart writing, a good sense of adventure, a human story, terrific performances (especially by Dalton), meanest villain. This is the best one because it stands out as an actually film, as opposed to being just a Bond Movie. See it, and skip the others.  "}{"Title":"THE BEST BOND-EVER!!!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is truly the best bond film i have ever seen. Timothy Dalton does a commendable job as Bond in his second outing and shows the side of bond we rarely see his angry side. Dalton pulls off a serious bond a lot better, than say, Brosnan or Moore. Dalton shows that bond is human and can show real emotion like the rest of us. Dalton also shows that bond can question authority and not say yes sir to everything M says. This films boasts some of the best stunts in a bond film since On Her Majesty's Secret Service (another severely underated bond film i might add)and provides a refreshing change from the laugh in the face of danger bond that Moore portrayed in his films. I recommend this film wholeheartedly for anybody, bond fan or not, and give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"The best bond film since OHMSS, a wonderful entry","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  this is a spectacular bond. The seriousness is a necessity. DAlton is very convincing as a secret agent. it is best since ohmsss. I only wish other people had the same opinions for this wonderful, underrated bond. It has very believable villains, a down-to-earth drug dealing plot, and the rare (for bond) vendetta effect. It is much too grisly for sure. Did crest have to die like that?Also, the film should have avoided the ninjas/hong kong narcotics touch. It decreased the tension between bond and franz sanchez.DESMOND LLEWELLYN'S (RIP) FINEST HOUR "},{"Title":"James Bond is finally on a personal mission","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence To Kill is Dalton`s second Bond-movie, and better than Living Daylights. Bond`s friend Felix Leiter is tortured and his wife is murdered. James Bond is ordered by M to go to Istanbul, but Bond refuses. Bond wants to stay where he is, and find out what happened to his friend. Finally  we get to see a personal James Bond.  This time he is not fighting for his country but for himself. The actionscenes are as always cool and the movie itself is quite good, but Dalton still  doesn`t seem to be confident and cool in his role. 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"The best Bond film since the sixties","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights was a back to basics Bond, an attempt to return Bond to his roots.  It had been attempted previously with For Your Eyes Only.  The problem with For Your Eyes Only was that it went too far in the other direction, possibly a knee jerk reaction to the ludicrous Moonraker.  Roger Moore gave one of his best Bond performances (after The Man With the Golden Gun) proving that he could deliver the goods when required, there was a good plot with a twist, and one of the better Bond girls in Carole Bouquet's Melina, but nothing stood out in the film.  The Living Daylights on the other hand successfully combined the plot 'believability' of For Your Eyes Only with the exhilarating high concept stunt work of films like Moonraker which we'd come to expect from recent Bond films.  The only thing that seemed slightly out of place in The Living Daylights was Dalton's purist portrayal of Bond.Licence to Kill was the film that saw Dalton come into his own.  As has been noted, Dalton gives the closest portrayal of Fleming's Bond as yet, or you're ever likely to see.  Licence to Kill has been constructed to enable him to do that.  Queen and Country was never a good enough reason to kill someone for Fleming's Bond, he needed to justify to himself that the person deserved to die.  A lot of his missions in the books comprise of a personal vendetta against SMERSH.  Connery created the ultimate fantasy hero with his Bond (no mean achievement) but it was quite removed from Fleming's character.  Connery will forever define the screen image, and Dalton's naysayers often unfairly compare them.  With Licence to Kill, the film makers decided to build a film around Fleming's Bond and Dalton carries off the role with style.Along with a more serious Bond, comes a film with a much harder edge, an element that proved disastrous at the US box office.  Ironically, David Hedison reprises his role as Felix Leiter from Live and Let Die and is fed to a shark in a scene which was lifted from the novel Live and Let Die, following the murder of his wife on their wedding night by a Colombian drug baron.  This scenario strongly resembles the ending of On Her Majesty's Secret Service and Licence to Kill can be viewed as a sort of unofficial sequel to that film, providing Bond with the revenge that was denied him in Diamonds Are Forever. The Bond films have been plagued by week villains since Blofeld's departure but Robert Davi is a winner in the role as Franz Sanchez, providing Bond with his most physically threatening foe since Red Grant in From Russia With Love.  Benicio Del Torro's psychotic henchman is even more frightening and is one of few actors who has the ability to genuinely come across as unstable.  Carey Lowell's Pam Bouvier is the most appealing Bond girl since Diana Rigg, and will be surely remembered as one of the best ones.  Talisa Soto while not classic in the part is perhaps a little unfairly maligned.  Her performance is very 1980s, and is perhaps more of a product of its time rather than being hammy.As for whether the film is actually any good, yes, it is.  Visually it is the best looking since Thunderball, with the deep blues of the ocean, the lush greens of Sanchez's island hideaway and the dusty roads of Mexico City mixed to spellbinding effect.  The star of the show is John Glen though.  He hooks you from the start and drags you along at breakneck speed climaxing with an awesome set piece.  James Cameron had created a new gold standard in action films with Aliens, and had been matched by the likes of Verhoeven and McTiernan.  John Glen managed to surpass them with a truck chase that remains to this day the best action sequence ever filmed.  John Glen was the unsung hero of 80s action - he managed to make Octopussy and A View to a Kill enjoyable despite confused plots which could have been abysmal in anybody else's hands - and with Licence to Kill he was given material that he could mould into something special.  Licence to Kill is without a doubt the best Bond film since the sixties, and Glen doesn't get the recognition he deserves for this film.  I'd take Glen over the likes of 90s action stylists John Woo and Jan de Bont any day of the week.  I'm amazed that audiences seem to prefer the bland Brosnan efforts to this.  With Goldeneye, Bond returned to the formulaic Moore era, but lacks even their sense of fun and spectacular action sequences.  I hope we don't have to wait another 20 years for an instalment as innovative as Licence to Kill. "},{"Title":"Best of the Bonds since OHMSS","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, a Bond film that can hold its own with the best of them.  Too bad this movie was overlooked at the box office, it truly adds another dimension to Bond's character.  Dalton was perfect for Bond, out of all the actors to play Bond, he was the deadliest, and most dangerous.  This movie had a nice exchange of dialogue between Bond and his antagonist, Sanchez, as well as wonderfully filmed action sequences. "},{"Title":"Licence to thrill","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best in the series. The story is about revenge for the cruel dead of his friend Leiter and not about saving the world. It has some fine thriller elements in it and an actual theme namely drugs. Bond is played by Dalton like a human agent and not a supernatural one.The action is just enough and well thought out and the Bondgirl is not one-dimensional. Sanchez is a real villain and underlines this with some fine one-liners. ¨Laundry it¨! As a reaction to the question what to do with bloodshot money.   The difference between good and superb lies in the fact that Dalton is not in the same league as Connery and Moore. All though 4 out 5 is not bad.  "},{"Title":"Licence to thrill","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best in the serie. The story is about revenge for the cruel dead of his friend Leiter and not about saving the world.It has some fine thriller elements in it and a actual theme namely drugs. Bond is played by Dalton like a human agent and not a supernatural one.The action is just enough and well thought out and the Bondgirl is not one-dimensional. Sanchez is a real villain and underlines this with some fine one-liners. ¨Laundry it¨! As a reaction to the question what to do with bloodshot money.   The difference between good and superb lies in the fact that Dalton is not in the same league as Connery and Moore. All though 4 out 5 is not bad.  "},{"Title":"East meet West, Drug Dealers of the World Unite!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton last and second Bond appearance was unfortuantley not as remembered as perhaps it should have been!. It was a goof film, but unfortunatley 007 purists stated that it was not Bondian enough, the truth was that this film was far too realistic for them. It holds an excellent cast of Robert Davi, Everett McGill and Benecio Del Torio as Franz Sanchez, Milton Krest and Dario (the most evil columbian hitman you will ever meet). The plot of course that Bond plans to hunt down Sanchez after he maims Felix Leiter (David Hedison in his second appearance as the C.I.A agent) and kills his wife Della (who is so annoying that I can't help laughing when Bond finds her dead in Felix's house), watch it! it is good! "},{"Title":"The name is Bond, James Blood","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Too much violence to be Bond. All the good guys die, and it is the darkest Bond-film. The music is great, and there is some good scenes and some good acting. But as a fan of the series over four decades, the Dalton films are the Bond-bottom. This film has a confused editing. But of course, I would never be without this film in my Bond collection. It does NOT suck, so watch it! "},{"Title":"Bond's Greatest Hits","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In the first post-credits scene of The Living Daylights Timothy Dalton makes his stand as Bond, and from that scene on one either loved him or hated him.  He became exactly what Bond is -- a steely-eyed government assassin.  His Bond is the Bond of Dr. No and Live and Let Die tradition.  He did his research on the role.  I am indifferent toward Fleming's books, but I'm also indifferent toward Agatha Christie's but was excited by Albert Finney's portrait of Hercule Poirot in Murder on the Orient Express.  Like Finney, Dalton goes back to Bond's roots.  Bond has a licence to kill by the British government.  He's a hit man.  He lives high, enjoying and becoming a connoisseur of wine and women &c. because he knows the precariousness of life.  He enjoys what life he has because his next mission may very well be the end of it.Dalton brings that edge to Bond.  When Moore did something tough, it looked like sheer maliciousness on his part.  With Dalton, he's like the Fleming Bond who kills on command but does nothing that isn't part of his job.Except this time, and Dalton's the right Bond for it.  Inarguably the best actor who ever took the role, he brings an intensity to his personal vendetta from a quarter-century of built-up angst.  But there's more to the movie than that.  We find that Bond is capable of deep friendships.  He and Felix, we find, really have a great personal friendship beyond their long working relationship;  but the biggest and most heart-warming revelation is with Q, who proves his devotion to 007 despite their years of bickering.The Living Daylights gave us a Bond who legitimately be the assassin he is, yet still be patient with and kind to an inept cellist who thwarts his carefully-laid plans.  Only Dalton is good enough for that range.  Dalton develops this fundamentalist interpretation of Bond, varying the cold-blooded/bon vivant persona with a ruthlessness of Bond on the edge, but who finally proves Bond's life is not just an empty series of one-night stands, but that he has loyal and affectionate friends.This second Dalton outing is also an improvement over the first.  The Living Daylights is a good movie, with lots of wit and enough plot-twists to keep even the most bigoted anti-Daltonite interested through at least one viewing.  But it lacked a focus on its villain.  In Licence to Kill Robert Davi, tailoring his performance to match Dalton's, becomes one of the most ominous figures Bond has ever faced.  Licence to Kill is the Best Bond movie since For Your Eyes Only;  and also the best AFTER the first four Connery flicks, the first two of Moore's, and FYEO. Dalton's Bond is for those who like Bond with an edge, Fleming's troubled Bond, or just flat-out good acting.   It's not for those who prefer Bond to be a flippant chick-ogler who seems who prefers making double-entendres to doing any real work, confident he'll win because he's read the end of the script.  And this is his best of an all-too-short outing. "}{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Fans seem to either love or hate Dalton as Bond.  There's not much middle ground.  Those who like the books tend to like Dalton because he brings that vision of the character to the screen.  Those who grew up on the movies, especially those with Moore, tend to hate Dalton's films.  I'm in the former.  The James Bond that Ian Fleming created was a cold hearted SOB who frequently questioned his job and whether he wanted to continue doing it. He was capable of intense hatred (witness Fleming's description of Bond when he first sees Blofeld's face in You Only Live Twice).  This was not a fun guy, cracking jokes and smirking, a la Moore's film version.Licence to Kill is pure Timothy Dalton, and pure novel James Bond.  The Living Daylights seems to have been written with Roger in mind, so Dalton had to work within that (just as Moore's first film was written with Connery in mind and Moore seemed a little out of place).  In this one, the writers came up with a story perfectly suited to Dalton's cold Bond.  I liked his coldness, and the way he takes down Sanchez's organization, partly by pitting Sanchez against his own people.  Lupe was too much of a concession to the formula, but Pam made a good Bond girl, working with Bond instead of bedding and being saved by him.  This pattern continued for the first two Brosnan films and is quite refreshing after the ludicrous Stacy Sutton of View to a Kill.A lot of fans complain about the ruthlessness of Bond in this film.  But, the best parts of any Roger Moore film were those very rare moments where he got cold and vengeful (shooting the villian in Spy Who Loved Me and killing the henchman in For Your Eyes Only).  Dalton's contribution to the character is echoed by Brosnan in all three of his films, especially the latter two.  Dalton's portrayl would never have made for a successful series.  One needs the humor and other trappings of a Roger Moore or a Sean Connery.  Brosnan brings the best parts of Connery, Moore, and Dalton to the screen, which is why he has been so successful.  But, for an individual film, Dalton was excellent and showed that a Bond film could still generate intensity and life, even after nearly 30 years. "},{"Title":"The Best for Timothy Dalton","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This excellent, Bond as a rogue agent, out on his own without British Intelligence to back him up. Bond's best action is played out well here making it the #3 Bond film (just below Thunderball (1) and For Your Eyes Only (2)). Also David Hedison returns as Felix Leiter (Live And Let Die he played Leiter as well), He plays a good Leiter, but my fave Leiter's were Rik Van Nutter (Thunderball) and Norman Burton (Diamonds Are Forever), and Bernie Casey (Never Say Never Again) was kinda funny as Leiter. Unlike most Bond films, this one Bond really gets a beating in fight sequences, becoming more a normal action hero, which was good because at the same time Arnold Schwarzenegger and Bruce Willis were upstaging Bond in Terminator (1984) and Die Hard (1987).  Those were good films but, different from Bond. Its shame tha because of these films this was (for 6 years) the last Bond film, until GoldenEye (1995), but it was immeasurable to the type of film LICENCE TO KILL was. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton is without doubt has the best portrayal of Fleming`s which should make him the best James Bond, but critics and viewers don`t see it that way. Most people want Bond to be the Ultimate Fantasy or the Superhuman that never fail. That superhuman silliness started long before Roger Moore was ever in the picture. You can thank Goldfinger for starting these cartoonish elements in the series. Bond based more gagdetry and stupid humor than development of plots and characters, and isn`t this partial reason to why Connery left the series. This is probably the most serious Bond since Dr. No(I think its the best of the series along with From Russia with Love). This film isn't perfect, most films aren`t. Dalton`s movies are much more interesting than Pierce Brosnan movies as Bond will ever be. The scripts weren`t exactly great and some of the acting wasn`t Oscar winning, it wasn`t Dalton`s fault that this movie wasn`t such success.MGM should have at least given it another chance to make a decent Bond film, but took high road to get that lame and uninteresting Brosnan. After watching the trailer for the World is Not Enough, I don`t think Bond be able to save MGM, again and should start preparing to close this thirty year series. Come on, Bond just can`t cut with Tomorrow Never Dies gross about seven million over its budget and being in this world of Star Wars and many, many more teen generated films that coming out in the next several years.  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill is an over-looked movie towards the Bond series. It is probably as good The Spy Who Loved Me or Goldfinger(two of the most overrated movies of the franchise). Both movie have high production values with few good notes on the side. In both movies after reading and watching what people are saying about them. I can`t standing it. Both(Goldfinger and The Spy Who Loved Me) were okay movies, but not great movies. When I watch the Spy Who Loved Me, I could not believe it. I have seen two hours of scenes full of silliness and explosion like Bond films of today. I was disappointed because just wasted two dollars and fifty cents on crap when I was about to rent Ghost in the Shell, which is a much better movie. Licence to Kill tries hard to ressurct Fleming's character. This scaps all of those lame one-liners that started with Connery. This certainly wasn't great movie, but it was pretty good compared to some of the other movies of that year. Licence to Kill tries to put a noir type of film into the Bond films, which in a way succeeded. The plot wasn't bad at all or had loopholes in like the two other Bond movies I mentioned. You are not a true fan Bond if you think Timothy Dalton is one of the worst James Bond. He is definitely one of the best and far more intriguing than that boring Brosnan.   "},{"Title":"Among the best of the Bond series","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What can you take away from this film? Box-Office disappointment, trashed by several critics, and many people saying This is not Bond. The written and direction wasn't exactly top of the line, but far more intelligent than any of these type action or Bond movies were seeing recently. Many people say Sean Connery is the best bond of all time, because he was the Bond with the most charisma. Very true, but he doesn't have the best portrayal of Ian Fleming character, and from the novel's standpoint he is not easily the best James Bond. Timothy Dalton is beyond great in this movie. Critics and fans have been in the likings of that superhuman silliness that started in Goldfinger. Come on people, Roger Moore did start all of it on his own. Licence to Kill wasn't alone that year far as box-office disappointments, because Ghostbusters II and Indiana Jones and Last Crusade were box-office gross were disappointing as well. Both of those franchise haven't drop off the earth, mainly because of their precedors. The Bond series sort of looks like is showing signs of slowing down. The series uses the same plots over and over again with Bond saivng the world from a meglomaniac. I have feeling that next movies will probably be identical to Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies that suck (no pun intedend) more than watching movie marathon of Lorenzo Lamas, David Hasslehoff, and every movie made by the cast Friends put together. Anyway, even do this movie isn't the purest Ian Fleming feel it comes much closer than any James Bond film ever did with the exception (Dr. No and On Her Majesty Secret Service). Sanchez played by Robert Davi is probably one of the most intriguing Bond villain's since Francisco Scramanga. The Bond girls are okay, but no Oscar winning performances. This film belong to Dalton giving probably one of the best performance as Bond in the whole series, but not appreciate like the others, but the could have been better though every movie can be better. It's probably the best Bond movie, since the earliest days of Connery(Dr. No and From Russia with Love).We live in the time were excitement and style is everything. Everything in movie has to be so simple to understand and have no kind I've decent story. Like for example, The Matrix, great movie even if the acting was electrifying, excellent plot,and maybe a little complex for the week minded. Some critics gave this movie a bad review saying It had excellent special effects, but not a decent storyline, so it shows don't always listen  to the critics, but The Matrix has several elements to make a great were present. "},{"Title":"Dalton was really the only guy who got it right","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What most people don't seem to understand is that the qualities timothy dalton gave to the James Bond character that they hate so much are precisely the qualities that Ian Flemming put in his literary creation. Fleming's James Bond was not a smirking playboy on holiday, like the rest of them played it (yes, even Connery) but a serious guy in a serious business. Think of Mike Hammer with a bigger IQ, an English accent, and a dark streak of gallows humor.Licence to Kill is the closest, in terms of mood and sensibilities, to Flemings original creations. Most of the scenes that the fans objected to as being too violent were taken directly from the novels. The Disagreement with something that ate him bit was lifted directly from the novel Live and Let Die (which was the first in the series of wretched Roger Moore travesties). Most of the other ultraviolent scenes were also derived from the various short stories. It seems the screenwriters of the Dalton Bonds actually consulted the source material. Dalton seemed to have done his research as well. His Bond is not a superhero, but a professional with a few extra skills to keep him ahead of the competition. Independent and headstrong, he's just the kind of guy who would risk everything for a pal who'd been hurt by a bad guy (the Mike Hammer thing again). Now don't get me wrong. I have enjoyed the other James Bond films (with the exception of Moore) and I will continue to watch Bond films in the future. It's just that I'm tired of seeing Dalton pilloried by the public for the very traits that make him the most authentic of them all. Whether you people like it or not, Dalton was the real deal. His rejection was one of the great injustices in recent cinema history.    "},{"Title":"Licence to Kill...taken away","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton's second and last outing as Bond succeeds as a good action movie, but only as that.  The fact that James Bond resigns from MI6 takes something away from the movie.  Timothy Dalton is a tougher, meaner 007, which really makes him more human and not some immortal being.  I think that Robert Davi's Franz Sanchez is a meaner more threatening villain.  He didn't just sit around in his office giving orders to his henchmen.  I liked him very much.  The movie had a good plot, but Talisa Soto had to go.  She was the most whiny, Bond dependent girl ever.  She feel in love with 007 out of no where!  Thank god for Pam Bouvier, who actually added something to the film.  This movie does introduce more modern 007, as he has more enemies to fight, and more explosions to run from!  This was an exciting movie, and an overall good addition to the series. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Of The Bonds....","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  LICENCE to Kill is a great movie., with some great action scenes, good acting all round and an intriguing central character played excellently by Dalton. Unfortunately, the public do not really care for this interpretation of the famous character after so long with Roger Moore's more easily likeable character. A shame, because this is one of the best Bond films - pacy, exciting, with a tense atmosphere unusual for a film of this series - and a stunning oil-tanker chase at the climax. Undoubtedly the most impressive action sequence in any Bond movie. Overall, if you just accept this for what it is rather than wishing it was in the Moore or Connery style, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"close to the best","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I wish more Bond films were like this one. It's almost my personal favorite. Too often 007's humor is so obvious and unsubtle that it's just not enjoyable, i.e. Roger Moore and his all too ready one-liners. LTK took the high road and avoided that altogether, and wound up being quite an entertaining film. A refreshing change from the typical fare being thrown at us.   "},{"Title":"Licence to Kill presents a gripping return to the darker, human stature of Fleming's Bond.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Arguably the grittiest of the James Bond films, Licence to Kill marks a welcome change in the series.  Having recently finished reading the original Ian Fleming novels, which contained a more human, fallible Bond, I longed for the rough edges of the early entries in the series.  The typical formula had begun to grow stale over the years, and Timothy Dalton showed few signs of reviving it in The Living Daylights.  That flim tried to present Bond as a more serious, modern man, but collapsed under the weight of a weak plot and unconvincing villains.In License to Kill, Dalton gets it right with a subdued performance that is far more compelling than Roger Moore in a majority of his films. The lone exception is The Spy Who Loved Me, where his wit and the slapstick humor finally meshed perfectly with the exciting action.  In this film, Bond's personal vendetta against Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), the ruthless drug lord who threw Felix Leiter to the sharks and murdered his wife, allows for a surprising level of character development.  Dalton comes closest to the Bond of Sean Connery, with his believable persona and more human tone. Connery always was smooth, but didn't have the superhuman silliness of Moore, and especially Pierce Brosnan in the new films.  Timothy Dalton actually resembles the James Bond that Fleming wrote about in his novels. That character was not perfect, could be brutal and didn't always succeed with ease.Robert Davi is the most intriguing Bond villain since Adolfo Celi's Largo in Thunderball.  He manages to maintain a human stature while committing his vicious deeds.  His brutality is heightened by the unusually high level of graphic violence, possibly the most in the series.  Davi wisely keeps the camp to a minimum, and plays it straight as a modern crime lord.  Before he dispatches Leiter to his gruesome fate, Sanchez conveys a mix of charm and menace without reverting to a ridiculous speech. This modern villain is much more believable and a more difficult opponent because he mixes brains with a stern determination to succeed.One weak point of this film is the performance of Talisa Soto.  Although she looks good, Soto is a terrible actress, as witnessed by her awful turns in the laughable Mortal Kombat and its terrible sequel.  She even struggles to carry the obligatory lines like Oh James!  Carey Lowell does much better as the tough, yet beautiful Pam Bouvier.  However, she still fades to the background behind the interesting battle of wills between the two leads. After Bond infiltrates Sanchez's organization, it is interesting to watch him charm the drug lord and gain his trust.  And of course, Sanchez falls prey to what Roger Ebert calls the fallacy of the talking killer.  Instead of simply dispatching Bond to a vile death, he hesitates, and you can guess where his overconfidence leads him.License to Kill may be a departure in some ways from its recent predecessors in tone, but it still contains the trademark incredible action sequences.  A highlight has Bond trying to thwart the underwater transfer of drugs.  In this scene's climax, Bond water skis behind a small plane, then climbs in and overtakes the pilot in mid-air.  The tanker-truck chase in the film's finale is spectacular, one of the best sequences in the series.With the success of the two recent Pierce Brosnan films, the Bond franchise is alive and pumping.  Both of the movies are exciting and well-made, but lack the human elements that make License to Kill such a treat to watch. Although it was largely ignored by the masses and critics, it deserves a serious second look.  With the exception of The Spy Who Loved Me, License to Kill is the best Bond film since Thunderball.  "}{"Title":"One of the most overlooked and best Bond films of all time!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The seventeenth Bond film, and Timothy Dalton's last as 007, has a Latin American drug lord wreak havoc on Bond's long time friend - Felix Leiter. Felix is fed to a shark and his bride is murdered. Against the orders of Bond's boss - M - he goes on a personal vendetta, deserting the Secret Service, to hunt down the evil drug lord and sabotage his factory. More raw, tense, and down-to-earth than most Bond films with little humour. Excellent action - especially in the final sequence of tanker trucks racing downhill. Like most 007 films, Bond receives something early in the film which he uses, when it has long been forgotten by the viewer, to win what looks like an impossible battle. The film is also boosted by its choice of bad guys - very sinister! This is one of the most overlooked and best Bond films of all time. "},{"Title":"Fleming's Bond is Back","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most underrated film in the series.  It's ironic that the first of the EON films not to draw its title directly from an Ian Fleming story is also the closest in spirit to Fleming since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Of course, the titles had long since become the ONLY connection between Fleming's original stories and the movies -- the film plots and Roger Moore's portrayal bore almost no resemblance to Fleming's Bond.In License to Kill Timoth Dalton continues what he started in The Living Daylights he portrays a Bond that is still an ultra-suave superagent, but is also moody and reckless -- in other words, human.Bond is driven to avenge the near murder of his friend Felix Leiter (and the murder of Leiter's wife) at the hands of drug lord Franz Sanchez.  Sanchez is excellently played by Robert Davi.  Bond is assisted by CIA agent Pam Bouvier, played by Cary Lowell in a performance that earns her automatic entry onto the list of top 5 all time Bond women.Some elements of the story come from Fleming's short story The Hildebrande Rarity.  Sanchez's doomed henchman Milton Krest is lifted directly from The Hildebrand Rarity, and elements of the relationship between Sanchez and his girlfriend Lupe echo that of Krest and his wife Liz in the original story.The other Fleming story drawn upon is Live and Let Die for the plot-driving scene in which Leiter is thrown to the sharks. (This marks the second time that Fleming's Live and Let Die was drawn upon for a key scene in a movie other than the film version of LALD.  The other is the dragged behind a speedboat over the reef scene in For Your Eyes Only.  It kind of makes you wonder what the powers that be at EON were thinking when they couldn't find a place for these powerful, effective scenes in the pastiche that is LALD.)License to Kill features a realistic, believable story. Add to it the equal ruthlessness of Bond and Sanchez in their respective portrayals by Dalton and Davi and you have a movie that will stand out over time as one of the best in the series. "},{"Title":"Best of the Non-Connery Bonds?","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although it might be strange, I find this movie the most enjoyable of the non-Sean Connery Bond movies. Some have complained about the lack of humor in Timothy Dalton's performance. However, I find it refreshing after the campiness of Roger Moore's later movies. After all, the James Bond of the novels was never campy.This movie has a villain you love to hate and the action sequences are among the best. Scuba diving, water skiing and airplanes, all at once! Four semi's... Wow! I also like the fact that for once the Bond girl, Carey Lowell, actually saves Bond more times than he saves her. Having Q pitch in and help out is an interesting twist.In short, check this movie out. "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This one is definitely in the top 5 best Bond movies. Timothy Dalton was an excellent Bond. He portrayed Bond as a flawed human to whom anyone could relate. Licence To Kill featured him moving away from the megalomaniacs that were so common in the Roger Moore era. It also sensed times were changing by taking the villains out of Russia and making them drug dealers in South America. A must see for any serious Bond fan "},{"Title":"And Kill he does...","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond is at his most ruthless here, as he ruthlessly manipulates a drug lord's downfall by turning him against his own people. Bond's activities as a free-agent are emphasized here, which makes for a change of pace (the last and only other time this happened was in On Her Majesty's Secret Service). There are some comedic moments (from Anthony Starke and Wayne Newton), but this is generally a pretty grim undertaking.  Also welcome is David Hedison's return as Felix Leiter, which gives his maiming and his wife's death more impact than if we had yet another new Felix Leiter.  Bond here is basically what Fleming envisaged  a ruthless badass.  Unfortunately, it is also Dalton's last movie. "},{"Title":"Dialogue, anyone?","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill is an odd Bond movie in the sense that action is at a loss.   On its own - without connection to the rest of the Bond movies, it would  make a fairly decent film.  However, because the picture consists of a few  good scenes sewn together with long, uninteresting sequences, it doesn't  really compare to the rest of the Bond films, which employed nonstop action  and snappy - rather than mournful dialogue.  Timothy Dalton, who played a  good Bond in The Living Daylights, was just getting into his character when  the Bond character itself changed for Licence to Kill.  Bond becomes much  less glib and suddenly is a very vengeful character (a trait he was annoyed  by in The Spy Who Loved Me.)  Dalton, however, comes off as more grumpy  than vengeful.  On the plus side, Q makes a longer appearance...    "},{"Title":"Not Sweet Sixteen","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the 16th entry in the series, a vengeful Bond resigns from his job so he can track down the men who have harmed his good buddy Felix Leiter (who's dropped in a shark tank but inexplicably pulled out before he dies). Thankfully, Dalton played the role only twice because he's no fun as Bond, lacking the playfulness of his predecessors. This one has nonstop action but it's rather tedious, as there is little that is compelling about the narrative flow. Neither the villains nor the Bond girls are particularly interesting here. Also, it goes on too long. While all Bond films are stupid, this one reaches new levels of stupidity, making it the worst of the first sixteen. "},{"Title":"A Classic well before its Time!","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill marked the second and last appearance of Timothy Dalton as Ian Flemming's legendary fictional super-spy, James Bond. Though today, in retrospect, Dalton is looked upon as one of the best portrayer's of the character and the actor whose depiction of Bond came closest to the character's literary counterpart, back during his actual brief 'tenure in the tuxedo' Dalton wasn't all that well received by the audiences. This was largely owing to the immense popularity his predecessor, Roger Moore, had enjoyed in the role. Moore's portrayal of Bond as a wisecracking, charming suave and sophisticated playboy who single-handedly foiled over the top 'world domination' plots of cartoonish villains who were more caricatures than characters had clung onto the public's consciousness, which made it harder for them to accept Dalton's no-nonsense portrayal of Bond as a tough, ruthless secret agent, albeit a human being with emotions, concerns, likes and dislikes, a man who was flawed like all real people are, a ordinary person caught amidst the drama of espionage and deception...In Licence to Kill, Dalton plays Bond with an intensity seldom seen before in the character. His Bond is a character who can be pushed to extremes; a secret agent who can take only so much from life and his career. The gradual transformation of Bond's emotions from happiness to sorrow and ultimately sheer blind rage and bloodlust is made explicitly apparent to the audiences. Dalton has the skill of conveying intense emotions while still retaining a largely expressionless visage. Perhaps the most controversial aspect of this film is its departure from the conventional 'Bond formula'. Bond resigns from the Secret Service and his famous 'licence to kill' is revoked, as he sets off on a private vendetta against ruthless South American drug-dealer, Franz Sanchez(Robert Davi), after the latter arranges for the maiming of Bond's friend and longtime ally, Felix Leiter (David Hedison, reprising his role from Live and Let Die) and the murder of Leiter's bride, Della. Hunted as a rogue agent by the authorities, Bond must use every resource at his disposal, including CIA operative Pam Bouvier (Carry Lowell), in order to travel to Chile, infiltrate Sanchez's drug-smuggling operation and eliminate the drug-lord himself in order to achieve his vengeance. Despite his overwhelming personal motive in this particular 'mission' Bond still retains his instincts as a cold and calculating secret agent as well as his suave and sophisticated image (which is of course merely a cover here). Dalton shows himself to be fairly versatile in this regard, though the underlying anger and menace behind Bond is ever-present beneath the surface. Licence to Kill is therefore truly a classic, albeit one made well before its time. The audiences were clearly not ready to accept a much darker version of Bond after the campy Moore outings. And Dalton did not really have the charm which Moore had, nor the class and sheer charisma of Sean Connery (too date, the best portrayer of Bond on the big screen). Sadly, the Bond franchise is largely judged on more superficial aspects and commercial appeal, both of which made a comeback during the tenure of Pierce Brosnan in the 90's. However, Daniel Craig's recent portrayal of Bond in the immensely successful films, Casino Royale and Quantum of Solace, have no doubt paved the way for a darker, more 'human' incarnation of 007. And perhaps, in the appreciation of Craig's outstanding work, one can find a far over-due acknowledgment of Dalton's efforts in LTK as well. "},{"Title":"If You Appreciate the Literary Form of Bond, You Will Appreciate Dalton","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sure, there are the comparisons to Connery and Moore on the screen, but many people don't like to mention the actual literary creation of Ian Fleming. Perhaps this is because some in America don't like to read.However, for those of us who read, Timothy Dalton is regarded as the best Bond as far as the books are concerned. The late great Desmond Llewelyn acknowledged that Dalton's portrayal of Bond resembles the Fleming character the best, and Llewelyn acted with all five actors (Connery, Lazenby, Moore, Dalton, Brosnan) before his death.When reading the books, you look for the development of characters, and Bond was certainly developed suave, ruthless, cunning, had instinct. Bond had flaws as well.Dalton displayed these attributes well in this movie. While the movie was not spectacular in terms of visual beauty of the locales, that can be overlooked if you can appreciate the essence of the James Bond character, which Dalton displayed nicely.It's too bad that the promotions for the movie were not better. Dalton deserves more recognition for his portrayal of Bond. "},{"Title":"This time It's Personal for Bond","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Watching the Living Daylights & now License to Kill, I can see that Dalton was *far* superior to Roger Moore. Moore was just a clown, looking for his next joke. When Moore wanted to quit after 1979's Moonraker, they should have let him go.But Timothy Dalton brought a serious side to the role. You can see that he's determined to get the job done, and realizes he could be dead any minute, so he focuses on the mission and not clowning. Just like Sean Connery did back in the 60's.---> As for the actual story, that too is serious & well-written. And it's more-or-less a sequel to On Her Majesty's Secret Service. In that earlier movie, Bond's wife is killed by an evil agent, and in this movie you can see that Bond is still upset about the death... as though it just happened a few months ago. (Someone hands him a bride's garter, which symbolizes coming marriage, but Bond rejects it. He's still hurting from his loss.)As though depression about his dead wife wasn't enough, his best friend Felix Liter has been viciously attacked, laying in a hospital's critical care ward, and Felix's just-married wife has been murdered. (Notice how it's a near-identical to what happened to Bond in OHMSS.) These three deaths/near-deaths drive Bond over the edge, he resigns as a secret agent, and proceeds to seek revenge against the man who killed Felix's wife.And thus begins a long adventure to discover the mystery man behind the killings. And like I said earlier, Dalton does an *excellent* job in this role. I highly recommend his movies. 10/10 "}{"Title":"6.2 out of 10?","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" (Please note that this review may contain spoilers)6.2 out of 10? This arguably deserves at least an 8. It is by far, one of the best in the series. It was original, and the acting was superb, and it was nice to see Bond'sd ark side. A lot of people accuse this as being the odd ball bond film, but honestly, whats wrong with something different every once in a while? Its not like it was appalling like Die another Day. AND I LOVED THAT CIGARETTE LIGHTER! My favourite Bonds of all time are1. Gold Finger 2. Goldeneye 3. Licence to Kill 4. View to a Kill 5. ThunderballVerdict A great film, one unlike any other in the series (not in the way of Die another Day though, that movie sucked)A must see.8/10 "},{"Title":"Best Bond Ever Hands Down","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Are you kidding? This is the best Bond film ever made, or at the very least in the top two! Face it, even Sean Connery was not Sean Connery by the time he made Diamonds are Forever. Roger Moore was just too bufoonish and cartoonish to be taken seriously. Pierce Brosnan still has not made an engaging Bond film. And who even knows about George L.?This one's the best and it is just a jewel from start to finish, including the soundtrack and two songs from the movie.Question Could you see Jude Law as the next Bond?Thanks. "},{"Title":"Dark, moody and excellent","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thankfully ditching the well trodden oft recycled plots of previous Bond's, Dalton returns for his second strong performance in the Bond role and sadly his last.This time it gets personal as Bond goes on a vengeful vendetta against South American drug baron Sanchez, here played wonderfully by Robert Davi, a man who even looks like a bad guy!Strong performances from nearly everyone else, Q's largest ever role, a well written and produced script and no OTT action stunts all bring about an excellent film that may not seem too Bond-esque in the traditional manner and is all the better for it.The only real weak points here where the character of Lupe (Sanchez's girlfriend) who is little more than a plot device and the slightly disappointing soundtrack by Michael Kamen who always seemed to have one basic style that he repeated ad infinitum throughout many action movies of the 1980's.UK viewers also tend to suffer with this movie as every time it is shown on television, it is usually cut to absolute shreds for both necessary violence and timing, thereby ruining the thread and strength of the story.It's a pity that Dalton did not continue in the role of Bond and that we had to wait years for the appearance of the excellent Goldeneye, but at least if this had been the end of the Bond series (and it nearly was) we had a great strong entry to potentially finish with.  "},{"Title":"no Moore, more Dalton","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton is definitely the best Bond there has been. His portrayal of the character is masterful and a big improvement. I must admit that there was a TVish quality in the directing of the two Dalton movies, which let them down sadly, but Dalton is superb and the taking of the character into newer places much appreciated. The quitting of the secret service for a contrived personal revenge was the only weak point in a brilliantly written film. There is real buildup in the way that Bond pursues his man and pulls apart the evil organization in the process, far better than the formulaic 'sudden victory at the end' style which has haunted cinema from the past to the present. Top score then to the writers, and to Dalton(might he ever return??). "},{"Title":"Easily Dalton's better film","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill has to go down as one of the most underrated Bond films of all time. Timothy Dalton returns in this sixteenth adventure as 007. This film is the Casino Royale of its day, not totally, but it changed things up by going down a darker path, which some may not like, but compared to, say, A View to a Kill, it's a breath of fresh air. The film also has an intimidating and at times frightening villain, Sanchez played by Robert Davi, who is more recognized as playing a goon in The Goonies. The Bond girls are pretty good, too, and of course, I have to make a shout out to Benicio Del Toro in one of his early screen roles. Even then he was good. As I mentioned before, this has one of the best action scenes in the series the end truck chase. It's electrifying, original, and explosive. Just what you need to end a great Bond film. So coming off of this one, it makes sense that GoldenEye was a little tamer and more classical, but one like this every once in a while is OK. "},{"Title":"mediocrity in both script and direction","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A clumsy picture which outrageously suggests that in order for a Bond movie to classify as 'adult', all one has to do is throw in a few more action sequences and relish it with light smugness. Under this constrictive principle and despite its awe-inspiring stuntwork, the film never becomes the 'adult' Bond movie it would like to think it is; it doesn't even come close to being yards away from that, as a matter of fact. With the plot having Bond defected from Secret Service, the film lacks the intellectual stamina to sustain a credible narrative of its hero outstripped from his '00' prefix, it is utterly devoid of the finesse and the elegance closely associated with the Bonds, it is even deficient of the cheesy fun of the lesser Moore outings. Dalton is dismally unfaired by mediocrity in both script and direction, and even the film's soundtrack is a straight copycat of the Die Hard and Lethal Weapon movies. Dire. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond films","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To my mind Licence to Kill is one of the best films in the Bond franchise. Timothy Dalton takes the character back to how he was in the books in a film that is far more serious in tone than most in the series when he goes AWOL from MI6 to hunt down a Latin American drug baron who has maimed a friend and killed the friend's wife.Just because it is serious doesn't mean the film lacks spectacular stunts, the most memorable of which involve catching a light aircraft with a helicopter's winch before parachuting down to a wedding in the pre-credit sequence, water skiing behind an aircraft while escaping from a drug smuggler's boat and a spectacular chase involving several petrol tankers.The characters are more realistic than in most Bond films, Franz Sanchez, the villain doesn't want to take over the world he is just a nasty drug baron in it for the money. During his unofficial mission Bond is ably assisted by freelance CIA pilot Pam Bouvier who is far less of a damsel in distress than most Bond girls. Humour is added to the story in the form of a televangelist who's retreat is used as a cover by Sanchez and has drug dealers phoning in their orders to his programme in the form of donations to his cause.All in all this is a great film and it is a shame that Timothy Dalton didn't get to play the part again as he was great in the roll. "},{"Title":"One of the best, and certainly most underrated, Bond films in the series","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It had been maybe about five years since I'd watched this movie, and I remembered it as being good but not great. After renting it again recently I've changed my mind and now regard it as being one of the best in the series. It was a five day rental and I watched it three times in those five days, and returned it a day late so I could watch it a fourth time. The well written plot, an expanded hybrid between the subplot of the book 'Live and Let Die' (Felix being fed to the sharks) and the characters from 'The Hildebrand Rarity', has Bond quitting Her Majesty's Secret Service to track down those responsible for feeding Bond's ally Felix to the sharks and killing Felix's wife. Graphic and mean Bond movie, which in some ways follows the plot of the book 'Live and Let Die' closer than the film of the same title. Timothy Dalton nails the character perfectly moody, angry, he looks genuinely affected when he finds Felix and Della, after the tanker truck explosions at the end, and he seems to be beside himself when M revokes his licence to kill. Dalton very nearly perfected the cold, dark character Ian Fleming created in the novels and short stories, the same thing that Daniel Craig did in Casino Royale. Carry Lowell was very good also (great legs also) and Robert Davi was a great ruthless villain with no compunction about killing and torturing, but one who still honors and respects loyalty. But even after Sanchez knows Bond is after him, after Sanchez has Bond on the conveyor belt toward the saw blades, Bond still convinces him that Heller is double crossing him, using Sanchez's fear and uncertainty against him. The writers even managed to work Q into the script without having it being forced and feeling like needless comic relief, his character actually adds to the plot (noticably and happily, Q leaves his gadgets at the office, except for the silly ass laser shooting camera) This also has one of the best climaxes in the series, especially of the ones filmed in the 1980's.It's hurt only slightly by drab on location photography in the toilet called Florida and Mexico, and the opening wedding bit was too reminiscent of 'On Her Majety's Secret Service', but this is still one of the best and certainly most under rated Bonds in the entire series. It's unfortunate that after this film, the James Bond series was stuck in court and developmental hell for more than six years, after which Timothy Dalton resigned, which was probably the biggest setback this film series has ever seen. Dalton nearly perfected the role, and then pierce brosnan basically took a dump on it for eight years. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Most underrated Bond film...EVER!","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sorry, but some of you purists are just too narrow-minded to look at this movie for what it was...a great transitional Bond film with a message that was (and still is) very topical for it's time. Timothy Dalton was not my favorite bond, and it would have been interesting to see how Remington Steele (a.k.a. Pierce Brosnan) might have come across in the role...but Dalton's bond was quite serious in demeanor and intent, which was perfect while dealing with a very serious topic. This was a revenge Bond film, nothing like the light-hearted fair from years back.Good guys are most often defined by their opponents, and this one had them in spades, with Robert Davi leading the pack as the drug lord king-pin running the show. You get to see a very young Benico Del Toro (of Traffic fame, before the cigarettes affected his voice) as the drug lord's most loyal right-hand man, and Carey Lowell (of Law and Order fame, 1996-1998) as his very competent female American sidekick and love interest.It has all of the action, a minimal amount of gadgetry usage, good supporting cast, a very logical E Z 2 follow plot with no noticeable plot-holes, pretty decent character development, even some inadvertent humor (Favorite line Anthony Zerbe's character retells how he lost the drug king-pin's money, explaining it in grandiose terms...here's Robert Davi's mocking reply...And he flew away into the sky, like a bird.) This is by far one of the very best WRITTEN Bond films you'll ever see. Sure the violence is a bit high, but the pain and anguish that goes with it is more personal than in other Bond films, which helps make the film that much more believable.I give it a 10...go see it if you are a true, open-minded Bond fan "},{"Title":"not so good","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen many 007 movies but I don't find this one a very good movie. Timothy Dalton is a great actor but he is very different from Sean Connery. I didn't like the story of the movie and there could have been more action in it. The scene with the truck and helicopter was fantastic, the best scene of the whole movie. but it is not a very good Bond!!! "}{"Title":"One of the most horrible in the series","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This one, along with 'Live and let die', 'Moonraker' and 'A view to a kill' has to be one of most terrible James Bond movies in the series.First of all, Timothy Dalton is the worst James Bond ever. He has zero charisma, no charm and totally unbelievable as a gentleman agent.Second is the villain. Sanchez is so unbelievably horrible as a villain that Dr. Kananga seems like Goldfinger in comparison. The two female leads in the film too is awful as Bond girls. They're not only not that beautiful, but they're so full of selvpity that they almost make me sick. As for the story. It is ok for a Bond adventure. I guess James Bond is a character that takes on revenge on killed loved ones, hence Teresa.So to conclude this comment. The only good thing about this James Bond caper is the story. EVERYTHING else is just so horrible i won't say anything more about that. If you want to see a good James Bond, see 'The man with the golden gun', 'For your eyes only' or 'Octopussy' if you want to see Roger Moore and 'Goldfinger', 'From Russia with love' or 'Thunderball' if you want to see Sean Connery. 'On her majesty's secret service' too is one of the best Bond movies too with a good story, good villain, many beautiful girls and with a different, but very good Bond in George Lazenby. The two with Pierce Brosnan are also very good, but stay far away from the two with Timothy Dalton, he is THE worst of them all. "},{"Title":"The best Bond movie ever!!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Licence to Kill is a Bond movie exactly how Ian Fleming envisioned. A no-nonsense, serious, exciting, entertaining, and thrilling adventure that pits 007 against his most ruthless and cunning adversary yet, Franz Sanchez. Licence to Kill has evrything a Bond movie should have, great locations, beautiful babes, cool villians, great plot, outstanding action sequences, and the best damn James Bond ever, played by the talented and suave Timothy Dalton. The man who best fits Ian Fleming's real creation of James Bond, 007, licence to kill. Licence to Kill is the type of Bond movie for an audience who wants to be entertained by realism and this film delievers that. From it's real life scenario opening credits, to Bond chasing his adversary all throughout Florida to Mexico, to the grand finale in the drug-import factory, where the film concludes in a wild, exciting, and explosive tanker chase shootout. The only time where the film loses it's sense of realism, because it's the scene where the filmmakers really wanted to entertain the audience, and entertain it does. Watching Licence to kill at times, you have a hard time believing that you are actually watching a Bond movie because this film is entirely different than any other Bond film. That's probably why this film is so great, because an actual Bond movie with all it's gadgets and stupid plots are never any good and don't even come close to be as exciting as this film. Watching the first half of this film when Bond is in Florida, at times it reminds of my favorite television show that takes place in the same location Miami Vice. The film also has some simaliarties. It takes place in Florida, deals with ruthless drug pushers and drugs, and some some exciting sequences involving cigaratte boats. A fun and enjoyable film from beginning to end, and the perfect Bond movie for fans who want to get away from the corny and over the top Bond films of the past. A must have for all DVD collectors. Rating **** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Just doesn't cut it as a Bond movie","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say, I still get a big kick out of James Bond, and although I swore I'd never watch another one after walking out on The Spy Who Loved Me, Timothy Dalton's Living Daylights brought me back to the Bond movie.  This film, although sometimes mildly entertaining, disappointed me a great deal.Certainly one can and should reinvent a character from time to time, particularly a character as dumbly self-satirized as the Roger Moore Bond (I love Moore, but hate his Bond - it's the writers' fault, I know!)  However if you're going to reinvent a cartoon as a serious character, you need a serious script!  Serious violence and a serious topic are simply not enough when combined with cartoonish action and 'spy gear', and much as I enjoy Wayne Newton's comic abilities, they simply don't fit with where the writers' are trying to go in this movie.  I loved seeing David Hedison, I loved seeing Anthony Zerbe, I always loved Desmond Llewelyn.  They just don't belong in a serious espionage film!While Bond fans will note that elements of License to Kill have been recycled from other Ian Fleming stories, a great deal of this story has also been swiped from Tom Clancy, from the sexual-revenge angle to the pressure-chamber execution.  What's lacking is Clancy's overarching geopolitical awareness.  Such concerns would eventually surface in later Bonds - but not until Dalton had left the franchise, which is a pity, because I find him much easier to take seriously than Brosnan (the latter a wonderful actor, but whose edge of Irish humor has yet to be perfectly worked into the series.)Robert Davi always does a fine acting job, but Bond villains simply need to be larger than life - the aims of the film may be the problem here.  Benicio Del Toro puts in a fine performance as The Henchman, but again, he's TOO believable!  Cary Lowell, meanwhile, does a fine job of playing the Bond Babe of the Honor Blackman 'tough girl' school.I'd love to see a 'serious' Bond movie - which would be set in the '50's, give us a tough counter-spy Bond more comfortable in eurotrash watering holes than Attlee's bureaucratized Britain, and idealistic Communist opponents.  License to Kill just doesn't cut it. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton ... gone and not missed","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton's lamest attempt at James Bond brings us with what is possibly the least appealing of the entire series, Cary Lowell notwithstanding!James' old CIA pal Felix Leiter is attacked and his new wife is killed, and Bond launches the oh-so-predictable quit the service and have a revenge mission.Dull throughout, there were at least some good action scenes in the compound of the religion facade to the drug operation that were worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great move","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton only did two movies . did not know that, I just got used to playing bond! In the licence to kill.I really enjoyed this one one , it was a lot of fun to watch.Some great action scenes , really enjoyed the bar fights and crazy action at the end.To top it of with some-what gory deaths for non- horror I did not see coming in this at all.Loved plot of the movieGreat movieI am going to give this movie 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bond does NOT save the whole world . . .","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" . . . or even America in the ironically titled LICENSE TO KILL. Ironic, because as soon as Bond's killing license is revoked here, former Agent 007 runs amok as a serial murderer, slicing and dicing his way through half of the Hispanic SAG membership as of 1989, when this flick came out. The motto of the writing team churning out Bond after Bond in the 1980's (as if action movies were sausage links) seems to have been, If we did it once, we should do it again, only more outrageously. Since Bond's wife Tracy was killed moments after their wedding to climax ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE in 1969, the script for LICENSE TO KILL opens with Bond's CIA buddy Felix's bride being first gang-banged, THEN slain moments after her marriage. There's a strong misogynistic streak in the sort of 11-year-old boys confined to all-male British boarding schools, and all of the Eon Company Bond flicks have catered to this national perversion. From the spray-painted nude chick in GOLDFINGER to the several Femme Fatales fed to various species of fish, James Bond is like Spiderman in the Webslinger's latest film a day late and a dollar short, where the fair sex is concerned. "},{"Title":"Misfire.","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Timothy Dalton's fine debut as a more serious Bond, I was looking for his second outing in the role, especially in a tale of revenge, involving Felix Leiter. Unfortunately, this nice idea starts to fizzle as soon as we encounter our villain.The film starts out with Felix Leiter's wedding, with Bond as best man. David Heddison, who played the part in Live and Let Die, returns as Felix and ends up fed to sharks, as in the original Live and Let Die novel. This sets Bond on the path of revenge. Sounds fine so far. The problem begins in casting Robert Davi as the villain. Leiter is supposed to be with the CIA but he runs afoul of a drug-lord. Really, we are going to go with a basic criminal? Already Bond is in trouble. Davi isn't capable of subtlety and he isn't charming enough or charismatic enough to carry off a Bond villain. Strike one.The film quickly moves to Latin America, as Bond tries to get close enough to his target, having gone rogue from MI-6. Along the way, he encounters both Carrie Lowell and Benicio Del Toro. Del Toro is excellent as a psychotic killer and the best part of the whole film. Lowell, on the other hand, is not particularly memorable. She is beautiful, but not quite believable as a pilot or a government agent. Talissa Soto, as Davi's woman, is the far more interesting of the ladies and would have been better as the romantic focus. Lowell just seems more like the sacrificial lamb of the Connery era. Strike two.Bond gets some off-the-books aid from Q, and we get some cat-and mouse and a few stunts. There is some convoluted mess about smuggling a super drug, via a new age cult resort. Once again, too many cooks are involved in the script and things aren't helped by Wayne Newton. We start to stray into Roger Moore territory here. Strike three. The climactic fight is certainly brutal, but not particularly logical. It results in plenty of mayhem and destruction and then Bond is back in the good graces of the service and some time with his lady.This has elements of a good film, but is marred with poor casting in the key role of the villain, again, and a bland love interest. The revenge angle is the best part, but we needed something more threatening than a drug-lord. If the film had focused on Bond vs. Del Toro, we might have had something more memorable. As it stands, this was Dalton's swan song, as the franchise became mired in legal issues and rejected scripts. Dalton grew tired of waiting and moved on to other things, while receiving some unfair criticism in regards his portrayal of Bond. The problem with Dalton's films wasn't Dalton; it was the producers and the writers. The films lacked focus and were often miscast and lacked strong villains (one of the central elements in a great Bond film). To me, this film is the weakest of the two. It comes across too much like every other action film, not a Bond film. Living Daylights had far more of the classic Bond elements and succeeded more than it failed. The reverse is true here. There is nothing wrong with the more serious tone or the revenge angle; it just isn't executed very well. "},{"Title":"One of the more underrated Bond films.","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The second of only two James Bond film Timothy Dalton ever did I think is one of the more underrated films of the whole series. In terms of character development and story, the film attempted a similar tone to Casino Royale but was instead often overlooked for seemingly being distant from the tone of the series which to be fair was still bogged down in post-Roger Moore silliness (Dalton's first bond film The Living Daylights was a step in the right direction though).This is also the only Bond film to be rated a 15 in the UK, mostly for shark related mishaps, although a man does get exploded, there's a bit of implied rape and it's strongly implied a man has his heart cut out and given to a woman (aww!). Most of these actions are carried out by the film's villain, the drug lord Franz Sanchez, played through and through nasty by Robert Davi.The story is a brilliantly simple story of revenge wrapped around a mildly more complex story of drug dealing, double crossing and generic Bond tropes. A heavy influence of this film is Japanese stories of the Ronin, a master-less samurai alongside Bond's much more insidious actions of abusing the mistrust of the bad guys and performing very little direct action to bring the villain down. It's a little more intelligent of Bond and fits well into the revenge narrative that fills the story with emotions and a human core. Add to this the fact that for this film, Bond is in fact, a rogue agent and suddenly the reasons for misdirection seem even more evident.The Bond girls, forever a staple of the series are suitably glamorous although not really fleshed out (haha) as characters themselves, instead they remind me of the incidental woman Sean Connery's Bond would sleep with, with them having little or no impact on the story as a whole.However, it is the stunt work here that shines. It is wonderful.Many of the stunts are brilliantly realised and executed and one in particular brought to mind a similar stunt that most of you will see (if you haven't already) when The Dark Knight Rises comes out later this year, although I'm not telling you which one. The plane stunts are insanely good and the whole thing looks very convincing whilst still retaining that slight OTT James Bond edge. In the end, it was the increased violence and the darker side to Bond that put off many reviewers and viewers. Whilst not badly reviewed in and of itself, I personally feel it deserves to be much more loved by Bond fans. It's a grown up Bond. "},{"Title":"Bond's Private Vendetta","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" John Glen's 'Licence to Kill' is perhaps among the most underrated of Bond films. It is perhaps less flashy compared to other Bond flicks but it's certainly not lacking in coolness. There are the larger than life action sequences, cool gadgets and hot babes. However, unlike much of the other Bond flicks, especially those of the 80s, where the characters were caricatures, the women were mere sex objects who succumbed to Bond's charm and Bond himself was the typical action hero and the stories were thin on plot, 'Licence to Kill' is a lot more layered. 'License To Kill' is more story driven. Here the story is more about revenge than the typical spy mission.To start with, the characters are truer to Ian Fleming's creation. There are several references to Bond's pass. Timothy Dalton's Bond shows a lot more depth than Roger Moore's. I'm not criticizing Moore here but merely pointing out how differently their roles were written. I wouldn't have thought of Dalton as the ideal choice for James but after seeing this, I can say that the actor easily carries the role. Luminous Carey Lowell's Pam, the bond heroine, is far from the bimbo whose task is either to seduce or be seduced. She makes for a very good Bond counterpart. Talisa Soto is supersexy but she too is given more to do than show skin (even though she does offer a modest dose). Then there's Robert Davi who makes for a fine villain and Benicio Del Toro is hilarious (mostly unintentionally).'License to Kill' is quite a well made film. The execution is subtle compared to other Bond films. There's some wonderful cinematography, action scenes, editing and light. The exotic locations are stunning to look at and the energetic score flows exceptionally well.This is perhaps the most under-appreciated Bond film. I don't understand why, as in my opinion it's the best one from the 80s and perhaps one of the better ones overall. "},{"Title":"The Misunderstood Bond?","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This isn't really a Bond film at all, this a film about a man seeking revenge for his best friend. Just that man happens to be James Bond in one of his finest outings and probably the closest you'll see him to the man Ian Fleming created in the books. Timothy Dalton apparently used to read them between takes on set and it clear they influenced his portrayal of Bond, brooding and hurting and now out for revenge. Bond is pitted against drug dealer Sanchez, played by Robert Davi, a more real world villain that you'd normally expect, no plans for world domination, but a thoroughly nasty character who crosses paths with Bond almost by attacking Felix Leiter and his new wife. Add to this mix the two more unconventional Bond girls of the series, Sanchez's abused girlfriend Lupe (Talisa Soto) and former army pilot Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell) and you get more interesting characters and stories developing in the film rather than the usual Bond meets girl, girl removes clothes! John Glen directs his best action sequences in this film, particularly the truck chase towards the end and the crash on the 8 Mile Bridge, scenes that stand the test of time. Even the henchmen are well above the usual standard, helped with then 22 year old Benicio Del Toro as the sadistic Dario. There's still a few familiar Bond elements, great songs by soul divas (Gladys Knight sang the title theme, Patti Labelle did the closing song) and Q gets his best film here, assisting Bond in his vendetta and helping to bring a bit of light relief in what is probably the darkest Bond. This isn't a perfect film, the story could have done with trimming a bit to focus more on Bond and Sanchez and it's clear that producers weren't sure what to do with a strong Bond girl, which unfortunately means that Carey Lowell comes off as having a chip on her shoulder for too much of the film. But despite these flaws it stands alone as a great film and as the Bond that dared to be different. "}{"Title":"Shaken and Stirred...","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  ==ULMER'S RENTAL REVIEW= Will you enjoy this film? It depends. It depends on whether you like your Bond dark or your Bond light. Roger Moore, knowing he could never match Connery's Bond, played it tongue-in-cheek, more so than any other Bond to come. Dalton's Bond, on the other hand, is darker than any other. In this story, Bond goes on a vigilante mission to bring down a drug lord who has killed Bond's long-time friend Felix Leitter, and his new bride. It's interesting to see such a long-staying Bond character get killed off so quickly. In a way, it's disappointing, because we can no longer get to see Felix in the further films. A character seen even in Goldfinger gone as quick as that. I have a feeling the strict Bond fans will hate this movie; they probably won't even take a look at it. From the beginning of the film, the setting is so much darker than the previous films, and the action much more fierce. But if you look past the Bond setting and as the film as a whole, it is quite good, and the darker side lets loose what feelings the real Bond character must have inside, and not those of a cardboard cut-out who feels no emotions. By letting Bond seek revenge in this film, the filmmakers are playing a big gamble. But in a way, I'm glad to see this, because it shows a dark point in James Bond's life, making him seem more real. After a while everyone breaks down. Even Bond, James Bond.*** 1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Thankful, Dalton's last Bond film","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is James Bond meets Miami vice, how 80's.  It is not the worst story, but gets unbelievable during the last quarter.  Dalton improves as Bond, but still makes this film humorless, and has no charm with the ladies.  Great stunts, especially the water skiing scene, but Dalton kills this film.  Worth watching late night, over the ab tonner commercials. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest action films","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ...as opposed to one of the greatest Bond films. The latter it isn't, because it strays too much from the style of the series, but it is a great action film and film because it's got the best action hero in it, the direction and editing are taut, the set-pieces stunning (and believable) - including arguably the finest action sequence in any Bond film when 007 escapes from Krest's yacht to the sea-plane - and the acting spot-on.Curiously, it is possible the only Bond film where you feel concerned for the villains... oh, and Talisa Soto is one of the best-looking Bond Girls.Perhaps Dalton's portrayal of Bond was too close to the books and perhaps the Bond of the books would never quite work on screen, but if you remove this film from the context of the series it's totally engrossing and satisfying and you'd want a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Dalton does it again (but sadly for the last time).","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Forget Skyfall.... this is how a gritty James Bond film should be done it's got all the harsh realism, brutal violence, and emotional drama that the recent Daniel Craig films have strived for, but it doesn't forget to make sense and be hugely entertaining throughout.The film boasts a solid script, great stunts, two of the sexiest Bond women ever (the sultry Lupe Lamora and feisty Pam Bouvier, played by Talisa Soto and Carey Lowell), a couple of gadgets, ninjas (which automatically make the film that much cooler), and a spectacular last act that manages to throw in an exploding lair without feeling too cheesy and which ends with a fantastic chase scene that leaves a broken, bloody Bond almost coming a cropper before eventually exacting a satisfyingly nasty revenge against one of the slimiest villains ever, South American drug lord Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi).Excellent stuff indeed, and deserving of more recognition than it currently seems to get.8.5 out of 10, rounded up to 9 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"A revolutionary Bond film","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" At one time, this film appeared to be the death knell to the James Bond Franchise. However, with the poor box office in the U.S., and the publics negative response to Timmothy Dalton, it is a shame that this film is not considered by many with how I consider it, one of the five best Bond Films ever made.What makes this film great, is not Timmothy Dalton, but the protagonists that he has to take on. Robert Davi was I think the most interesting of all the James Bond Villains. He starts out as a villain we hate. He is a vicious cold blooded individual. However, as the film goes on, we notice a huge difference between him and other Bond villains. When one of his hench men advises him to kill a man who helped him escape, This man helped him for a high price. He says no, contrary to what previous Bond villains would have done. We realize that this is a man of his word, and if you are loyal to him, he will treat you well. He even shows affection to those who are loyal to him, such as when he greets Benicio Del Toro. We even probably cheer, when towards the end of the film, he kills his obnoxious American business aid. I am sure in Latin American countries they probably loved that scene.In the beginning of the film, he has one of his men brutally killed, when that man was sleeping with his Woman. However, we don't seem to feel that he really has any love for her, or even some sexual interest in her. To him, she is just a piece of property. The person he seems to really fall in love with is James Bond, who he believes saved his life. Davi and Dalton have a great chemistry together, even if they are on opposite sides, however Davi's Sanchez does not know this. He goes to Bonds room, while Bond is in bed (though Bond has committed some mischief against his operations during the night), and it is here where Davi shows a romantic interest to Bond, which surprisingly critics didn't seem to notice. At the end of the film, when Sanchez is about to kill Bond, he shouts at him like a jealous lover betrayed You could have had it all. If the film had been a success, Benicio Del Toro I think would have become a better known actor earlier than he did; he is a wonderful side kick villain, ranking with Robert Shaw in FROM Russia WITH LOVE, or the Odd Job character in GOLDFINGER, and Davi, might have had a better chance a stardom than has been afforded to him.The film was faulted for not having any humor, and poor jokes, however, Wayne Newton as the minister is quite funny, and his exchange with Bonds Female side kick is humorous if short. There are some great action scenes at the end, and the opening action scene is quite memorable. Two great songs at the beginning, and at the end.This Bond film, along with the non United Artist Never Say Never Again where the only ones until the third Installment of the Pierce Brosnen Bond cycle to have three dimensional villains, and not the paper cut villains of Goldfinger or Dr. No, that other Bond films had emulated, It is a worthy Entry in the history of the Bond films, and should not be missed "},{"Title":"One of the very best Bond films","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Boy did they take a big risk when they made this movie? The 'dark and serious Bond' audiences lauded when Daniel Craig took over the show was fine for a post 9/11 (and post Jason Bourne) environment, but in 1989 it proved to be a disaster.Personally, I have always loved this film, and somewhat relish the opportunity to point out why its dismissal was such a tragedy. The story concerns a seemingly untouchable South American drug lord called Sanchez (think Noreaga) who escapes the custody of the CIA and, by way of making a point, throws Bond's long standing ally and friend, Felix Leiter, into the waiting jaws of a great white shark. As if this weren't enough, he also has Felix's new wife (who also seems to be rather chummy with Bond) raped and murdered. Hardly the kind of premise Bond fans were expecting!When the CIA are 'unable' to do anything, Bond quits his job as an agent of her majesty's government and goes after Sanchez alone, Charles Bronson style.This is supposedly why so many people disliked and dismissed the film when it hit theatres in 1989. Cries of James Bond would never quit his job were heard the world over, ringing around thousands of empty cinemas.What these naysayers clearly missed in the 15 Bond movies that preceded this one, is that Bond had actually tried to resign more than once in the past. In fact, as recently as 'The Living Daylights', Bond says of M, If he fires me I'll thank him for it. Why was it such a surprise that he should quit and go after a man who tried to kill his best (if not only) friend?I always considered Timothy Dalton a fine Bond. His philosophy, like Daniel Craig's, was that Bond should be a real person - dark, cynical, even angry. Dalton delivered this Bond beautifully, but this Bond was not the Bond that audiences wanted to see in 1989.The tone of the film set, Bond heads south of the border (this was also a convenient way of keeping th budget down). In a plot akin to 'Yojimbo' in many ways, he befriends and manipulates Sanchez to bring about his own downfall. Robert Davi is one of the most genuinely unpleasant and frightening baddies to ever appear in a Bond film, and the tone and authentic production design (owed largely to the use of real Mexican locations and, of course, Peter Lamont's genius as a Production Designer) allow us to really get into Bond's state of mind in the scenes between them.John Glen, in his fifth effort as director, truly outdoes himself as an action director here. The finale, in which Bond and Sanchez face off while tearing down a mountainside in a fleet of tankers, is one of the most tense and most enjoyable final reels in the series.The women are typically gorgeous here too. Carey Lowell is a tad annoying as Bond's sidekick but Talisa Soto is unmissable as the femme fatale. There's even an appearance from Wayne Newton and an early performance from a particularly nasty Benicio del Toro as one of Sanchez's henchmen.Despite Bond's defection, the writer's even managed to work Desmond Llewelyn into the film. The scene's between Bond and Q have a lovely undercurrent of affection and, thankfully, the subsequent deployment of gadgetry does not go so far as to ruin the dark and dirty mise-en-scene.The only problem this film really had was that it came a good 15 years too soon. If it were released now, as a follow up to 'Casino Royale', it would no doubt be hailed as a fittingly cynical and bleak addition to the cannon of the 'New Bond'. Don't believe the hype. This is one the very best Bond films out there. "},{"Title":"Classic Bond","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With this film, the EON team made a controversial move they took 007 out of Her Majesty's Secret Service, took away his 00 number, and put him outside his normal operating parameters.First off, we get the best performance to date by a Bond actor. Timothy Dalton had proved that he had the acting chops to play 007. HIf Dalton was easily visualized as Bond, he IS Bond in this film. He isn't the tuxedoed super hero of the Roger Moore films. Just look at the scene where Bond finds Della dead. Only Timothy Dalton could have given the proper emotion in the frantic cry of Della! and his reaction to looking over her body is classic Bond. He has studied the Bond character enough to get inside the characters' head and become him. It's true that bond appears out of his usual attire in the film and that Dalton looks uncomfortable in them, but Bond doesn't dress in that attire and Dalton is simply acting in the role. Dalton looks well in the scenes with the Bond girls and his scenes with Sanchez are among the best Bond-Villain scenes since From Russia With Love and the early Bond films.The weak point in the films main characters is the girl Pam Bouvier. Though she is a very strong character and Carey Lowell acts well in the part, the character seems out of place in a Bond film. Perhaps it is for the better that the character is tough and resourceful, the character seems to be more of the usual 80's tough woman action hero, ala Aliens and the like. Not that the character is a bad thing, but does that type of character belong in a James Bond adventure? She is a modern and tough woman; though as I said maybe a little too tough for a Bond film. Overall, Pam is a good character and Carey Lowell does a good job playing her.The villain, Franz Sanchez, is among the best villains of the series. He is also the more realistic of the series' villain, a drug lord from South America and in many ways a mirror, albeit evil, image of 007. Sanchez's loyalty issue lead to the self-destructive paranoia that leads him to do Bond's bidding by killing off most of his own inner-circle. Robert Davi does incredibly well in the part and is very believable and at times one has to wonder whether or not he really is the character he plays.Talisa Soto does well in the part of Lupe, though it is hard to feel for her character due to her limited time on screen, despite the limited time on screen. David Hedison makes a fantastic return as Felix Lieter.. When the shark maims him, we're shocked at it and even more shocked when bond finds his bloody and barely alive body at his house. Mostly the goons of Sanchez make up the rest of the supporting cast, led by a young and very impressive Benicio Del Toro, whose talents have improved since this film came out. The characters of Truman-Lodge, Heller, and Krest are great characters. The character of Joe Butcher is a fun character and well played by Wayne Newton, though a little out of place in this Bond film. Desmond Llewelyn gets the largest Q part in the series and shines in the process. Robert Brown returns as M and finally manages to step out of Bernard Lee's shadow for the scene at the Hemingway house in Key West. Caroline Bliss returns also for the second and final time as Moneypenny and doesn't spend enough time on screen to make an impression.The film's action sequences are among the best in the series. The film's opening teaser sequence while not as good as the one in The Living Daylights, is inspired and finds Bond, for the first time, not on a mission for MI6. The underwater/water ski/airplane sequence that takes later in the film is another inspired action sequence that showcases some of the best stunt work in the history of the series. The final action sequence in the film, the truck chase, is great. The stunts are unbelievably original and seeing an eighteen-wheeler truck doing a side wheelie is among the most amazing stunts seen on film. The various fights in the film are also good, especially the bar fight and the fight on the back of the runaway truck between Bond and Sanchez. The film has less action then The Living Daylights, but manages to surpass those action sequences and the plot never suffers.The film's plot is among the most original in the series. It uses many elements from the Fleming stories, particularly Lieter's maiming by a shark in the Live And Let Die novel, The sub-plots of the Japanese drug lords and the Stinger missiles help to complicate the film.If there is a bad thing about this film, it's the score and songs. When John Barry came down with esophagus cancer, EON hired the late Michael Kamen to do the score. Unfortunately, Kamen produced one of the worst Bond film scores. Like Monty Norman in Dr. No, he makes way too much use of The James Bond Theme in the score.. The film's songs are, for the most part, a letdown. The main title song, performed by Gladys Knight is instantly forgettable. The only good song to come out of the film is If You Asked Me To and is a pretty good song, though it does kind of feel out of place in a Bond film.Despite a terrible score, License To Kill is a great Bond film. With the best Bond performance of the series to date, a great villain, a good supporting cast (though some of them are out of place), good action sequences, and a good plot, License To Kill is a classic 007 film that ranks in the top five best Bond films. "},{"Title":"The best James Bond movie","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I find interesting one fact. Every James Bond movie where the main character loses the respect and support of his government is the best of all. Examples This one, Moonraker, Die another day...For me is something understandable. Bond loses his robotic mind control of the MI6 and goes by himself to make justice.This time is the moment to make justice for his friend, and the dead wife of his friend, a powerful memory of JB's dead wife too. So he jumps to the big swimming pool of vengeance, helped by Q and the always great Carey Lowell, ready to exterminate all the narc dealers gang. Do not ignore the little but deadly baddie role of Benicio del Toro (this guy is always great, even in the smaller roles).If we add long but not boring action sequences (the chase with the trucks full of gasoline and drugs, the sea-bar fight) some gory violence (the heads explode, sharks eat people's limbs, guys appear hanging on a piece of steel...) and the typical 007 humor (Touche! says to a guy with a sword fish on his chest), and then we shake all that with a good dramatic story, we have the best James Bond ever. And Tymothy Dalton is always a joy. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies and the best Bond actor","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie proves once and for all that Timothy Dalton is the best James Bond ever! Dalton's performance is undoubtedly the closest to the Bond depicted by Ian Fleming in his novels (you can't call yourself a true Bond fan if you haven't read any). Most people prefer Connery because he was the original, and although I appreciate Connery very much, his portrayal of Bond wasn't true to Fleming Fleming's Bond was human and vulnerable,and Tim Dalton comes closer to that than any other actor who played the part. (Moore? As far away from Fleming as you can imagine. Brosnan? Barely able to express anything, and apart from that, the Brosnan-era Bonds are too violent, have too many special FX, totally unbelievable plots, they lack the Bond flavor of the earlier movies and are closer to the average Jerry Bruckheimer production. Lazenby? Don't know, I must watch again OHMSS to decide.) Dalton is both far more expressive and believable than all the others! Licence to Kill is one of my favorite Bond movies, along with The Living Daylights. These two movies are both the most Flemingesque (with Lazenby's entry), both in their storyline and their acting, but LTK is the most remarkable in that aspect. Its plot is more realistic and focuses more on the characters (Bond is on a personal revenge, not an official mission) than on the stunts/gadgets etc. It departs from the series' formula (but not too much), which is quite refreshing. It has nevertheless all the ingredients of a traditional Bond exotic locations, gorgeous women, spectacular stunt sequences... But in the end, when watching the movie, you have the feeling you have come closest to the spirit, the essence of Ian Fleming's books! And on top of all that, the title song by Gladys Knight and If You Asked Me To by Patti LaBelle are the most beautiful Bond songs ever! They tie in perfectly with the movie.I was a kiddie when LTK was released. 16 years later, its acting, directing, plot and music are still as powerful as they were then. If only Timothy Dalton had made more Bond movies! Licence To Kill rules!!!!! "},{"Title":"Someone owes Timothy Dalton an apology!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not only is this the most under-rated of all Bond films and not only is it head and shoulders above ALL the Brosnan films (which range from crap - The World is Not Enough, to utter crap - Goldeneye, to Oh, my god, I never want to see a movie ever again - Die Another Day), but Dalton was truly in the spirit of Fleming's James Bond and Licence to Kill is, for my money, the best Bond since Connery split the first time! Granted, there are weaknesses, the gritty story-line might not be what people who grew up on the Roger Moore extravaganza's are used to and Talisa Soto is laughable, but Davi's a cool villain, Hedison's magnificent reprising his role as (the best) Felix Leiter (I'd pay real money just to hear him yell, Sanchez, I'll see you in Hell!), Q actually gets out into the field and Carey Lowell is smart AND sexy. Oh, and let's not forget, future Oscar-winner Benicio Del Toro in a fun supporting role. I even like the classy opening number by Gladys Knight (who looks like a million damn bucks, tuxedo-clad, in the music video).  "}{"Title":"Dalton's refresh was short-lived","Date":"4 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dalton may have refreshed 007 in his earlier film titled The Living Daylights from the Roger Moore efforts that had already spanned 12 years which was quite a long time and Moore clearly have been approaching 60 had it have been his eighth outing as James Bond. Unfortunately, the Dalton era of James Bond was to be fairly short-lived as the next one titled Licence to Kill looked to be nothing more than another View to a Kill and it also suffers from a poor plot and being more nastier and violent that it sometimes goes over the top and again, John Glen simply over-directed this one just like the earlier view that he had been previously in charge of. In theory, Dalton may have looked up to a minute but was considered to be too serious and lacked the confidence when it came to playing 007 and it wasn't really his fault with the failure of Licence to Kill. Even John Glen's efforts when it came to directing several James Bond films during the 1980s have been considered to be a bit patchy yet For Your Eyes Only, Octopussy or Living Daylights may have been his better efforts and Licence to Kill was his last. Finally, it would be another five years before Bond would be back with Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"Love Timothy Dalton - Hated This Movie","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  You know, I've never seen a James Bond movie except in pieces before, (I prefer Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt character in books)  but because of Timothy Dalton and some of the positive comments from the folks here, I thought what the heck.  At a very minimum I expected to see some impressive women slinking around in outrageous costumes and impressive special effects. WRONG.  Man what were they thinking when they made this film?  The special effects were mediocre, the women looked like J.C. Penny's models - in J.C. Penny's fashions and there was no chemistry between Dalton and either of them. (there are two leading ladies)  I was sorely disappointed.  This film didn't do a thing for me. Won't be trying Bond again.   I'll just lay in waiting for a better version of Dirk Pitt to come to the screen.  "},{"Title":"Put this movie out of its misery......burn all copies now!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I can't decide what was the worst thing about this movie. The bad plot, terrible acting, cheesy 1970's Barnaby Jones sets, lack of Bond gadgets, lack of Bond sex, silly Spanish accents or defeating a a guy with a gun to his head by throwing a couple of maggots in his face. The maggots reminded me of what happened when Lieutenant Frank Dreben (Naked Gun) had a pillow thrown at his face, except they were serious about it in this movie! An FBI agent they want dead is fed to a shark, but pulled back up before dead, put into a bag and left back at home to die? ARE YOU KIDDING ME?! That's the same schtick as the unnecessarily slow dipping mechanism gag in Austin Powers, except it was a joke in Austin Powers! This piece of crap has nothing to do with Bond. They just slapped the name on to a bad idea and out into the world it went. I didn't realize this was included in the collector's pack of 7 DVDs. I tried to watch it once, but had to shut it off after an hour. Save yourself the pain.....throw it away now! "},{"Title":"That's not James Bond! That's a Charles Bronson imitator.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The revenge plot of this film is reminiscent of a Death Wish sequel or a Steven Seagal outing. It is totally inappropriate for this series. And Dalton is still much worse as Bond than Moore, Connery or Brosnan, though he IS preferable to Lazenby. Dalton is humorless and dead serious, yet his glance is kind of goofy. After all, if  Bond has to become a Dirty Harry clone, cast Eastwood in the role. There are, however, two things that save this failure from being the worst movie in the series the cruel, satisfying villain and the spectacular explosions. The following Bond movie, Goldeneye, isn't great, but at least it saved the myth from its decadence.  "},{"Title":"part 16 is  better then the first 15","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This the 16th part to James Bond movies. And it is better then then all the ones that came before it. There are better one that came after this one. Golden eye is better. Tomorrow never dies it also better. The world is not enough is also better. But still this is a great movie Sean Connery ,Roger Moore and Daniel Greg are great as James Bond. But Timothy Dalton is better. This is the beast James Bond movie staring Timothy Dalton. This movies as great acting and a great story line. See it. It has an a great sound t.r.a.k. Die another day is better. But still it is a great movie. Robert D.a.v.i is one of the scariest Bond villains. All the bond girls are good actresses. Carey Lowell is one of the prettiest Bond girls. "},{"Title":"One of the Finest in the Series","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The James Bond series featured many styles in its first 16 films. There was the deliberate tension building of From Russia with Love, the embarrassing goofiness of The Man with the Golden Gun, and the more conventional feel and pace of Goldfinger and On Her Majesty's Secret Service, to name a few. Licence to Kill is the first Bond movie given a PG-13 rating. It is gritty, edgy and cruel, an unexpected change to the Bond formula to which audiences had grown accustomed. Adult language is prominently featured for the first time since Diamonds Are Forever, the action itself is harder and fiercer than ever before, and the characters, including Bond himself, demonstrate a new level of ruthlessness and hate. The sudden difference caused a somewhat poor reception in America, but in light of how Raiders of the Lost Ark revolutionized the action genre, these changes are exactly what the series needed.The film begins with James Bond (Timothy Dalton) and his longtime friend Felix Leiter (David Hedison) arresting Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi), South America's premier drug lord. A few hours and two million dollars later, Sanchez is a free man. As his first order of business, he murders Leiter's new wife and feeds Felix to a shark. This stokes Bond's furnace seven times hotter than ever before, but after M (Robert Brown) personally orders him to back down, he abruptly resigns. Bond's next stop is Panama, where he aims to sunder Sanchez' empire from within.Is Dalton's performance as Bond the best? It is difficult to determine since, because the character is so different here, Dalton's performance cannot be meaningfully compared to the other 20. He is not on a mission for Her Majesty's Government. For the first time, it is a personal matter, and his thirst for vicious retribution leaves no room for his usual charm. It was once inconceivable for Bond to threaten to slit a woman's throat, but that is not even his most drastic action. What I can definitely say is that Dalton is the best actor for this story. Writers Michael G. Wilson and Richard Maibaum knew what they had in Dalton and targeted his strengths.Franz Sanchez defies the mold of the Bond villain. Sanchez has the most screen time invested in his character. His aims are more modest, and his is character the most developed and complex. His capacity for evil makes Blofeld look like a nanny, yet he is warm and friendly to those who have earned his trust since loyalty is more important to me than money. It is not enough to merely kill his enemies; he must make them suffer greatly. Davi accomplishes much with his quick temper and tendency to tilt his head for emphasis. Great acting and writing is a powerful one-two punch, and Sanchez trails only Elliot Carver and Telly Savalas' Blofeld among the Bond antagonists.Finally, the action is remarkable. The action makes or breaks a Bond movie, and License to Kill provides some of the franchise's most remarkable. There is an underwater scuffle that transfers onto a sea plane. Since it relies on strategy rather than uninteresting combat, the sequence is far superior to, while being much shorter than, the climax of Thunderball. The barroom fistfight, despite the silly bits with the swordfish and table dancer, is another positive. Unlike many of the movies preceding, Licence to Kill saves it greatest action for the finale. Culminating in a mountain road chase involving four gas tankers loaded with drugs, it is to this day one of the most spectacular accomplishments in the series. I felt blown away the first time I saw it. Indeed, the strong action helps make License to Kill the best Bond film in twenty years. John Glen even says that it the best movie he ever directed, and I could not agree more.All of these elements were weak or missing from several predecessors, but now they are back in full glory. They illustrate how much can be accomplished with less humor and more intense conflicts. Of course, I must mention Carey Lowell and Talisa Soto as the Bond ladies. Both are capable of holding their own ground, and not since From Russia with Love has a female been as helpful. Desmond Llewelyn has his largest role as Q, a huge plus, and Wayne Newton provides the comic relief as a phony televangelist. Anthony Starke's presence as Sanchez' accountant will please Seinfeld fans.The sinister, bloody style of Licence to Kill made it the most divisive of the franchise. Although the departure from the norm works exceedingly well, I don't want to see it again. The lasting benefit is the return to thrilling, action-packed adventures that transformed James Bond from literary hero to cultural legend. What Dalton began in The Living Daylights is brought into full circle. Although he would never return to make another Bond, Timothy Dalton made two excellent movies that changed the Bond franchise for the better. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton; a renegade Bond at his most ruthless!","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Refreshing, is the word that describes this Bond film to me (a longtime Bond geek). I was not crazy about Timothy Dalton's first Bond outing, the 'Living Daylights'; it was an average entry in the series. But 'License to Kill' made for a bare-knuckled, one-two punch of a movie! Dispensing with much of the political intrigue and a lot of the gadgetry (ironic, since gadget-master Q, the wonderful Desmond Llewelyn, plays his lengthiest role to date), this Bond's tag-line should have been, This Time It's Personal (not to be confused with another late '80s shark attack film; the foul-smelling Jaws 4). 'Licence to Kill' sees Bond losing said license, while avenging the arranged shark-attack/mutilation of former CIA (now DEA) ally and longtime friend, Felix Leiter (David Hedison, whose played the character in other Bond films). In addition to Leiter's near murder, his new bride is killed for his role in attempting to bring in international drug dealer Sanchez (Robert Davi; perhaps the most subtle Bond villain next to Mads Mikkelson's Le Chiffre in 2006's Casino Royale). Bond boss 'M' refuses to let 007 pursue the matter, so in haste, he resigns. Many Bond fans had a problem with this; I did not. In my opinion, it made for a more human Bond, to avenge his friend. And I believe it was totally in character (Bond HAS gone on vendettas before; the 'Diamonds are Forever' opening sequence, as well as the opener of 'For Your Eyes Only'; so THERE, Bond purists!). Aiding him in his quest are Carey Lowell as pilot-for-hire Pam Bouvier (doing a good turn as a Bond girl; sexy, smart and resourceful), as well as an 'on-leave' Q, in what is Q's largest and most helpful role to date (he finally works in the field; secretly aiding Bond in his quest). And lastly, the most important component in a Bond movie; James Bond 007 himself! Timothy Dalton plays the role in a similar way to most recent Bond, Daniel Craig (in the 2006 franchise re-boot, Casino Royale); as a somewhat moodier, darker Bond that bleeds, feels pain and uses his fists more than devices. He DOES use a few Q toys, but except for a lighter given to him by...well, Leiter (sorry about that), they are not central to the plot this time, as in other Bonds (especially in my least favorite entries of the series; the Roger Moore Bonds). Making Bond a rogue this time out makes his situation a little more perilous; he does not have an army of Her Majesty's finest troops or the United States Marine Corps to back him up. Just his wits, cunning and a couple of close allies. Having seen this film very recently after about 12 years or so, reminded me that this is one of the better Bonds, and that the far-too-easily dismissed Timothy Dalton did a wonderful turn as Bond; bringing the character back to his rugged roots (like early Connery, or even the promising new Bond Daniel Craig). License to Kill is a Bond stripped of duty to Queen and country, and replacing it with a thirst for vengeance. An equally powerful motive (if not more so) that fuels this top-of-the-line 007 adventure! And the tanker chase finale is spectacular! "},{"Title":"Muddled","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film seems to be almost interchangeable with The Living Daylights, at least insofar as it suffers the same lack of conviction in terms of plot despite the interesting premise. This film could have been so much better than it actually ended up, which is a shame. As with the former Dalton Bond, half the cast seem to be acting in different films, and the lack of determination in making Bond truly badass really spoils the whole affair. This really is a case of less would have been more, and had they dispensed with the lame jokes, every part of Q's contribution and the tedious villain-hideout-that-goes-boom ending, it would most likely have been a much better film. As it was, it stalled the franchise for a few years and a very promising Bond was left out in the cold. Oh well, take heart, Mr Dalton, in the fact that you sign-posted the way for Daniel Craig to follow. "},{"Title":"A great representation of Fleming's Bond (SPOILERS)","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 1989's Licence To Kill, along with On Her Majesty's Secret Service, is the most heavily decisive Bond film of the entire series. Featuring much more violence and swearing, plus a down to earth and completely plausible plot, LTK makes us easily forget the sometimes painful Roger Moore years, and while it does get really gritty and offers shades of something like Miami Vice, it's still a Bond movie with all the elements one comes to expect, just that it adds an Ian Fleming tone, and while From Russia With Love is close to the source novel, Licence To Kill plays out as if Fleming had written the screenplay himself.The film opens with an enjoyable, if unspectacular, scene where drug lord Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi) is captured by Bond and his friend, Felix Leiter. This just so happens to be Felix's wedding day, and after the arrest, everything goes as planned-- until Sanchez's crew come, kill Felix's wife Della and Felix himself is maimed by sharks. Worst of all, Sanchez escapes and flees to Mexico. Naturally, Bond swears to avenge Leiter at any cost, even if it means going rogue or getting killed.The straight-forward plot is a asset to the movie. Once the exposition is out of the way, all we have to do is sit back as Bond investigates and exacts brutal revenge against Sanchez and his cartel. In that sense, the movie shows just how good an agent Bond is; he could've easily just shot Sanchez in the casino, but that would've just been suicide. Instead, Bond uses everything at his disposal to get the drug lord to take himself down. This type of plotting is not only effective, but says a lot about the two adversaries.For the most part, the cast is unmemorable, but there are a few actors who stand out. Robert Davi immerses himself into his role and is completely believable as the sadistic Sanchez. By going so far with this character and not trying to over exaggerate his aims, the writers create one of the series' best villains. Timothy Dalton returns for his second shot as 007 and continues to make the role his own. This Bond is wild and unpredictable, but not without a sense of humor, and this balance works, along with a fierce performance from Dalton. Shame that he only did two films.Then there's Benicio Del Toro, giving a menacing and memorable turn as Dario, one of Sanchez's main men, and Anthony Zerbe being a highlight as the slimy Milton Krest. Both of them get an unpleasant, but deserved, demise. I also liked the extended role of Q, and even though the gadgets were toned down, Bond could not do without Q's expertise, and Desmond Llewelyn plays the role perfectly, as usual. Unfotunately, the two Bond Girls just don't cut it. Carey Lowell is good as Pam Bouvier, even though the character is simply okay, while Talisa Soto as Lupe Lamora is wooden and completely forgettable.Due to the low budget, Licence To Kill does not have a lot of locations (most of it was shot in Mexico) and even though the filmmakers do the best with what they have, the background isn't immediately interesting or memorable and doesn't stand up to the best of locales. Add to this an absolutely terrible bar scene and the movie doesn't look as glossy as, say, Moonraker. And even though this helps the movie and adds to the realism, it doesn't make the film any different than other action films based around drugs made at the time.Michael Kamen's score can also be criticized. Beyond a rousing interpretation of the James Bond Theme, his music is hardly interesting and it lacks any of the substance that John Barry or even David Arnold brought to the series, while the stingers and Chinese narcotics agents subplots seem too tacked-on and only pad out and complicate a script that should have been 5-10 minutes shorter.The action scenes, though, are all expertly handled and live up the high standards of the Bond films. A thrilling underwater fight precedes a classic stunt where Bond water skis on his bare feet and then hijacks a plane in mid-air, ruining one of Sanchez's drug deals. The finale with the tankers manages to be exciting, fresh, interesting, and well-made, while providing an appropriate final confrontation with the villain.So while Licence To Kill undoubtedly fails in some departments, the radical departure from your standard Bond film in favor of much darker plot line does the movie wonders. While the direction isn't particularly solid, the nods to Fleming's works are much appreciated and the overall pace of the movie is really good. This would be the last time that a Bond film would be as good, after the producers rejected everything they learned during Dalton's outings and churned out the Brosnan Bond movies. As a stand alone, though, Licence To Kill succeeds and deserves a better reputation than it has. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Best in the Series","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Licence to Kill (1989) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Timothy Dalton's second and final stint as James Bond finds him resigning from the Secret Service so that he can go after a drug kingpin (Robert Davi) who murdered his best friend and his new bride. LICENCE TO KILL is without question one of the best Bond films of the decade and I think it ranks right up there with the best that the series has ever offered. This installment into the series is incredible dark, violent and has a very nasty mean streak running through it and all of this makes it so memorable from start to finish. I thought the story of vengeance was something the series needed because it was a lot of fun seeing Bond doing something other than the Majesty's dirty work. I thought getting to see Bond as a normal person (so to speak) was very entertaining and it was made even better that he had a great villain to go up against. The entire movie features one memorable sequence after another from a brilliant opening sequence all the way to the edge-of-your-seat thrilling ending. Unlike most films in the series, this one here really doesn't have any comedy or camp and instead it's all taken very serious and the stakes are raised so high in the first twenty-minutes and it lets the viewer know that anything can happen. Dalton was really terrific this time out as he managed to do great work with the action sequences but I thought he was really able to make the character seem real. Davi was terrific as the drug kingpin and the coldness is something the actor brought out beautifully. Carey Lowell was very good in her part and we even got a young Benicio Del Toro playing a good villain. The action scenes are among some of the best in the series and this is especially true for the ending with all the tanker trucks. LICENCE TO KILL is without question a full blown thriller that works all around. "}{"Title":"more like 003½","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Agent 007 slips a few notches, through no fault of Timothy Dalton, who at least adds a semblance of human dimension to the larger-than-life superspy. This adventure is no more improbable, sadistic or sexist than any other in the series, but after 26 years the formula has been reduced to little more than its basic components a ruthless villain, a beautiful and willing girl (or two), and a few hair-raising stunts. Director John Glen has a knack for crashing cars and trucks together, but stumbles over any scene involving even the simplest exchange of dialogue, leaving the film with the same air of tired convention that dogged Roger Moore's final outings in the role. Worse than routine, the new Bond is entirely disposable what was once sophisticated pop entertainment is now just another summer shoot-'em-up in an already overcrowded market. "},{"Title":"Truly missable","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It may sacrilege to admit that ALL the Bond movies are junk made for twelve-year-old boys, but this one stands out (with crud like Octopussy) as poorly-crafted even by that standard.What can we say about Dalton? Wooden, dour, possessing not a drop of the elan we want to embody 007. Who'd want to be a secret agent after watching him? The storyline, while allowing for silly and fun chases and stunts, is heavier than that in most other Bond pictures. The killing of the American agent and his bride (who are not merely anonymous victims but developed and sympathetic characters) is particularly disturbing.Speaking of the Americans, David Hedison is photographed HORRIBLY here. He looks like he could be Dalton's grandpa. (I've seen him elsewhere and he happens to have aged well in the 16 years subsequent to his appearance in this dud.) "},{"Title":"My least favourite Bond film","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As much as I do love the James Bond movies in general, I didn't like Licence to Kill. Desmond Llwelyn is given a great role and does well with it, there is a spectacular chase with an oil tanker and the then it's a farewell to arms scene(in Hemingway's Garden in Key West) is a moment of real style. And I did like some of the scenery. However, Timothy Dalton while looking like Bond phones in his performance, and the editing is rather flat. While I liked the theme song, the score itself could have been much more memorable. The violence is rather relentless, making this entry one of the if not the most violent of the Bond films, while the script is literally non-existent. The plot is also very predictable and slapdash, while the direction and other acting are nothing great. Overall, very disappointing. 3.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Best Bond Film Of The 80s","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"35 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've never been much of a fan of the Bond series but I did like the way Timothy Dalton played Bond as completely straight . Out went the bizarre plots of world domination , the ridiculous set pieces and the groan inducing double entrandes that had dominated the franchise since the late 60s . LICENCE TO KILL is tailor made for Dalton's Bond , it's a gritty humourless tale of revenge against a latino drug lord very well played by Robert Davi . Also good to see future Oscar winning actor Benicio Del Toro as a villain who has the temerity to spit on Bond , not even Blofeld would have done something as disgusting as that. I liked LICENCE TO KILL a lot. The fact that it's an atypical Bond film has much to do with it "},{"Title":"Licence to Kill","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the most violent and thriller-type of all the Bond films, and it takes the actor's hard version of the character a bit further. James Bond (Timothy Dalton) is best man at the wedding of best friend, Felix Leiter, marrying Della Churchill (Priscilla Barnes), while at the same time capturing international drug dealer Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi). Then Sanchez escapes and sends people to kidnap Leiter with the help of traitor cop (who accepted Sanchez's $2m bribe for realise), Ed Killifer (Everett McGill). Bond finds Della dead and Leiter barely alive with severe shark bites, he is now on a vendetta to avenge his friend and his dead wife. He even announces resignation to M (Robert Brown), who says that this decision has he licence to kill revoked (originally the title of the film would have been Licence Revoked, but many Americans didn't know what revoked meant), and Bond leaves on the comment Well, it's a farewell to arms. Now Bond is a rogue agent following all leads towards Sanchez, firstly by shark tanks owner Milton Krest (Anthony Zerbe), but better information comes from Sanchez's girlfriend, Lupe Lamora (the gorgeous Talisa Soto). Bond also finds the only person active from some of Felix's files, and most likely the next target, Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell) to help him get to places. Bond later also gets an unexpected visit from Q (Desmond Llewelyn, getting more screen time), sent by Miss Moneypenny (Caroline Bliss) to provide him with some helpful gadgets. The final scenes are the best, inside a cocaine factory disguised as a meditation institute, but more impressive is the chase with all the tankers carrying the many gallons of illegal liquidised cocaine shipments, with great stunts and explosions. Also starring Frank McRae as Sharkey, Wayne Newton as Professor Joe Butcher, Benicio Del Toro as Dario, Anthony Starke as Truman-Lodge and Pedro Armendáriz (son of the From Russia with Love actor) as President Hector Lopez. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was also number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and the film was number 15 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Gladys Knight's title song (they did not mention Patti La Belle's If You Asked Me). Good! "}]