[{"Title":"Totally worths the bite! Great sequel that doesn't tries to imitate the original.","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" McDowall, Ragsdale and company join again for more vampire fun. Thanks Mr. Tom Holland for creating these movies. The sequel to one of the most important vampire movies of the past 20 years delivers expectations by entertaining and making the audience laugh. The charm of the original is present but just in half. We still enjoy the Roddy McDowall - William Ragsdale duo now in better shape. Although the Jerry Dandridge character is not present, it's present through all the movie because he's mentioned and remembered.Four years have passed since the frightening events that led to the death of 10,000 year old vampire Jerry Dandridge. Charlie Brewster has a hot new girlfriend, Alex and now he attends college and isn't a geek anymore. Things seem to be perfect for him. Through therapy, Charlie tries to forget what happened and tells to himself that everything came out from his mind. Nothing really existed to him. Peter Vincent still hosts Fright Night and his life is also good. Harmony abruptly breaks when Charlie believes in vampires again. He still has vampire related nightmares, his mind plays tricks on him and one of a sudden, the events of the original Fright Night happen again. Regine Dandridge (yes, Jerry's sister) finds Charlie and Peter Vincent and swears to take revenge for her brother's death. This time the vampires are more and will do everything possible to torture Charlie for eternity and kill Peter Vincent. Once again the Brewster-Vincent duo teams against the blood sucking gang in a fierce battle that will make you want more of Fright Night!I truly LOVE the original Fright Night and to me, none sequel or vampire flick will match it's coolness. Fright Night part II is the vampire movie that I was looking for. The movie is filled with horror, action, cool f/x, great acting, sensuality, gore, black humor, and a good soundtrack. What else could you ask for in a horror movie from the 80's?! Part II does the things correctly and almost tops the original.ACTING. Roddy McDowall and William Ragsdale are my favorite duo in horror movies. Both actors are at their best in this sequel. Seems that both enjoyed acting together and fighting vampires. McDowall gives a strong performance based on his maturity and fine humor. He's the man! No one like him can challenge vampires. Ragsdale improves his performance from the original and gives a great performance. Julie Carmen (Regine) could fill the great Chris Sarandon's shoes in the role of the lead vampire. Her performance totally hypnotized me and I enjoyed it. Vampires were never this seductive and hot. I praise her for wearing tight and short outfits. She's super hot and gives a great performance. She was mean she it was necessary, she was sensual every time. Carmen is a hot women and my favorite vampire female character. Tracy Lin (Alex) gives another strong and believable performance as Charlie's (lucky bastard) radiant new girlfriend. She was very cute and hot. She knew how to display a strong woman that looked very tender. I love this woman. Is it me or she looks a lot like Anna Chmulsky (from My Girl fame)? What a beautiful woman. Yum. The other supporting cast members are very good. Brian Thompson (Bozworth deserves special mention. The other vampire gang members were perfect! Cool designs. The tranvestie roller skater vampire is insane! A creepy character. The werewolf worked perfectly as the Evil Ed of the movie. Still we miss a lot Evil Ed. I enjoyed Ernie Sabella's performance as Dr. Harrison. He was insane! Also, the patient in the mental asylum that helps Peter Vincent to escape is groovy. I truly enjoyed his performance a la Jay and Silent Bob. A great cast that worked perfectly for a horror comedy.DIRECTION. Tommy Lee Wallace did a wonderful job. He sets a creepy atmosphere getting hand from action and comedy. There are some impressive camera angels that make the movie look classy. For example the scene where Peter Vincent uses the broken mirror against Regine in the final battle looks great! A difficult scene that went perfect. Fright Night II looks impressive for being a horror movie. Obviously the budget here is huge. F/X, CINEMATOGRAPHY, SOUNDTRACK. The f/x improved the original's. Visually stunning effects again. I loved the tranvestie vampire's death and the maggots coming out from Bozworth's stomach. Candy for the eye! Thanks. The cinematography is great. Part II is visually stunning also. Metal Pop tunes, vampiresque melodies, organs, and rock make a great soundtrack. Not as good as the original's but still works.FRIGHT NIGHT PART II has many things to bite -Regine telling Charlie and Peter welcome to Fright Night!. A scene that sent chills to my bones! A new classic moment for me. -Regine threatening Peter Vincent and then tells him that Charlie's punishment will be worse. -Bozworth's explicit death. -The scene where a looney helps Peter escape from the mental asylum. A hell of a funny scene! -The final battle between Charlie, Peter and Regine. I loved the way Peter used the broken mirror. The scene is very memorable because it's the last time that the team win a battle against vampires. Everybody misses Roddy McDowall a lot... -Dr. Harris's death. -The scene where the skate roller tranvestie vamp. comes at high speed against Charlie. A truly creepy moment with the 80's craziness. The clothing, the hair, the music, the scary looks. I love it.Take my word, Fright Night Part II is a great horror comedy movie. Not as great as the original but still delivers and overpasses expectations. This is one of the best sequels ever to a horror movie. The Fright Night movies will always work. Time seems to make no harm to them. 8.0/10 Fun, gory, entertaining, well directed and acted. Part II is a sequel to bite! "},{"Title":"A Sequel That Works","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There are so few sequels that do work, and have something a bit more to say from the original.  Fright Night 2 is one of those.  It has more to say on the idea of the supernatural in real-life (Charlie's inability to deal with the events of the original movie, Vincent's trying to avoid the whole thing), and gives us a decent follow-up to the original with Dandridge's sister on a revenge kick.  There are more nods to Stoker and the original vampire mythology (the reference to wild roses, for instance), and the new vampire's sidekickers are equally as weird as Jonathan Stark's Billy Cole in the original.  See it if you can  it doesn't seem to be a movie that shows up very often. "},{"Title":"'that was NOT group hypnosis!'","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Follow up to the 1985 horror hit isn't quite as good as the original, but is an amusing enough sequel.Charley Brewster is now in college, when Dandridge's sister rolls into town with her entourage.Fright Night Part 2 benefits from a well written story that has some of the spirit of the original film and plenty nicely gruesome special FX. Sure, it's not as charismatically done as the first movie, but it's a sequel with big shoes to fill! Director Tommy Lee Wallace does pretty well with giving the movie some style and solid action. The sequel also has a share of dark humor. Brad Fiedel's beautiful rock score is used once again and Deborah Holland does a great cover on the song 'Come to Me'.Roddy McDowall and William Ragsdale both make welcomed returns as their original characters and come off as the best of the cast. Julie Carmen does make a fairly decent vamp villain though, while Jon Gries, Brian Thompson, and Russell Clark make for some good freak geeks. Again, it's not the original, but as sequels go it certainly isn't bad either!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Second bite in the right direction! Welcome to Fright Night for the last time","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  FRIGHT NIGHT II is a great sequel to one of the best Vampire movies ever. The original FRIGHT NIGHT has to be the best Vampire movie of the 80's, and that helped the late 80's release of part II succeed.Charlie Brewster is back ,this time he's not a geek anymore and he has a new and hot girlfriend, but he denies the existence of vampires. That's his main problem because vampires couldn't me more alive this time around! Everything is going alright in Charlie's life until he meets Regine. Regine is the kind of woman that every man would like to have in their home she's hot, sensual, and she knows how to be sexy. Now, there's a little problem with her She's a vampire, and she wants to take revenge for her brother's death.   Unknown to Charlie, Regine is Jerry Dandridge's sister and now he has to pay for Jerry's death. The same thread goes for Mr. Peter Vincent The Vampire Killer who helped Charlie in the previous film.Charlie and Mr. Vincent team up again for a second and last time in a deadly battle against vampires... Unlike in the original FRIGHT NIGHT, this time they are ready and they have no fear for vampires.FRIGHT NIGHT II is a great vampire/horror movie. In some moments, you can feel the spirit of the original FRIGHT NIGHT, and that makes this movie better. A rolling skater vampire, a vampire that eats insects, and some Evil Ed style weirdo are present to irritate Charlie and Mr. Vincent before they face the sexy (but deadly) Regine Dandridge in the last FRIGHT NIGHT battle.The ending is great, I won't give away it but you have to check it out carefully. Peter Vincent's last scene is stuff for legend, and he's still the best Vampire Killer in a movie. Check out this movie with high expectations, it won't disappoint you.  "},{"Title":"Definitely polished for a vampire movie...","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We are all being made aware lately that the sequel just might be better yet.The directors efforts were outstanding,and the dance scenes superb. This was quality for all,when normally,vampire movies only appeal to a percentage of us..I salute fright night 2 .. "},{"Title":"The first was hard to top, but this ones still enjoyable","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Title Fright Night II (1988)Director Tommy Lee WallaceStars Roddy McDowel, William Ragsdale, Julie Carmen, Traci LinReviewFright Night II the sequel to the smash 1985 film, is a good follow up to an already good film. Fright Night was excellent in paying homage to old vampire films, had charming and likable characters, and greeeat special make up fx. Its sequel is no less of a film.Tommy Lee Wallace did a great job doing this film. His no stranger to horror films, hes got such hits as Stephen Kings IT and Halloween III under his directorial belt, hes worked along side Jhon Carpenter on films like The Fog and Holloween so hes got the experience and the know how to make a decent horror movie and he shows he knows what we want to see. But we get lots more then just a vampire flick, we also get a zombie and a werewolf too.The story picks up where the first movie left off. Charlie is in college and is going to the shrink to try and make his horrible vampire filled past behind. His shrink actually convinces him that it was all mass hysteria, it never really happened. Peter Vincent is still doing his Fright Night TV show...only its ratings ain't so hot. In comes Regine, a mysterious performance artist who's trying to take the show away from Peter...and also seems to have an alternate agenda on her schedule.The story is basically a revenge story. Some of Jerry Dandridges pals decide they want to exact revenge on who ever killed him and therein lies our movie. Peter, Alex and Charlie get chased around by bloodthirsty vamps hungry for revenge. Seeing Peter and Charlie together again is so cool, they just make such an interesting pair, one a crazy cooky old fashioned movie star who believes in vampires, the other a young college student trying to leave his past behind. Once again Peter and Charlie are played with great vulnerability, they are not superheroes like maybe Blade or George Clooney, these are real people who are scared and afraid, in some really fucked up circumstances. The only really big difference in the characters on this one is Charlie, who seems a lot more mature and doesn't act so much like a nerdy teenager. Another change is the absence of Amy, but we quickly forget Amys childish behavior once we get a look at Alex (played by Traci Lin) Charlies new girlfriend. I don't think a great many people miss Amy and her crying and whining. Alex is a welcome and improved replacement for her. The special fx, are much like in the first one really good, and wont disappoint, though they are definitely toned down a bit. Where the first one was a make up fx tour de force this one brings the fx down a notch focusing more on character development and story. But just a bit mind you, we get some cool looking vampires and werewolves in this one, and they die in really innovative and interesting ways. Check out the scene int he bowling alley for some good gory fun. Then there's the comedy, much like the first one, the horror and comedy and mixed in a very subtle way. And its good because it is not over the top. For example we get a seen where the werewolf played by Jon Gries (who also played a werewolf on The Monster Squad), is trying to sneak a peek on some college girls room as they are changing their clothes. Also we get to see the vampires having some fun at the bowling alley in their own grisly way. The whole film builds up to a very interesting climax, showing us that true love does conquer all (even becoming a vampire) and once again showcasing some really cool vampire and werewolf deaths.My only setback is that I would have liked for Regine to show more of her vampire look. She looks really evil as a vampire but we only get a small glimpse of her in that state which sucked. Why the hell couldn't we see more of her? If I had been Tommy Lee Wallace I would have used those excellent make up fx just a tad more, at least in the finale. But like I said before, the film tones down on the special fx. This is only a minor set back on an other wise good film. An excellent sequel to an excellent film, its good enough for Fright Night fans not to be disappointed, and for every one else who just loves a good vampire film. Of course the first one was a hard movie to top, but trust me Fright Night II is fangtastic good time! Rating 4 out of 5Ps. This flick has just been released by Artisan on a very crappy DVD with no extras, and its also fullscreen (YUCK!) but who cares, at least for those who are fans like me, you'll get to have this way cool flick on your DVD collection, finally! "},{"Title":"A sequel that matches it's original.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fright Night Part II is one sequel that bites back and equals it's original in popularity. The plot is once again centered on vampires with key characters back only this time you have a new crew of vampires starting off with Regine Dandridge. Regine Dandridge (Julie Carmen) is back for revenge after learning that Peter Vincent and Charlie Brewster claimed responsible for the death of her brother Jerry. For a female that Regine has a great and sexy bite! This time Charlie Brewster (William Ragsdale) finds himself away at college with his new girlfriend played by Traci Lind only to have the vampire problems return, never fear enter the fearless vampire killer Peter Vincent (Roddy McDowall) and the fun begins again. This sequel has all the fun and suspense moments filled with drama and humor just like the original Fright Night only this sequel just has a better look to it. Fright Night II is a film not to be missed by any horror buff. "},{"Title":"Good just like the...","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First Fright Night.  Take my word for it.  I love the idea of the characters that were similar to vampires, but were not totally vampires.  I really loved the idea of the vampire on skates.  I give this one an 8.5 out of 10 stars.  Since this one was good, they should make another sequal. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel; worth a viewing.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Three years after killing the vampire in the original, Charlie has started to believe it was all his imagination and starts to forget that vampires truly exist - until four strangers lead by Regina, a noted actress, arrives at Peter Vincent's house and starts to have an unhealthy interest in Charlie, Peter and Charlie's new girlfriend Alex. It becomes clear that Regina is Jerry's (the vampire in the original film) sister and she is determined to get revenge on the friends and plans to turn Charlie into a vampire - so that he can face his punishment for all eternity. Though not as good as the original, I still enjoyed this film. The cast of the first returns and the script is still sprinkled with plenty of tongue-in-cheek humor, but it's not as fun as the first was. it was just missing that special Umph. The strongest aspect of this film is the various special effects incarnations, which look great. These range from a man's face turning translucent and melting to stop-motion bat-like monsters. The special effects in this film look much better than in the first and are delivered in moderation (The ending notwithstanding) so they are effectively used and not their just to dazzle us. Fairly gory at times, and the effects-packed finale is certainly fun to watch. Julie Carmen is also really good as the vampiress. Pretty enjoyable sequel, rent it but don't buy it before you see it.  "},{"Title":"Fright Night, Part II (1988)","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I totally loved this movie! I'm a huge fan of horror films in general, and I love vampires especially, and I must say that the film Fright Night, Part II is excellent and exceptional in my opinion. I've read enough of the user comments, and while everyone is entitled their own opinion, I think that Fright Night, Part II has been unfairly underrated. With its slick and stylish production, polished script, strong cast,(even the supporting actors are brilliant) haunting and atmospheric film score, Fright Night, Part II is quite a classy production. Screen Legend Roddy McDowall reprises his role as the eccentric, old-fashioned movie-star/horror-show host Peter Vincent. Mr. McDowall was a truly gifted actor, (he passed away on October 3, 1998) and his presence has been greatly missed. His legacy is legions of loyal fans (myself included) and an impressive body of work spanning 60 years. As I've indicated before, I loved everything about this film. I was especially taken with actress Julie Carmen. Her performance as the regal, extraordinarily beautiful Vampire Queen is one for the cinematic ages. She was everything that a vampire should be beautiful, powerful, classy, seductive, elegant, and deadly with loads of style and charisma. Miss Carmen inhabited this role to the point where one can see in her eyes, the eternal melancholy and loneliness, that is the vampire's destiny. She dominated every scene in which she appeared, and it was truly a wonderful thing to experience. (Fright Night, Part II was shown in theaters in limited release in the spring of 1989.) I am a fan of hers for life! Miss Carmen, I salute you! I love music, and the soundtrack for this film is outstanding, kudos to Brad Fiedel for his astonishing, atmospheric, work. I especially loved the final song that is played over the end credits Come to Me as performed by singer Deborah Holland. Ms. Holland has an angelic voice, and her's is a hauntingly beautiful, expressive rendition of the material as she sings the vampire's pain and longing accompanied by harps and violins. This song is written and produced by the talented Mr. Fiedel and appears on Fright Night's soundtrack in an instrumental version. I loved this film, and my only regret is that there isn't a Fright Night, Part III. Rating 10/10 stars! Grade A+Tommy Lee Wallace Presents Fright Night, Part II (1988) Starring Roddy McDowall, William Ragsdale, Traci Lin, Brian Thompson, Jonathan Gries, and Julie Carmen as Regine. Rated R for violent/disturbing images, partial nudity and brief sensuality. "}{"Title":"A lot of FUN !!!!!","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Charlie Brewster is undergoing psychoanalysis in order to overcome his fears that his previous encounters with Vampires were all illusions.Beware of Psychiatrists who play with TRAINS in their office ? and things get stranger from there.While Fright Night II didn't receive as much acclaim as the original, the Cast is EXCELLENT and the Script is Good. Roddy McDowall and William Ragsdale are a Terrific duo, confronting a Vampire on Roller Skates, a Goofy WereWolf, a Bug Eating Goon, and Weirdos at every turn.They have a unique chemistry, and it is not wasted.Defeating the forces of darkness is not an easy task , since the world only comprehends the superficial, and not supernatural.... Regine Dandridge(Julie Carmen) has her sights set on the Vampire Killers,and moves into the same building as Peter Vincent with her entourage of ghouls !She is the vampiric sister of the LATE 1000 year old Jerry Dandridge(Chris Sarandon),Vampire Extrodinaire . Her revenge is to replace Peter Vincent on Fright Night, send him to the Looney Bin, and get into Charlie's head,and destroy his life by turning him into one of the undead .Traci Lin is delightful as the angelic Alex,the new college girlfriend of Charlie, whose beliefs are founded in book-smart logic... Julie Carmen is delectable as the sultry Regine, who uses the cover of a Performance Artist, to mask her agenda on the somewhat uncoordinated Vampire Killers....Louie(John Gries), Bozworth(Brian Thompson),Dr. Harrison(Ernie Sabella),Richie(Merritt Butrick) give it their all and it really adds to the fun.Peter and Charlie discover the Vampires , and the battle is on...will Regine defeat Charlie with her cunning charm, will Peter be strong enough to overcome the forces of Evil ?Watch and find out !!!A MUST see for Halloween viewing on a double bill with the original Fright Night...Kudos to Tommy Lee Wallace and crew... More of a Romantic SuperNatural Thriller, Roddy McDowall is GREAT as usual !!!I originally gave this film an 8, but the status has gone to a 9 for it's GOOD-NATURED FUN !!!The ending track Come To Me,performed by Deborah Holland is Haunting and Underrated !!! "},{"Title":"Vampire film Par Excellence!","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot stress how wonderful this movie is. Everything, the ensemble, the effects, the cinematography, everything. It basically follows the original's story Charley(William Ragsdale) is now in college, with a new girlfriend Alex,(Traci Lin)and he is trying to get over his vampire attack a few years ago, and telling himself it isn't real. But one night after visiting his old friend Peter Vincent(the late and great Roddy McDowall), he sees a sultry, beautiful women walking down the hall, and can't help but notice her. He soons find out that this is Regine Danderidge(Julie Carmen), sister of the slain vampire Jerry Danderidge, and she is out for revenge. The battle then insues, and the classic fight between good and evil grabs you and won't let you go. Stand outs of the film are Julie Carmen's exotic performance as Regine(especially the dance, and the tv show), and Traci Lin and Roddy McDowall's feeding off each other's acting. The point is, see this movie! It's probably the best vampire film you'll ever see.  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I loved the first film, as I am a very big fan of vampires. The first film was something I liked, because it was a good mixture of horror and comedy. The second movie is a good sequel, and the special effects were very good, although a little over the top. They use a very good cast for both films, as they make the vampires very sexual, and at the same time scary. E.G. In the first movie, they make girls very attracted to Chris S. yet he is strangely spooky. In Fright Night II the cast of vampires are very seductive, and with the vampire on roller-skates that says nothing, he is very mysterious which makes him all the more seductive. "},{"Title":"Almost As Good As The First One (Possible Spoilers!)","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fright Night, Part II, is almost as good as the first film.Almost. (I'll explain why later.)A few years has passed since the first movie and Charlie (William Ragsdale) is attending college. He is also attending therapy. The reason? It seems that, in Charlie's mind, the events in the first movie did not exist the way he thought it did. He believes that Jerry Dandridge (The vampire in the first one)was a serial killer and cult leader. He has also been out of touch with Peter Vincent (Funny as ever Roddy McDowall), who is also convinced that what happened was part of his imagination. Charlie is also having the same kind of girl trouble with his new girl, Alex (Traci Lin)as he did in the first film. His life takes a change when Regine (Beautiful Julie Carmen)and her entourage come into the picture. She is a performance artist and is in town to do some performances. Charlie doesn't know, but Regine has an agenda to turn Charlie into a vampire. It seems that Dandridge was her BROTHER! And she wants Charlie as a vampire so she could torture him for all time.At this point, the tables have turned from the first movie now it is Peter who can't convince anyone about the vampires in town. Alex notices something is wrong and it's up to her and Peter to save Charlie from becoming damned.The film is funny and a bit creepy. The entourage, consisting of a roller-skating vampire, a surfer-dude vampire, and a servant that catches insects, describes their scientific names, and then devours them!Now, here is why it is almost perfectWhat happened to Amy and Charlie's mom from the first film? No mention of them at all!When did Charlie start seeing the shrink? I don't understand what would trigger Charlie to see a shrink! He was the one hellbent on telling EVERYONE (Including the police)about the vampires and dragged Peter and Co. into the mix. What had happened to change all that? Dandridge had a sister? For a moment, I thought about Dracula's Daughter and Son Of Dracula. Where on Earth did she come from? What took her so long (A few years)to find Charlie?These are the things that have bugged me ever since I saw this years ago. It would have been cool if a lot of unanswered questions would have been resolved.And that is why this is almost perfect. "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The sister (Julie Carmen) of the vampire from the original film follows Charley Brewster (William Ragsdale) to college in order to turn Charley into a vampire and torment him forever. His only help is Peter Vincent (Roddy McDowall) and his devoted girlfriend (Traci Lin).Sexy, stylish, fast paced, and fun sequel features horrifying effects and good turns by the entire cast, especially Julie Carmen in a commanding performance. Film does a juggling act of balancing the humor and horror and it still works very well. In some respects an improvement on the original. Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence, Brief Nudity, Mild Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"A deserving sequel to a fun horror/comedy.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was hesitant to even see this one. No more Amanda Beasley as Alex...but most of all, no Evil Ed...a fact which severely restrained my willingness to see this. I had developed a liking for that character, and actually thought as highly of the first installment as I did, because of him.However, this is a good and well-executed premise; a solid story; and ultimately, a deserving sequel.The effects were excellent, even without considering the horribly low budget this movie was allowed. I thought the transformations were wonderfully done, as well as the beautiful makeup effects. Just really very good work, which we enjoyed immensely.Peter Vincent, Fearless Vampire Hunter, even has some innovative new tricks up his sleeve.This was a total surprise. A delightful and complete surprise.It rates an 8.2/10 on the B scale.That's about a 6.7/10 on the A scale, from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"This manages to outdo the original.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't hate me, but I thought this sequel was an improvement over the original. Don't get me wrong, I liked the first, I even gave it an 8, but I thought this was better.Story involves Charlie being slowly turned into a bloodsucker by the sister of the original vampire. The acting is very good, and this a very well produced horror film with many great shots. It is also very stylish. Plus, both of the female leads are very goooooood looking. Takes the same approach to its story as the first. My rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This movie would have been terrible except...","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that while this movie is pretty funny in some parts and rather erie in others, it still falls short. The one thing that makes this movie almost magical is the fact that Julie Carmen is in it, and she put in a superb performance. This is one of those movies where I like the bad guy(girl) so much that I find my self actually pulling for him(her). Julie Carmen used her 50,000-volt looks is all the right ways, and at all the right times. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the first","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Usually when it comes to sequels to good movie's, well the sequels always seem to suck. Not in this case though. Fright Night 2 has the same humor and horror as the first and Roddy McDowall is once again great as the Fearless Vampire Killer. This time around the vampire that Roddy McDowall's character killed off in the first has a long lost sister who wants revenge. A great follow up to the first so go check it out. "},{"Title":"Little-Seen Sequel.","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" William Ragsdale and Roddy McDowall return in this sequel set three years after the first. Charley Brewster is now in college, and has a new girlfriend named Alex(Traci Lind) He has undergone therapy to help him deal with the stress of vampires, whom he know believes no longer exist. He will realize the error of this after a mysterious new woman named Regina Dandridge(Jerry's sister, also a vampire) comes to town looking for revenge against Charley and Peter Vincent, who tries to convince Charley of the danger. Can they defeat this new menace? Directed by Tommy Lee Wallace, this sequel tries to emulate the first with disappointing results. Violence is a bit too much here, overwhelming the attempted dark comedy, and that therapist subplot was stupid. Still, both returning Ragsdale and McDowall are fine, and Regina a worthy opponent, with an exciting climax.Not a hit in theaters, this film still has a loyal fan base, and is not yet on (Widescreen) DVD for some reason, though that will one day change I'm sure! "}{"Title":"Back in blood","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Three years after defeating Jerry Dandridge, Charley Brewster (William Ragsdale) manages to convince himself that the events of that time were mere figments of mass delusion. Now a hapless student head over heels with Alex (Traci Lind) he is slowly returning to normalcy. Naturally he still remains friends with the diminishing horror star Peter Vincent (Roddy McDowall), but tries not to entertain the notion that vampires could truly exist. However, when Regine (Julie Carmen) and three awkward individuals move into the same building as Vincent, it seems like its history repeating.Naturally devoid of the originality of the first part, Fright Night Part 2 redoes several aspects of the plot, sometimes in ways which are replicated in ways too close to comfort. Keeping the humorous quality, Tommy Lee Wallace manages to add a sense of atmosphere, while Julie Carmen instills rapturous sensuality to her vampire. Lacking Evil Ed and Jerry Dandridge a bit too much of character lays on the shoulders of Peter Vincent, aptly British vampire killer with a side order of nut-case. Julie Carmen's allure does add some spice, but unfortunately mostly through sexual enticement, not intriguing character concept. Nonetheless the story is significantly more compact and coherent, thus I actually found myself enjoying it just a tad more than the first instalment, even if it is admittedly less memorable overall. The special effects do improve, but the intangible quality of magnetic charm has fleetingly escaped. "},{"Title":"Definitely a worthy sequel...","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just sat through Fright Night and Fright Night 2 tonight, catching up on the good old horror movies from my teenage years. And both these movies were as good as I remembered them to be.Fright Night 2 pretty much picks up where part 1 left us, except that 3 years have passed and Charley is in therapy to overcome the events that occurred in part 1. Things are brightening up, that is until shady people move into Peter Vincent's apartment building. Sounds familiar? Yeah, pretty much the same outlay as in the first movie, but it still works. Why? Well because there is more depth to this movie, more character build, darker setting, plus they added a werewolf to the movie.William Ragsdale (playing Charley) and Roddy McDowall (playing Peter) makes a great return in a sequel that actually lives up to the first movie and then delivers even more so. These two had great chemistry together on the screen and supplemented each other quite well.What works so well for Fright Night 2 is that they made it much darker and gloomier. The vampires are more seductive and cruel compared to the first one. Plus the overall setting of the movie was great as well. So it came together in a great unison.Having revisited these two classical 80's vampire horror movies, it is with some fear that I am bolstering myself to getting to see the 2011 remake of part 1. Why tinker with something that was excellent back in the day, and still is excellent to this day? There is a lot of remakes coming out of Hollywood these years, and it is a shame. Truly, Hollywood can't be that low on new ideas and creativity?Anyway, Fright Night 2 delivers a good, wholesome evening of entertainment, and is a great follow-up to the first part. If you enjoyed part 1, then you definitely don't want to miss out on part 2.Grab your stakes, ready your crucifixes, 'coz it's party time... "},{"Title":"Peter, it's happening again.","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Welcome to Fright night&#x85; part 2. Yep it was probably inevitable that the Tom Holland's original 80s favourite would be followed up by a sequel and at that quite a fun, polished and mildly original one too. However it did take me a couple of viewings to actually warm up to it, as my first seeing I actually disliked it. The concept is kind of similar, but this time it ups the mayhem and tongue in cheek approach with a touch of clowning (the werewolf character). Some of the ideas that made the original work turn up here again, but with a slight spin to some patterned story arches. William Ragsdale and Roddy McDowall would return as Charley Brewster and Peter Vincent. The two made a perfect combination and here they do so again. McDowall is a delight as the anxious, but resilient vampire killer TV host and Ragsdale is palatable as the gawky Charley.Charley is now at college, has a new girlfriend and just finished his last appointment with his shrink after years of therapy to cope with the traumatic ordeal. Now convinced Dandrige was no vampire, but a serial killer acting as one. Life can get back to normal, well not quite so. A beautiful lady Regine arrives on the scene and moves into the same building as Peter Vincent. She catches Charley's eyes. He seems weary of her, as convinces himself that she's a vampire, which she does have something planned for him. Comic horror with a script that does well enough gelling the bite of it shocks and the spirit of its humour. Director Tommy Lee Wallace (Halloween III Season of the Witch & It) keeps it enjoyable, etching out a steady tempo (some slow, padded scenes make its way in) and crafting out some enticingly memorizing visuals with stylish camera-work by Mark Irwin --- atmospheric set-pieces (especially during the misty night sequences on the campus grounds) and tension-laced passages (encounters in the Gothic-like apartment building). Nice use of a matte painting too. Special effects along with the make-up FX is neatly comprised with very competent results&#x85; although the transformations won't blow you away. Composer Brad Fiedel returns, constructing a jittery but playful music score that's seductively pulsating. The cast do a good job. Julie Carmen is sensually hypnotic as performance artist Regine&#x85; who might just be more than an act. Carmen's presence can really pull you in and director Wallace knows it with how he uses the camera around her. Traci Lin is charmingly sweet as Charley's girlfriend (but this story device is a little weak). The towering Brian Thompson appears as a bug chewing creep who likes to recite their scientific names before chomping down. Also there's amusing turns by Merritt Butrick and Ernie Sabella as Charley's shrink. Such a thing simply couldn't happen twice Charley. "},{"Title":"Inferior, but above average second chapter","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Horror villains have to get their revenge, which is why there are so many sequels. Jason's mission of vengeance just goes on and on, even if he's already killed at least 100 people. Freddy will keep haunting the dreams of teenagers who fear him because that is where he gets his kicks. But what if the villain were to die off in the first film? If there is to be a sequel then someone will have to avenge them. At the end of 'Fright Night' the vampire was most certainly dead, but the film was a success and did leave the door open for more. It took three years, but part 2 finally came and after all is said and done it's not a bad follow up.Pros Solid performances all around. Brad Fiedel returns to compose another great score. Fabulous cinematography. A good steady pace. Good work by 'Halloween III Season of the Witch' writer/director Tommy Lee Wallace, who does not simply copy Tom Holland. Some of the effects are quite good. Once again humor is part of the mix and it works. Some good scary sequences. A few good ideas.Cons Repeats quite a few things from the first film. Somewhat dated. Some of the effects, like a lot of the make-up, don't measure up. Story not nearly as tight as the original's. Also a weaker romantic subplot.Final thoughts The original was going to be a tough act to follow and the makers of this sequel make one that is worthy. It may not have the same spark and does have moments of deja vu, but the goods and heart are there. So many sequels embarrass the original, but this one does it proud. It's also fun and does have a few good ideas of it's own. Don't shut out the light on this one.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Charlie Brewster and Peter Vincent Are Back!","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Charlie Brewster and Peter Vincent return to fight a new vampire (Regine, the sister of the original vampire) and her colleagues. Evil Ed is dead and Charlie has a new girlfriend (played by the much sexier Tracy Lin) but it's the same old antics, which is a good thing.Everything you liked about the first film is back -- Peter Vincent, good vampire fights (this has even been stepped up a notch) and some off-beat humor (the vampire who psychoanalyzes himself as he's dying is interesting). We also have a vampire-wolf creature played by the same guy who played the Wolfman's human form in Monster Squad and is now known as Uncle Rico from Napoleon Dynamite. And did I mention Tracy Lin is hot? Two concerns. One How Charlie has come to believe the first vampire attack never happened is beyond me. I mean, his friend Ed was murdered among other things. And his original girlfriend surely still believes (wherever she's gone). Two as much as I love 1980s horror, the film dates itself a bit with the black vampire. Those clothes and that hair could only be a 1980s black androgynous creature. So, that's unfortunate. But everything else stands up rather well twenty years later.What more to say? It really comes down to liking the first film. If you do, you'll like this. Same characters, same concepts... same general feel. I liked the first one, so I like this. The details really aren't that important. Why they didn't milk out a third Fright Night I don't know. It likely would have been just as good. "},{"Title":"not as good as the first but worth watching","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this movie -in many respects- *is* dated. Many scenes look exactly like mid-card 1980-ish music video clips. However, this (like the first one) is a movie to take in jest (although the first was more serious ) and takes further the comedy or defamiliarization situations/goofs that FN#1 introduced. Prequel and sequel, but two very dissimilar movies for many reasons. The cinematography is kind of dated and clearly 80-ish, but that is part of the charm, for it *was* an eminently 1980-ish movie. Acting overall is fine; McDowall is EXCELLENT here with good mimicry; Ragsdale does a good, albeit not outstanding, job; Lind does a better job than Ragsdale, while other chachters, Regine included, are mere background. SFX are fair mid-carders era/genre wise, but nothing worth remembering. The vampire werewolf is an interesting take, but Gries acts like a complete dolt. Many situations are mere copy & paste, but the movie overall is enjoyable, taken with a grain of salt; I have watched it many times. It is a semi-comedy movie, not a Branagh and not a Peter Cushing movie either; only remotely related to Lost Boys, Near Dark and other serious vampire movies (the bowling alley slaughter is copied from NEAR DARK ). "},{"Title":"A worthy successor","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fright Night Part II definitely picks up where the first one left off, with Charley (William Ragsdale) now in college - and in therapy, having been convinced that Jerry Dandridge, the vampire in the first film, and all the other supernatural goings-on were delusions. Oh, he still believes that Jerry killed Evil Ed, his friend, and tried to abduct his (Charley's) girlfriend, but Jerry himself? A human psycho rather than a vampire.Then along comes sexy Regine (Julie Carmen), a dark, exotic, mysterious neighbor in none other than Peter Vincent's (Roddy McDowall) apartment building. Charley experiences more than a hint of lust at first sight when he gets his first look at this beauty, surrounded by her minions a black vampire (Russell Clark) who dresses not unlike George Clinton and likes to roller skate (hell on wheels, you might say), a renfield-type manservant (Brian Thompson) who likes to recite the scientific names of insects before eating them, and a (werewolf? vampire?)played by Jon Gries, who dresses and talks like a valley dude.As you can tell from my description of the characters, this one is played mainly for laughs, although it certainly doesn't skimp on the fangs, glowing eyes, and blood that we came to know and love in the first one, as well as a drop-dead sexy vampire (albeit female, to throw a bone to male devotees of the genre). An 8 out of 10 because, as good as it is (I especially like what I think of as the performance art scene, wherein Regine, who has taken over Peter Vincent's hosting duties on his now-former show, Fright Night, does a kind of reenactment-through-dance of being bitten by - and transforming into-a vampire, while crew members are convinced that all the supernatural elements of her performance are done with special/make-up effects, and also noteworthy is the party scene, wherein Peter, left alone at Regine's soiree by Charley, spies what appears to him to be various human guests being bitten by various vampires, and then notices that Regine and the aforementioned roller-skating vampire, who are dancing with each other, do not reflect in his trusty pocket mirror), it is not quite up to par with the first. (of course, I may feel that way because the first had a drop-dead sexy MALE vampire.) Anyway, I recommend getting both DVD's and settling in for a Halloween night Fright-Night-a-thon. You won't regret it if you like your scares on the sexy side. "},{"Title":"Fright Night Part II","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  McDowell returns again as a aged vampire hunter in this sequel that pits him against the sister of Chris Sarandon's vampire from the first film. Not as fun as the original, but still the same stunning effects and McDowell plays off his role perfectly.  "},{"Title":"It's a fright, all right... So bad it makes my hair stand on end just thinking about it!","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rollerskating vampires?! I'm sorry but even for the 80's that's just way too cheesy to be remotely scary... You can excuse the original the odd kitsch moment because it was parodying old movies and TV shows, but that's been done once, so the sequel needed to be a little less camp, not even more outlandish! Plus, the first movie had the presence of Chris Sarandon - a man who could even make stalking discotheques in casual knitwear seem seductive! - that this one sorely lacks, so there was no 'danger' in anything that happened, it just seemed silly.Admittedly I only saw this once when I was 7, but by then already being a huge fan of the original I remember being disgusted. To me, there is no sequel to Fright Night, just a tacky spoof that doesn't deserve any appraisal whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Better than the first?","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I too thought that the Makeup was much much better than the original. And I've found a lot of similarities between this film and the likes of Lost Boys and even Bram Stoker's Dracula (the hairy bat/vampire for instance).What I think is the best aspect of this film is the fact that it could be watched repeatedly unlike the original (that blonde guy's antics/voice drove me up the wall). I wish there could've been a spin off with the three goons. The Bowling scene was hilarious and unexpected. Also another good aspect of the film is the return of the main leads, something you don't really see much in horror films. It was definitely much better than I thought it would be. "}{"Title":"No rational explanation is required... Enjoyable sequel that isn't a massive departure from the original.","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fright Night Part II quickly establishes the fact that it is set three years after the events of the original Fright Night (1985) & Charley Brewster (the returning William Ragsdale, trivia note the IMDb is wrong as it lists 'Charlie' when it's definitely spelt 'Charley', I mean it's exactly the same character, spelling & actor from the original which the IMDb lists correctly for some reason) has been convinced by a string psychologist's like Dr. Harrison (Ernie Sabella) that Vampires don't exist & are just a figment of his imagination. Charley is living on a college campus & has a new girlfriend, Alexandra (Traci Lind as Traci Lin). One night he decides to introduce her to his friend, Fright Night TV show host & fearless Vampire killer Peter Vincent (Roddy McDowell). While in Peter's apartment Charley looks out of the window & notices a limo pull up & several large coffin sized crates being wheeled into the buildings basement, in the lobby he sees the sexy & seductive Regine Dandridge (Julie Carmen) whom unbeknown to him is the Vampire sister of Jerry Dandridge (Chris Sarandon) who Peter & Charley killed three years earlier. Accompanying her is a guy named Louie (Jon Gries as Jonathan Gries) who is a Werewolf type creature, Belle (Russell Clark) another Vampire & their chauffeur guy Bozworth (Brian Thompson) who likes to eat insects. Charley has a nightmare in which Regine turns into a Vampire & attacks him, he also witnesses one of his friends named Richie (Merritt Butrick) being bitten by Regine & Belle & hearing on the news the next day that his body has been found. Charley becomes convinced that Regine is after him & that Vampires have once again entered his life, but Peter doesn't believe him nor does Alex. Eventually they will though as Regine & her friends have special plans for Charley, the person responsible for killing her beloved Brother...Co-written & directed by Tommy Lee Wallace I thought Fright Night Part II was an enjoyable sequel that reminded me strongly of the original which isn't a bad thing. The script by Wallace, Tim Metcalfe & co-producer Miguel Tejada-Flores sticks closely to the originals formula, Peter Vincent as the horror film actor & Fright Night TV show host is back as his eccentric self, Brewster's disbelieving girlfriend is here as well, the inhuman but not Vampire helper is back, coffins in the basement are present & correct & even the way Regine is introduced with Charley looking through a window & witnessing the crates arriving is lifted straight from the original & used in exactly the same context here. In fact even though the writer & director of the original Tom Holland gets a 'based on characters created by' credit he's probably responsible for the basic ideas here. That's not to say it's a bad film, quite the opposite as I rather enjoyed it for what it was it's just that I feel I should point out that it's very similar to the original even in the way the film is paced with a relatively slow build up to a big final confrontation between human & Vampire foes. Once again there are comedy elements here but they don't dominate the film, the only time they really stand out is in a scene where a Vampire who works as a Dr. is staked through the heart & says a few one-liners before pushing the stake right through his body himself because Alexandra was to weak to do it herself. Director Wallace manages to create some really good sequences, atmosphere & special effect set-pieces, the scene where Belle roller-skates in slow motion out of the mist & grabs a college girl & biting her on the neck which sends splatters of blood across her books is a stylish scene which at least shows some imagination in the way it's presented. Regines erotic dance in which she ends up soaked in (fake) blood is also memorable for the right reasons, also at the end when Regine makes her appearance as a Vampire Wallace uses striking blue beams of light leaving her as a silhouette shows a certain amount of class & style while the final fight in the basement has a nice & hot reddish colour scheme to it. There are numerous special effects & gore scenes in Fright Night Part II most of which are saved until the final thirty odd minutes, again very much like the original. The Werewolf guy looks pretty good especially a bit where he climbs up the side of a building, there's a decapitated head, a few neck bites, the insect guy gets a deliciously yucky death where he has his stomach slashed open & loads of maggots ooze out of the wounds, a couple of melting Vampires & Regine gets to turn into the bat monster like her Brother did in the original only this time with slightly more convincing results. Don't expect much in the way of actual blood letting but there's enough monsters & Vampires to satisfy most rampant horror fans I'd have thought. Technically Fright Night Part II is well above average for a horror film & looks very nice throughout thanks to experienced cinematographer Mark Irwin, polished production design by Dean Tschetter & a nice soundtrack by Brad Fiedel. The acting is pretty good throughout & a special mention goes to Julie Carmen who doesn't have a lot to do but manages to look sexy & dominate most scenes she's in. Overall I liked Fright Night Part II a lot & while it isn't a massive departure from the original, far from it in fact, it's still good solid fun, horror filled entertainment! Definitely worth a watch & probably the one to go for if you've never seen either Fright Night film. "},{"Title":"Fright Night Part 2 (7/10)","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With Roddy McDowall and William Ragsdale returning as the co-stars, Fright Night Part 2 became pretty much a direct follow-up to the original. There didn't seem to be a whole lot of difference between the styles of filmmaking with both films either, creating a feeling of a continuous fluid story. Traci Lind and Julie Carmen were stunning as their parts taking the stage as gorgeous female leads. The film lost a bit of flavor and comedy but still managed to get a couple chuckles. Search out this movie if you're into 1980's cheese, classic horror vampires or even the original film, perhaps missing out or passing on the chance to watch it for a long time like myself. There's nothing extraordinary or groundbreaking about Part 2, but the Fright Night flick is a fun, under the radar sequel that happened to pan out successfully in the eyes of many fans. "},{"Title":"Nice sequel","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think I don't want to rate it lower. I enjoyed it quite a bit. There are certain things I am a little surprised by.I do think the look of the film is different to the original. Generally remakes have a higher budget I think. But from what I saw, this movie seemed a little cheaper than the original. The original was quite classy and was gorgeous to look at. But I still thought this one was one of the better sequels I have seen from the 80s. I understand the intent of the film. If Chris Sarandon could ooze such sexuality in the original, why not have a woman in that role? That would be absolute dynamite.And it does work. Julie carmen is incredible as the vampire Regina. The dance in the sequel is quite interesting (does she have any sort of training or something) and they even use the Come to me song! That is like the icing on the cake.It seems that certain horror movies made in that period have also made an impression. Near dark, for example. But unlike Near dark, I think, having multiple vampires is not really an excellent idea in this movie. It is just difficult to believe that these multiple vampires couldn't defeat this guy and an old man. Their deaths are not highly believable. Now if they were regular human beings, how hard would it be to defeat them? Brian thompson alone would have been difficult if he had been just a regular human being.Despite its drawbacks, it has high sentimental value with its seductive 80s style look, the beautiful Julie carmen and the antics of Roddy mcdowall. The song Come to me is also beautiful and it is a nice version of the original. I also liked the lack of a shock ending. But then maybe I have watched too many recent horror movies and have become used to that stuff. It also seems to remind me of certain vampire movies of the 70s with its erotic atmosphere. Which is always a plus.It is not a perfect film by any means but it is a good sequel.7/10 "},{"Title":"disappointing sequel","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's 3 years later. Charley Brewster (William Ragsdale) has come out of psychotherapy believing he imagined the vampires. He reluctantly meets up with Peter Vincent (Roddy McDowall) who tries to convince him and his girlfriend Alex (Traci Lind) of their adventures. Mysterious strangers Regine, Louie, Belle and Bosworth move into Vincent's building. Regine has a revenge plan for Charley after he killed her brother Jerry Dandrige in the original.It's great that Ragsdale and McDowall have returned for the sequel. They are the only pillars holding up this movie. The franchise is nothing more than a B-horror movie at this point. It doesn't have the same 'Rear Window' aspect of the original. It's not compelling. It's not well filmed. It's a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Unusually competent, Gothic follow-up to the first film","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fright Night Part II has Charley Brewster attending college and seemingly cured via psychotherapy of the trauma from his encounters with Jerry Dandridge&#x97; he now believes his thoughts of vampires to be nothing more than delusions. That is, until he runs into a gang of vamps led by the seductive Regine, who are living in the same apartment building as horror TV host/vampire hunter Peter Vincent.With the original Fright Night being such a solid piece of '80s excess-meets-vampire classicism, one would think a sequel would be a tough feat to pull off, but director Tommy Lee Wallace (Halloween III, It) does a fine job at crafting this film. While the script directly follows the events of the first film (and there are multiple nods to the original throughout), Fright Night Part II has a totally different feel to it; where the first film was rooted in the terror comes to a small town kind of plot structure, Part II is a bit more expansive, and the grandiose historical apartment building lends it a notably Gothic feel.With a well-established backstory provided by the first film, Part II pulls no punches and makes no bones about itself, giving fans exactly what they're expecting, and in a good way. The special effects here are on par with those of the first film, and perhaps even gorier at times. The bulk of the film takes place on a college campus (UCLA, to be exact) and in a huge Gothic apartment building, so the settings here give room for lots of fun to be had. Like with the first film, a solid cast really supplements the proceedings a grown-up William Ragsdale reprises his role of Charley and is just as memorable here, while Roddy McDowall is as quirky and lovable as ever, and is truly the film's guiding light. Traci Lind is great as Ragsdale's likable girlfriend, while Julie Carmen's villainess Regine is equal parts seductive and destructive.Overall, Fright Night Part II is one of the stronger sequels in the horror genre, despite having a remarkably small audience compared to its predecessor. It respectfully treads the line in making nods to the first film without ever becoming a carbon copy of it. Atmospherically and tonally, it's remarkably different, with the first film's two central characters anchoring the proceedings. Just as much fun, spills, and thrills here as the first film, and in some ways I appreciate it even more than the first. Highlights the chase scene in the library, and the finale at the apartment building. 8/10. "},{"Title":"the last 30 minutes are worth seeing","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one starts with a small montage of the original flick so you can pick up easily if you haven't seen that one. Fright Night 2 is rather a hard item to catch on DVD although it do has a cheap release in Germany mostly it goes for a lot of money on the internet. still it's worth picking up although it do has it flows.What I did like was that the original cast was back to see here. Charlie has started to believe it was all his imagination and do think vampires aren't real. But after 3 years suddenly 4 people do enter the house of Peter Vincent (Roddy McDowall) and are having interest in Charley (William Ragsdale) and his girlfriend Alex (Traci Lind) and of course Peter himself. One of them is Regina (Julie Carmen), the sister of Jerry (from the original flick) It becomes clear that Regina is Jerry's (the vampire in the original film) sister and is determined to get revenge on Charley by turning him into a vampire. Of course they tried to add a bit of comedy like they did in the original one but it failed completely for me, for example the werewolf his nails being cut by a window, nah. And there are other moments that I though, stop trying to add laughter in it, bring on the gore but even that doesn't appear. It's only in the last part that the effects and gore comes in. And I must say that it looked great. The way the vampires are killed and do die is the real stuff but you have to sit a flick that have it's flows. Gore 1/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 3,5/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Classic Sequel!!","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have loved this movie since the first time I saw it, when it came out. Why do they give it 2 stars? I loved the original, and found this to be the perfectly grown up book end. It has the same panache as the first one. The pacing is a little slower, but to good effect. It's sensual when it should be and picks up where it needs to. Very well acted, directed, edited, and overall executed. Still have a big crush on William Ragsdale! I'm watching it now and he's still a doll! I have seen this movie over and over again, as I've watched the original. I enjoyed the remake, but it will never reach the wonderful mix of horror, comedy, and sensuality of the original 2. And William, I'm single, if you are too, CALL me!! You're a babe! "},{"Title":"What I Expected!","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fright Night Part 2 (1988) I don't think sequel was really needed. it didn't really add anything to the series at all. I liked the first movie series very much, one few vamp movies that I actually like, I thought the movie started of a little slow, I bored about the whole , I didn't really like how the movie started off. After the 40 min mark, movie start get going, thing start to REAL happen, a lot action scenes in this movie. I didn't find this movie that funny at all, I don't think I laughed once or even smiled Some the effects were not as good or as fun as the first movie but still better then some of effect with get horror movies these days. The acting was good but the plot could have be a lot better, I yet to Remake and upcoming sequel to this remake. (I don't think it be as good as the first movie) 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Nothing Special(**1/2 Out Of ****)","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Belated Day 23 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.I think that this film does not deserve the cult following it has. While the film is entertaining It is not all that great.The film follows the main character from the first film but this time the villain is a vampire woman who was a sister from the main vampire from the first film. Thats about it.The film is very entertaining and a good popcorn flick. But the film drags and the main character is basically not as fun as the first. This film has a cult following because it is hard to find on VHS and DVD. So if you find it hold on to it.Rated R For Nudity, Violence And Language.1hr 44min/104min.1 use of the F-word.**1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Decent sequel but not as good as original.","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have been a fan of the first Fright Night since I was young and I have never actually seen the second one until last night. I thought it was a good little sequel but I prefer the story line in the first one and this one does tend to try to be silly sometimes.This movie is about Charlie Brewster the survivor of the vampire attack in the first one. However a shrink has convinced him it could not of been real and it was all in his head. When he starts to see signs of new vampires though he begins to worry.If you liked the first one or your a fan of 80s horror movie gives this one a watch. "}{"Title":"Disappointing sequel","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When young Charley begins to suspect that his mysterious new neighbors are the clan left behind following their previous encounter, he and Peter reunite to take them out before they can exact their revenge.A bit cheesier than Part 1, either a sign of the fact that this one really had no point in being made or just the nature of the genre at the time, but again, the clashing tone is really off-putting and makes little sense, as does the replication of what's going on like in the first part, and coupled with the fact that there's a lot more investigation here than in the first one, it's a lot slower and really drags itself out far more than necessary, especially with the lower amount of confrontations which are a sad sight, but there is enough attempts at suspense that there's some fun there, the brawls are quite good and the vampire make-up looks really good. A true middle-of-the-road affair.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence and Nudity "},{"Title":"Disappointing and unnecessary","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Years have passed since the events of Fright Night, but vampires have long memories and one of them shows up in town to take revenge on Charlie. The resulting mayhem and frights fall far short of the white knuckle ride of the first film. Indeed, the slow pace and lack of suspense and atmosphere are major shortcomings for any horror film and doubly disappointing here, since the original had pace and atmosphere by the carload. There is a lush and sensual quality to the new vampire's scenes (if not bite - no pun intended), so the film is not without visual interest, but don't be looking for the sudden shocks and twists of the first movie. They ain't here. Frankly, My Best Friend is a Vampire was a better movie, which isn't saying much. "},{"Title":"Good Vampire Sequel!","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Roddy McDowall, William Ragsdale, Traci Lind and Julie Carmen star in this 1988 horror sequel. This takes place 3 years after the events of the original film where Charlie Brewster (Ragsdale) is in college. He's also been seeing a therapist trying to get over the vampire events and has a new girlfriend, Alex (Lind). Soon, Charlie reunites with his vampire killer friend, Peter Vincent (McDowall) and they meet attractive woman, Regine (Carmen) who turns out to be Jerry Dandridge's sister seeking revenge on them. Regine seduces Charlie and Peter must save him from being her vampire slave with Alex's help. This is a good sequel with neat make-up effects and Julie is great as Regine. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"An Unfrightful Night","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh, God, this movie, Fright Night Part 2 (or II as some sources say) was a mess.From the already pointed out mismanaging of the sequel #, to lame and irrelevant bowling jokes, to the once awesome Peter Vincent reversing his belief in vampires only to remember at the appropriate time, to the lame excuse to get (SOME of) the original stars back&#x85;this movie was a tragedy to those who loved part one. Like me.When I was a kid, I loved the original Fright Night and didn't really get into going to see as many movies as I could, on my own and mostly at the dollar theatre, until I was about 15ish. And coincidentally, both my movie-outing and this film were in 1989. Surprisingly, I wasn't as much a critic back then I loved going to the movies, action and horror were my favorite, didn't matter about plot, depth or characterizations &#x96; I just loved entertainment. And still&#x85;I hated this movie.Really quickly, let's explore the wonderful plot Charley Brewster has moved on from his encounter with his neighbor/vampire of years past through therapy and college. He's got a new girlfriend and the infamous Peter Vincent friend he ignores. Well, SHOCKING, Peter's new neighbors are vampires and maybe a werewolf, though that's not really explored. This time around, Charley is slowly &#x96; and weirdly &#x96; becoming one of the undead. Too much a spoiler on why, but the reason is just as boring as this slow paced, barely recognizable sequel, is.Yeah, I'm aware they produced countless horror films in the 1980s and multiple that by five for the number of horror sequels. A lot hit, mostly miss. This is the latter. There's absolutely no reason to see this follow-up. The first classic is simply sufficient. "},{"Title":"I...Kill......Vampires.......","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Three years after killing the vampire in the original, Charlie has started to believe it was all his imagination and starts to forget that vampires truly exist.Four strangers lead by Regina, a noted actress, arrive at Peter Vincent's house and starts to have an unhealthy interest in Charlie, Peter and Charlie's new girlfriend Alex.It becomes clear that Regina is Jerry's sister and she is determined to get revenge on the friends and plans to turn Charlie into a vampire - so that he can face his punishment for all eternity.....A virtual rehash of the original, with certain scenes and elements taken right from the original. Ragsdale and McDowell are back for pretty much more of the same, but none of the other cast are here, and there is no explanation given to this.It's not a bad movie, it just lacks any originality or any real thrills. The one eerie scene is of the vampire on skates coming toward the camera, but then, even this reminded me of Cliff Richards wired for sound video.To make the film more intriguing, we have the added inclusion of the 'he was my brother twist' which to be fair is quite cool, but Regine isn't as alluring or as threatening as the original Villain.They have tried to up the ante a little by adding a redneck werewolf, who provides the 'humour' and Brian Thompson, who does nothing but eat flies throughout.If you are a fan of the original, and want a watered down version of the original, then go for this. "},{"Title":"Julie Carmen steals the show!","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, as far as originality and the excellent Chris Sarandon are concerned, the first FRIGHT NIGHT is not only superior its downright classic! And yes, the sequel does fail to raise (ahem) the stakes, as we are so accustomed to, by complicating the story, trumping the original villains and doubling the budget. Remember sequels in the 80s were never meant to do anything but run the original idea dry and cash in. So, as far as delivering a solid follow up with good humor and a fresh take on the first movie, Part II delivers. Mostly this movie is kept afloat with some fun performances by Jon (Uncle Rico) Gries and Roddy McDowell. But the slam dunk secret weapon is Julie Carmen! Bringing in a Chris Sarandon clone complete with dry humor would have sunk the sequel with repetition. It was a smart move to not only bring in the sultry female vampire equivalent but also play her straight while the others around her played for laughs. More important, however, is her ability to be sexy. After seeing tired takes, by the likes of Scarjo and Megan Fox, who believe sexy is just pouting and shoving their chest in the air, this is a performance of the ages. She simply exudes a cool calculated sex appeal with simple movements and deep eyes that are both inviting and vulnerable all the while luring the viewer in with black widow like beauty. If I was Charley Brewster, I would be dead! Simply put, what Part II lacks from its originator is made up by the sexiest vampiress ever on screen. "},{"Title":"What ? There's a sequel ???","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the sort of cliffhanger ending in the first Fright Night, three years later gives us Fright Night 2. I had no idea this even existed until I was stumbling around on the internet looking at stuff from the first film. Instead of Tom Holland directing, its Tommy Lee Wallace, the same guy who directed the loathed Halloween 3. And whenever the director from the first film isn't involved with something that he created himself, you know it can't be that good...?Roddy McDowall reprises his role again as the infamous Peter Vincent, as well as William Ragsdale as Charley Brewster. Charley is now grown up and in college. He has separated himself from Peter Vincent after all the trouble they went through and receiving psychiatric treatment trying to make himself believe that all the vampires were just some illusion he imagined in his mind. When Charley finally visits Peter again (who has his TV show back)he notices something strange about Peter's new next door neighbors. They pull up in a stretch limo with movers carrying in big long crates.... hmmm. Charley, trying to deny his senses, eventually has to face them and reunite with Peter to once again battle vampires and werewolves in the final 'real' Fright Night movie.Roddy McDowall's performance is once again great as Peter Vincent. Although in this one he's not really involved a lot throughout the film unlike the first one. Which is weird considering he's first billed and in the first one he's like fifth billed and he's in it a whole lot more. Being compared with first one, this film isn't all that bad, even though the first one is CLEARLY the best. Instead of keeping the light-hearted spirit of part 1, Part 2 keeps more of a serious and darker tone than the first. One thing I've noticed about these films is that soundtracks to them both suck. They sound like something that belongs in a porn film. They should've gotten someone like John Carpenter or Jerry Goldsmith to do the music, instead of composers who make only incidental type scores. There's only one thing that has me confused. Towards the end of the movie Charley is captured by the main vampire and is bitten on the neck ? I can't tell. During the whole end scene he keeps switching back from human to vampire, from human to vampire, and so forth. The showdown in the end is no where near as memorable as the first film, but is cool in its own way. Peter and Charley are a great duo and there should've been more stuff done with them, like maybe a TV series. Its probably would've been a whole lot better than the crap stain remake that's coming out. The new one seems like too much of a comedy and has a weird bright and punchy atmosphere to it. Nothing really like the original ones. And no one on earth can replace Roddy McDowall as Peter Vincent, no one ! "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With the upcoming Fright Night remake getting closer I thought it a good idea to catch up on the original and it's sequel. Fright Night is one of those classics from the 80s that everyone who remembers it, loves it. Its a great campy vampire flick. I just finished watching part 2 and in my opinion it is better than part 1 in just about every way. Its takes itself more seriously, its darker and the vampires are much scarier. Most people think that Stephen Geoffrey's and Chris Sarandon were the best things about the first movie but I think the sequel is much stronger without them. It's a shame that this flick has fallen out of distribution because its damn hard to come by these days.... hopefully it will get a re-release with the new remake just around the corner. Verdict a great 80s fright flick!! "},{"Title":"Less bite but still alright.","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" William Ragsdale and Roddy McDowall return for more vampire slaying craziness in Fright Night Part 2. Taking place three years after the events of the first film, the sequel finds Charley Brewster a little older and a little wiser. Thanks to some therapy, Charley no longer believes in vampires and is trying his hardest to move on with his life, which includes his college studies, a new love interest (Traci Lind) clinging to his side and a gnarly mullet to boot. Unfortunately, just as things start getting back on track for our hero, a gang of vampires comes to town seeking food, a good time, and some good old fashioned vengeance. It's up to Charley and the down-on-his-luck Peter Vincent to once again put a stop to the madness.Directed by Tommy Lee Wallace (Halloween III Season of the Witch), Fright Night Part 2 is somewhat lacking in the charming spirit of the original. While Wallace (a John Carpenter protg) puts on a good show with the aid of a fog machine and an excellent score by the great Brad Fiedel in tow, the film can't help but succumb to sequelitis. While the character of Charley may have moved on, his routine certainly hasn't. Even though the film makes an effort to not repeat the events of the first film, it can't help but slip into redundancy with a been there, done that vibe running throughout. It also doesn't help that this new gaggle of baddies lack the charisma of Chris Sarandon and come across as less of a threat than they do a cast of rejects from Michael Jackson's Thriller video.It's not all bad for this sequel, though. On the plus side, Wallace keeps the pace quick and easy. Reuniting with characters from the original film is a treat and it's nice to see their characters expanded upon as well. Both Ragsdale and McDowall are on their game and it shows in the final product as the two whole-heartedly carry the film. Traci Lind makes for a slightly less interesting love interest than Amanda Bearse in the original, but has a likable energy about her that makes one wonder why her career never took off. All in all, Fright Night Part 2 is an enjoyable if flawed re-entry into familiar territory. It might not have the same bite as the original, but it's certainly not one of the worst sequels of its era either. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the 1st but Good!","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw fright night 2 I thought it was a very good horror movie. I had not yet seen the original, which of course was great! Fright Night 2 (FN2 for short) does not exactly take up where the original left off. The amy character is left out which I felt was no loss. The college aspect was good, but the shrink angle not so much. This film is still a good horror film though and I think Julie Carmen (What happened to her?) was very sexy as the chief vamp. Peter vincent is back and Roddy Mcdowell plays him to a tee. This movie is not scary or creepy in any sense but it does tell a good story of a vamp seeking revenge although we don't find this out until about 45 minutes in. If you liked the first one you will like this one too. Again it is not as good as the 1st but sequels rarely are! Unfortunately cable does not show FN2 often which is a shame since most so called modern horror flicks are total trash. "}{"Title":"Not up there with the first one, still a pretty good fright.","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, this film would have to have really done some good stuff to top the original Fright Night movie. It does not do anything really super though instead using the tired old out for revenge plot for the sequel and while it is not super or original it is still a fun little movie. Just not as fun as the first which is a shame, but really it is hard to capture lightening in a bottle twice now isn't it? Still Roddey McDowell returns and I think so does the same guy as Charlie. The plot is one of revenge as it seems the sister or something of the vampire killed last time is out to get back at Charlie and his old television friend in different ways. She basically takes the old guys show and proceeds to infect Charlie. They all have to work together to stop her and her other vampire buddies. Like I said, it is still a fun ride just not as much so. It has kind of a direct to video quality that hinders it a bit too. Still, it would have been hard to replicate the flow and such of the first film so for a horror sequel it does a rather good job. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Part 1, but it's close.","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In this sequel to the 1985 comedy/horror hit, The original vampire named Jerry & his servant are dead, following their deaths at the end of the last movie, but as it turns out Jerry has a sister (unmentioned in the first movie) who's determined to avenge her brothers death any way she can, using her horde of vampire minions, she sets her sights on TV horror host Peter Vincent, Charlie Brewster & Charlies new love interest. Will the boys be able to stop the evil the second time around? Or will Jerry's sister get the revenge she so desires? FRIGHT NIGHT II, is not a bad follow up to the humorous original. The special effects are once again outstanding, with awesome vampire monster make-up & plenty of humorous jabs at past vampire movies. The actors, director & plot twists again help FRIGHT NIGHT 2 rise above most genre sequels, as the film moves at a fairly brisk pace & always has something up it's sleeve to keep you watching, from it's interesting beginning to it's suspenseful special effects packed ending. However the film does have it's flaws (Like most sequels to really good movies) mainly due to the fact that it leaves far to many loose ends, like whatever happened to Charlie's former girlfriend Amy & best friend, turned vamp at the end of the last movie Devo? The film also lacks the freshness of the original & at times gets far to silly in many scenes mainly in the scene where the servants are playing bowling with a severed guys head & pushing each other around. All in all if you can find a copy, FRIGHT NIGHT 2 is worth a look, especially for those who have seen & loved the original, it's not as good, but it should make for a fun viewing experience for horror fans looking to get some kicks out of their horror movies. Loved the posters in Charlie's room too, that pays tribute to several genre films of the past, most notable being Roger Corman's TEENAGE CAVEMAN. Despite the fact that there is a FRIGHT NIGHT 2 (2013) it is in no way shape or form, a remake of this movie.*** stars "},{"Title":"One of the Better Horror Sequels Around","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" From a purely production standpoint, this film hits the mark. The music, acting, directing, script, camera-work, and editing are text-book examples of how to produce a quality film with a limited budget. Unfortunately this film is an easy target for critics looking to take a bite out of the vampire genre, or horror genre in general. HONESTLY! I go back to this film again and again for viewing, and always walk away with new creative ideas and inspirations. The soundtrack is amazing, and hard to come by, by the way. The production aspect is well, dare I say, excellent and the acting is solid. I appreciate this film for it's ingenuity, refinement, and class. These three items are, unfortunately, what most modern horror films lack in, totally and completely. I'll take Fright Night II over anything done in the mislead 2000's decade of horror film nonsense any day of the week!!!!!! If you can't at least appreciate this film for what it's worth, get out of the film business. "},{"Title":"A Decent Sequel","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fright Night 2 is a good sequel. It picks up after Fright Night 1 and acknowledges all of it's events. That's what you like in a sequel, not one that ignores it's predecessor. I thought this film was OK. Charlie and Peter definitely carry this movie on their charm alone. They just make such an explosive duo. It's atmospheric like the first movie but I just don't think it's as good as the first and that's mainly because of the absence of Jerry Dandridge. Of course knowing the outcome of Fright Night 1, he doesn't make it to the sequel, but Jerry was THE ultimate vampire. He was just the embodiment of what a vampire is supposed to be. Handsome, tall, smooth, classy, and just all out evil when transformed. I just didn't buy the whole female head vampire and that's what hurt this film. The heroes are there, but without a wicked villain, you just can't get behind the good guys the same way. Fright Night 1 was just perfect, the vampire that lives right next to you in a scary house. That's a lot better, I didn't buy the atmosphere in Fright Night 2. It's a very good sequel nonetheless considering that sequels aren't supposed to be good. "},{"Title":"Decent 80s horror sequel","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why, but I have a real soft spot for these 80s teen horror movies. Actually, I have a soft spot for most things that came out of the 80s. American Werewolf, the A Team, Metallica, Michelle Pfieffer ... but I digress.In this sequel to the original Fright Night (which I haven't seen, I must add), the hero from the original has undergone psychiatric therapy to convince him that the horrific events of the first movie were, in fact, all in his head and there is no such thing as vampires. Meanwhile his comrade in arms, the Fearless Vampire Killer and thespian horror actor Peter Vincent (who seems to be a kind of cross between Peter Cushing and Vincent Price), is still convinced that vampires and demons really exist.Anyway, a particularly nasty vampiress shows up in town, seeking revenge for the vampires killed in the first movie. She arrives with a gang that includes various vampires, a werewolf, and some kind of weird bug/demon/zombie type guy (played by the brilliant Brian Thompson). Our hero must battle against them, along with the help of his girlfriend and of course Peter Vincent, or face the terrible prospect of becoming a vampire himself. Obviously anyone else they tell presumes that they're crazy, so they once again find themselves alone in this great battle.This has everything you expect from an enjoyable teen horror movie ... plenty of blood and guts, some great-looking special effects and even a bit of unnecessary nudity (college girls walking around topless, because that's clearly what they do). All in all, it's a bit of good harmless fun, even if you haven't seen the original. "},{"Title":"Fright Night 2","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A little different to the first, because, the female big mouth vampire is dead and gone!This movie is filled with spooky stuff, and gruesome things too.The sickest part was when the female vampire's skull melted with her skin, and when the guy was being drained by the female vampire, her teeth grew long , and her eye colour changed, I jumped when I saw that!The creepiest part was when the girl was being followed around by a vampire, suddenly she drops her books, and while she was picking then up, and then she noticed a person on roller blades coming towards her!There was dumb part in this movie, the pretends that he's a vampire, and suddenly he was punched in the face! I laughed when I saw that, I WASN'T SCARED!!!!!!!!!Everything falls into place inthis movie, and goes pretty well, but some parts let this movie down.7/10 "},{"Title":"isnt that bad","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty good even though it compared nothing to the original because the original is the one of my favorite horror movies ever. I guess you could say that this movie had better special effects and an okay storyline... but the villains of this movie were really stupid and didn't really make any sense... but what about Roddy McDowell, is he great or what... out of ten, i give this movie an eight!!! "},{"Title":"An 0.K. sequel","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the sequel to one of my all-time favorite horror films and it was an O.K. sequel. It was not as good as I had remembered, when I bought it just a few months ago. But it's still a great vampire movie, with special make-up effects that equal that of the first film, and the picture quality is alike the first. Still, I must say the nutty vampire was funny, but not as memorable as Evil Ed's contribution to the horror franchise's comic relief. Overall this one's very entertaining, atmospheric and moody, also very freaky, but not as good as Part 1. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but pretty good.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  No contest, the original Fright Night is by far the best vampire movie ever, but Fright Night part 2 isn't bad. All the characters are great. In my opinion, it would have been better with Amy instead of Alex, but she made the movie good. Making Jerry's sister the main vampire was a great idea. I would rate this movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"GOOD SEQUEL!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i didn't find Fright Night 1 or 2 terribly good. But they are okay vampire movies. Fright Night 2 is virtually the same plot as the first but in my opinion I think it was better. Maybe the better effects, better makeup better filming equipment made the atmosphere of the movie better. I liked the roller skating vampire scene and the limo driver. A pretty good vampire flick, but not a great horror flick. "}{"Title":"not as good as the first, but fun","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, this movie was pretty good, but not nearly as smart or scary as the first.The new girlfriend should have died. I watched this movie with some friends, and we spent a long time arguing weather the roller skating vampire was a male or female. (Roller skates!? Are they kidding? Well, at least it wasn't a skate board). I  wish the plot twist involving Regine revealing she was Jerry Dandridge's sister would have been developed more. That was one of the best parts of the movie where she confronts Peter Vincent. The werewolf/vampire that stalks Alex throughout the whole movie was really stupid and neither scary nor funny.  "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fright Night Part II was just as good as the first movie at least to me. The movie had a lot of comedy elements to it and some pretty nice twists. I loved how Peter Vincent reacted when he found out that another Vampire was around and that she is none other than Jerry Dandrige's sister.The movie was still pretty good although Evil Ed(Stephen Geoffrey's)is missing it would've been cool if he would've appeared. The characters are all cool Charley is a bit more mature now and Peter is as great as ever Charley's new girlfriend is hot and the werewolf who is stalking her most of the time is pretty funny. If you're a fan of the first then I reccomend you too not let this one pass you by. "},{"Title":"more comedy than horror","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's a funny movie but it's no horror maybe because i am a real horror fan  of movie's like wishmaster,the mangler and many more. but it was still fun because of the comedy if that was not there it won't be so nice like it's now. i did not see part one i still need to see that one they say that that one is better so i rent that one next time. and the special effects are real good too. "},{"Title":"More Funny than Freaky","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was, if you excuse the expression, a scream! I was doubled over laughing in some scenes. Black comedy and a bit of horror, the perfect combination! People who liked the first movie will love the second!  "},{"Title":"If you loved the first, you'll like this one.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is cool man, not as good as the first but so few sequels are, i think the weak point of it lies in the new completely unscary villain, Regine. She's incredibly lame. The only cool part of the bad guys is the gang that follows her around, the limo driver and werewolf are cool, but the michael jackson guy on roller skates has to go. Anyway, it's worth a watch, especially if you love these characters. I only wish Stephen Geoffreys had passed up 976-Evil to come back for this one. "},{"Title":"Sequel lives (or dies) up to the original","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fright Night Part II is a great follow-up to 1985's original film.  While the plot is a simple re-tread of the first's, and it really has no memorable characters with the exceptions of the ghoulish, insect-eating limosine driver, and the inordinantly hairy vampire sidekick, the movie is a great time, with wonderful special effects, makeup, and an even better performance out Ragsdale, who tries hard not to believe in the creatures who have permanently changed his life. Look for a variety of plot twists and turns, and don't forget the return of McDowall's Peter Vincent, a little older and wiser. "},{"Title":"this movie rules.. ! m/","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fright Night part 2 rocks....I liked the original...but, loved this sequel even better...proboblly cause of how unbeilevebly hot and sexy Julie Camron ( Ragine) is and looked in this...hehe.....she is one of the most hottest wemon alive in this movie....and she is the best part in it....but, the movie itself is great as well,...with some cool spceal effects, and funny lines from charlie, and peter....the dark but extremely erotic mood of this film has not been matched in any other movie ever in my oppinion,....and also, this film has one of the best soundtracks of all time in it...and it fits the films dark and erotic mood, and scenes perfectly...such a great soundtrack......this movie has it all, thrills, gore, comedy, action, a supper sexy babe, and a great soundtrack.....I couldnt ask for much more in a movie. ( Long live fright night part 1 and epceally part 2 ! \m/  ) "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fright Night had Peter Vincent (Roddy McDowall) and Charlie Brewster (William Ragsdale) team up to hunt down and destroy a vampire named Jerry Dandridge (Chris Sarandon).  They succeed.This sequel picks up a few years later.  Charlie has gone throught therapy to convince himself that Dandridge was not a vampire and has cut off ties with Vincent.  Then Dandridge's sister Regine (Julie Carmen) comes to town with revenge on her mind...OK sequel to Fright Night.  I don't know why this was such a huge bomb when it came out (it didn't play theatrically in most of the country).  It's no better or worse than most late 1980s horror films. The special effects are great (if sparse), the movie moves very quickly, McDowell is obviously enjoying himself and Carmen makes one sexy vampire.  But the script is weak (to put it mildly) and (McDowell aside) the performances are lame.  Also Sarandon (who gave the original most of its punch) is gone and the jokes are really, really bad.Not unwatchable...just a big step down from the original. "},{"Title":"Them vampires got naked ladies?!","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film or it was seen by me. I like vampire movies, but I didn't like this vampire movie and worse than that Fright Night 2 is better than most other vampire movies. How is it hard to make a good vampire movie? This film features a sad reliance upon sex to create tension and interest for the viewer, a failing shared with most films of the vampire genre. It's not even good sex either, it's stale intangible Hollywood sex, as fake and empty of real life as any movie set backdrop. All I want to see is shadows and human life, make that movie and make it about vampires. Throw in a sh*tload of gore and violence and most importantly of all, no happy ending. "},{"Title":"Fright Night indeed","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fright Night Part 2 continues the story of Charley and his TV horror show host friend Peter Vincent and their battle against more female vampires. Its pretty much deja vu for them all over again.  This one was pretty scary looking.  There are some creepy moments in here.  Like when the females grow some fangs and get some eye color added.  Overall, this one isn't such a bad flick, but it's not one of my favorites either.  **1/2 stars. (IVE) "}{"Title":"Roddy McDowall makes it good","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fright Night Part II isn't as good as the first, but still worth watching. The thing that makes this movie good, is the great job by Roddy McDowall.The Roller-skating, and bug eating Vampires got pretty annoying, but just try to look past it. (Charley's new girlfriend, Alex, is pretty annoying too)Roddy McDowall (likes always) does the best job in the movie (or in any other movie he's in)Fright Night (the first one) is like my favorite horror movie. Chris Sarandon does a perfect job as a Vampire, unlike Julie Carmen, in the 2nd movie.All in all, Fright Night Part II isn't that bad of a movie. However, you have to be in the right mood to watch it.  "},{"Title":"Prettier than the original, but still lacking","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Oh, the great one Roddy McDowall is as good as ever (what a darling man he was, always giving a great performance no matter what schlock is around him), and there are a lot of beautifully-shot scenes. But this has neither as much fun or darkness as the original. Although I do like Julie Carmen's plans for William Ragsdale. The girlfriend is annoying. "},{"Title":"Fright Night Part 2","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Two years after the first comedy horror film, this sequel (I think) is almost as good as its predecessor. It has been three years since Charley Brewster (William Ragsdale) along with TV's Peter Vincent (Planet of the Apes' Roddy McDowall) tackled vampire neighbour Jerry Dandridge, and he has been in therapy to get over believing in vampires. Now he has been released he is seeing new interest Alex (Traci Lind) and doesn't really want to see much of Peter. But soon enough, he dreams about and sees another person he suspects as being a vampire. At first he refers back to therapy and convinces himself that there are no vampires, but when he believes its real again, he finds out that this woman Regine Dandridge (Julie Carmen) was Jerry's brother! So it's almost the same thing again with Charley and Peter battling the many vampires, and just as much gore and effects, except this time, Charley himself almost becomes one! Worth watching, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Equal Sequel","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Charlie and Peter return to slay ferocious 80's bloodsuckers that still walk the earth after the duo's first crusade in 1985. This casting of original players is vital to the movie's success. 3 years later, Charlie has convinced himself that the events of the 1st film never happened except in his mind. Slowly things around him begin to suggest that maybe he wasn't crazy for thinking that vampires are real. Great acting from a script that holds the tone of the first film perfectly. Sadly, no Chris Sarandon in this outing, but a great job by Brian Thompson of Stallone's COBRA fame, in a small supporting role. All in all equal to Fright Night and a perfect example of big-budget 80's horror. "},{"Title":"Like A Duran Duran Video With Fangs","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Filmed in the 80s and it shows. This sequel has a touch too much of the New Romantic fashion fad. The party sequence looks like Ultravox's Vienna video and the mullet hairdos - a la Simon Le Bon - are in full swing. It just looks so dated. The vampires look like the cast of Cats. Though the lead vampiress is stunning and one wonders why she faded into obscurity after this starring role. She certainly has charisma.Having said that, I only watched the first hour before I switched it off. I don't think it's a bad film - it's not that different from its predecessor, but it just didn't inspire me to persevere until the end. It's not funny enough to be comedy and it's not scary enough to be horror. Bit of a curiosity that's all. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Disappointing sequel replaces the original's deftness with waffle in search of a plot. Irritating sepia filter, too (cut it out, Mark, it isn't fuuuun-NAYE!) Regine continues her bonehead brother's penchant for chowing in front of a window with curtains left open and lights full on which proves conclusively that IQ actually diminishes over a thousand year period. McDowell is still endearingly hammy but the shapely Tracy Lind disappoints by mostly wearing more clobber than a Siberian bag lady. "},{"Title":"Watch only if you have the extra time to spare.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie many years ago, and just for kicks decided to rent it and watch it again. The plot is a carbon copy from Fright Night. I did like the hairy vampire and the bug eating driver. Otherwise it was not good at all. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Fright Night! Again.","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Student Charlie Brewster (William Ragsdale) and horror show host Peter Vincent (Roddy McDowell) return for more vampire slaying in this identikit sequel that struggles in vain to emulate the precise blend of horror, laughs, and sensuality that made the first film such fun.The story continues three years after the duo's successful battle against bloodsucker Jerry Dandridge, and begins as Charlie completes a course of intensive therapy to convince him that vampires do not exist; now he is free to concentrate his mind on more productive things, like groping his tasty girlfriend Alex (Tracy Lin). But Charlie's thoughts soon return to far less pleasant matters after he spies the beautiful Regine (Julie Carmen) and her creepy pals moving into the same apartment building as Peter Vincent, and suspects that history is about to repeat itself.He's right, of course Regine is Jerry Dandridge's equally vampiric sister, and she is after revenge.Saddled with this predictable plot that retreads ground already thoroughly covered in the first film, director Tommy Lee Wallace certainly has his work cut out for him trying to make any of it seem fresh. To his credit, though, he gives it his best shot, and manages to deliver several effective scenes that prove he has a keen eye for a stylish shot a rollerskating vampire emerging slowly through swirling fog; Regine laying on the roof of Charlie's car; the maggoty demise of moth-eating ghoul Bozworth (Brian Thompson). He also throws in some decent vampire meltdowns, a nice bat creature, a fun severed head gag, and a brief gratuitous shot of a pair of breasts for all of us pervs (NOT Tracy Lin's, though; she keeps her curves safely hidden under several layers of bad 80s fashion!).Unfortunately, for every sublime moment he creates, the painfully idiotic script ensures that there is an equally inane one just around the corner Peter Vincent's unbelievably silly escape from a looney bin; the dumb vampire bowling sequence; Alex's way too convenient ability to speed read. The list goes on...The poorly constructed script also concentrates far too heavily on the dull romance between Charlie and Alex, when it should be offering monster mayhem, meaning that the film only gets into serious vampire whoopin' in the closing moments.The last ten minutes, however, are great; it's just the getting there that is rather painful.5.5 out of 10, generously rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Decent enough follow-up, but nothing more","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Fright Night was never one of the best horror films of the eighties; but as high camp and cheesy fun go, it was certainly one of the better ones. I suppose a sequel was always going to be on the cards, and Tom Holland's film got one three years later, with this imaginatively titled 'Fright Night Part 2'. Fright Night Part 2 isn't as good as the first film; it has a number of problems, first and foremost is the fact that it runs too long. This makes the plot feel stretched, and it often seems like the team of writers didn't really have a good idea between them, therefore rendering this film as merely a cash-in. The plot isn't too brilliant, and once again focuses on Charlie Brewster. He's been lead to believe that the events of the first film were just his imagination, but this idea is thrown into disarray when several strange events transpire and Charlie is forced to team up once again with vampire killer Peter Vincent in order to dispatch a new vampire foe; this time the sister of the bloodsucker that Charlie and Vincent killed in the first 'Fright Night'.This film features the return of original stars William Ragsdale and Roddy McDowall, although Amanda Bearse has been replaced by Traci Lind, and gay porn star Stephen Geoffreys didn't return either. Ragsdale is good in the lead, although he looks more bored this time - but Roddy McDowall is on hand to camp it up, and as he did in the original Fright Night, steals every scene he's in. The film once again delivers the over the top vampire action that films of the original liked, and director Tommy Lee Wallace isn't afraid to utilise some rather suspect special effects. The plot is a little too wayward for my liking as well; as aside from the main film, there's also a load of subplots going on, most of them rather pointless - like Charlie's 'romance' with Alex - and it feels a lot like padding for a lack of ideas. Julie Carmen is sultry and seductive as the central vampire, and despite some boring moments leading up to it; the final half hour finale is well played out and fun to watch. Overall, I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to watch this film, but fans of the original may get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"A mediocre sequel","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw Fright Night a few months ago and absolutely enjoyed it, it reminded me of Rear Window, only vampires, it just made the story a lot of fun and a cool new twist on vampires. Of course I waited too long to see the movie, I came across the sequel so many times over and over again while looking for movies to rent, and right when I finally get to the sequel, they took it off DVD. Thank goodness though I was able to find this movie on youtube and watched it tonite, I'm actually in some ways glad that I didn't have to pay to see it. Sadly, I was disappointed, while it's by no means the worst sequel I have ever seen, just compared to the other movie, this was just too typical with the horror and gore, Fright Night was a brilliant and original film that was not only scary but a lot of fun to watch. Fright Night 2 isn't so original and the story lacks something.It has been three years since Charley and Peter Vincent faced his vampire neighbor, but Charley has gone to therapy and is convinced there are no such thing as vampires. He has got a new girlfriend and life in college; Peter is still working on TV with his Fright Night show. But a new vampire gang is in town working their way around, they charm and kill the people, while we find out that one of the vampires is related to Charley and she wishes for him to be an immortal and to join her and her vampire gang.Fright Night 2 is over all an alright film, if it was just on it's own, I honestly wouldn't have judged it that bad, but like I said, when the first one was so clever and original, I was expecting the same with the sequel. But it was really cool to have Peter and Charley working together again, they make such a great team, but they don't have the same charm and chemistry like they did in the first movie. Over all it's worth the one watch alone, if you saw the first film and are just curious, by all means, watch it, but the one time was more than enough for me.5/10 "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The bad and unnecessary sequel.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fright Night Part II (1989) was an unnecessary sequel (in my humble opinion).  I felt that the film-makers should have left well enough alone and found something else to do.  Since this movie was made during the 80's, the obligatory  sequel just had to be made.  What made the first film unique and interesting (the underlying homo-sexual theme and a feeling of personnel loss) is totally missing from this movie.  The results are just another sequel trying to live on the reputation of the first film.  The main problem with this one is there's too much glad handing and back slapping.  I don't like movies that spend too much time trying to be hip and cool. There's just too much grandstanding and homaging for my own taste.  I guess since the script lacked originality, they decided to include as many horror film cliches and nods and winks as possible.Overall I felt that this movie was totally unnecessary.  If they were going to make a sequel they should have tried to make it as original as possible.  Instead it felt like a wanna-be throwback to the old monster films of the 40's.  Oh well, what do I know.  Except to not waste my time watching this movie again!Not recommended unless you absolutely want to know what happened to Charlie Brewster and Peter Vincent.  For  completists only.  Other stay away!D-xxx "}]