[{"Title":"Brilliant, probably Woody's best and most focused","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"71 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989) was the masterful culmination of Woody Allen's dramatic period in the 80's, in which he made brilliant movies like Hannah and Her Sisters, Another Woman or September. In these movies he tried his best to play with Ingmar Bergman's narrative and aesthetic preoccupations, which are incidentally also Allen's. He has also always been successful at incorporating wit and comedy into the dramatic arc. In Crimes and Misdemeanors he confronts two philosophies of life with each other. And once the two story lines are set into motion, almost every scene plays off the theme of the movie. We meet Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau), a successful and beloved doctor. Coming home with his family from a gala, he finds a letter from his mistress Dolores (Angelica Huston); addressed to his wife. Judah meets Dolores in her apartment, where she explains her deep dissatisfaction with the current situation. She wants Judah on her own, whereas he feels that this affair is getting out of hand and wants to end it. Consecutively Dolores begins to threaten him with uncovering a fund theft he was involved in and with admitting their affair to his wife. Judah cannot see out of this predicament and calls up his Mafioso brother (Jerry Orbach) to help him getting rid of her. Cliff Stern (Woody Allen) on the other hand is a struggling documentary filmmaker, married to a woman who stopped having sex with him a year ago and who would rather see him work than not. So Cliff goes against his principles and takes the job kindly given to him by his wife's brother Lester (Alan Alda), a millionaire TV producer. Cliff has to follow Lester around New York to document his visions for a TV program. On the job he meets Halley Reed (Mia Farrow), an associate producer, who gets interested in his work of passion, a documentary about a Jewish philosopher. At the same time Cliff begins to take interest in Halley.Cliff is portrayed by Allen as a humble, wise and cynical man, who never managed to connect his aspirations to the demands of the real world. He has nothing to offer except his love and knowledge. This enables him to be a mentor to his young niece, but does not profit him in his relationship with Halley. The little girl also works as a stand-in for Cliff's conversations with his conscience. This device is made clearer in Rosenthal's segments, where he confides himself to a rabbi.So we have a dual storyline, where one section is morally repugnant and the other one is idealistic. The rabbi tells Rosenthal that their conversations are always about two views of life. One believes in a harsh world, empty of values and with a pitiless moral structure, while the other sees meaning and forgiveness and a higher power. Rosenthal has heard similar things before, since he was raised very religiously. The eyes of God are on us always, advised his father. And when it came to the question of God's existence he would add In case of doubt I will always choose God over truth. But Judah cannot let God interfere when he plans to kill his lover. He feels guilt, alright, but people get used to circumstances. We deny and try to forget.When in Cliff's segment the Jewish professor commits suicide, it comes as a shock. Suddenly a philosophical system has been taken away. Isn't that one of the things we fear the most? To realize that our beliefs are incomplete and wrong. This understanding only tightens as the movie progresses. The rabbi is going blind, morality has lost. In the end the film is a sobering account of how immorality, deceit and its more harmless companions prevail.I feel Allen had to let the downbeat ending happen, to express a fear of his. In the 90's he would often return to lighter themes. This expresses his curiosity in all aspects of existence. Light and darkness coexist. Tonally Crimes and Misdemeanors is not a dark movie. Allen repeatedly breaks up an emotional scene with a punch-line. But Allen is always consistent in his tone, whatever subjects or periods he chooses. He is a tough worker, who has made 33 movies since 1969, which amounts to roughly one movie a year. Crimes and Misdemeanors is the clearest in its vision and among his very best. "},{"Title":"A film that explores the human soul.","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"64 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I registered with the IMDb, one of the survey questions asked what my favorite film was. I listed Allen's Crimes and Misdemeanors. I don't know if this is always true, but for the most part I feel fairly confident regarding my choice. Allen's story here works, like most well written literature, on many levels. It is funny (Woody's lessons), symbolic (the Rabbi going blind), ironic (the good suffer and the evil go unpunished), deep (faith and suicide), and is a film that leaves you with something to identify with and learn from. Even Hally Reed's (Mia Farrow) surprising revelation at the end of the film, which I won't reveal of course, shows us a bit about the dangers of prejudging others. Woody shows us that we shouldn't judge on the surface, but must look deeper into the individual value of people. Do we trust Hally, or do we stick to what we see as the truth about Lester (Alan Alda)? This is a lesson that Woody's character, Cliff, doesn't even fully grasp at the end of the film, but Allen gives us the insight, even though what Hally reveals about Lester goes against what we've seen of him.Crimes and Misdemeanors is certainly not for all tastes. It's not exactly a film that people would watch for pure escapism. This is a film to be treasured, revisited and held up with some of the greatest films of all time. Not for how it looks or sounds, but for what it says. This is a film aimed at both the heart and the mind and succeeds in capturing both. "},{"Title":"Great tragicomedy. One of Allen's finest films.","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989) offers perhaps the most complex study of the relationship between film and reality in all of Woody Allen's work, not excepting the lighter treatment of the theme in The Purple Rose of Cairo (1985). In Crimes and Misdemeanors, film and reality interact on multiple levels ranging from the commercial to the philosophical. They also interact through a blend of genres that includes the noir crime drama, romantic comedy, social satire, and the documentary. Along the way the film enthusiast is treated to a dazzling variety of interwoven film clips from Hollywood genre films, darkly humorous newsreel footage of a blustering Mussolini, and arresting talking head interviews with fictional philosopher Louis Levy (played by Martin S. Bergmann, the renowned clinical psychologist and author of The Anatomy of Loving). Allen uses these film-within-film conceits to dramatize a central Dostoevskian (and 20th century) theme the consequences of a god- absent universe. A crucial film/reality intersection occurs in the final sequence, a first meeting between the central characters of the paralleled crime and misdemeanor plots Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau), a highly successful late middle-aged ophthalmologist and Cliff Stern (Woody Allen), an obscure documentary filmmaker whose one claim to fame is an Honorable Mention at the Cincinnati Film Festival. Aware that Cliff is a director of sorts, Judah pitches him a murder mystery plot based on recent experiences in his real life. Ironically, Cliff rejects Judah's plot as too implausible, shapeless, and amoral to work as a movie even though it is a large part of the movie that Woody Allen as director has just presented, a twist familiar to viewers of Robert Altman's The Player (as well as to readers of Borges, Nabokov, and a slew of lesser post-modern fiction writers). The meeting between Judah and Cliff takes place at a wedding celebration for the daughter of Ben (Sam Watterston), a rabbi who is Judah's long-time friend and Cliff's brother-in-law. Previously, the only link between the two plots comes from Ben's repeated visits to Judah's office for monitoring of a progressive eye-disease. In an early scene in the doctor's darkened examination room, Ben listens to Judah's confession of marital infidelity, financial indiscretion, and fears of exposure from his unstable mistress, Dolores (Angelica Huston), who refuses to be dumped after a several year relationship. What Judah does not confess is the means he uses to resolve his dilemma the murder of Dolores by a hit man hired by Judah's underworld-connected businessman brother, Jack. For a time, like Dostoevsky's Raskolnikov, Judah suffers agonies of guilt for initiating the taking of a human life, but eventually he awakens as if from a dream to find that rather than being punished he continues to prosper, a perverse irony that seems to belie his religious father's conviction that the eyes of God are always watching us and that whether in the Old Testament or Shakespeare &#150; 'murder will out.' The Woody Allen character, Cliff, is an unsung and largely uncompensated maker of intellectual documentaries. An obsessive film buff, he prefers to spend most afternoons at the movies with his niece and most evenings in his low-budget cutting room rather than face the reality of his unhappy marriage and nowhere career. Alan Alda plays Cliff's other brother-in-law and nemesis, Lester, a thoroughly obnoxious but prominent writer and producer of TV sitcoms. The antagonism between these two characters is sharpened when Lester, as a favor to his sister, hires Cliff to shoot a TV documentary about Lester himself for a Creative Minds PBS-style series. The show's Associate Producer, Halley (Mia Farrow), becomes the object of a courtship rivalry between Cliff and Lester. Since Cliff is married and Lester is an obvious philanderer, this romantic triangle forms the misdemeanor segment of the film's plot - adultery and licentiousness having long been stricken from the contemporary urban world's list of cardinal sins.Cliff's work on the Lester documentary allows Allen to satirize the TV-centered culture that lionizes a figure like Lester but offers scant recognition or reward to the subject of his documentary work-in-progress, Professor Levy (or, by extension, to Cliff himself). Although he has some moments, Lester is an easily deflated buffoon - a self-satisfied font of reductive and repeated bombast (if it bends it's funny; if it breaks it's not funny.) Unfortunately, he can only be deflated in art. In real life Lester not only has the power to keep filling the airwaves with pap, but to fire Cliff and - most depressingly - to seduce and marry his dream girl, Halley. If Judah finds the absence of moral order comforting, Cliff is totally nonplussed by reality's harsh artlessness, but then, as Judah advises him If you want a happy ending, you should go see a Hollywood movie. Despite its plot resolution, Crimes and Misdemeanors is rescued from utter nihilism by its ritual comic ending and by its final shot of the now completely blind Ben dancing happily with his daughter. Despite the literal place of darkness he has entered, the rabbi embodies the affirmative element in Professor Levy's vision, eloquently expressed in these words Events unfold so unpredictably, so unfairly, human happiness does not seem to be included in the design of creation. It is only we, with our capacity to love that give meaning to the indifferent universe. And yet, most human beings seem to have the ability to keep trying and even try to find joy from simple things, like their family, their work, and from the hope that future generations might understand more. Alas, the uplifting imagery of the film's ending is counterbalanced, though not thoroughly undercut, by the recollection of Professor Levy's personal response to the indifferent universe he exits it via self-defenestration, leaving only a suicide note that reads I've gone out the window.Crimes and Misdemeanors is as close to pure tragicomedy as Woody Allen gets anywhere in his work, and it is one of his most essential and finest films. "},{"Title":"Human happiness does not seem to be included in the design of creation... If you want a happy ending, you should go see a Hollywood movie.","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"40 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989)- is Woody Allen's masterpiece and my favorite film. It is urban and sophisticated, subtle and cruel. It is darker than dark and self-ironic. It is profound and touchingly poignant. It is deadly serious and in the same time it is incredibly funny. Its humor is razor sharp and sparkling and the best and funniest Woody's one-liners and comic performances belong here. As always in his best films, Allen had created a clever and elegant film out of his own weaknesses and insecurities and it shines. How much was Allen able to meditate on life, death, God, religion, morality, crimes and the responsibility, love and lust, happiness and the price one pays for it, and among those eternal subjects - how much fun it is to skip work or school and to sneak to the movies. It is universal. It has the references to many Artists and cultures - Chekhov, Dostoyevsky, and Bergman among the others but it is so undeniably and uniquely Allen. It could not have been made by any other director.It is the movie Allen will be remembered for. "},{"Title":"A perfect film","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"52 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not much has to be said. This is an outstanding film, possibly one of the best films I have ever seen. All performances are perfect. Half drama, half comedy, and that very well done. It has deep thoughts about quilt and mistakes, lots of truth about relationships. It has laughs and a perfect ending. Every time I watch this film I just want to sit down and write, just write something interesting to leave behind. The film is already 16 yrs old and you wont notice that at all, it's one of those films that never age. I would recommend this movie to anyone who doesn't want to spend another two hours of his life watching yet another Hollywood crap. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Most would say Annie Hall, some would say Manhattan, those who prefer Allen's early career might even mention Sleeper. Few would call Crimes and Misdemeanors Woody Allen's best film as writer/director, but the more I watch it, the more I realize that it's not only my favorite, but in many ways the film Allen was working towards for the entirety of his career as a writer prior to this.In Crimes and Misdemeanors Allen revisits a recurring theme in many of his films, adultery. It would be a simplistic and narrow-minded view of this film to say that it was simply about adultery because it is really far more complex than that, and essentially a film about all varieties of human nature and relationships, and one could even argue- the relationship between reality and film as explored through the lens of genre- romantic comedy, Film-Noir, and documentary, and what parts of this film are- satire.Crimes and Misdemeanors is one of Allen's best scripts. Any screenplay attempting to accomplish as much as this one does could easily fall apart, and Allen has had less convincing attempts than this one with similar ambitions, but everything works beautifully here. This film practically defines the 'tragicomedy' sub-genre, with neither overpowering the other and much of the humor is dark humor originating in tragedy, something that is acknowledged by Allen through the character of Lester (played to perfection by Alan Alda), who comments that comedy is nothing more than tragedy plus time. He also mentions that comedy has to have an ending, and that's one of the best things about this movie- Allen allows dramatic scenes to succeed at being dramatic and emotional, then throws a hilarious punchline at you, which has an effect that is both entertaining and somewhat unsettling. This is an expertly-written movie.Crimes and Misdemeanors is the culmination of a decade of consistently brilliant, evocative, original, and fascinating films from Woody Allen, whose 80's output I would personally consider to be his best. His 70's work is far more popular, but his 80's work contains some of the most unique and memorable films ever made Stardust Memories, Zelig, The Purple Rose of Cairo, and Hannah and Her Sisters, as well as numerous overlooked and generally forgotten films that can only be called excellent, such as A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy, Broadway Danny Rose, Radio Days, September, and Another Woman. On top of all these memorable films is Crimes and Misdemeanors, which is simply my favorite Woody Allen film and almost certainly his best and most focused effort.10/10 "},{"Title":"Rare film that ventures into Good and Evil Conscience","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"31 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let's begin by declaring that you do not need to be a Woody Allen fan to appreciate this film. As is often the case, Allen's schlemiel character is the least sympathetic and interesting one in the movie.But that aside, here's a story that I found thoroughly engaging. Is there a perfect crime? Is guilt the same as remorse? How does a good person come to terms with his sins? The blind Rabbi Is God unseeing? The Holocaust survivor philosopher who challenges survival (that's all I can say without spoiling) is there any real redemption?The movie has flaws but I give it a 10 for daring to ask serious questions. (And the visit to the old house in Brooklyn has a dynamism that all of us who remember our childhood homes will relate to.) "},{"Title":"A wonderful film about decisions and life","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After watching four of Woody Allen's movies, I am now convinced that he is one of the best directors of all time. His blend of a serious subject matter and humor is executed into perfection. Crimes and Misdemeanors is probably as serious as Allen can get. It sometimes plays like a thriller and suspense, but it also contains signature Allen humor. Crimes and Misdemeanors is essentially about two separate stories connected only by ending the way it supposed to end in the real world. Allen implies that how these stories ended is not how they will end in a movie but how they will end in reality. Again, Allen explores the nature of human beings, analyzes relationships, and studies human decisions. The first story involves a successful Ophthalmologist named Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau). He has been married for decades with several children, but has had an affair with a flight attendant named Dolores Paley (Anjelica Huston). Dolores is now obsessed with Judah and plans to confront his wife and reveal his financial secrets if Judah does not leave his wife. After his brother suggested murdering Dolores, Judah tries to decide if he wants to save his life or face murder. The other story involves struggling documentary filmmaker Clifford Stern (Woody Allen). He was forced to make a documentary about his successful brother-in-law-which he despises. He agreed to do it only for the money, and in the process, fell in love with an associate named Halley Reed (Mia Farrow). His problem is that he is married and his brother-in-law Lester (Alan Alda) is also making a pass at Halley. Halley must now decide whether she wants to be with a sincere man or a rich successful one.Halley and Judah's decisions are also meant for the audience to analyze. What would we do if we were in their situation? Would we do the same thing they did? Can we stand having a murder in our conscience? Would we go for the wealthy man even though he may be a phony? Allen plays the audience with this questions and expertly guides them his characters' decisions.Allen intercuts the Judah story with Judah's memories. His recollections of his times with Dolores and his childhood memories with his family. He recalls his father teaching him about God and our obligations. These memories made his decision harder and regrettable. In the other story, a professor makes some statements about life. These statements were heard again in the final montage, and this seems to be Allen's ultimate message about life, relationships, and decisions.This movie is very similar to my favorite Allen movie Hannah and her Sisters. They both involve several storylines that is connected only by the central theme and message. Allen's excellent writing is complimented by his steady direction. Crimes and Misdemeanors is not as funny as Annie Hall or as accomplished as Manhattan, but it certainly ranks as one of Allen's best films.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Martin Landau, a successful doctor, contemplates murdering a former mistress who threatens his easy life while Woody Allen, an unsuccessful filmmaker, contemplates having an extramarital affair.  This film, alongside Annie Hall, will one day be rated as one of Woody Allen's greatest achievements. It is an important, intelligent work that explores the implications of whether or not this is indeed a moral universe.  It also very funny.  The subplot about Allen making a film about his successful, conceited brother-in-law (Alan Alda.)  A masterpiece.  I doubt he will reach these heights again. "},{"Title":"Allen's best","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a profound film, a true classic and great even among Woody Allen's great films!  Thought-provoking and involving, I've found since seeing it that the film and its statements about good versus evil, denial, guilt, narcissism, have never really left me. A film with many layers, one that demands a re-visiting from time to time. "}{"Title":"Does anyone else see what I see?","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is two separate stories made into one via just three devices 1) a relatively minor, albeit symbolic character (a blind Rabbi), 2) a brief meeting of the two main protagonists, and 3) a philosopher's narration at the closing (or it would seem so, anyway). The first section - the crime, and the good part - tells the story of an eye doctor (very nicely played by Martin Landau) who has it all a wonderful wife and family, a successful career, a beautiful home, and a neurotic mistress (Anjelica Huston), the last of which threatens to spill the beans and destroy everything in his life. Landau is a respectable, decent guy who finds himself unable to cope with the enormity of these circumstances, and he goes to an extreme by enlisting the help of his mob-connected brother (Jerry Orbach), who has the mistress killed. There follows some interesting scenes in which we see Landau going to an emotional edge over what he has done, and searching his past and present for some answers. It is a well-done, believable story that raises a lot of interesting philosophical questions. The second section - a much lighter story than the first - stars Allen in his typical genre in which he plays a filmmaker doing a portrait of his brother-in-law TV producer (Alan Alda), and whom he greatly despises. This story is further complicated by a love triangle with a television documentary maker, played by Mia Farrow. There are a few amusing lines in this section, and it wraps up into a somewhat ironic ending. But what is the connection here? The first time I saw this film, I kept asking myself What do the Landau and Allen stories have to do with each other?. I found myself asking the same exact question the second, third, and fourth times I saw it as well.Then I saw an interview with Allen. He said that the Landau segment is a statement of his belief that there is no God or divinely-inspired morality - not much of a surprise there. The second part of the film, says Allen, was trying to tell us that intentions do not matter, but rather it is success that counts in this world; that even though his character truly cared for the Farrow character, it was the vain, shallow, unworthy, but nevertheless rich and successful Alda character that eventually won her heart. OK, I guess that point comes through as well. But once again, we are back to the same question What do these two stories have to do with each other? Not much, from what I can see. What is the crime or even the misdemeanor committed in the Allen segment? If you can connect these two stories, you might also have some success in connecting Sleeper with Gone With The Wind - the stories really don't mesh. To put it bluntly, it almost appears as if Allen had two separate scripts, neither of which were meaty enough for a full-length film, so his solution was to combine them into one movie. Am I correct? Someone please explain to me why I am not. "},{"Title":"A Movie That Shows there is no Absolute Answer","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen is Woody Allen. He always has some very thought provoking subjects to write and ultimately film about. Crimes and Misdemeanors in a lot of ways, in my opinion, is his most thought provoking film to date. What really brings the movie together is the ending where Martin Landau's character is talking to Woody Allen's character. I won't get into the whole movie here, but what Landau's character talks about to Allen's character is the fact that if you kill someone or had someone killed, you feel bad at first about it, but you ultimately move on with your life, and as time goes by, the killing becomes further away in your thoughts, like the phrase, 'This too shall pass.' Allen's character talks about how if a person kills someone and/or had someone killed that they would ultimately confess to the police from feeling to guilty about it. Landau's character says, to the likes of, 'at first you feel guilty, but that's movie stuff confessing, no you get through it and move on with your life.'(again he didn't say this verbatim, but to the likes of he did). Very interesting thoughts come at the movie viewer like fireworks bursting into the sky at this point such as- Is it truly only about survival and do we move on and adapt no matter what? Do we get through the lulls of life and learn to adapt, live and survive in this world the that way we like to no matter what? Do we learn to live with life, as it was, whether it be Crimes(something horrible as in we killed someone) and/or Misdemeanors(Cheating on your girlfriend or wife or both-for the polyamorous)? Another thought provoking subject that comes up is of what's 'real'(that has concretely happened, been seen in the world) and what 'isn't real or what hasn't and/or can't be seen'(God; Faith; all of this according to what the movie is stating). Allen really makes you think in this film, and he's one of the best for this kind of writing. The answer is really simple since there isn't a solid black or white answer, which there never is anyway(And I believe ultimately, that's Woody Allen's point), it's pretty much to the individual. The funny thing is both Landau's character and Allen's character are both right. There are some people in this world that would think like Landau and go on living their lives after killing someone and then there are some people in this world that make Allen's argument right, where they would breakdown and confess about their crime of killing someone, and that's real life, not a movie, it goes both ways, depending on the person. It comes down to 'What is Truth?' as Pontius Pilate said(Pronounced Pawnchuss Pilot). Truth is to the eye of the beholder, it's different for everyone. Some people's truth would be on the side of Landau's character and some on the side of Allen's character. Some people are realists and see the truth as only what they can see and only what has happened, and some people's truth is what you can see but also what you can't see too, God and Faith in particular. What can't be seen is sometimes as real as what can be seen. There are things that happen in life through events of faith and worship and other ordeals that come to a fruition in the here and the now, and the realists wouldn't have believed it when it wasn't seen, but when it became seen, then they believed it. A very crafty movie by an absolute brilliant man in Woody Allen. It's a must see for the deep thinkers. "},{"Title":"One of Woody Allen's most ambitious films, also one of his classics","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen is not everybody's cup of tea, with me while his body of work is not always consistent(but that is true with a lot of directors) much of it is wittily written and insightful as seen with his masterpiece Annie Hall. Crimes and Misdemeanours has everything that is so good about the best of his work. With the subject matter and how the comedy and seriousness is blended Crimes and Misdemeanours is one of Allen's most ambitious, and along with the likes of Annie Hall, Hannah and Her Sisters, Husbands and Wives and Manhattan it's one of his best too. The look of the film is elegant and hauntingly dark, while the score is jazzy and seductive. The story has some key themes(good and evil and life and death as examples) that are very clearly addressed and dealt with with adroitness and truth. The concept is not an innovative one as such but it's challenging and hugely compelling. And the writing is to thank for that, the humour is wonderfully ironic and very characteristic of the distinctive wise-cracking Allen style, there are references and observations that are sharp and insightful(always one of Allen's strong points as a writer) and they is blended well with a serious tone that is dark and appropriately troubling, the shifts between comedy and drama didn't jar to me. The acting is very good, often outstanding. Woody Allen acts as well as directs and writes and there are no obvious problems with his performance(or his directing), not a likable character by all means but that was the intent. Anjelica Huston doesn't disappoint, nor does Jerry Orbach before his Law and Order days, Sam Waterson and Claire Bloom. Mia Farrow is affecting as well. But the acting honours go to Alan Alda and especially Martin Landau, Alda plays an absolute weasel to perfection while Landau gives a performance that has not only only been matched by his Bela Lugosi in Tim Burton's Ed Wood but also one of the greatest performances of any Woody Allen film. All in all, a Woody Allen classic, an example of ambitious done brilliantly. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Two discrete plots in one excellent movie","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989) was written and directed by Woody Allen. The film stars Allen as a documentary filmmaker, who makes documentaries that no one would want to see. The structure of the film is unusual. It's really two movies with a fragile link that connects them.In one plot, Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau) is a prominent ophthalmologist and philanthropist. He's married to Miriam (Claire Bloom), but he's had an affair with Dolores, played by Anjelica Huston. Any movie that contains these three great actors will be a pleasure to watch.The second plot concerns Cliff Stern (Woody) who's married to Wendy (Joanna Gleason) but is in love with Halley (Mia Farrow). The link between the two plots is that Wendy's brother Ben (Sam Waterston) has a degenerative eye disease. Ben is being treated for this disease by Judah. Because Ben is a rabbi, Judah confides in him about the love triangle in which he finds himself.Allen is a brilliant writer and director, and his strengths are in getting dialog right and carefully portraying the milieu in which his characters live and work. Granted, the Woody Allen part is predictable and hard to watch. (He's still writing that part, although he's too old now to play it. Just watch Midnight in Paris and you'll see the same character in a script written over 20 years after Crimes and Misdemeanors.)This is a film I enjoyed and recommend. In my opinion, almost everything Woody Allen directs is worth seeing. Crimes and Misdemeanors is one of Allen's best, and is definitely worth seeking out. (We saw the film on DVD, and it worked well on the small screen. If it's not showing in revival, rent or buy the DVD,) "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film raises so many issues, so many personal questions that one can ask of oneself.  It shows the struggles (exaggerated for drama) that we all face just to get through a day, year, a life.  The characters/actors are flawless, unique.  A Must-See! "},{"Title":"An existential masterpiece","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a world where there is no God and where the philosophers commit suicide,one can get away with murder and sell the story to a film maker. Ironicaly enough the only one whose ideas prove to be true is Lesther the TV producerComedy is tragedy plus time,and what a short time Hamlet might have said!Only four months after getting rid of his mistress,Judah Rosenthal who catches God's eyes nowhere but in the gaze of the dead Dolores,is an honorary doctor and a devoted husband and father again.The ophthalmologist who can't see his own vices,the blind Rabi,the unfortunate documentary film maker, the successful TV producer... all are the guests of a wedding, of the beginning of a new life, with so many questions remained unanswered.The bride is leading her blind father through the dance,and we hear the voice of the philosopher who before jumping out of the window opens one for us,by telling that we define ourselves by the choices we make and only we, with our capacity to love can give meaning to the indifferent universe. "},{"Title":"A film made with so much love .....","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dear Woody Allen,Every scene of Crimes and Misdemeanors is made with so much love. You often surprised me during the indoor scenes when suddenly there would be some superb lighting in the background. You usually like to set scenes in beautiful American parks. This film is no different. The outdoor scenes are a pleasure to look at. The scene where Martin Landau visits his childhood home was spectacular, there were so many great bit players in that scene. And that scene is not the only one. You packed it in with this film, Woody. There are so many poignant and hilarious moments. You even invented this philosopher dude who mouths some awesome dialogs. This is probably your best film, even though I am partial to your work in the 60s and 70s.Two story lines parallel to each other(though the characters do meet at the end of the film). One about an upstanding ophthalmologist who gives the nod for his secret lover to be killed. The other one is about a naughty documentary filmmaker who refuses to sell out but is frustrated with the mediocrity around him and also sad about the fact that the woman he covets is increasingly attracted to the man he hates.It is an amazing achievement that you make the lives of these civilized and sophisticated characters so entertaining to audiences around the world. Good job.Best Regards, Pimpin.(9/10) "},{"Title":"What if Instant Karma won't actually get you?","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Imagine if everything you were ever taught about moral, ethics and karma turns out not to be true? « You get what you give », « Good things come to good people », « Instant karma is gonna get you! ». We hear and often repeat these phrases, try to live well with ourselves and with others, be good citizens, do good. Many of us believe that this is not only the good way to go about life, but also expect to be rewarded because of our good behavior, to get what we want, to grow in life, have a great job, meet a nice partner, live well, prosper.This is, however, a Woody Allen story, and it may as well be his masterpiece. The story can be roughly divided in two, and centers on the lives of two very different men. One is Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau), a married and successful ophthalmologist who suddenly starts facing problems with his lover (in a good performance by Anjelica Huston). The other man is the idealist and broke moviemaker Cliff Stern (played by Allen himself), facing family problems, a broken marriage and a work crisis. The stark difference between these two men turn the movie into a would-be duel between idealism and superficiality.Themes like our roles in society, religion, morals, existentialism, the final judgment and philosophy are thoroughly discussed in the movie, both directly in conversation but also reflectively through the actions of the different characters, without ever compromising the development of the story, nor the viewer's interest in it. Balanced in the comic paranoia of Allen's writing and acting, the story finds a meeting point between drama, irreverence and meaningful topics. Pertinent reflections and dialogues drive characters to often funny, often heavy situations, and many times both.« Crimes and Misdemeanors » represented a return of Woody Allen to comedy, after flirting with more psychologically driven stories, clearly influenced by Ingmar Bergman, as shown in previous works like « Another Woman » and « September ». Still, comedy here exists and at the same time does not, as the deeper reflections proposed by the movie can push the viewer into a different direction.Rosenthal's tale shows a man initially consumed by anguish over the decisions he needs to take. Whatever path he chooses will certainly leave a long-lasting and deep scar in his life. Humor is absent here, and Sven Nyqvist's cinematography (the same that often worked with Bergman) is dark and somber, reflecting the state of mind of the central character. Cliff's journey, however, is lighter and more comical, a typical portrait of Allen's characters played by himself. The different stories balance each other out perfectly they offer the light after the darkness, the calm after the storm.Finally, and only towards the end of the movie, the two men meet and talk about the crimes and sins of real life, and what can their real consequences be. The encounter of these two seemingly so different characters, but who then suddenly realize that perhaps what they were always taught about life and morals could be wrong, could be considered an anagnorisis of Aristotle, a final realization, a critical discovery of things as they show themselves to be, not as we had constructed them in our imaginary. Are we indeed the sum of our choices? "},{"Title":"An absolutely wonderful comedy-drama concerning life, death, guilt, morality and faith","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Inspired by the 1866 novel Crime and Punishment by Fyodor Dostoyevsky, this is an absolutely wonderful comedy-drama concerning life, death, guilt, morality and faith. It is superbly written and directed by Woody Allen and there is never a false note in the entire film. The characters always seem real, as do the choices that they face. I would like to believe that real people would not behave like the film's characters but, sadly, I know better than that.The film stars Martin Landau in one of his best performances as Judah Rosenthal, a highly successful ophthalmologist who seems to be a perfectly honest, decent, respectable family man. However, all that glisters is not gold. For two years, he has been having an affair with an emotionally vulnerable, if not unstable, woman named Dolores Paley, played by the always excellent Anjelica Huston. While Judah never told Dolores that he was going to leave his wife Miriam, she entertained the notion that he would do so eventually and he didn't really do anything to discourage it. When it becomes clear that he will never divorce Miriam, Dolores plans to destroy his reputation by not only revealing the affair to his wife but by revealing his numerous financial improprieties to the NYPD. He turns to his brother Jack, whose profession is not stated but it's clearly far less reputable than ophthalmology, who hires a hit-man to kill Dolores. After he sees her corpse, Judah becomes wracked with guilt and he recalls his long rejected religious heritage, becoming convinced that he is being subjected to God's penetrating, intense glare. Jack, played in a wonderful performance by the late, great Jerry Orbach, does not have a huge amount of screen time but he offers a fascinating contrast to Judah. Jack is the one who first suggests the drastic step of killing Dolores and, while Judah is initially appalled, he eventually goes along with it. Jack is an extremely unsavoury character but, in a very warped fashion, he is more honest than Judah. The film's use of flashback is very effective when it comes to Judah's moral dilemma. We are shown Judah and Dolores in happier days, another very effective, simple contrast, as well as scenes from the Rosenthal boys' youth in which their father attempted to pass on his belief that God saw everything and sinners were doomed to eternal damnation. Judah's existential crisis is resolved when he comes to the conclusion that morality is not divinely inspired but is instead a human construct. Although he helped to arrange the murder of an innocent person, he has come to terms with his guilt and no longer fears punishment on either the temporal or the spiritual planes. Bar the occasional bad moment, Judah is able to continue with his life as if nothing ever happened.The film's other, more comedic thread features Allen in a first rate performance as the largely unsuccessful documentary filmmaker Cliff Stern. A dogged nice guy, Cliff specialises in documentaries on heavy subjects such as leukemia and philosophy and he has yet to make a name for himself in the business in spite of many years of trying. He is trapped in an increasingly loveless marriage to Wendy, who has about as much respect for his work as she has affection for him. Cliff despises his obnoxious, self-absorbed pompous brother-in-law Lester, played very well by an uncharacteristically antagonistic Alan Alda. Part of the reason for this is that Lester is a multi-millionaire television producer with many very successful sitcoms under his belt. Cliff seemingly does not care about awards but he clearly resents that Lester has made a fortune from light entertainment while he has struggled to make a living dealing with weightier issues. After Lester does Wendy a favour by hiring Cliff to film a documentary about him, they become romantic rivals for the affections of the associate producer Halley Reed. Cliff and the quite recently divorced Halley seem to bond over old films and her desire to produce one of his documentaries but she rejects his advances on the grounds that it is too soon. When she returns from London four months later, Cliff learns that she has gotten engaged to Lester and the look on his face is enough to break your heart into a million pieces. In choosing Lester over Cliff, Wendy chose flash over substance and success over integrity. While I do think that she had feelings for Cliff or was at least beginning to have them when she left, she took the safer path by starting a relationship with the ostentatious Lester over the neurotic Cliff.Sam Waterston, one of two future Law & Order icons in the supporting cast, is very good as the rabbi Ben. While he has a comparatively minor role, he is what connects the two story lines given that he is Cliff's brother-in-law and Judah's patient. There is a fantastic scene in which Judah imagines that he is talking to Ben, who represents his conscience. In stark contrast to his brother Lester, Ben is the nicest, kindest person that you could ever hope to meet but he is slowly losing his sight throughout the film, eventually going blind altogether. Since he is the most ardently religious character, I imagine that this was intended to represent God's lack of concern for humanity, if he even exists at all. Other than those actors whom I have already mentioned, I was very impressed by Mia Farrow as Halley, who is always likable and sympathetic in spite of everything, and Claire Bloom as the blissfully ignorant Miriam.Overall, this is a brilliant film that manages to be funny, dark and thought-provoking. It argues that life is incredibly unfair but that it is worth living for the many happy, hopeful moments that it offers such as dancing with your daughter on her wedding day, even if you will never see her face again. "},{"Title":"Moral choices.","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In one candid moment of the hugely successful Lester's life, he is given a rather rousing and instructive speech to a room full of colleagues, who listen intently, and the camera pans across until it finally reveals Cliff, aiming a different camera at the proceedings. Woody, and therefore Cliff, shoots this way because for him, there is no difference between Lester's real and documentary life; they are both shallow, worthless and rubbish. This is a departure from the usual Woody character - still neurotic, still high-minded and cultured, but this particular one is rather needy, somewhat pathetic. He prides himself on staying away from the Hollywood-esque success that Lester has garnered, and prefers more personal, meaningful works. One he is working on about an elderly philosopher who spouts vague truths about love and life blows up embarrassingly in his face when this wise man commits suicide. Lester openly insults his career by admitting he is only asking him as a favour to his sister, Cliff's wife. At the end of the film, Cliff feels like he deserves the love of Halley, another like-minded, smart and attractive individual (and he has been vicariously substituting this hollow in his life, in the wake of his waning marriage, with his young niece), and cannot even think why she would choose Lester over him (who reminds him of Mussolini). And so it haunts him endlessly. Dually, there is another closely linked with the family who is being haunted. Judah's affair is catching up with him, threatening both his personal and financial life, and there remains no choice. Landau is the best of the cast, and shows it here; watch how he tries to convince himself that the idea of the murder is not his idea, watch how he rambles endlessly about morality but cannot seem to remember why he called his brother for assistance. But for a crime of this magnitude, four months later he is seemingly at peace, while Cliff mourns newly. Crimes and Misdemeanors is not about how he got away with it - this is irrelevant and happens with ease - but how he deals with the fact he got away with it.Allen employs a few significant techniques to both these characters in moments of strife. The first is the silence, save for maybe the hum of a car engine or the crackling of a telephone, as the character's mind wanders incessantly on their troubles. This makes the music so much more dreadful when it finally cues in; in a particularly creepy sequence which follows the murderer, the previous lovers who found themselves together in Schubert now become confronted with death with his String Quartet 15, a moment of wonderful agitation without ever showing any action or violence. Another is the slow zoom in to a character's face as they are hit with horrible news, which is frequently coupled with the use of visual flashbacks which contrast the now cold and frightening reality. Levey's suicide, the murder of Paley...In one case Judah even consciously argues at length about morality with his memories of a Jewish dinner (this scene is very Allen) and this represents his full conscious awareness of his sin, and his desperation to justify it. Meanwhile, in a blow of cruel symbolism, the rabbi, the one moral centre, is blind by the end of the film, while the ophthalmologist is seeing clearer than ever. Another theme is the blurring of the boundaries between fiction and reality. We saw this first with Cliff shooting Lester, and also in the many cuts from reality straight into a movie that Cliff might be watching, which closely mirror the events of the story. Allen manages to conjure some of his humour from this tale; the hilarious way in which Mussolini is compared to Lester, the voyeuristic and aggressive manner that he films Lester flirting with the women in the workplace, and in one scene, the darkness of Judah's story almost invades into Cliff's. His sister is recounting a horrifying date incident, and we curl up in revulsion, waiting for that fateful word, before it is suddenly replaced with another. If it was rape Cliff might react with a subtle horror and rage, but in this case he flies off the handles and reacts with much more indignation than necessary, and it is very funny. Allen seems to readily announce that this is not a Hollywood movie. The ending is entirely pessimistic; the rich and successful Judah discovers the shakiness of the construct of humanity, and God's eye no longer plagues him, much less no longer exists in his mind. Cliff has let love slip away (then again, I think he deserves it, being wholly unoriginal, having his pet projects fail and even plagiarising a declaration of love from James Joyce's Ulysses). At times it feels like two completely separate films that have been combined as per title. But when they come together, and seem to exhibit the opposite reactions that we would normally expect, Levey's message rings true. But I don't think Cliff ever seems to realise it. "}{"Title":"Fatal flaw in premise of otherwise excellent movie on microcosm of NY","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a deftly made movie with parallel stories and portrayal of the world of Jewish New Yorkers. The angst over whether there is a true morality from an omnipotent God makes the film thought-provoking and, to some, disturbing. Allen has grappled now twice with this idea of getting away with murder and whether one can go on to live a good life without fear of retribution. He explored it in this film, and then again in Matchpoint. In Crimes and Misdemeanors, the issue was whether God was watching and if the guilty character could live well with his conscience. In Matchpoint, retribution is a matter of random luck.The conclusions of both films can seem brilliant to some, but quite troubling to others. The reason this is so, is because Allen's main question, Can the murderer get away with it? hinges on one important assumption that all rewards and punishments occur in this life...and that moral behavior is subject to rewards and punishments. This is in fact a very Jewish point of view (hence the family debate in their Midwood, Brooklyn, home). Jews do not believe in Heaven or Hell, so all has to be achieved in this life. Within the logic that emerges from the above question is inevitably a morally confused universe and cynical point of view. What's worse is that the movie assumes the rewards are things like wealth, career success, love.If murderers do not get found out and do not suffer punishment, does that mean there is no moral God watching over us? No, their crime or misdemeanor is still wrong, because it caused harm to someone. If they have no conscience and they are not caught, it is still wrong. If there is not a God meting out rewards and punishments in this life or the afterlife, what makes it wrong? Does it not matter if one decides to murder for personal gain? Is not the rule to follow simply dog eat dog and every man for himself? Allen has not progressed in questioning the assumption, whether material rewards are the appropriate measure of morality.To get past his ongoing conundrum, the next time Allen takes on this theme, he needs to consider how society as a whole would break down if no one subscribed to any code of morality. There would not be anything to get away with, since everyone would subscribe to the law of the jungle who ever eats, wins. Without a common code of morals, we would be reduced to a primitive state.Allen is very literary, but to address moral issues, he needs to go beyond the individual and consider social systems as a whole. Morality is a matter of relationships to our fellow human beings, not of individual success in life. One might argue that societies have a long history of sanctioning, through the law, behaviors we find abhorrent today, so morality is still all relative and there is no moral absolute. I think, rather, that human societies evolve as we learn from our mistakes, and we find out these mistakes because indeed there is a moral absolute that reveals them to be wrong gradually it becomes recognized that it is not okay for women to be an underclass to men; that racism violates the rights of people; that lying, cheating, stealing, and murdering result in a breakdown of the trust required to engage in transactions and the economic health of a society; that crime is a symptom of a lot of social ills, from economic inequities to mental illness to social pressures that sway the individual's moral compass. Obviously, there are sociopaths and criminals who have no empathy for their victims and no conscience about gaining at the expense of others, including murder -- we now have clinical terms for them, and even can link aberrant, deficient behaviors to parts of the brain. Judah's brother is such a one with no twinges of conscience. Judah enjoys the trappings of success very much because those around subscribe to a moral code to which he must pretend.Criminals are put in jail to punish them, to protect society from them, and to reform them. Society's sense of morality evolves in the effort to achieve some social order that is sustainable. If someone gets away with murder, the goal of the law is that society does not implode with everyone doing the same as some norm of behavior. One does not need a God to tell us what works or not. Our different beliefs in God or not, meanwhile, color how we codify our morals in social conduct and the law.Good movie, within its narrowly defined universe, but Allen needs to expand beyond that small universe to truly answer the question of moral absolutes. I hope he reads my review somehow, as I get the sense that his is indeed a very troubled man.P.S. To those who analyze the film in terms of Utilitarianism and Kant, my above take based on human relationships draws from Asian philosophy and Confucianism, and the concept of societies as complex systems. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen Is.","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An ophthalmologist (Martin Landau)'s mistress threatens to reveal their affair to his wife, while a married documentary filmmaker is infatuated by another woman.Allen excels when he takes philosophy, theology and other intellectual pursuits and blends hem with his love of cinema and classical music. Some are better than others, and this is among the best, bringing in Jewish morality, nihilism and Dostoevsky...Woody does not often tackle crime, but it is nice when he does. The theme would be revisited by Allen in his films Match Point (one of his best) and Cassandra's Dream. Perhaps this is something he should focus on more often? "},{"Title":"A masterful balancing act","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For a brief period of time, in the early 1980s, Woody Allen seemed slightly unsure of what direction his career should take serious or funny? (He even made an entire movie about this uncertainty, Stardust Memories). I think Crimes And Misdemeaors (and also Hannah And Her Sisters, to speak only of his 1980s movies) is what he was always really getting at; this movie is basically a drama, and yet it contains some lines funnier and cleverer than anything in, say, To Rome With Love. It is about moral dilemmas, yet it is amoral; it is deep, yet accessible; it is relaxed and easygoing, yet self-assured and carefully planned out. The entire cast is good, but Martin Landau in particular gives a superlative performance. And Allen's choice of music is, as usual, spot-on. *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"Allen searches for meaning and explanations again","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I won't discuss the plot of this film much. It has been detailed thoroughly on this site. Perhaps too much.Woody Allen has assembled a great cast for Crimes and Misdemeanors. He shot the film then, reportedly, trashed one third of it, rewrote and reshot that third. The result is an interesting film. Like all Allen products, a film of ideas.Allen likes to tackles cosmic questions, philosophical conundrums, the absurdities of conventional wisdom. Here he intertwines these meditations with the mundane--one of his greatest talents.Faced with disheartening circumstances or life-shattering decisions, Allen's characters behave like humans. Allen plays Clifford Stern, a documentary film maker in an unhappy marriage. But he does not seem extremely unhappy. He finds humor in the universe and happiness in the things he loves.Through all the real-world machinations of its plot, this film keeps returning to the universal view, looking for absolute answers to the eternal questions. In this film, Allen tells us that humor helps us survive the stark realities of existence. And that love gives (us) meaning to an indifferent universe. On the other hand, his search for a universal definition of justice goes unresolved--a tricky concept that few agree on. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Unpredictable Script/Great Filmmaking","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This could be Woody Allen's best movie, even though Manhattan and Annie Hall get most of the press. Martin Landau is incredible in this portrayal of a man who is beset by his past indiscretions. He is blackmailed by his mistress who is getting tired of waiting for Landau to leave his wife. He has her murdered and then goes through all the real anguish one would have. He falls back into his religious beliefs and has to carry them around for a time. There is a second plot having to do with a documentary being made. Allan Alda does a superb job as an unlikable dilettante who is just in it for the money. The twists and turns that ensue and the incredible tension, especially as they relate to Landau, keep us on the edge of our seats. This is a real movie where Allen has thoroughly invaded his characters' psyches and taken them on a ride. This could be so badly done under other heavy handed directions. There is none of this. See this film. "},{"Title":"Misdemeanors and Crimes.","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After having a fabulous watching writer/director/lead actor Woody Allen's Manhattan Murder Mystery for a poll being held on IMDb's Classic Film Board for the best titles of 1993,I decided that for the boards 1989 poll,that I would take a look at Allen's (solo) mystery from that year.The plotNotedue to the plot mainly being in 2 different threads,I've decided to separate each of the plots out.Plot oneSpending years gathering up what little money he can in order to complete filming on his dream Avant-Garde documentary, underground movie director Cliff Stern finds himself stuck in a dead end,thanks to using up every last penny on filming,and also finding that there is no one interested in distributing his epic.Talking to his wife Wendy,Stern finds out that a multi millionaire film producing brother of hers called Lester is desperate for some one to make a documentary on him.Initially desperate to stay away from the project,Cliff eventually agrees to directing the feature,in the hope that he will get the final funds needed to complete his film.As he starts shooting Lester's ego- driven project,Stern finds himself becoming closer to a crew member on the movie called Halley Reed,which leads to Cliff wondering if he is about to get more out of this doc then he ever could have expected.Plot 2Returning from a huge celebration to mark his success in the field of ophthalmology,Judah Rosenthal discovers a letter which has been sent by his mistress of 2 years Dolores Paley, to his wife Miriam.Hiding the letter,Judah rushes over to pay Miriam a visit,who tells Rosenthal that she sent the letter due to him having promised for over a year that he would finish his marriage to Miriam.After telling Dolores that he is unable to divorce from Miriam due to knowing how much damage it would do towards her,Judah is horrified to witness Paley going on a downward spiral,with Dolores taking increasingly desperate measures to reveal the affair to Miriam.Deciding that there is no chance of reasoning by used as a route to keep Dolores quiet,Rosenthal decides that the only choice he has left is to hire a hit-man who will keep his misdemeanor affair with Paley hidden from view.View on the filmWhilst the screenplay does feature a number of slick'n catchy one liners, (with Lester's reply to his wife over them not sleeping with each other that 'It'll be a year on April 20th.I remember the date exactly,cos it was Hitler's birthday',being a particular highlight) Allen wraps each of the jokes in spikes which help to give the movie a terrifically gloomy,Film Noir-tinged mood.Limiting the crossing over of both plot lines to the final scene,Allen superbly places the theme of self-enforced solitude at the centre of the movie,with Cliff Stern being afraid to push the barriers aside which has led to he and his wife becoming isolated with each other.Along with Stern's marriage troubles,Allen also shows Judah being unable to see how much of an outcast he is making himself by entering an affair from which Judah ends up discovering that he has no 'good' exit left for him to take.Matching the darkly comedic nature of the screenplay,Allen brilliantly uses long,isolated tracking shots to perfectly display how detached Stern and Judah have become from the other character's in the film. Complimenting the isolated tracking shots,Allen gives the outside scenes a stylish chilly appearance,which shows the cold routes that Judah and Stern find themselves travelling upon.Despite recent events making it appear that the only time she will work with him again will be when hell freezes over,Mia Farrow gives a charmingly kooky performance as Halley Reed,with Farrow showing Reed to have a natural off-beat warmth that Stern finds irresistible.Keeping away from any sense of warm,Anjelica Huston gives a delightfully chaotic performance as Dolores Paley thanks to Huston showing Paley to be unwilling to run away from the fire that is burning her relationship with Judah to the ground.Spending most of the title fighting to get his dream project made,Woody Allen gives an excellent performance as Cliff Stern,with Allen showing Stern to have an uncompromising one track mind,which leads to Stern completely ignoring the commercial opportunities that could help his Avant-Garde project at last get off the ground.Giving the title a bleak Film Noir heart,Martin Landau delivers a tremendous performance as Judah Rosenthal,with Landau showing horror on Judah's face,as he realize to his horror that the only way he can get off his darken path is to commit some deadly crimes and misdemeanors. "},{"Title":"Philosophical movie about love, moral and crime","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a big fan of Dostojewskij I found this movie very appealing. The stories main plot has many analogical elements to the novel Crime and Punishment. Both deal with the topic of murder and the terror it inflicts on the mind. In both cases the murderer (direct/indirect, does not really matter)believe that they own the right to get rid of their victim. In the book the murderer kills twice the second woman only because she appeared at the scene of the first crime. That probably added to the amount of terror and might give an explanation why Allen's character who only killed once and through a killer might be able to live on without any punishment. In both cases the denial of god or any moral structure leads to their action. Both are haunted by terror afterwords and it seems their minds wont be able to rest unless they turn them in or inflict any other sort of punishment on themselves. As I already mentioned in the movies case time eventually releases some of the terror and the protagonist appears to be able to live on. But the end is left open, it is not unlikely to assume that Judas terror might return. Nevertheless the ending offered by Allen to me is even more negative than what is happening in the novel. Allen suggests that people can commit that sort of crime and at some stage go back to their old lives. Judas escape into the comforts of a god or heavenly system seem a rather pathetic move to me. To me there is no way that Juda believes in god. He idealizes the idea of forgiveness and is completely oblivious to the moral duty one carries at the same time. We recognize that he feels some sort of moral responsibility but it is weak enough for him to evade it. That such thing is possible and I don't doubt that it is possible is a truly depressing thought indeed. The other plot does not offer much consolation either. The plastic character of Laster wins in the end by getting Halley, instead of his opponent Cliff. That suggests that what really matters to become happy is not seeking for any kind of truth or a better understanding of the human condition but to leave all this as it is and make the best of it. Thus money, success, huge confidence, the ability to deny, greed, beauty on the surface and hedonism wins over respect for ones neighbor, deep love, recognizing predicaments, being aware of death, melancholy and many other things. These are only categories to illustrate I know there is many other things that conflict with one another. The story is a true tragedy but it was built in wonderful manner. To me it is Allen's second best movie, after Annie Hall which I prefer because it offers a more optimistic idea of life and love and because Diane Keaton is in it) The humorist elements in the film made me laugh harder than in most of his other movies because they come up in a very problematic context. They sometimes open up the possibility that we are dealing with the comedy but to me it is clearly something like a tragedy. I am still undecided about the film's ending. My first reaction was a little disappointment because it appeared to be too corny. A movie that denies morals ends with a sort of moral statement? I reflected it and it gained more favor) The voice over is basically just telling us whats going on in the reality suggested by the movie. Even though many people live without a judge and it is basically all a big contest most people seem to enjoy life in one form or the other. People achieve/find happiness and realize that is only momentarily but seek again and deliberately accept the depressing moments happiness is followed by. I don't really see why the voice over puts faith or hope in future generations. To me it is a rather cynical statement by the director "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's above-par film","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Another Woody Allen delight, a diptych of two moral conundrums, Laudau, a well-off ophthalmologist who ultimately gets away with the murder of his badgering mistress (Huston), meanwhile a frustrated documentary filmmaker (Allen) flunks to win his love interest (Farrow) over a pretentious showbiz magnate (Alda).For Laudau's story, one can easily sniff out the comparability of Allen's later London-based MATCH POINT (2005, 7/10), the other women are merely dispensable in favor of wealth, social status and ostensibly stable matrimony. In this film, its main concern is the struggle within, the general moral conscience Vs. the guilt or the sin, and out of left field, it is the latter eventually prevails, with the trappings of a comfortable life, the murder becomes a petty snippet in his memory and time can put everything back into an equilibrium, it is beyond any religion's absolution. Landau delivers one of his best performances in his lengthy career, an outright leading role (again, shamefully the category fraud push him into supporting group in the Oscar race), a hypocrite sleekly justifies his selfish and heinous behaviors with superfluous paddings, a despicable person so full of life with mocking caricature and a tint of self-reflection, everyone has his or her own unsurmountable hurdle in reality, luckily the preponderance is able to rein the yardstick. Anjelica Huston breaks her lofty stereotype, to overplay an unreasonable mistress who is too desperate to shore up her wanting sense of security, as vexing and halfwitted as she is, her denouement is too much a punishment. As for Allen's romantic entwinement with Farrow and his doomed marriage, it brims with casual wisecracks and addicted cinema-goings, but the scene-stealer is Alda, whose character is blatantly based on the late writer Larry Gelbart, utters bon mots like, comedy is tragedy plus time; or if it bends, it's funny, if it breaks, it isn't. He is snobbish and lewd to everyone's eyes, yet he walks off with Allen's soul mate. Woody Allen is rehashing the same old self, and Mia Farrow refrains herself as an out-of-his-league dame, who speaks highly about her unrealized ambition in order to reject a man trapped in a dead wedlock, yet subservient to the mogul's courtship, it all boils down to the point of a woman's self-deceptive blindness towards material needs, with a collateral damage to her unsuccessful suitor. So in both stories, the female characters are less glamorous and adorable here, not to mention Allen's sister's icky sex encounter in the bedroom. The film is mostly brisk under the accompany of a jazzy score, and its debate on moral structure is a cogent one and could be a reference to all the contemporary marital or relationship mishaps, even the religious mumble-jumble has an epiphany on those non-believers. "},{"Title":"Crimes and Misdemeanours","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As with most of Woody Allen's films I found myself watching an intricate spider web of themes, characters and storyline when I watched 'Crimes and Misdemeanours'.At first I thought this was a bit unbalanced because there are two stories unravelling side by side, two seemingly different ones, but I think Allen achieved a fantastic balance and satisfactory ending which ties the two together.The themes explored in both stories are essentially the same, only they also deal with issues that are pertinent to the lives of the two main characters.I think Woody Allen's character and what he goes through are both fine and strike a chord with me because they're down to earth and real and Allen plays his character in this manner. It's humorously and touchingly real.The events Martin Landau's character goes through are compelling and wholly devastating. The handling of a man wracked with guilt and the way his mind works through it is brilliantly done and the way his story and Allen's reflect one another and culminate into a thought provoking, mind opening point is incomparable.I won't give anything specific away and I HOPE there are no spoilers in what I've said, just watch the film if you haven't, and if you have but think this film should be only about Landau's character that's fine, but look back and appreciate the film as a whole. "},{"Title":"This review deals with moral dilemmas found in Crimes and Misdemeanors","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In Crimes and Misdemeanor, Judah, an optometrist is having trouble getting his mistress of 2 years to keep quiet about their affair. He seeks the help of his brother who suggest that she can be taken care of if Judah examines his conscience and sees that he can live with such a thing. According to his brother, Judah really has no other option and so goes through with the plan. After the murder is executed, Judah realizes that maybe he cannot handle the regret and guilt that pounds through his head all day long. Similarly another main character with a somewhat disconnected plot deals with his own small infidelities while he suffers through a marriage that is obviously not fulfilling his needs or his soon to be ex wife's. One of the quotes from Judah in the movie that really strikes the viewer with a puzzling question of morality is What good is the law if it prevents me from justice? It poses the second question, is it okay to murder someone if you are not caught? It seems an absurd question to ask but it really is valid if you think in the context of the movie. Utilitarianists, such as Mill, argue that the main purpose in life is happiness. Not so much individual happiness, but happiness for the most possible number of people and in a sense of net gain of happiness. Judah may become happier through the death of his mistress, but when you think in terms of net gain of happiness in the whole you must consider what his mistresses loss adds to the sum. Simplified, Judah may be happier now, but what about his mistress and her family, it doesn't add up. When looked at from Immanuel Kant's point of view the murder and the lying that precedes it are both inexcusable. In his explanations, it is never okay to lie, or promise under false pretenses, because it then become hard to trust promisers and thus making promises becomes obsolete. In terms of murder if we all killed each other, or ourselves, there would be no one left, thus it also cannot be made a universal law, and is therefore, not moral. "}{"Title":"Is it right?","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie asks important ethical questions about the duties of citizens living in a community. From a Utilitarian perspective the actions of Dr. Rosenthal were permissible and perhaps even obligatory. He protected his family from the consequences of his affair and managed to secure and even promote their own happiness. His daughter was getting married soon, and his marriage was doing quite well. But even he questioned the morality of his own actions, and we instinctively condemn him as acting in a purely selfish manner. What does this say about the credibility of Utilitarianism and its ability to answer moral questions if it seems at odds with our common sense and instinct to protect human life? Kant would argue using the categorical imperative that his actions were morally and unequivocally wrong. Which is much closer to our own instinctual reaction. If everyone were free to kill another (or even obliged in some cases) in order to protect oneself from the consequences of our previous choices then there wouldn't be much of a society left. But perhaps many of us would do anything to protect our families, especially from our own morally questionable choices. Ultimately he is not held responsible for his affair, instead he commits another in order to cover it up, and he gets away with it as well. While he initially struggles to live with us actions he manages to rationalize it to himself. Perhaps he will be held responsible by a higher power, but he still sees his actions as necessary and not morally wrong. He's torn between his conscious and his life, including his daughter and marriage. Overall a very enjoyable movie. I do recommend you watch it. "},{"Title":"The Rights and Wrongs of Crimes and Misdemeanors","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story centers around two main characters, Clifford Stern and Dr. Judah Rosenthal. Both Men have a major conflict happening within their lives causing them unhappiness. The whole plot is centered on the judgments and actions these two men go through in order to make their lives happier. For Clifford, his conflict lies with his disintegrating marriage and his new found love for his co-worker. For Dr. Rosenthal, he has conflict arise when the woman he had an affair with shows up again begging for his attention and threatens the happiness of his life and family not to mention his reputation. The events that unfold throughout the rest of the movie escalates quickly causing feelings of guilt, excitement, and even murder.According to the famous philosopher John Stuart Mill, these two men were following their pursuit of happiness they were both ultimately living a utilitarian lifestyle. Both men were only out to make themselves happy, whether this is a duty to themselves or a law of nature can be argued by another famous philosopher, Immanuel Kant. The deeds and actions that these two men performed would, in Kant's case, make them immoral people, but not so much in Mill's case. Mill believes that it is wrong to kill someone no matter what the circumstance. He focuses largely on the happiness of as many people, a net gain of happiness, as possible something he calls the Greatest Happiness Principle. This principle states that actions are right if they cause a greater amount of happiness (pleasure and the absence of pain), and wrong if it causes pain and no pleasure. Was Judah's decision morally right? According to Mill it would be. By killing his mistress, Dolores, he created the most amount of pleasure not only for himself but for his whole family. His family became happier and closer, and a net gain of happiness is seen. Mill's utilitarian view is based on consequence, and for Judah, he didn't have any bad consequences from his action, so he was able to live a happy life. However, from Kant's perspective, Judah's action was wrong because he lied to his family and friends. From Kant's perspective, it is not based on consequence. His theory has to do with the categorical imperative. It basically states that someone should not act in a way that they would not want to become a universal law. In Judah's case as well as Clifford, both men lied and committed crimes of murder and adultery. They would not want these to become universal laws. These two actions therefore are not moral. "},{"Title":"Guilt based on consequences","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors contains two main ethical dilemmas. Both involve adultery, and in the case of one, led to murder. In the case of Judah, his lover threatened to confront his wife about his wrongdoing and states that she intends on divulging information regarding his questionable financial decisions that could land him in serious trouble.Meanwhile, a struggling filmmaker named Cliff takes a movie job at the request of his despised brother-in-law. He makes it blatantly clear that his marriage is in shambles and quickly falls in love with a fellow coworker while working on the film.The plot thickens when Judah makes the decision to have his lover murdered and the woman that Cliff is interested in takes a job in London and moves to England. Judah is stricken with guilt and remorse while Cliff seems to have hope that the relationship with his former coworker will develop further upon her arrival back to the United States.The movie ends with Judah telling Cliff a possible movie plot at a wedding that they both were attending. He tells of a wealthy murderer who gets away with his crime and slowly loses a sense of guilt and remorse as he finds a renewed sense of love in his wife and his family. He is of course talking about himself.Was Judah morally and ethically responsible for her death? Should he feel bad? The movie leads us to believe otherwise. I get the impression that Woody Allen believes that we base guilt on the presence of punishment following the crime. Judah lived comfortably, without punishment or consequences. Cliff's crime of adultery, on the other hand, led to a broken heart as his lover returned from London married to his soon to be ex-wife's brother.Although the film was very good, in my opinion, I felt as though the split storyline between the two main characters was hard to follow at times because it wasn't obvious what the connection between the two might have been until the very end. "},{"Title":"Analysis of Judah's Decision from Two Opposing Moral Perspectives","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dr. Judah Rosenthal, a wealthy and well-respected ophthalmologist, is forced to make a life- altering decision when his long time mistress, Dolores, threatens to reveal their affair and his less-than-honest economic practices to his wife and family. He can either come clean to his wife and jeopardize everything he has worked his entire life to accomplish or kill Dolores to rid himself of the problem. After several attempts to reason with her, he decides to make arrangements to have her killed. Was his cruel action morally justified? According to John Stuart Mill, morality is determined by the greatest happiness principle. In order words, morality is solely dependent on a simple arithmetic equation of net happiness. By killing Dolores and putting an end to her happiness, he was able to ensure the happiness of his entire family. The act of murder could be considered moral is this context. However, there is an alternative way to view Judah's action. Putting her to death riddled him with guilt, and therefore took away his happiness. Furthermore, due to his guilt, he was a shell of the man he once was. This also sacrificed the happiness of his family, because they could no longer enjoy his company and were constantly concerned with what caused his dramatic change in behavior. Even though he seemed to have dealt with his guilt at the end of the movie, it was ambiguous whether or not he was truly happy.Immanuel Kant proposes an alternative concept of morality. According to Kant, morality has nothing to do with the consequences of an action. The key principle of Kant's argument is the categorical imperative. This states that one should never act in a way that he/she would not will to be a universal law. Therefore, Dr. Judah's decision to have Dolores put to death was in no way moral, regardless of the consequences. He should not kill, because he does will murder to be a universal law. "},{"Title":"Ethics in Crimes and Misdemeanors","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors is a perfect caricature of different types of moral questions and situations that ordinary people could be faced with. With the plot allowing the audience to choose for themselves the morality of certain decisions, Woody Allen's script attempts to muddle the dichotomy of right and wrong. Arguably the most polarizing dilemma faced in the movie comes with Dr. Judah Rosenthal, who is forced to decide how he should handle an extra-marital affair gone wrong.Before the movie takes place, Dr. Rosenthal had been having an affair with a mistress named Dolores, and after she threatened to expose his betrayal to his wife and family, Dr. Rosenthal decides to kill her. To justify his decision to kill Dolores, Dr. Rosenthal takes a very utilitarian stance on morality; he decided that the happiness of his family would be more important than the life of his mistress and therefore it would be justifiable to kill her. While many people would believe that this utilitarian stance would not justify true morality, the landscape of the movie is set for the audience to see the direct juxtaposition of utilitarian ethics and duty ethics.This juxtaposition is shown through the adventures of Dr. Rosenthal as he tries to decide what course of action he should take while handling Dolores. The benefits of utilitarian beliefs are shown through Dr. Rosenthal's brother Jack, who is portrayed to be a the epitome of the harsh realities of real world; while in contrast, Dr. Rosenthals other brother, who is a rabbi, represent duty ethics and tries to direct Dr. Rosenthal to admit his affair. This sharp contrast is also shown through sub plots in the movie where various characters are forced to decide between the practicality of their decisions or whether their morality would lead them to the correct decision. Crimes and misdemeanors provides a great storyline that blurs the conceptions of morality while showing the ups and downs of the human experiences. "},{"Title":"Facing Moral Dilemmas","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the film Crimes and Misdemeanors, many moral dilemmas are presented. One of the main characters, Dr. Judah Rosenthal, has been having an affair for the last two years. It has come to the point in the relationship that he must make a choice between his wife and his mistress, Dolores Paley. Judah eventually decides that he is not going to leave his wife despite Dolores' pleas for him to do otherwise. His reasoning behind his decision is that he is much more in love with his wife and he has too much invested in his career if his affair became public knowledge. Judah's decision and reasoning follows very closely to John Stuart Mill's theory of utilitarianism. He is choosing what will bring the majority the greatest amount of happiness because he does not want to cause pain and heartache to those who would be affected by his affair. While Judah is deciding how to get Dolores out of life, he consults his patient Ben, who is a rabbi, on what he should do. Ben encourages him to be honest with his wife despite the consequences that might follow. This advice is very similar to Immanuel Kant's moral theory because Ben is telling him to do what is moral despite the outcome. He knows that Judah will feel better in the end if he told the truth than adding more lies to his life. Viewers of the movie may feel at this point that either Ben is telling Judah the right thing, or agree with Judah and think he needs to worry about the happiness of the majority.While Judah is facing his moral dilemma, Ben's brother-in-law Clifford Stern is also handling his own. Clifford is an unsuccessful filmmaker and he is in a failing marriage. He is currently filming his other brother-in-law Lester's biography. Clifford actually does not care for Lester, but he is only doing this job to provide money for his other projects. While filming, Clifford falls in love with one of the producers, Haley Reed. Despite his attempts to date her, she continually tells him she is not ready for a relationship. Clifford here was more concerned about his happiness and not what others would think, but he realizes it is probably best to wait. Similar to Kant's moral theory, he knows it is better to make a moral decision. Viewers will probably feel sad for Clifford that he is not able to be happy despite making the right decision.Judah eventually decides how to get rid of Dolores by contacting his brother Jack. Jack hires someone that will murder Dolores. Once the deed is complete, Judah feels extremely guilty. He realizes that he might have brought greater happiness to more people, but he only caused greater guilt for himself. Clifford also regretted some of his moral choices that he made. Haley had to go to London for work and while she was there, she became engaged to Lester. This news really upsets Clifford because despite him waiting on her to be ready to be in a relationship and for his marriage to official end, Clifford did not get the happiness he so desperately wanted. The ending of the movie may make viewers sad to see how Judah is happy in the end despite getting away with having an affair and causing someone to be murdered, and Clifford who is not happy with his life for trying to do the right thing. "},{"Title":"Ethics","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Killing an enraged, obsessive, gold-digging mistress might come off as bad to most, but what about those Utilitarians? John Stuart Mill, one of the greatest proponents of utilitarian thought, cites the Greatest Happiness Principle (Utilitarianism). The Greatest Happiness Principle states that actions are right if they cause a greater amount of happiness and the contrary to a wrong action. In Judah's case, killing his mistress provided the greatest amount of happiness. He became a better husband and father, or so it seemed, and he was relatively guilt free. The woman threatened to tell Judah's wife and presumably ruin all he had built through his marriage and successful medical practice. If the mistress had told Judah's wife and everyone would have been fine with some infidelity, who's to say that course of action would not have generated the most happiness? Perhaps the mistress did not have to die, but if the world worked as Judah's mind did, the only course for ultimate happiness was to kill his mistress.Perhaps his guilt was transparent because he himself did not do the killing, but he still paid for it and is directly responsible. Mill's philosophy is based on consequences. The consequence of Judah and his mistress's affair brought about her death and his better life. Is her happiness exchangeable for his? It would seem that based solely on the greatest unit of happiness, Judah was happier, his family was happier, there didn't seem to be any other individuals upset about her death, and so from a utilitarian standpoint killing the mistress was a good action. Utilitarian thought is not based on the idea of individualism. There are such things as martyrs that give up their happiness, but it is so that others can have happiness so still there is not individualism, happiness to for the greatest number, and that is the way it must be. Mill would, in this case I believe, allow for a murder of a mere obsessive mistress. "},{"Title":"movie soundtrack","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i am trying to find the classical music that is playing when Joana is driving to his mistress apartment after she has been killed and where he looks over her body and the camera doesn't show his face just his shoes. i believe it is a violin playing. i would really like to know what this piece of music is.while on the subject of that film i also want to say how interesting it was the scene before where Joana parks his car and the camera zooms down into the headlight and zooms back out and there is Joana. you never see him get out of the car and the way that was shot made it so unique in a way along with the great music playing as well.so again any help would be just great "},{"Title":"One of Woody's best","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a bit out of the ordinary for Woody Allen in that of the two intertwining storylines, one of them is deathly serious. Serious subjects have been brought up before in Woody's films (Interiors, September) but never as successfully as in this film. The mixture of comedy and drama work so effectively that this has to be one of Woody's best films, on par with Annie Hall and Hannah and her Sisters.Woody plays Clifford Stern, an independent filmmaker whose marriage is crumbling. In order to make more money and gain recognition, he is offered to make a documentary about his filthy rich, lowbrow, narcissistic TV producer brother-in-law (wonderfully played by Alan Alda). Cliff goes into the project half-heartedly, and his only solace is a doomed relationship with one of the show's producers (played by Mia Farrow).Meanwhile, Martin Landau plays Judah Ronsenthal, an eye doctor whose mistress (played by Anjelica Huston) is threatening to expose the relationship. Judah considers having her rubbed out using the sordid connections of his brother (Jerry Orbach). Wracked by guilt over even thinking such a thing, Judah enlists the spiritual aid of one of his patients, a rabbi whose vision is slowly deteriorating (played by Sam Waterston). The rabbi character, incidentally, is the brother of the Alan Alda character. That's where the stories connect, even though they will continue to cross paths later in the film.All the performances are brilliantly executed, particularly those of Alda, Waterston, Allen and Landau (who was nominated for an Academy Award). The film is a perfect combination of seriousness and hilarity. Among the funniest scenes are when Woody screens a less-than-flattering rough cut of his documentary to a flabbergasted Alda, and the scene where Woody's sister (played by Caroline Aaron) tells Woody about her disastrous blind date.If you're a Woody Allen fan, you won't be disappointed. If you aren't familiar with his films, this would be a good place to start. "},{"Title":"Movie in relation to Kant and Mill","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors is a film about two men who are unhappy in their marriages and the different choices they make to change their situation. Judah is a rich, successful orthopedic doctor who began having an affair two years previous with a woman named Delores; it was not because he had a bad marriage, he was merely bored and wanted some hot new tail. Clifford is a nerdy, struggling filmmaker whose marriage has been on a steady decline for the past year; he begins work on a new project and meets his co-worker Nancy, who he immediately begins to fall for despite still being marred. Judah's lover Delores starts to become very emotionally unstable and begins to threaten and blackmail Judah because he won't tell his wife about his mistress. She makes attempts to contact the wife herself and starts calling his house all the time. Judah realizes what an ass he's been and how he's jeopardized his whole life and career by having this affair; he goes to his brother Jack for advise, and he suggests Judah have Delores murdered. Initially Judah is appalled by this notion and refuses the thought altogether; however, after some time of having Delores get bolder and more desperate, Judah seriously considers it and finally decides to go through with the murder. Meanwhile, Clifford continues courting his co-worker and begins to believe he is in love with her. He eventually tells her and ends up having a few sexual discrepancies. Not long after he tells Nancy his feelings for her, she tells Clifford that she has taken a job in Paris and will be gone for a few months. Clifford is shattered but decides to wait for her and get a divorce in the meantime. Around six months or so later Clifford sees Nancy at a party on the arm of a man he despises, and overhears that they got married while in Paris. He is devastated and is now single, miserable, and poor. The film ends with Judah and Clifford talking at the party, and Judah is telling Clifford how his life has totally turned around and he is incredibly happy now. He ends up with his wife in a better relationship than they had before and is still a successful doctor. Clifford mulls over the idea of murder and if he had killed the man before, Nancy would never have married him. Ultimately we see that Judah did the wrong thing and ended up happier than before, while Clifford made the better choices and ended up miserable and alone for the rest of his life.According to Mill and the Utilitarian viewpoint, Judah's choice to murder his mistress was the correct moral decision. Utilitarian's believe that the final consequences are all that matter, and that the moral decision brings about the happiness of the most people involved. They do not care that Delores had her life snuffed out for no real good reason, or that she was completely innocent of anything that would deserve such a harsh punishment. But by her death many other people remained happy; Judah was able to sweep his discrepancies under the rug, so to speak, and return to his old life as if nothing happened. He gained a deeper appreciation for his wife and family and thus was happier, by Delores' death the family remained in the dark about Judah's affair and they were all happy. None of his clients found out about his shady money transactions, and everyone in his life either remained as happy as before, or became happier.Kant would have said that Judah was immoral because of the categorical imperative, which states that one should not act in such a way that they would not want others to act and thus be a universal law. If Judah believed in the categorical imperative, then by killing Delores he would essentially be saying that it would be okay if someone killed him for being a nuisance or for unethically messing around with his clients' money. I believe it is pretty obvious that Judah would not have wanted this at all since he couldn't even bare the thought that he would have to suffer the consequences for his wrong actions; not to mention having to pay for them with his own life. Clifford's case is a little more difficult for me; I believe Mill and Kant would have said that Clifford was being moral by not following through with his murderous thoughts. Clifford divorced his wife and she met someone new, so she was happier; his lover Nancy ended up getting married to a man that she seemed to truly love, so both she and her new husband were happy also. Clifford was the only one who seemed to come out at a loss when everything was said and done, so Mill would have said the net gain was in happiness. Kant would have also said Clifford did the right thing, because he would not want it to be a universal law that people can kill each other out of jealousy. In total, this film had quite a few things going on and different themes underneath the surface. The ending seemed to suggest to the audience that the person who does what is immoral but can get away with it is happier than the person who does what is right. "}{"Title":"Who acted morally?","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors follows the differing lives of multiple characters that are all intertwined by some common factors. The characters are all pursuing happiness, but the way in which they do this differs dramatically. Dr. Judah Rosenthal has been having an affair with Dolores and she has decided to come clean to Miriam, Dr. Rosenthal's wife. When Dr. Rosenthal finds the confession letter written by Dolores, he wants to end the affair, but Dolores has high hopes that Judah will leave his wife and family on behalf of her. Now Judah is faced with the conflict of whether to come clean to his wife or just get rid of Dolores to make it seem as if the affair never happened. Because Judah was raised in a religious family, he knows what he has done is wrong but knows he could ask forgiveness of his family, even though they will be hurt. Jack, Judah's brother, says he can get rid of Dolores if Judah pays him. Judah sees more happiness in his life with his wife and children and provides the funds for his brother to kill Dolores, but is instantly wrought with guilt when the deed is done. Judah considers turning himself in because he is sickened by his guilt, but Jack reminds him that turning himself in would also be turning his own brother in.Cliff is living the married life, but does not find happiness in it anymore. While filming a documentary on his brother-in-law Lester, Cliff meets Hallie who he instantly becomes fond of. Cliff sees how happy he can be with Hallie, which makes him more inclined to end his marriage. Cliff wants to do what will make him happy and confesses his love to Hallie, but she says she is not ready and is going away for four months. The movie picks up four months later at a wedding. Dr. Rosenthal is living a happy life with his family and has put his guilt in the back of his mind because he did not get caught. Cliff is separated from his wife and when he finally sees Hallie, she is with Lester and Cliff is heartbroken. This movie juxtaposes the life of a man who lives immorally yet ends up happy and the life of a man who lives more morally yet ends up sad. From a utilitarian perspective, Judah made his decision based on the fact that his family would be destroyed if they knew of the affair; therefore making it seem as if it never existed was for the good of a greater amount of people. Because Cliff was looking out for his own self-interest, he ended up hurt because he did not consider the happiness of others, like Hallie's happiness. From the Kantian view, Judah was acting immorally because he lied and he was only acting in accordance of the advantage of himself and his family. Kant does not see happiness as the end, while Mill does. Kant would probably not consider Judah or Cliff to be acting morally because neither of them acted in accordance to duty, but rather in relation to their own happiness and the consequences that they thought would follow. "},{"Title":"The darkest of Woody's comedy-dramas","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors is probably Woody Allen's darkest comedy. In it, a prominent doctor arranges to have his mistress murdered to prevent her from exposing his affair and financial irregularities; meanwhile an unsuccessful film director makes a documentary about his TV producer brother-in-law, a man he despises.The film is divided into two strands, the funny one and the serious one. They have very different tones but explore similar themes. Both are tragic but for opposite reasons &#x96; the doctor's crime goes unpunished and he prospers, while the director loses on all fronts. The message of the movie is pessimistic but very true, and that is that there is no moral law in reality and bad deeds often benefit the perpetrators, while life doesn't have inbuilt happy endings. Similar to Hannah and Her Sisters, the funny and serious plot strands only briefly overlap here. They both dovetail together at the end in a brilliant scene where the two protagonists meet in a back room at a party.Like all Allen films from the period, this one is very well written and acted. Martin Landau is the most prominent presence in the role of the doctor. His is a complex character full of very contrasting characteristics. Alan Alda plays the TV producer and provides many of the funniest moments. Allen again shows great skill at interweaving comedy and drama, although in this case the serious dramatics outweigh the funny material. It's not the best Allen movie but it is another very strong one. "},{"Title":"An elegantly balanced, probing film","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An elegantly balanced, probing film The story focuses on two men who are quite different, aside from the fact that they are both dissatisfied with their marriages. One is a successful ophthalmologist (Martin Landau), whose moral integrity is compromised when his mistress (Angelica Huston) threatens to disclose his marital and financial indiscretions. The other is a frustrated documentarian (Woody Allen), whose artistic integrity is compromised when he must make a documentary about his smug brother-in-law (Alan Alda) in order to finance another documentary about his favorite philosopher. The film grapples with a lot of big questions on the purpose of life, morality, and religion, but without the self-serving defensiveness of Manhattan or the sloppy Eh, whattaya gonna do attitude of Whatever Works. What makes it all work is the delicate balance established by the characters. Landau's self-control turns out to be the perfect antidote to Allen's jitteriness, and just when a scene feels too heavy we snap to a funny, lively scene with Allen. The unflinching realism of Landau's brother, played by Jerry Orbach, is countered by the unflinching optimism of a Rabbi and mutual acquaintance of the two leads, played Sam Waterston. Alda as a television producer who is perpetually pleased with himself&#x85;well, first of all, he's just great. A recognizable character we can laugh at and love to hate. His amusing shallowness is relieved by the insightfulness of Professor Levy, whom Allen worships. There are other noteworthy characters as well, for the film is essentially a panorama of human lives, all New Yorkers who aren't quite sure what to make of life. What's the point of being good? Is there any value in religion? Is there anything worth pursuing besides money and success? Although conscious of film history &#x96; Allen's character is a film buff, and it brought to my mind Strangers on a Train &#x96; Crimes and Misdemeanors approaches these questions with a sense of un-Hollywood realism and befuddlement. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Accident","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen has claimed Crimes & Misdemeanors was a mistake, that he re-shot the final third of the film at the last-minute, completely changing the storyline and plot. Maybe he's that brilliant... maybe he's just being humble... whatever the case, Crimes & Misdemeanors works, and it stands as one of Woody's boldest statements on God & human nature.There's wonderful symbolism at work as eye doctor Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau) looks to the eyes of God for judgement on his sins and murderous misdeed, but the parallel story of Woody's principled documentarian forced to film Alan Alda's obnoxious TV producer rings just as true the wicked often go unpunished and generally awful people are worshipped for their financial success. This to me was Woody's last great film before the 90's found him in various stages of personal and artistic crisis.Crimes & Misdemeanors is thought-provoking, conversation-starting film with wonderful performances from Allen, Landau, and uber-jerk Alda. Catch it if you can...GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"One of the Best from Woody Allen!!","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Excellent film. For me this is one of the best, if not THE best of Allen's movies. Landau is fantastic and Angelica Houston as well. Please, see this movie and at least you'll remain with the taste of Am I right about the meaning of living?.Probably the second history with Allen character and his former real life wife could be deeper or with more details, but many things are treated in the movie that, at the end, leave you with different thoughts in your head, and that's probably why the movie is ageless and material for any philosophical discussion.Don't miss it. You'll see why Allen is still admirable. "},{"Title":"Maybe my all time favorite film","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's hard to add to what SanFava said. This is a movie I never tire of seeing and I've seen it many, many times. It's so well written and well acted. What's really remarkable to me, no matter how many times you've seen the film, is that the funny parts are still funny and the thought-provoking parts are still as deep and relevant as always. What does it say about America that most people you talk to about film either have never heard of Crimes and Misdemeanors or have seen it and thought it boring? A great film doesn't need Tom Hanks or Jack Nicholson or Julia Roberts or computerized graphics or massive explosions every 10 seconds or gory blood spatters from people shot in the head (this means you, The Departed). Crimes and Misdemeanors is, to me, Woody Allen's greatest film and he's made a lot of great ones. One of my stranded on a deserted island films. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Not so Petty 'Crimes'","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the greatest dilemmas a director can face is making a likable, relatable film when nearly all the characters presented are thoroughly unlikable. This is one of the dilemmas Woody Allen faces with his film Crimes and Misdemeanors. Let's take a look at the main hero of the film. Here is a man, Judah, in an unhappy marriage caring on with another woman for over two years who decides it's time to kill her off before she releases his secret to his wife.How can such a man be presented as likable? Well, Woody Allen's best decision is to make him an everyman. A man caught up in the situation in which he must face his demons head on. He has made a mistake and he must deal with the consequences of such mistake. In an ordinary Hollywood film, this would mean him being caught and forced to pay for the crime that he has committed. Such is not the case here. Sure he has some regret but, by facing and admitting to what he has done, he is able to move on with his life. One of the great strengths of this film is that it doesn't shy away from what Judah has done. It doesn't make light of it and it doesn't deny that it has happen.He is simply a man who has made this mistake and is forced to go on with his life carrying this horrible mistake. Should he have gone to jail? You bet. Should he have told his wife about his adultery? Of course. But, that is not how life works. We live in a world where we don't always get what is coming to us. Great things happen to bad people everyday and vice versa. I don't believe this makes a bad guy, just a realistic one. By crafting a movie with a central character with real flaws, Woody Allen has created a movie of uncommon power. Four days after seeing it, I still can't get it out of my head. What a great film. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie.","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let's give credit where credit is due. This is an excellent movie. It offers the kind of character development that not only is engaging, but is also relevant to the story, which makes the movie all that much more compelling, powerful and unique. A man lives a lie, lives a life of deception, is a coward and a hypocrite, yet one can feel empathy for this man who is struggling to come to terms with the consequences of his own duplicity. It almost makes the audience want to call out to the other characters Don't you know what kind of charlatan this man is? Don't you realize that this man you admire and love so much is a fraud? A sad movie, but one worth watching. "},{"Title":"woody allen's best film","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this film is highly underrated. It is a great film that blends serious drama with classic Woody Allen comic. It should definitely be in the imdb top 250. Martin Landau and Angelica Huston acted superbly, and Woody Allen is as good as usual. I personally liked it better than Annie Hall. A truly great film. "},{"Title":"Probably Woody's best film.","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Probably Woody Allen's best film. Although ANNIE HALL remains my favorite of his (and of all time) this film shows a maturity in both comedy and drama. The stories are tremendously compelling. Alan Alda gives his best performance in a film, as does Martin Landau. It can be said with assurance that he when he won his oscar for ED WOOD he was winning for this role as well. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Screenplay since Citizen Kane","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a screenwriter this is, in my opinion the best screenplay ever written, at least in the modern film era. It puts Woody Allen on the same class as Bergman with its bleak philosophical view. Its a screenplay that is so good that it is comparative to a great peice of literature, and reminds you a lot of The Great Gatsby. This is Allen's peice on God, of love, of sin, and of dispair. His best film, and the best film of the 1980's by far. Contemplative, and heartfelt it is unforgetable. "},{"Title":"The Best Woody Allen movie!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I own a copy of this film on video and watched it again last night.  It is the only Woody Allen movie in my collection (at this stage) and I snapped it up ex-rental for about three bucks!The best three dollars I have ever spent.God, it's a great film.  It gets me every time.  Only Woody could successfully juxtapose a story about a person getting away with murder with the story of a nerd struggling to get-the-girl.Both stories chart the arc of two foul deeds.  One is a tale of lust, theft, vanity and murder; the other is a tale of, well, lust and vanity without the murder and theft, I guess.Alan Alda, Landau and Mia Farrow all turn in great performances.  Woody merely plays Woody, while the true star -the heart- of the film is Sam Waterston.  His scenes are the most engaging throughout.  He taps into my (very) latent spiritual side and delivers a performance that eclipses everyone else.  Of course, he does this by underplaying and therefore never was even nominated for the Best Supporting Actor Oscar he deserved. "},{"Title":"Woddy Allen's a genius","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Extremely clever and thought provoking.Great performance by Martin Landau.Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Didn't like it...","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and misdemeanorsCrimes and misdemeanors is a film by Woody Allen. In the leading roles there is him as Cliff Stern, Martin Landau, Anjelica Huston, Mia Farrow. The film has two different stories developing at the same time. The first one is a drama about an opthalmologist (Martin Landau), whose mistress (Anjelica Huston) wants to tell to his wife about their affair, otherwise she threatens to reveal that he is a corrupted man. The second one is a romantic comedy about a TV writer (Woody Allen) who falls in love with a woman (Mia Farrow) with whom he works, while he deals with his successful brother-in-law.First of all, Woody Allen is the same guy as always. The same character, with the same profession, dealing with the same erotic problems, with the same way of thinking, with the same cynicism. I understand that this is him, but at least he could change some things on the character.Second, I barely see a connection between the two stories. I waited to see where the two stories are heading to, to find out the two main characters make a conversation about life. I just don't see a reason why there should be two different stories. Each one is good enough to be a single movie, the first a crime drama and the second a typical Woody Allen romantic comedy.Still, I liked the ideas about life that come out of the stories, especially the first one. About how time makes us forget and forgive and how the first impression of someone or something could be totally wrong.The soundtrack was good and so was the acting, although many characters were useless as they only served the connection between the stories, like the rabbi.Not a good effort to make a complex film. I wouldn't recommend it as there are far better films to watch. I give it 4/10 "},{"Title":"A look at the worst kind of blindness of the one who refuses to look","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On our daily full routines sometimes we overlook something here and there, regardless of consequences, just going ahead with our passions and desires, interests and achievements. But life knows how to makes us pay the price for not looking at those things more carefully. And not looking at all of this is a crime, a misdemeanor, and to that there's punishment as well. Maybe not to everyone involved but to a vast majority. At times leading its story with a dramatic seriousness and other times with a sharp humor, Woody Allen divides this film in two segments (serious/funny), often intertwining both stories with one common theme the worst blindness of all, of the one who doesn't want to see.The stories ophthalmologist Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau) is living the life of his dreams with a perfect family, a great job and being a respectable man but there's one thing bothering this man his mistress, the flight attendant Dolores (Anjelica Huston) got tired of being on the second plan of his life and she wants to live with Judah, without caring about his family and reputation as an honored citizen. The final ultimatum she gives to him (tell you're wife about me or I'll tell her about us and your lies), makes him take a unexpected and drastic measure that might haunt him for life he hires someone to kill Dolores. On a less serious take there's the story of Clifford (Woody Allen), an filmmaker in a low point of his career trying to make the project of his life when he's approached by his brother-in-law Lester (Alan Alda), a guy he despises with all of his force, to make an documentary about him. While making this project in which he's not so thrilled about it he'll meet the special Halley (Mia Farrow), for whom he falls in love but she seems looking at other direction, and to another person, Lester. The constant fight Clifford will have is with himself trying to figure out a way to understand why such thing is happening with him and trying to caught Halley's attention. Allen analyzes all kinds of blinds and different types of blindness here. The ophthalmologist, and that's not an accident, he's the one who prevents eye problems and he's the most significant of the blinded characters of the film. He's blind for never realizing he has everything he needed a family, money, respect from his colleagues and friends. No, he's jeopardizing everything in trade of some adventurous love affair he doesn't know how to end it; his mistress can't see he's never gonna leave his family and risk his reputation for her, therefore, she's blinded as well; the filmmaker had its vision of reality obscured by failing to notice that life isn't like movies where showing your deeply affects to someone might be returned, no matter how much he tries to conquer the woman of his dreams, she'll always turn her back on him, preferring his egocentric rival on business; Halley is blind for not seeing how much Clifford loves her, instead concentrating her thoughts on Lester; the latter is blind to his own egocentrism, refusing to be seen as someone cynical, unfunny and not so bright, he's too focused on himself although he pays a certain attention to Halley; and at last we have a real blind person but this one seems to see more than any of this character altogether. The Rabbi Ben (Sam Waterston) gives profound advises to Judah, his friend and doctor, of what to do with the whole affair problem. Little by little, we get saddened by his loss of eyesight throughout the story but he always has the right word to say. Conclusion with the exception of Ben, all of them can see (physically) but they refuse to do so (spiritually/morally) and at the end they're caught in their own silly entrapment.Crimes and Misdemeanors is an exceptional story about life consequences, love, human relations at its good and bad times, guilt, the things which determines failure and success on everything, and the often mentioned blindness of all kinds, particularly the worst kind of it. This is Woody's great response to the happy endings he gave to his characters in the magnificent Hannah and Her Sisters. Here, the stories taste bittersweet with an incredible and implacable reality. Also exceptional are the performances by the extraordinary casting, most notably Landau and Huston playing the complicated couple of the ongoing tragedy. It is on scenes where Landau doesn't speak at all where we see how great he is, displaying a enormous guilty conscience, the sense of fear present all the time when he's driving his car, Schubert playing in the background, his glad flashbacks of how he met Dolores but he's always worried about what to do next.Few times in our lives we were able to see the truth behind the lies greatly presented like in this movie. Allen in its geniality took the blindfold of our eyes and it's not every time something like this happen. Please, don't be like the worst of all blind, who can see but refuses to do so and go watch this film right away. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Pure Genius","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie amazed me. It's one of the most realistic films I've ever seen. Allen explores why humans do the things they do, good or bad. It showed me that life is fragile and that things happen that you would never expect. I don't want to spoil the movie for those who haven't seen it but the news Allen's character recieves about the proffesor who he is making a documentary about left me with my mouth hanging open.This movie taught me that no matter how bad life gets for some reason we just keep on going. The last words of the proffesor that Allen's character was obsessed with sum up what I now  consider the meaning of life. It was one of the few movies that changed my perception of the way I lived. I highly suggest it to anyone to see when they start to feel that life isn't worth it.   "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I guess having seen Match Point is bound to make anyone not be surprised by a lot of this film, but that film basically serves as the entire prequel as to the events of this film. It's well acted (although for some reason, Huston doesn't mesh nearly as well as everyone else) and it serves a good moral dilemma for some good film discussion (again, sort of tampered if you've seen Match Point). Woody Allen is serviceable, but Landau is the star here and truly brings in the meat towards this screenplay and story. Overall, I don't think this is particularly great, but it's good and has some truly great moments scattered throughout. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Jennie's Third Movie Review","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ophthalmologist Judah Rosenthal is having an affair with Delores that his wife has not known about for two years. This becomes a problem when Delores threatens to tell Judah's wife about the affair. Judah realizes his reputation, family, and overall life is at stake now because of Delores. She insists on them being together permanently, but Judah does not want to leave his wife. Jack, Judah's brother, suggests killing Delores. Judah never feels comfortable with this idea, but does it anyone. In a sense, he was thinking about the happiness of his family and friends over the happiness of Delores. Judah wanted to provide the greatest gain of happiness which meant the happiness of his family. This is somewhat in accordance with John Stuart Mill's theory of the happiness doctrine. Judah feels bad for the death of Delores, but by the end of the movie, he is happier with his life. It is almost as if the affair and death of Delores has caused Judah to gain a greater happiness. Immanuel Kant's moral theory would disagree with Judah's action though. Kant felt like humans were rational beings with innate conception of right and wrong. He thought we had certain duties to follow depending on the moral worth of an action based on rationality. According to Kant, Judah should not have thought about the consequences of actions. Instead, he should have just acted on how he willed. If that was the case, he probably would have never killed Delores and come clean with his wife. However, in the end, it appeared everyone was happy.As for Clifford Stern, it seems he abided by the Kant theory and resulted in less happiness. His wife was divorcing him and the woman he loved was engaged to his annoying brother-in-law. Clifford could have chosen to kill both his wife and brother-in-law to marry the lady he loved. However, according to Mill, he chose the route that would be the greatest happiness for everyone even though it resulted in less happiness for him. Clifford also willed a moral action concerning contemplated murder. He would not want someone to kill the woman he loved so he is not going to kill his wife in turn. Clifford is trying to live by the categorical imperative so that his actions can be universally replicated. He does not want to live with the regret that he killed someone like he thinks Judah does. "},{"Title":"Morality of actions in Crimes and Misdemeanors","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the movie Crimes and Misdemeanors, main character Judah encounters a problem with his mistress after a 2 yearlong affair. She refuses to stay quiet about their love, and demands that he marry her. When she threatens to expose Judah for embezzling money from his company, Judah's brother suggests murder to get rid of her and to keep his secret. After following through with the act, Judah struggles with the burden of the consequences of his actions and debates with himself over whether what he did as moral. In the closing of the movie, it is said, We define ourselves by the choices we have made. We are in fact the sum total of our choices. This poses the question, was Judah an immoral person for having his mistress murdered? Or was it valid since he didn't get caught? The question is more debatable than it first seems, as in the context of the movie, Judah was acting for his own self-preservation and because he felt threatened. Simultaneously, Cliff Stern is struggling to survive through both a failing marriage as well as a failing career, and finds solace in the friendship of a coworker (Halley) on the set of shooting his successful brother in-laws biographical video. When Lester finds himself falling in love with Halley, he seems to give no care to the fact that he is married, even though his brother in-law ends up winning over Halley's heart before Lester does. A question of morality is posed, was it justifiable for Lester to kiss/love another woman since his wife was also cheating on him?John Stuart Mill is a utilitarianist that speaks of the happiness of all. According to his happiness principle, an action is moral and right as long as it results in the most happiness for the greatest number of people possible. He would have said that all of Judah's actions were moral, since doing anything else would result in a great amount of people being unhappy. Exposing his embezzling and adultery would not only hurt himself, but his family and friends and career as well. By killing his mistress, he hurt one person, but for the good of many, therefore it was right. On the other hand, philosopher Kant would argue that these actions were immoral and wrong. He believes that an action if right if it is worthy of universal law. Both Judah and Cliff did things (murder and infidelity) that they would not want as universal law because they would not want them done to themselves. "},{"Title":"Ethics in Crimes and Misdemeanors","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is mainly about Dr. Judah Rosenthal and the huge decision he made to allow someone to take his mistresses' life. Dr. Rosenthal had been having an affair with a woman, Delores, for two years. Delores sent Dr. Rosenthal's wife a letter telling her that she wanted to meet with his wife to discuss her and Dr. Rosenthal's more than intimate friends relationship. He deals with Delores for weeks, and her threats and guilt trips begin to wear on Dr. Rosenthal. Dr. Rosenthal then goes to someone he knows that could get rid of Delores for good. The person he contacts ends up killing Delores, and this causes him to live in months of guilt and anxiety. Two philosophers, John Stuart Mill and Immanuel Kant, have very different views on whether this was a moral decision. According to John Stuart Mill's greatest happiness principle, which states that an action is right as long as it promotes the greatest happiness for the greatest amount of people, Dr. Rosenthal's decision to have someone kill Delores was a right and moral act. This is justified because although Delores' happiness was taken from her, Dr. Rosenthal, his family, and his friends all continued to have the greatest amount of happiness. Dr. Rosenthal allowing the murder of Delores resulted in the best consequences. Although Mill claims that this act was moral, Kant would disagree. Kant believes that one should act in a way that would be worthy of a universal law. This means that whatever you're doing, you would expect everyone else to act or do that same thing. The categorical imperative that Kant uses frequently states that there are no exceptions to Kant's rules; therefore the murder of Delores is not moral because murder would not be acceptable or justified in any circumstance. Since Dr. Rosenthal could not say that he would want someone to murder him for something he had done, this means that his action of allowing someone to kill Delores is not a universal law and is not moral. "}{"Title":"A hard slice of life superbly fit into a film of grand proportions","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors is probably the most stable and focused Woody Allen film I have yet to see, but definitely the most thought-provoking and philosophical, questioning its viewer if they could potentially go on to live with themselves if they, theoretically, got away with murder? Allen takes the camera and the pen to write a film that cleanly intertwines two stories heavily built on moral and ethically questionable situations, with one character committing infidelity with his mistress, and another trying to stay afloat with life never giving him a reasonable break.The first man we are introduced to is the respected, successful ophthalmologist named Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau) who has a marriage of twenty-five years on one hand and a stable affair going on the other. The affair is with a flight attendant named Dolores Paley (Anjelica Huston), who is beginning to go off the break end, as she feels cheated and strung along by the man who promised to end his marriage with his wife for her. She writes a letter to Judah's wife, which he barely intercepts as it sits openly on the kitchen table, and on numerous occasions tries to reason and rationalize with her to no avail.Judah then gets a bright idea; his brother named Jack (Jerry Orbach) has mob connections and could potentially have Dolores whacked and get away with it all the more. With that in mind, all he has to do is visit his ethics and see if he could live with such a thing on his conscious. Turns out he can, and here's where the crime comes in.The second story is of Clifford Stern, an unhappy, unsuccessful film director with a marriage quickly souring and a career with no calling. In efforts to show his wife that he still is a functioning human, he takes the job of directing and producing a documentary on her brother Lester (Alan Alda) and his career as a comedian. Lester is an unbearably arrogant man who Cliff can barely tolerate because of his increasing narcissism and belittling conversations, but finds the job somewhat more tolerable upon meeting Halley Reed (Mia Farrow), an associate producer on the project, and the two begin a minor little venture into infidelity. I guess you could call this the misdemeanor. What connects these two stories is Sam Waterston's Ben, a rabbi both look to for advice, who is growing increasingly blind. Ben is so devoted to his beliefs in the system of karmic revenge and religion that it seems to be the only thing keeping him going. This character gives us unprecedented depth into screenwriter Allen's possible beliefs in the world, which he ping pongs and explores in an even-handed fashion. The first is the morally devout system of Ben, where all evil deeds are eventually punished in some way, shape, or form. This system invites a little transcendentalism ideology I wasn't expecting from this kind of a story.The other system is one that is held by Judah's brother Jack, who believes that the only punishments one could pay for sinning is a practical, realistic consequence, which in this case would likely jail time. There's no spirituality involved and the punishments at the individual's expense will be entirely served during his lifetime. This isn't necessarily an atheistic outlook, but one of lesser spiritual devotion. A more pragmatic believer, if you will. We take a look at how his family believed in a vividly detailed flashback late in the film, showing the issue of morality and punishment coming up at a conversation over dinner, with Jack's similar attitude in play.Crimes and Misdemeanors is blackly funny, richly detailed, smartly and deeply written, and functions as a terrific entry in Allen's never-ending filmography. Two huge chunks contributing to why this is stems from the immense amount of thought and consideration given to the material at hand (IE the two belief systems and the idea of getting away with something), and the fact that the film oscillates smoothly between these two stories, one of them a sincere and darkly told drama, the other, a romantic story, lacking in things romanticism and mimicking the farcical elements and one-liners Allen erected in his early features such as Bananas and Sleeper. This isn't an uplifting film by any stretch of imagination; we see deeply flawed characters get away with traitorous acts of infidelity, and we see good-natured, competent humans be rewarded with the ricochet effects from their back-stabbing friends and family. This is a hard slice of life, and it takes a capable director to give us this sort of blunt, honest realism in a film.Starring Martin Landau, Woody Allen, Anjelica Huston, Mia Farrow, Alan Alda, Jerry Orbach, and Joanna Gleason. Directed by Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"Crimes and Misdemeanors","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From Oscar and BAFTA nominated writer / Oscar and BAFTA nominated director Woody Allen I didn't know anything about this film before I watched it, other than it was in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, but I did remember the title and reading about it a little it did sound like a good film that may be worth five out of five stars from the critics. Basically this film sees two main characters and their stories set in New York City, that of successful ophthalmologist and respectable family man Judah Rosenthal (Oscar nominated Martin Landau) who is having an affair, and small-time filmmaker Clifford 'Cliff' Stern (Woody Allen) who is trying to make a feature documentary. Judah has been having an affair with flight attendant Dolores Paley (BAFTA nominated Anjelica Huston), but he does not want to leave his wife Miriam (Claire Bloom) or end the marriage, and his mistress is threatening to reveal the affair to his wife if he doesn't do something soon, she even writes a letter for the wife that he manages to find and burn. Cliff has been hired by successful television producer, and his pompous brother-in-law Lester (MASH's BAFTA nominated Alan Alda) to make a documentary on his life, despite the fact that Cliff despises him, but he does continue with it because he falls in love with Halley Reed (Mia Farrow),Lester's associate producer. Judah does get some advice from rabbi patient Ben (Sam Waterston), who is losing his eye sight, about talking to his wife about the affair, and his financial problems, but he does not want to go with this option, so he turns his brother Jack (Jerry Orbach) for a solution, and he gives him the option to hire a hit-man to kill Dolores. For a while he is reluctant at the idea of hiring someone to murder his mistress, but he does go with this plan, and he quickly retrieves incriminating things from her corpse before it is found by the authorities to cover his tracks, but slowly over time his guilty conscience overtakes him, and he grows to believe God is watching him. Cliff is trying to continue his marriage to Lester's sister Wendy (Joanna Gleason), but it is obvious that any passion between them has faded, and to woo Halley he shows his documentary about philosopher Professor Louis Levy (Martin S. Bergmann), which he is continuing to try and finish, and he admits he is only helping Lester for the money so he can finish his own work. Cliff's dislike for Lester is made obvious when the film he has made includes the producer being aggressive, but he then finds out that Professor Levy has committed suicide, and worse is when Halley says she is not ready for a romance with him and she leaves for London, and when she returns he is devastated that she and Lester are engaged. The final scene sees Judah and Cliff coincidentally meet the wedding of rabbi Ben's daughter, Cliff's brother-in-law and Judah's patient, the ophthalmologist has got over his guilt with the murder being blamed on a drifter, and the small-time filmmaker agrees that any crisis will pass over time. Also starring Broken Flowers' Frances Conroy as House Owner, Nora Ephron as Wedding Guest and Daryl Hannah as Lisa Crosley. Landau gives a great performance as the man who will do almost anything to keep his life in order but develops high worries after his actions, Allen as usual makes most of the laughs with his whiny voice, sarcastic remarks and cynical opinions on life, and supporting members of the cast all add something, the script is wonderfully punchy and has all the ingredients to make you laugh, but also intrigue you, it is definitely a must see comedy drama. It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Editing and Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture &#x96; Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"10 points","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It so happens, that when movie makers make a movie about movie-making, they are successful. That's how it happened this time. Woody Allen had succeeded again in creating a hybrid of comedy and tragedy, in a well unified form. The film is indeed like 'Crime and Punishment'. With very significant differences, but still, it is similar - with same psychological tension. Full of witty dialogue and jokes. Altogether I'd give it a maximum amount of points, because it was impressive. It contained scenes of unhappiness not uncommon in real life, and the ending was educational. A well spent 90 minutes in my opinion. The director obviously has a very distinctive style. "},{"Title":"Allen's best","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors is about as dark a black comedy-drama as has ever been made. Fargo is as close a comparison as I can make, but even more cynical, as to be expected from the mind of Woody Allen.Martin Landau is a doctor who is having an affair with a stewardess(Anjelica Houston). She intends to inform the good doctor's wife of the dalliance.Dr. Rosenthal(Landau) is pressured by his mistress to leave his wife, but he refuses due to social status. He arranges to have his wife killed and Allen has a field day with the twists and turns and an examination of hypocrisy that is unsurpassed. Funny and insightful, Woody has never been better. "},{"Title":"Very good - one of Woody's best","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors is genius in the way it subtle connects to very different stories into what seems like one large tapestry. The films is hilarious at some parts (especially when Woody Allen walks into his house and says to his wife 'a strange man defecated on my sister') and it's also very pathetic. All of Woody Allen's characters are pathetic, because they face moral issues in some of the most basic scenarios. Crimes and Misdemeanors has a very excellent cast which includes Woody Allen, Alan Alda (M*A*S*H), Mia Farrow (Rosemary's Baby) and Claire Bloom (The Haunting). Those are just some of the many stars in this film. The plot is fairly simple, to separate men attempt to make a like changing decision, one tries to decide how he can get a woman to fall in love with him (might I mention this man is married) the other must decided whether or not to have the woman he had an affair with killed.Crimes and Misdemeanor is excellent fun with great acting. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Dark and light, funny and dramatic, Crimes and Misdemeanors.","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now that I have Netflix, I am going to catch up on all of the Woody Allen films that i've missed out on. First on my list is Crimes and Misdemeanors. Crimes and Misdemeanors is about two different men doing two different bad things. While I was watching it, I got a hint of my favorite Woody Allen film, Match Point, and for that I started off uncertain about it. But as it went on, well, you'll see.Bad man # 1 is Cliff(played by Woody Allen). Cliff is an unhappily married aspiring documentary filmmaker who falls for a woman( Mia Farrow) while filming a documentary on his obnoxious brother in law(Alan Alda). Bad man # 2 is Judah(played by Martin Landau). Judah is a seemingly happily married doctor who faces a dark dilemma after his mistress(Anjelica Huston) threatens to tell his wife of their affair.I started off ify about the film, do to it's similarity to Match Point. But as it continued, I kept falling for it. The performance from Martin Landau really steals the show here. You're not sure whether to care about him or not, and thats sort of what lures the viewer to keep watching him. Like Match Point, C and M goes down a road that you definitely don't expect... or do you? I sort of saw it coming because I suppose that is the way Allen's imagination works in both this and that. But I was still hooked. Especially in the last twenty minutes.Crimes and Misdemeanors is light and dark, funny and thrilling, and just another great Woody Allen movie. He works wonders with Crimes and Misdemeanors like you've seen him work wonders with Annie Hall, Hannah and her sisters, and just endless films.Allen always teaches us lessons, and he always gives the characters the justice they deserve. Crimes and Misdemeanors is flat out one of Woody's best films. It's up there with Match Point, Vicky Cristina Barcelona, Sweet and lowdown, and The Purple Rose of Cairo. Allen is timeless. And so is Crimes and Misdemeanors.A "},{"Title":"God is a luxury I can't afford","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After watching 'Match Point (2005),' I can remember reading a few reviews comparing it, not always favourably, to Allen's earlier 'Crimes and Misdemeanours (1989).' The similarities are certainly there Martin Landau's subplot, of a husband having to dispose of a troublesome mistress, is in 'Match Point' expanded to feature-length, and stripped of Allen's comedy relief. Also present in both films is the sense that Woody Allen is upending genre conventions, via last-minute plot turns that actively avoid the narrative closure to which audiences have become accustomed. In this film, Judah Rosenthal (Landau) agonises at length over his sins, which are great, before departing the film with family and reputation intact. There's even the suggestion that he'll eventually overcome his guilt and learn to live with it. Meanwhile, small-time filmmaker Cliff Stern (Allen) covets a woman who isn't his wife (a moral misdemeanour at worst), and loses everything he cares about. It's a heartbreaking ending for a character whose story, until then, had been relatively lightweight.Religion lies at the forefront of the film. We know this because rain disrupted Allen's shooting schedule, to which the director is said to have remarked, Maybe it's too realistic, or it's too atheistic - and probably it turns out there is a God, who doesn't want this picture made. I did get the sense of atheism. In movies, there IS an omniscient being who observes everything and demands moral closure; that is, the viewer. In real life, Allen posits, there is no such guiding force, and crime doesn't always get punished. While I did appreciate this style of cinematic revisionism, I think I prefer the blunter 'Match Point,' in which the noirish crime story was the main attraction. You can't really fault anyone's efforts here, though. Allen, Landau, and Alan Alda &#x96; as an amusingly egotistical television producer &#x96; are all excellent, the jazz and classical soundtrack is a lot of fun, and the photography of Sven Nykvist (favourite of Ingmar Bergman) is nicely low-key and subdued. "},{"Title":"The eyes have it","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors is Woody Allen's ironic reimagination of Crime and Punishment. Martin Landau plays a successful man who commits a crime, not directly and certainly not for money, but for tranquility in the bedroom. A reawakening of religion resolves and dispels his guilt in unexpected ways. Woody Allen, in one of his comic gravedigger roles, plays an unsuccessful man whose longing for tranquility in the bedroom is ultimately resolved only by his child-like love of movies. Plot and subplot -- reality and fantasy -- neatly cross and veer in opposite directions.Allen the scriptwriter here is outstanding even if, by 1989, Allen the on screen nebbish had become something of an outlier in his own movies. The ensemble Allen directs in Crimes and Misdemeanors is equally outstanding, especially Landau and Mia Farrow. The allusions to other movies and to music will keep cinephiles busy. Allen's toying with the Jewish tradition resembles the Coen Brothers', in A Serious Man. The eyes have it. "},{"Title":"Pessimism or observatory?","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen is the proverbial pessimistic of the last fifty years, constantly making films that challenge and question many of the basic ideas and foundations we live by through tragedy and humor. In this film, he brings the two elements together, creating two similar story lines that come together and paint a viciously sardonic, dark and mostly realistic portrayal of life as a human being.In the tragic plot, Martin Landau is brilliant as Judah, a well-respected and successful ophthalmologist whose life is threatened by his volatile mistress (Angelica Huston) and considers the ultimate and worst option. Meanwhile, Allen plays Cliff Stern, a documentary filmmaker infatuated with one of his producers (Mia Farrow) and trying to keep her from the brother-in-law he so envies (Alan Alda). Each story has moments that make you perk up and pay attention and Allen uses his skill as a writer to entice and bring the audience into the world in which he has created; a world where everything is questioned and there are no clear, definite answers.There are many who dislike this film and all of Woody Allen even because of the constant pessimism. Yet, could it be that it is really pure observation? Allen has always had a dark streak to his comedy, even in something as zany and ludicrous as Sleeper or Love and Death. Here, he disguises much of the downbeat material with sophistication, wit and intelligence as well as some flat-out funny lines only he could produce. The film has many references to great artists such as Bergman and Chekov, but Allen still makes it his own style and vision. This is such a remarkable and intellectual film that at first glance it may penetrate too close to home for some and simply go over the heads of others.Whatever your initial reaction is, don't simply write it off as Woody Allen complaining about life. Sure there are problems, but there is also much to be admired. The acting, writing, cinematography and direction are all top-notch and there is always a penetrating question deep-down that maybe, perhaps life is not as jolly, optimistic or clear-cut as we would like or hope it would be. "},{"Title":"A brilliant examination of guilt, fear, hope.","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Deeply moving, deeply though-provoking, brilliantly acted and occasionally very funny. A disturbing, dark film about human nature that still manages to leave room for a glimmer of hope within it's chilling bleakness. Martin Landau is amazing, but all of the cast make significant contributions. One of the few films I can watch over and over, with no loss of its power. Every time I watch it I end up pondering my own sense of morality, my questions about whether there is truly justice in the world, and the extent to which good people do bad things. And yet, along with all those heavy ideas, this is also entertaining, witty, and occasionally very tense story-telling of the first order.For me it's second only to 'Annie Hall' amongst Allen's huge body of work, and stands as one of the few truly great films of the 1980s. "}{"Title":"Crimes and Misdemeanors an ethical matter","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must say that despite the fact that I've been very fond of Woody Allen's work for a long time I hadn't watched this exceptional movie until a couple weeks ago when I found it while buying other movies. Of course I had heard of it but I never show too much interest in seeing it. I deeply regret it now since I consider it to be one of his best. Crimes and Misdemeanors follows two main characters Judah Rosenthal (Landau), a successful ophthalmologist, and Cliff Stern (Allen), a struggling documentary filmmaker. Both of them are confronted with moral crises. On the one hand, Judah's crisis concerns his affair with a flight attendant Dolores Paley (Huston). After it becomes clear to her that Judah will not end his marriage, Dolores attempts to inform his wife of their affair. On the other hand, Cliff has been hired by his pompous brother-in-law, Lester (Alda), a successful television producer to make a documentary celebrating Lester, whom Cliff grows to actively despise. While filming, he falls in love with Halley Reed (Farrow), Lester's associate producer. Of course that Allen's story is funnier than Landau's, which does not mean that is comic because actually is really sad, but they both talk about the same. This film is another aspect of Allen's view of life. As always, he shows us its misery, loneliness, suffering and sadness but, in this case, he emphasizes the injustices we all go through, he highlights the inequitable human behavior that makes many people's life miserable totally criticizing the concept of karma. A movie that leads us to a deep reflection upon ethic matters. Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"'Crimes and Misdemeanors' is Woody Allen at his best!","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen is at his best in 'Crimes and Misdemeanors', a 1989 classic, that defines black-comedy. Allen picks up strange situations, characters, dialog and movements to prove the show.'Crimes and Misdemeanors' is beautifully played and executed. It's a film that stands out, it's so different, despite being made in the most simplistic manner. Allen is a legendary figure, his work runs down to history. A Remarkable Talent, that always plays to the gallery, or sometimes, above the notch of perfection.Allen as an actor takes away all the cake. Martin Landau is fantastic, the Academy-Award-Winner sinks his teeth into the character and brings out versatility. Mia Farrow is exceptionally good. Anjelica Huston is superb in a cameo. Alan Alda is amazing, the veteran knows his character from start to end. Jerry Orbach is good.'Crimes and Misdemeanors' is a superb film, that delivers neat work. A Must Watch! Woody Allen is a True Legend! "},{"Title":"Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989) ****","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Martin Landau is excellent as an aging wealthy ophthalmologist with a loving wife, a family, and every material thing he could desire. He is faced with a debilitating dilemma ... he has been having an affair with a younger woman for the past couple of years (Anjelica Huston), and now he is wanting to end the relationship, but the devastated woman will have none of it and constantly threatens to tell his wife and botch up the perfect lifestyle Landau has made for himself. He has a crooked brother (Jerry Orbach) who is in the business of taking cash to arrange quick solutions to such situations, and Landau has to decide whether or not he can resort to having his lover murdered to get himself out of a jam.There is a second parallel story featuring Woody Allen as a filmmaker who's stuck in a meaningless marriage, and who is pushed by his wife into making a cheesy documentary about his self-serving brother-in-law (Alan Alda), who happens to be a successful and stuck-up jerk that Allen cannot stomach. Mia Farrow plays an assistant on the project who Woody falls in love with and would like to leave his wife for, but Alda's wealth and fame also threatens to sway Farrow away from him.Without hesitation I consider this one of the greatest movies Woody Allen has made. Martin Landau takes chief acting honors, but all the other players are also good in their parts, and Allen himself is less of a paranoid nerd than we're accustomed to, which also works well. There isn't that much comedy in this film, but what little there is of it works well and is funny (Allen's repulsed reaction to what happens to his sister, and some funny lines from Woody which are among his better ones). Both stories hold our interest throughout, though it's a compliment in this viewer's eyes to say that the Landau story is even more interesting than the Allen one, though both sort of come together in a satisfactory end. This is a deeply themed examination of people's faiths, their religious convictions, and what type of sins a person can commit yet still face themselves in the mirror the next morning. I really loved this. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Searching for the meaning of righteousness and failing to find it","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, I liked the gas price unintentionally shown in the movie (Crimes and Misdemeanors). It was like a little bit over $1! Recently, it has become our problem in the United States because we need to make more money to drive our own cars. No money, no drive! In the movie, the gas price is not a problem at all. The problem is that the protagonist and director (Woody Allen) searched for the meaning of righteousness and failed to find it. They thought it was too complex to explain the righteousness of God. Or they too easily simplified the meaning.Why does Ben suffer from eye problems and get blind later? He is a good person. Why does Jack seem to live a normal life even though he and his friend killed Dolores? That's the question I hear from people every day. And that's the problem I face every day. Why is God so quiet when I am in trouble? Why doesn't he look upon my needs? Even though we put God at the center of our lives, we face trouble, maybe more trouble after we become believers.The solution is not to kick the problems out of the world, but to endure and grow from the suffering experiences is the solution. I think that's why Ben didn't lose his faith after he lost his sight. Whether Allen intended it or not, I liked the fact that Ben was still faithful to God.Allen wants to show his view that people are not always punished for their evil deeds, but I think that there will be judgment when we face God during our life's journey or at the end of it. Judah and Jack will pay the price for what they have done. And I will pay the price for what I have done wrong.Like Allen, I search for the meaning of righteousness and life. I don't have a firm and concrete answer for it. But I have a firm belief that the Infinite has the answer.The high price of gasoline is a little problem I face. My job is not that I try to solve the problem, but it's that I get closer to the Infinite who has the true solution. "},{"Title":"The Guilty Aren't Always Punished","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors is probably Woody Allen's darkest film, or at least it was until his British crime thriller duo of Match Point and Cassandra's Dream from the last couple of years.In fact, Match Point borrows heavily from Crimes and both borrow from Dreiser's An American Tragedy. Martin Landau plays a prominent doctor who pays to have his unhinged mistress (Anjelica Huston) bumped off when she threatens to make things unpleasant for him and his accepted social standing as an upright citizen. The guilt he experiences is worse than the shame he would have endured had the mistress lived to tell what she knew. In a parallel story, Woody Allen plays a man in an unhappy marriage who is making a documentary for a regular T.V. show about a pompous T.V. exec (Alan Alda) while falling for one of the show's producers (Mia Farrow). The two stories don't seem to be related, aside from the common thread of infidelity that runs through them, until the very end, when Allen's and Landau's characters meet at a wedding and Landau confesses his crimes.The big question Allen explores in Crimes and Misdemeanors is the inherent nature of the universe is there a moral structure or is the universe essentially chaotic and cruel? If there is a moral code, is it dictated to us by a higher power or is mankind itself inherently moral? These are interesting questions, much more interesting than the what is the point of existence? questions Allen frequently addresses and which he borrowed wholesale from Ingmar Bergman. This film ends on an essentially optimistic note, but not before it gives us a rather nasty and chilling twist -- Landau's character finds that his conscience gradually eases on its own, and finds that the guilty aren't necessarily punished, and are sometimes even rewarded.A highlight in Woody Allen's canon.Grade A "},{"Title":"One of Allen's most complex and interesting films.","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Incredibly well done Woody Allen film probes the depth of the human psyche in ways few other films of the time do. The upper echelon of society is exposed to be as corrupt and sinister as that of the mafia which the bourgeois look down their noses in disdain. The story is a mix of comedy and high drama, a great work of art.Alan Alda is great as an arrogant director, hilarious. Martin Landau plays a doctor with his own secrets, he engages in an affair and then attempts to take care of the problem. His brother is a mafioso who has one of the most memorable roles in any woody Allen film and has a great line that basically sums up this film. I can't afford to live in this world of mansions and pools, I live in the real world All in all, one of Allen's best films to date, complex, thought provoking and insightful "},{"Title":"For My Money, Woody's Best Film...","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Though most Woody-philes consider ANNIE HALL to be his masterpiece, I have to go with CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS, the caustic and brilliant 1989 comedy drama about the ambiguity of the moral choices we has humans must make and the consequences of said choices. This beautifully mounted films tells two different stories that initially seem to have nothing to do with each other.but Woody's genius as a writer does eventually bring the two stories together. One story stars Martin Landau as a wealthy opthamologist who finds his comfortable life threatened when his mistress of his two years (Anjelica Huston) begins making loud noises about going to his wife (the lovely Claire Bloom) about their affair and some financial misdeeds she also has knowledge of. Feeling he has no other choice, Landau turns to his mob-connected brother (the late Jerry Orbach) for assistance in handling the problem. The other story finds Woody as a financially strapped documentary filmmaker who agrees to shoot a sort of cinema verite' about his brother-in-law, an obnoxious, egomaniacal television star/producer(Alan Alda, in one of his best performances) while, in the process, falls for one of Alda's producers (Mia Farrow). The story fascinates as we watch the effect the choices these characters make and how the consequences of said choices slap them in the face. The only physical linking between the two stories is the character of a rabbi with failing eyesight, played by Sam Waterston, who is Woody's other brother-in-law and Landau's best friend and moral barometer. Allen won Oscars for his screenplays for ANNIE HALL and HANNAH AND HER SISTERS, but I think his work here trumps both of those scripts...an incisive and funny story with smart and haunting dialogue. The performances are superb right down the line with standout work from Landau, who received a richly deserved Oscar nomination for his tortured Judah, the man haunted by his choices and Alda, playing one of the most unlikeable characters I've seen in films in quite awhile. Anjelica Huston seems a little too mature and intelligent a presence for her role, but she somehow makes the character vulnerable and believable. Mention should also be made of Joanna Gleason and Caroline Aaron who appear as Woody's wife and sister, respectively. In a word, a masterpiece that is a must for budding Woody-philes and for anyone studying the art of screen writing. "},{"Title":"Crimes & Misdemeanors- Sentence ***1/2","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Extremely compelling philosophical, psychological and downright good movie making on the part of Woody Allen.While I have criticized Woody Allen before for his anti-Jewish statements in previous films, we have here a very philosophical approach with some startling problems renewed.This is a film dealing with soul searching. Of course, after all is said and done, murder is murder.When Dr. Judah Rosenthal (a terrific Martin Landau) gets his sleazy brother to kill his mistress, Rosenthal, after the wicked deed is done is conflicted. His life can now go on without problems now that the mistress (Huston) is out of the picture. Yet, he thinks back to the days when as a young lad, he learned his lessons in synagogue and was taught the rituals of our religion by a self-righteous father.This film deals with the complexities of life. We dare to ask things that we can't answer Why is the wonderful rabbi going blind? Why did 6 million perish in the holocaust? Why does a wonderful philosopher, who Woody Allen is doing a documentary on, suddenly commit suicide?Landau is the crime here. Allen, the misdemeanor. A fine supporting cast of Alan Alda and Jerry Orbach enhance this provocative film. "},{"Title":"Allen's dark, Bergman-like character study.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite what another commentator has said, it remains untrue that Allen only discovered Bergman after the early funny ones and thus, flippantly decided to be profound. Long-term aficionados of the director will know that he was indulging in homage to the likes of Bergman, Godard and Fellini as far back as Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex, Sleeper, and Love & Death. However, whereas those films took certain elements from European cinema and turned them into satire, Allen would eventually begin to explore his own serious side with films like Interiors, Stardust Memories, Another Woman and September, before finally perfected his new found style with this glorious and morally oblique modern-masterpiece.Crimes and Misdemeanours is a film that manages to move gracefully between two very different (though ultimately, very serious) stories, whilst simultaneously juggling a tone that is both light and humours, but also bleak and profound. By focusing on two different characters, Allen is able to bring us into the film slowly... it is to his credit as a filmmaker that he is able to pull off the subtle shifts in style, creating a mood in one scene that is vague and philosophical, before cutting to something that seems much more frivolous. The serious moments never seem pretentious and the lighter moments are never forced, with Allen making great use of his persona as the slightly neurotic lovable loser at odds with the world around him, as he's hired by his brother-in-law (a pompous TV producer) to direct a flattering documentary portrait of the man and his work. The second arc of the story, the one that really presents the moral centre of the film, focuses on a wealthy ophthalmologist (brilliantly played by Martin Landau), faced with some serious questions of faith, as well as various ethical decisions, when a spurned lover begins to make his life very complicated.Allen juggles between the stories perfectly, having each disparate tale somehow reflect subtly on the other one, creating in the process, an effortless back and forth. As well as the subtle foreshadowing's there are also more intelligent cinematic devices being used, as Allen creates a subplot in which his character Cliff is also working on a documentary about an ailing professor who, on occasion, can be glimpsed in the background on Cliff's editing monitor discussing the broader philosophical aspects of life, love and death. These snippets of philosophical discourse also, subtly, pass comment on the actions depicted in the film, creating a further layer of self-reference that can also be seen in the films that Allen's character watches during his down-time. Once again, Allen doesn't allow these devices to overwhelm the story or push things into the realms of overt-intellectual masturbation, but instead, merely compliments the two stories, adding further layers for the audience to pick through and also giving further emotional and psychological weight to that fantastically low-key ending.As great as the writing and the performances are, it is in his role as filmmaker in which Allen truly impresses with this film... managing to take his fondness for Bergman and, for once, develop it into his own personal style of film-making. Therefore, it's less self-conscious than Another Woman, and even with the influence of Bergman evident in his use of legendary Swedish cinematographer Sven Nyvist, this still feels like a Woody Allen film, even managing to prefigure the style of Husbands and Wives and Bullets Over Broadway. Every nuance of the film, from the casting, to the lighting and composition, the editing and the choice of music is perfect, with Allen managing to create a great atmosphere of loss and isolation for his characters to fall into.Though it is Allen and Landau that represent the moral centre of the film, there are also some impeccably nuanced performances from supporting players. Alan Alda, as Cliff's self-important brother-in-law Lester offers great comic-support, whilst Mia Farrow gives her second best performance in a Woody Allen film, following her great turn in the similarly brilliant Purple Rose of Cairo. There's also further support offered by Sam Waterston as the man of faith slowly loosing his sight, Jerry Orbach as Landau's mobster brother, Joanna Gleason as Cliff's long-suffering wife (and Lester's favourite sister) Wendy, and Angelica Huston as the woman scorned. If I had to pick out one flaw with this film, I'd say that Huston's character is a little annoying, falling into the occasional Allen trap of being far too needy and obnoxious (the same can be said about Farrow's character in the later Husbands and Wives, or Dianne Keaton's role in Manhattan). This really is a mild criticism, though, with Huston trying her best to overcome her character's (admittedly quite necessary) shortcomings to give a strong and affecting performance.However, the film belongs to Landau and Allen, with the former giving perhaps the best performance of his career and the latter proving himself to be (once and for all) the greatest American filmmaker of his generation. Crimes and Misdemeanours is really a perfect film (for me), and along with Love and Death, Annie Hall, Purple Rose of Cairo and Bullets Over Broadway, gives further proof of Allen's cinematic genius. "},{"Title":"Comedy is Pain + Clarity","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors unswervingly challenges the dilemma of meaning in a world in which the eyes of justice are seemingly blind, a world where most of us see happiness in direct relation to morality, in which those who are scrupulous are blissful, while those who disregard true-blue principle hurt accordingly. Loosely connected main narratives elegantly associate, one of a serious, cold-blooded crime with Martin Landau's beloved opthalmologist and family man Judah Rosenthal at the center, another of everyday indiscretions, rejection and romantic envy between Woody Allen's struggling documentarian Clifford and Alan Alda's insufferable TV producer Lester, together with the trouble of lofty moral aim. Other strands annotate these main two from the higher plane of theological ruminations. The deeply affecting outcome offers that the universe must be apathetic towards any impression of morality, because it sanctions the ethically dubious and downright despicable to ascend in prestige and affluence and disciplines the decent.Various statements and turns of events in Crimes and Misdemeanors offer precious outlook on the notion that in lieu of a moral, benevolent God, the individual should take responsibility for life. If there's no inherent judicial framework to existence, why should the choice of life be worth any more than that of death? If there were no true goal, absolution, some sort of higher power, unlike what Judah's Rabbi Ben, played by Sam Waterston, believes, why shouldn't one just see, past our capricious predictions of the cosmos, our bold affirmations of life, the frigid eyes of apathy that we assume are actually there? Allen provides no comfortable Crime Doesn't Pay ways out, nor any transparent baptismal scenes or flares of light shone upon his characters. He undertakes many of life's mysteries, offers few answers. Isn't that what life's all about More question marks than periods? Like Spike Lee's masterpiece Do the Right Thing, it's intended to arouse discourse more than resolve issues. That's why the kind of suspense it creates is arguably the best kind, because it's not about what will happen to people, but about what choices they'll make.Simple, honest acting is the biggest risk, because being honest means actors must use themselves, make their work personal. More truly means less to really good performers like Martin Landau, Alan Alda, Mia Farrow, Anjelica Huston, Woody Allen. They get simpler, more elemental, they stop acting. They play characters seamlessly, but they listen, react as themselves. While each scene feels so simplistically, naturally executed, each is a multidimensional creation. There are very unassuming symbols that elicit meaning without having to be explained, adding subtle touches of texture. There are agendas, emotional baggage, painful secrets, unconscious motivations.Akin to Hannah and Her Sisters in its hyperlink composition and The Purple Rose of Cairo in its sulky premise going hand-in-hand with humor and nostalgia, the movie's surreptitious power, indeed its composition, comes from the candor of the exacting fine points through which it lands at its own poignantly relatable overview. The film arrives at what seems like a dual understanding, really two counterpoints of the same single one. Firstly, we hear the voice of Clifford's documentary subject, who logically emphasizes the senselessness of existence, where all too often the good suffer while the evil flourish. Perhaps in order to find genuine love and happiness it's necessary to have the Rabbi's blind faith that the universe is itself an innately loving place. Can we believe the ultimate image of Judah? We're more apt to believe his adulterous lover Huston's insight into the superficiality of his supposed contentment.Lester and Judah are viewed and thought by most as good people, whereas Clifford's thought to be a poor loser, yet this is of profound ignorance. But while Judah deeply and thoroughly deliberates his wrongdoings, Lester's unconscious, invisible to himself while remaining visible to everyone else. Lester's the poster boy for self-assurance, accomplishment, bliss. By being very enterprising, he's become a successful filmmaker boasting a closet full of Emmys, loved and regarded by virtually everyone. Humoring his opinions and work ethic, to them he's big-hearted and benevolent. Clifford, his brother-in-law, is one of the few odd ones out who see through the veneer of his image Lester manipulates colleagues and relatives, womanizes, mispronounces common words, pontificates on the art of comedy. Don't miss Clifford's hilarious rough cut of Lester's documentary profile. "}{"Title":"A wonderful, human film","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having first seen this several years ago and enjoyed it thoroughly, for some reason i put it down as slightly second-tier Woody after 'annie hall', 'manhattan' and others. However, having tonight watched the movie again i think it could well be Allen's masterpiece.The performances are all excellent, the plot thought provoking, the dialogue funny ('the last woman i was inside was the statue of liberty') and the music, editing and cinematography are all superb. Whilst presenting us seemingly with a deeply nihilistic overall message - the film at the death presents us with a positive ending full of hope and warmth that doesn't overwrite or simplify all that has gone before.I hope that as time goes by this film will be rediscovered and seen by the audience it deserves. In a decade of dross, 'Crimes & Misdemeanors' stands out for me as one of the finest American movies of the 80's. To anyone jaded with modern Hollywood spectacles check this one out and see what a real film maker can achieve and for all his many cinematic failures Allen remains - a true American original. "},{"Title":"Brilliant! One of Woody's Best Work to Date!","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Look we all know Woody Allen is a neurotic Jewish New Yorker. In this film, he plays an unsuccessful Jewish New York film director of documentaries. He finally gets a job working for Alan Alda's character who has an enormous ego and thinks the world of his own comedy. The cast is first rate with Woody Allen writing and directing this superior work, Mia Farrow who was his life partner, the divine Claire Bloom who should have been made Dame by now, Martin Landau who plays the guilt stricken husband, Angelica Huston as his unstable mistress, Jerry Orbach who was Mr. New York as Landau's brother in the film, Joanna Gleason who plays the unhappy wife with Woody Allen in this film while he pursues Mia's character Hally Reed. There is also Caroline Aaron who plays Woody's sister. She is a remarkable character actress who goes unnoticed. There are so many wonderful characters who are real but self-centered in some way. They are all with problems but not financially. You wonder how Woody's character who barely worked in years survives a Manhattan rent? Of course, you can't forget that it's really about Jewish American life in New York City as well. Woody has not forgotten his Jewish roots in his films. Regardless, this film is always worth watching for the first rate cast, writing, and directing. When Woody shoots a film about New York, it's done in New York City and you feel the difference. Of course, Woody is a genius with lots of problems but I think that's the price you pay with being brilliant and gifted. I think he uses his films to sort out his problem. "},{"Title":"we are all the sum total of our choices....","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Allen's character admires the philosophy professor who theorizes this; this while discussing another subject as Alan Alda absconds with his female interest; and a distant relative (very well done by Martin Landau) has his ex-mistress executed by his estranged brother (Jerry Orbach).Brilliant, strange and real, for those who watch film and not reality TV. Allen insinuates here what is to come To Farrow ...I want to film conversation, nothing funny just reality... .Looking back, he was not given enough credit for his insight. I have always loved Annie Hall, Hannah and Her Sisters, and his early 80's films. This deserves a second look. It is timely and perceptive without being trite.What is interesting about Allen is that he, above all, creates real people in film. Farrow becomes the frustrated film-maker ex-lawyer; Landau really is the NY doctor, successful but dubious; Sam Waterston really seems to be the Rabbi, losing his sight.There are few films today which have this resonance. Only a decent movie can make a critic remember it; a brilliant film maker can record insights which are memorable 15 years later. Speaking as a critic who sees many films, I can state that I have seen this film three times; the first was over 15 yrs ago, and I still remember the audience, and the positive comments it received. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's look on guilt and other matters","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are two stories in this movie.In one story Martin Landau plays Judah Rosenthal, who has had an affair with Dolores (Anjelica Huston) for years.Now she threatens to tell everything to his wife Miriam (Claire Bloom), if he won't marry her.His brother Jack (Jerry Orbach) suggests he could get rid of her.With a little cash he'd get him killed and the problem would be gone.Judah has to struggle with a moral dilemma;could he live with that on his conscience? In the other story Woody Allen plays documentary maker Clifford Stern who has to make a movie about his brother-in-law, a big TV producer Lester (Alan Alda).He despises the guy and does the whole thing for money.Clifford is married to Wendy (Joanna Gleason) but that doesn't stop him from having feelings for Halley Reed (Mia Farrow), with whom he's working on the film.Allen's Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989) is a brilliant movie, a true masterpiece.He makes both of those stories really interesting.Martin Landau is a true legend and in this movie his acting is really superb.Allen is being Allen and does it with his own classy way, as always.The whole cast does their job with dignity.Allen is also the master in the use of music.The jazz pieces and Schubert are all in the right places.I found many absolutely brilliant scenes in this movie.One fascinating scene is the one where Judah goes to his childhood home.There he watches his family talking about God and all those religious matters.He even participates in the conversation.It's really fascinating to listen to the professor Louis Levy's (Martin S. Bergmann) views on life and love.Our Sundays in Finland have been blessed with Woody Allen movies.I really enjoy watching his stuff.He has made so many movies you can call masterpieces.The genius of Woody Allen really shows in this movie. "},{"Title":"May be Woody's best...","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors seems to be a forgotten classic, as is the case with most Allen films. Put simply every aspect of the movie is top notch (with the minor exception of Anjelica Huston, whom I personally felt was slightly over-acting, at least in her first scene). The script was magnificent, acting was terrific, and the overall message is thought-provoking and brilliantly represented. It's that kind of film, after you're done watching it (at least for me, anyway), you find it hard to snap right back into reality, because you've been so involved in the story and are still thinking about those last words . It's uplifting in an odd way, considering the circumstances at the end of the film, and the final message almost counteracts that. It certainly ranks among Woody's best, and may just claim that title.Buy it. Watch it. It's great. "},{"Title":"It's all about Choices","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989) This is, without a doubt, one of Woody Allen's most significant films. If you are NOT a Woody Allen fan AND you think of him only as a comedian, SEE THIS FILM. It is not a comedy, nor what you expect. You WILL be impressed. THEN go back and see some of the others you've ignored, such as Deconstructing Harry, Husbands and Wives and Interiors. Crimes and Misdemeanors has a great, flip-flop structure that bounces between the humorous and the humorless, the silly and the pathetic, the shallow and the profound. Acting by all is wonderful, the photography (by Sven Nykvist) is innovative, interesting, and voyeuristic. This is a film about Choices, and living with them. It is a mature, wise, insightful work of Art. "},{"Title":"Deliciously striped","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a striped piece of candy with delicious sweetness and awful bitterness, joy and horror set directly next to each other... and the boundaries between them are as sharp as black and white yet as seamlessly blended as a fine painting. And it is this mixture that makes it memorable. You will think about this movie for days and weeks afterward, one of those movies that will contribute something to who you are. Truly a masterpiece. See it. A stunning cast. Martin Landau, Angelica Huston, and Alan Alda, superbly directed by Mr. Allen... who could ask for better? Jerry Orbach in particular is not to be missed, and without going into too much detail, suffice it to say he's not Lenny Briscoe.  ) S "},{"Title":"a sharp and witty outlook on life","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen often questions if things really are like what we think they are. The wise and forgiving rabbi celebrates life and proclaims a positive and optimistic judgment of the true nature of mankind, although his own life was tragically destined by man's cruel and absurd behavior. And then the rabbi suddenly commits suicide. 'If it bends, it's funny, if it breaks, it isn't funny,' says Lester. Maybe the opposite is true, I found the suicide scene very funny. It showed that all the rabbi's wise words weren't powerful enough to ward off his terrible fate, it showed that in the end he had to resign himself to God's decrees. His act of suicide didn't turn him into a phone, it made him more credible and more like us and made it easier to empathize with him. Cliff Stern who thought the world of him probably lacked in empathy and therefore failed to help him; maybe if he hadn't admired him so much he would have done something to prevent him from killing himself. But he probably cared more about his documentary on the rabbi than about the rabbi himself anyway When he hears the bad news of the rabbi's death, his main concern seems to be how to continue with the documentary. Maybe Cliff's biggest fault was that he either worshiped or despised other adults but never empathized with them and that made him so vulnerable and nasty, the only kind Cliff was Cliff the uncle taking his little niece out to the pictures. "},{"Title":"A crown jewel","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors may be Woody Allen's best film. He makes wonderful use of transitions, visual imagery, and time as memory. He also examines the topics of sex, death, love, women, and God. The story consists of two separate but parallel story lines. The first storyline revolves around an affair that Judah (Martin Landau) has be having with Delores (Anjelica Huston). This storyline really explores the nature of sex and death. The other storyline also revolves around sex, but in a more social sense. Clifford (Woody Allen), trapped in a marriage going nowhere attempts to start an affair with Hally (Mia Farrow). This leads storyline explores the topic of women and love. The film is a crown jewel in an already distinguished career. "},{"Title":"My first Woody Allen movie.","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Prior to 'blind-buying' this film on DVD, I had never seen a Woody Allen movie, although I had read much about his contributions to cinema. This was reportedly one of his darker, more serious films, so I decided to try it. The film tells the stories of Cliff (Woody Allen) and Judah (Martin Landau); the stories don't really intertwine, except thematically, but for a meeting between Cliff and Judah at the finale. The film was clearly constructed by Allen to explore the nature of ethics, especially religion versus existentialism. These issues are most provocatively explored in Judah's plot, anchored by Martin Landau's superb performance (it's easy to see that Oscar nomination being earned). Cliff's plot is more tragicomic in nature, providing a bit of light amidst the dark. The film's conclusions are particularly nihilist; Judah knowingly comments that people wanting a happy ending should see a Hollywood movie. I don't particularly agree with Allen's conclusions, but it's a lot to contemplate. The cast is superb, with Allen regulars like Mia Farrow and Alan Alda (and Allen himself), and talents like Landau, Joanna Gleason, Sam Waterson, and Jerry Orbach (RIP, Jerry; you will be missed). I give Crimes and Misdemeanors a 10/10. "}{"Title":"Amusing, entertaining nice one Woody","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A distinguished but adulterous Opthalmologist(Martin Landau)orders the murder of his secret lover (Anjelica Houston) due to her insistence that she will reveal the affair unless he leaves his wife for good. The other narrative strand of the film, involves Cliff Stern (Woody Allen) an unsuccessful but proud documentary film maker who begrudgingly takes work charting the life of an extremely successful T.V producer who Cliff finds cringe-worthy.Really good watch, entertaining, philosophical and excellent acting all round. We get Woody's usual witty lines and societal observations, as well as a bit of love and desire thrown in. There is always something special and wonderfully idiosyncratic about a Woody Allen film and this is no exception, in fact it is a film of the highest order and possibly his best.Long live Woody "},{"Title":"The Misanthrope","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've been in love with Woody Allen for a long time. When I was 13, I watched Annie Hall because I simply had to see the film that beat out my beloved Star Wars for Best Picture in 1977. It absolutely blew me away - it was funny, very funny, and also a little dark. The following year, Bullets Over Broadway came out and I was hooked.I've seen most of Allen's work and find most of it fantastic. Initially, though, I didn't like Crimes and Misdemeanors. This probably occurred because I saw it as a 10 year old, shortly afterit came out. It bored me. Why not? It was incredibly dark and really not like any comedies I'd ever seen. So, I never returned to it. This fall, I saw it in my local library and thought I'd take it out. My friends, J&J, had very different opinions on the film. One J called it awful, the other his favorite Allen film. I watched and agreed with the second J, for, I will always consider Crimes and Misdemeanors one of my two favorite Woody Allen films (depending on where the wind's blowing, I might respond with Manhattan when asked for my favorite of his films). Be warned, though, it's a dark masterpiece and misanthropic too. While Deconstructing Harry reveled in Allen's self-contempt, Crimes chronicles his disgust with humanity. It's one of the few films I know to end on such a down note, nary a glimmer of sun light to be found. Yet, in its own misanthropist, the film becomes funny. It's so dark, so rife with pessimism, that that single-mindedness is humorous. Was that the intention of Woody? Who knows or cares.The acting is also brilliant on all levels. Woody is great, as are Mia Farrow and Alan Alda (so slimy). Best of all, though, is Martin Landau who lends humanity to an otherwise horrible man. Though not as good as his representation of Lugosi in Ed Wood, Landau is brilliant here as well. I find this a fantastic film and recommend it to those who like dark humor and Deconstructing Harry (those who reviled that film may want to steer clear of this one as well). Woody-philes, though, should not avoid it simply because it's more serious than his other work; it should in fact re-affirm your faith in the man, allowing you to realize he has more talent than he sometimes lets on. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've often had mixed emotions about Woody Allen's films over the years, however this one truly socks it to the audience. I've cried in only seven movies my entire life, and this is one of them. It's a truly touching dramedy that brilliantly meshes hilarious comedy with realistic heartbreak. While I enjoyed the fantasy sequences with Landau conversing with his deceased father, the final twenty minutes of this film had me laughing and crying at the same time...Lester's reactions to Cliff's documentary are priceless, and the closing dance to I'll Be Seeing You would leave a lump in anybody's throat. By the way, let's not forget the underrated performance of Jerry Orbach as the black sheep of the family--Orbach deserved an Oscar nomination as well. Admittedly, this film isn't for everybody--but if you've ever contemplated the ironies of traditional morality vs. the real world, then there should be something here to delight or enrage you, one way or the other, while still entertaining you for the duration of the film. "},{"Title":"One of Woody's Best and Most Mature Films","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't count the number of times I've watched this film and enjoyed it. I personally think it's one of Woody Allen's best and most mature films. The range Allen covers here is staggering. From silly humor to deeply tragic scenarios and characters, the scope here is emotionally epic. And the film is so intelligent as well. The old Jewish philosopher speaks real truths. Martin Landau's revelations are so emotionally true. Alan Alda manages to create an obnoxious character that we can empathize with. And all of it comes from the mind and sensibilities of Woody Allen. This film works on so many levels. I'm hard-pressed to find any flaws. In fact, as I write this I can't wait to see it again.  "},{"Title":"Woody's Most Ambitious....","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...is the way revered and world renowned film critic Leonard Maltin summed up Woody Allens most multilayered film. And who would disagree with the bearded scholarly veteren Maltin? He's only seen like every movie ever! (except for Nightmare in Badham County and Nature of the Beast, which are suspiciously absent from the 2000 edition of Lenny's book, the most recent edition I have--perhaps I should invest in the most updated one) Crimes and Misdeamenors is Woodys all time best combination of comedy and drama ever. It centers around Judah, a middle aged man torn between risking his marriage because of  chatty, unstable mistress Delores (a very unmistress like Angelica Huston) and affecting his successful optomology practice. Then theres the Woody subplot. He's Cliff--an unhappily married failure of a documentary film maker who has the hots for Halley, the new woman assigned on his latest film project (played by who else, Mia Farrow) His latest project was set up by his sympathetic/fed up wife about her brother, rich, womanizing, successful documentary film maker Lester, who represents everything the envious and snippy Cliff wants to be. The verbal quips between the unenthusiastic Cliff and the arrogant Lester are very funny, and Woody is in top form. The two plots intertwine in the finale, and what follows is absolutely heartbreaking and tragic. The film is full of visual symbolism regarding religion and love, and only the true film buff will pick up on the Bergmanesque references. Look carefully for Frances Conroy, the actress who plays the mother on Six Feet Under. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A film of jarring contrasts","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a drama, but there are also plenty of moments of comedy.  The dramatic subject (which I won't get into because I don't want to spoil the story) is so wrenching and desperate that the contrast it has with the comedic aspects of the film can be quite jarring.  But the picture comes together anyway, and this is among Woody Allen's best films at uniting moments of comedy with a darker, overall drama.  All the acting is spectacular; especially enjoyable are two men who would later star in Law and Order - Jerry Orbach and Sam Waterston.  Both do an excellent job. "},{"Title":"I'm not a woody Allen fan and I liked this.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am someone who isn't even a major fan of Woody Allen and I was drawn into this. I liked several things about this film, such as the elements of comedy mixed in with drama and even a little psychological suspense-all my favorite genres of movies-plus the whole subject matter of normal ordinary people who get caught up in circumstances that spiral out of control. It had all the elements that I look for in a movie and there isn't another Woody Allen movie that I really have ever thought that highly of truth be told.I will say that while there were some priceless comedic moments to this, it was awfully hard to watch at times as well, particularly the matter of fact way the possibility of the murder is discussed. Somehow I had a harder time watching that element probably because it was a supposed average everyday guy who was planning it. For me seeing psychos do crazy things on film maybe easier then someone who could be a friend or neighbor next door. But that is also why this was so good. It was a character study that's so real because the movie feels like it's really happening. There's nothing implausible about it, even though I had a hard time, as mentioned with parts of it.I really want to see this again to see if I like it as much a second time. But for what its worth, this is recommended by a person who doesn't even usually view Woody Allen films. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Last Truly Great Film.","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In hindsight, the late 80's were Woody Allen's golden years.  Even though I don't really care for Hannah and Her Sisters the movie has moments of great insight such as the scene where Sam Waterston, Carrie Fisher and Dianne Wiest have to decide who gets dropped off first after their tour of the architecture of New York.  Then there's September and Another Woman, two of his most least seen but underrated films, especially September.But his crowning achievement is Crimes and Misdemeanors.  It nearly accomplishes all of his ideas and concepts of life, death and the meaning of it all with a nearly perfect balance between comedy and drama.  I say nearly because, like all great art, it's not a perfect movie.  Taken as a whole, it's a remarkably consistent, mature work.Sadly, nothing in the 90's or in the 00's has even come close and Mr. Allen is nearly on the verge of being irrelevant.I think that Ms. Farrow may have had something to do with Allen's great work during this period.  She appears to be a warm and generous person (albeit a little kooky and odd) and she may have provided him with some measure of comfort and stability which enabled or freed him to grow as an artist.Interestingly, since the debacle of his failed relationship with Farrow and the ensuing one with Ms. Previn, his work as faltered greatly. "},{"Title":"a perfect script","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My personal choice as all-time favourite and most perfect screenplay.Unquestionably convincing performances from every cast member as well as great direction make this a film I've enjoyed just as much with every viewing. I don't know of any other movie that examines so deeply the joys, strengths and weaknesses of what it is to be human. "},{"Title":"Woody's best & having it both ways - comedy & tragedy","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS (1989) **** Martin Landau, Woody Allen, Mia Farrow, Anjelica Huston, Claire Bloom, Alan Alda, Sam Waterston, Joanna Gleason, Jerry Orbach, Caroline Aaron.  Easily Woody's masterpiece of comedy and drama parallel stories perfectly meld and share similar themes;  beloved philanthropic optometrist Judah (Best Supporting Actor nominee Landau in a tricky role deftly portrayed) faces a moral dilemma involving his angry mistress (Huston) and industrious filmmaker Cliff (Allen) forced to film a documentary on his loathsome, successful tv producer brother-in-law (Alda in a painfully funny change of venue perf) who he ultimately compares to Mussolini(!)  Superb screenplay and direction by the Woodman (nominated for both categories) that ultimately show the human condition for all it's worth.  Best line, Woody about being with another woman The last time I was inside a woman was when I visited the Statue of Liberty. "}{"Title":"One of Allen's Best","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989) is my favorite serious Woody Allen movie, after Husbands and Wives. Or maybe I should say semi-serious, because it's actually built like a mix of two movies - one is totally serious and heavy and the other one is very funny, but both deal with very serious issues. Like in Husbands and Wives, Allen gives very interesting and sincere views over life and the relations between people. I especially like Cliff's relation with his niece (which, if you wondered, is totally non-sexual - as oppose to the relation with Rain in Husbands). And the tense relation between Judah and his brother is brutally honest. This is probably Martin Landau's best performance after Ed Wood, and the rest of the cast is full of excellent actors Allen himself, Anjelica Huston, Mia Farrow, Alan Alda, Caroline Aaron, Jerry Orbach, Martin Bergmann (as Professor Levy) and more. Look also for a cameo appearance by Daryl Hannah. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Jewish Crime and Punishment","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Woody Allen movies, and the story is the reason. I have a cherished love for Dostoevskii- and Woody Allen does as well- this movie is a wonderful update of Crime and Punishment.  Instead of the christian ideal of forgiveness that is central to Dostoevskii, Woody Allen has selected the jewish ideal of the judgment of the powerful and almighty Old Testament God. I am not jewish, yet it seems that Mr Allen is examining the faults of the jewish religion.  Martin Landau's character comes to grip with his childhood jewish instruction, that God is judging ones every action, and that as one of the chosen race- sin especially murder is unforgiveable- it leads to a path of eternal damnation. Mr Landau rejects these beliefs, rejects the merciless Jewish God even, and chooses that his life on earth is his only true existence.  His conscience is clear when he decides his temporal existence is all that one has, and his happiness in his temporal life is all that matters, thus the murder of the mistress will no longer plague his conscience.  This is a totally different outcome than Dostoevskii came up with.  Raskolnikov conscience wouldnt allow him to become a Godman- or Superman, no one is above another. Raskolnikov found his only salvation was that of God and the ex-prostitute Sonja- and God forgave him despite his wretched act of murder. I am not going to draw the final parrallel on why Woody Allens Raskolnikov- Martin Landau -wouldnt admit to god or the secular authorities his sin.  I am not that acquainted with the Jewish faith or culture to draw such conclusions.  I just hope i havent misrepresented any of my aforementioned thoughts. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film raises so many issues, so many personal questions that one can ask of oneself.  It shows the struggles (exaggerated for drama) that we all face just to get through a day, year, a life.  The characters/actors are flawless, unique.  A Must-See! "},{"Title":"A film about Love and Reality. Success and Failure. Good and Evil&#133; and most of all, it's about what makes people laugh; and what will drive them to murder!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's &#145;Crimes and Misdemeanors' is a brilliant movie, which explores deep into our very existence. Its characters were cleverly designed and distinctively show us what their morals really are. The title of this film was ingeniously thought up by Allen and will make you ponder such questions as What are the consequences of my actions? How far would I go to commit murder? Or is admitting to my &#145;misdemeanors' a more sensible line of reasoning? Judah Rosenthal is a respected, wealthy Eye doctor whose world begins to crumble around him when his mistress, Dolores Paley, threatens him with blackmail. Desperate and confused, he must decide whether he can face getting rid of her- permanently! As a comical balance to this chilling tragedy, Cliff Stern is an insecure film-maker who is about to tackle the hardest job of his life, filming a glowing tribute to the man he hates the most in the world &#150; his famous, pompous, pretentious and slimy brother-in-law, Lester.  &#145;Crimes and Misdemeanors' is a cinematic masterpiece of Woody Allen's. He wrote a wonderful and inventive script, which is up-beat and interesting. Then for him to be able to star and direct the film, makes his efforts all the more astounding. Allen's attention to detail is excellent, with the story being funny, thrilling and suspenseful at various times. I like the many elements Allen has interweaved in it. One is the use of &#145;eyes', as many of its characters have glasses, feel like they are &#145;being watched', its main star is an &#145;Ophthalmologist', with another going blind. I feel Allen is trying to say that there is someone looking over us, in a bleak world. Many scenes also show the use of the Telephone. This part of the film is talking about communication. Some characters complain that they cannot get there message through, which is a lack of communication. This film also has many parts which show its characters to be either black or white, with some showing shades of grey. This proves that there are some good and bad characters in the film showing that have elements of both. Finally the use of   &#145;a movie within a movie' is quite obvious here. We see a film being made or watched by Cliff many times.There are some fascinating characters in this film. Martin Landau received an academy award nomination for his most difficult role of Judah, which he performed beautifully. I like how he is torn by the guilt of living in two different worlds. His &#145;Crimes and Misdemeanors' certainly make him very uncomfortable. Yet on the surface Judah does not seem like such a bad guy. However his brother Jack (Jerry Orbach) is a cold man, who has a much better sense of reality, and does not suffer from any sort guilt via his actions.  Judah's Mistress is the flight attendant Dolores Paley (Angelica Houston). The struggle that she has to go through for the man she loves is a very strong part of the film.Then you have Allen's sorry character of Cliff, whose life is so depressing, that you really feel sorry for him. I love his line of &#145;The last time I was inside a woman was when I visited the statue of liberty'. He hates his brother in law, Lester (Alan Alda), whose part in this movie was great. Cliff is falling deeply in love with the attractive production assistant Halley Reed (Mia Farrow). Another important character is the Rabbi Ben (Sam Waterston). With him going blind being of great significance to the story, as it shows how blind the other cast members really are. He says to Judah in reference to murder, &#145;could you sleep with that?'There are some great scenes in &#145;Crimes and Misdemeanors'. I like how the movie starts, showing how great a person Judah Rosenthal is. Then the clever use of flashbacks is a great way to show what the story is all about. We see how far Judah will go to stop his wife from finding out that he is being unfaithful. I also like the flashback which shows Judah and Dolores on the beach. They are talking very sweetly, she even hears hints of marriage. The scene showing Judah returning to his childhood home is brilliant, as he realises that he has done a terrible thing. All of the scenes involving Lester are very humorous. I like how we see the final cut of his &#145;documentary', as Cliff gets his revenge on his brother-in-law, in very funny way. The final scenes, between Cliff and Judah at the wedding reception are of the finest quality. When Cliff says &#145;I am plotting a murder', you can see how these two characters lives seem almost the same. It is the perfect conclusion to a great movie.Although &#145;Crimes and Misdemeanors' might not be a &#145;big-budget' production, with dazzling special effects, it is a film which shows us just why we watch movies, with an intricate story, subtle uses of comedy and impressive cast. However, it also gives its audience a chance to understand themselves just a little bit more.  It is a film which is very much about choice. I think its message is &#145;it is how we handle the outcome of our choices, which determines what sort of person we turn out to be.' I like it for other reasons as well. It distinctively shows us how bad our &#145;sinful' nature can be. My family has gone through a similar crisis as what Judah's family could have. While I found it hard to accept that one of my parents could be unfaithful to the other or their family, I feel lucky that we did not have to go through the nonsense that Judah did. I know when I am in a loving relationship, I will be careful not to fall into the trap of being &#145;deceitful' to my partner, like many people have and still continue to do.CMRS gives &#145;Crimes and Misdemeanors' 5 (Brilliant Film)  "},{"Title":"One of Woody Allen's best films.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crimes and Misdemeanors is one of those films that sticks. There are fine performances throughout, especially Martin Landau, who is brilliant. Next to his Oscar winning performance as Bela Lugosi in Ed Wood, this is Landau's finest work I know of. I highly recommend this film to anyone who has a strain of moral skepticism or nihilism, or who at least thinks that people don't always pay for their bad actions. "},{"Title":"Possibly Woody's Best","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Its only competition, IMO, are Annie Hall and the underrated Husbands and Wives. Crimes and Misdemeanors is most notable for its rather original narrative structure there are two plots that have only the most tenuous connections. The first has Martin Landau as a prominent ophthamologist trying to break off an affair without harming his rather happy marital relationship. The woman, played by Anjelica Huston, is desperately in love with him and threatens him when he tries to leave. The other story involves a documentary filmmaker (Woody Allen) falling in love with his producer (Mia Farrow) while he is making a film about his rich-as-hell, television producer brother-in-law (Alan Alda). The first plot is a melodrama, the second a comedy. Allen has made plenty of films in both sections, but here he mixes them in a perfect balance. We get one chapter of the Landau story, one of Woody's, and then on and on until they meet (for the first time) in a final setpiece. The structure isn't 100% unique, though - I'm almost positive Woody got it from the William Faulkner novel Wild Palms (aka If I Forget Thee, Jerusalem). The themes of the film are the ever-present ones of Woody's career, but, as always, they're fascinating. The film is entirely dramatically effective. It blew me away, quite frankly.MINOR SPOILERThere are also a ton of great lines, as is usual for a Woody Allen movie. My favorite exchange is as followsWoody to wife (after talking with his sister about a horrific dating experience) A strange man defecated on my sister.Wife Why?Woody Is there any way I can answer that question satisfactorily? "},{"Title":"Incredible script","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is very unusual to find a film take such a hard long look at religion.  What's more unusual is that the film is so entertaining at the same time.  Of course, mention that the film was written and directed by Woody Allen, and it suddenly doesn't seem so unusual after all.Although, Woody Allen hasn't explored issues of religion all that often in his films.  He frequently meditates on cultural issues involved in being Jewish (Annie Hall, Deconstructing Harry), and God pops up in lots of his movies in some way or another.  But I haven't seen any other his films which even come close to the level of legitimate theological thesis as Crimes and Misdemeanors.  The set-up is pure Woody Allen.  There are a bunch of characters, a couple of different plots (major and minor), great performances from familiar faces, and humor, all tied together in some central thematic idea.  The idea of this film is God's justice.  If God is always watching, and God punishes the wicked and rewards the good, it shouldn't be hard to see evidence of this in the world around us.  This film follows various characters, some good, some mostly good, and some horribly wicked, and examines their fortunes.  If God really is how he is described, the good characters should do well.The good characters do very badly.  The wicked characters end up quite well off.  What's the point Woody is making by this?  That there is no God?  Or that, if there is, he doesn't particularly care whether you're good or wicked?  Maybe.  But whatever Woody was trying to get across, it's certainly food for thought, and it's totally deliberate.  The same set-up of plots and characters could have been resolved very differently.  Judah could have gone to jail and Lester could have ended up lonely, alone, and infected with the clap.  From the writing standpoint, Woody could have taken this film either way.  That he chose to go the way he did is significant.  It's also more intellectually honest.  Woody is pointing out a problem that should be of concern to all people who have a similar conception of God as the supreme arbiter of justice.  The simple fact is that the world is not just, and the wicked do not always pay.  This could be a major challenge to certain religious points-of-view.As for me, I'm an atheist.  I just like the jokes.  That's not entirely true.  Even an atheist can enjoy, as an intellectual exercise, a good discussion of theology.  But, I also do enjoy the jokes.  Crimes and Misdemeanors is basically a straight drama, like Interiors or Another Woman.  Only this time, there is a character with a great sense of humor played by Woody Allen.  Almost all of the humor of this film comes from the character of Clifford Stern.  Stern is a funny guy who says funny things, and his being in this movie makes it funny.  His documentary on his brother-in-law (wonderfully realized by Alan Alda) is a particular highpoint.  What makes this film great, though, is its script.  I think Crimes and Misdemeanors may be Allen's greatest achievement as a writer.  Everything fits together in a way that is so simple, elegant, compelling, and true.  This characters are real people, and the issues they raise are real issues.  "},{"Title":"Contrasting Stories Create Humor and Tragedy","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crimes and Misdemeanors is one of Woody Allen's darkest films but also one of his best. The movie has a lot of humor in it as well, but the overall message in this film is quite bleak. Crimes and Misdemeanors is about winners and losers and how life unfairly determines which is which.The film strongly suggests that God is blind. Eyes play a big part in this film. There are the mythical eyes of 'God', that are preached and referenced in the film, but never seem to manifest. There are the bleak cold eyes of victims, there are the eyes of a preacher that fade throughout the film and through it all, the main antagonist is an optometrist.Every main character has a contrasting counterpart. The successful, upper-class Doctor admired by society, has a low-brow, sleazy brother that even his family no longer respects. The penniless 'artist' who makes documentaries for their social commentary, is contrasted by a rich New York producer, who literally records his own ego at every waking opportunity, with a mini-tape recorder. The actions of each character and the rewards for those actions also have sharp contrasts.There is the poor desperate sister, eager for real love and is rewarded with sexual assault. There is the candid and lonely independent film maker that is rewarded with divorce and rejection. There is a kind faithful Rabbi, who is rewarded by not being able to physically see his own daughter on her wedding day. There is the sterile and cold wife, that is rewarded with a new love interest. Most of all there is the Doctor, who cheats his business, his wife and his mistress and prospers through all of it.Woody Allen's main statement in this film is that the vain, the greedy even those commit murder can prosper and succeed. Meanwhile, God is either absent or blind to it all. It's a film that makes this rather dark statement, with a lot of humor and some clever contrasts, which is why its such an outstanding movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"A Knock-out","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is my favourite Woody Allen movie. It asks the biggest question, Is God watching us? It also critiques how professionalism usually changes people for the worst. And shows how as we get older our relationships become more Machiavellian and less innocent.Finally, it starkly posits that even those precious few whom seem to have found The Answer, might just be the more profoundly troubled than the rest of us and therefore most familiar with our most difficult questions, but still not closer to the truth.  "},{"Title":"A film that defines a generational transition...","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  for me from Midnight Cowboy, to Easy Rider, to Carnal Knowledge, Crimes and Misdemeanors is the thread that brings all the hopes and dreams of the sixties together and creates the surreal effect of a humorous nightmare leaving us right back at the beginning of our angst and the ultimate questions of god, love, meaning, relationships and the essence of being.No matter how many time I watch this film I learn something new about myself and see that no matter how much things change they still remain the same. I love all of Mr. Allen's works but for me this stands above all the rest and it posits the only question, Why?   "}{"Title":"MASTERFUL!  A love letter, a warning, and a cry for help","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read the review by Sage-Film-2, and I do agree that this is -- possibly -- one of the greatest American films ever made.In its totality, it represents the human experience convincingly as complex, sublime, subtle and wonderful. The film chills us, it warms us, it chastises us, it comforts us.  It is a love letter, it is a warning, and it is a cry for help.  It is disturbing, dark, funny, scathing, quiet, grave and beautiful, all at the same time.I really love the way Allen presents it in essentially two plots, the funny one with Allen and Alda and Farrow, and the Shakespearean one with Landau and Orbach and Huston.  And all the family connections between characters are so well laid out.Each time I see it I admire the singularly brilliant stroke of casting Orbach and Landau as brothers.  They are so, so much the same flesh, the same blood -- bad apples falling from the same tree, but with deceivingly different lives.  A pair of brothers just made for film posterity.And the funny plot is so romantic.  When I first saw the part where Allen's film lampoons Alda's character, I was beside myself with laughter.  Alda IS that character (another casting coup).A film people should see one or two hundred years from now. "},{"Title":"Frighteningly convincing","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is second only to Deconstructing Harry in the Allen canon, making it one of the most proficient films ever made by any director. The story of a man who finds that he has no choice but to kill his mistress is frighteningly convincing. It is as compulsively motivated as a Shakespeare play and the parallel with Othello is clear. The main inspiration, however, must have been Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment. Allen indicates this with the title, just as he did with Love and Death, which was his version of War and Peace. In Dostoevsky's novel, Raskolnikov commits the perfect crime and then is so racked by his own guilt that he confesses to the policeman investigating the case. In Allen's version the murderer does not quite confess to the policeman and eventually gets away with the crime but the character played by Allen nods in the direction of Dostoevsky's ending Allen goes for his biggest themes yet in discussing the nature of right and wrong and whether or not there is a moral order to the universe. The Woody Allen sub-plot serves like the sub-plot of a Shakespearean drama to give light relief to the relentless drive of the main story. The two stories dovetail together beautifully in the final scene, where Judah and Cliff's paths cross for the first and only time.Perhaps it needs to be pointed out, in view of the above discussion that the film is also extremely funny, but it is Allen's darkest comedy ever. However it does contain one of his best one liners, the sexually frustrated Cliff complaining that the last time he was in a woman was when he visited the statue of libertyThis is one of the last films that Allen plays opposite his erstwhile partner Mia Farrow The usual Allen repertory company perform well with Angelica Houston very convincing as the woman that any man would have to kill. Only Claire Bloom looks uncomfortable, sleepwalking her way through an underwritten part as Judah's Stepford Wife.  "},{"Title":"I would only be lying if I said I wasn't fascinated...","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was said that pompous TV producer Lester (Alan Alda) was producing a show that was examining both the liberal and conservative points of view, though being extremely slanted to the left... this is exactly what Woody Allen accomplishes in Crimes and Misdemeanors, deliberately making those who believe in God with weak and misconceived arguments, while creating a form of demagoguery for those who zealously hold an agnostic position. Much like Judah's (Martin Landau) Aunt May (Anna Berger) who got Judah's religious father to choose God over the loaded question God over truth? Why are the good punished (like Woody's rabbi brother-in-law Ben played by Sam Waterston),while the wicked thrive? This seems to be the movie's question and Woody generously answers it for us... Nonetheless, I find Crimes and Misdemeanors to be a great movie even though I did not agree with it's manipulative conclusions. I found it compelling to ponder these very popular atheistic ideologies, and the message that I found in this specific thought process (though I'm certain Woody intended it differently), was that it is easier to live with one's sins if we convince ourselves that God is dead. I know this is getting a little deep, but this movie claims to be deep, ...a film about humanity. This might explain why Woody Allen accepts this philosophy of convenience for himself, for his own lack of moral behavior with his step-daughter...I know...a cheap shot, but this does explain it to me.All the performances were astounding! Landau, Alda, Farrow, Huston, Orbach, and even Woody himself were powerfully persuasive at their roles. The cinematography and editing were also nearly perfect.My only fault with this film was it's obvious one-sidedness. This movie mentioned and bashed the Bible a lot, but never quoted it. If Judah's father was as knowledgeable as he was religious he might have quoted Psalm 73 to Aunt May... The Psalm of Asaph which is all about the prosperity of the wicked, and understanding their end! I would only be lying if I said that I wasn't fascinated by this film...I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"Nearly Perfect","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  **Not so much a SPOILER, but a comment for those who are very familiar with the movie.** I must say I am a bit surprised by some of the negative comments.  I can see many people not liking other Woody Allen movies....but this one?  I suppose some of the negative feelings come from the potential bleakness of the material some folks desperately want to believe someone IS watching upstairs (as Judah's father would insist).  Maybe a film even suggesting otherwise is just what these reviewers feel awful.For me, I take the view of Judah's aunt (or cousin) who, it seemed to me, could take some solace in a cruel world at least knowing that choice was the ultimate arbiter.  This is not to say that the rabbi was wrong when he said, Without the law, Judah, it's all darkness.  He was absolutely right; this line is the most chilling in the movie (as he and Judah sit in the darkness), and sums up the role of morality in making the choice.What I find wonderful about the movie is the way that it looks at the existential choices we all face--large and small.  This has been done in such a ham-handed manner in so many other works of art, but here, in the hands of a great artist at his absolute peak, it's monumental...a work that will survive.  Someday people may not know Annie Hall (or many of our cinematic classics) but I believe they will look at Crimes and Misdemeanors as we look at King Lear or Beethoven's 9th.  "},{"Title":"Comedy and Drama on the same plate","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the rarest films that offers you drama and comedy in a fantastic way. Even if you're not a Woody Allen's fan, try this film and let me know. The dramatic end of a love (with murder) and the sad end of another (she goes with the bad guy) but in the end all the thing settle down and life goes on. The murderer will run out of his remorse and fears and the broken hearted director will go on with his ups and downs. This movie shows majestically how things really go in life. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is my favorite.  It has the best moral arguments I have ever heard in a movie.  I have shown it to several classes when I have taught Catholic morality.  I am a Woody fan, so that is my bias.  However, I think even non-Woody fans would enjoy this movie.  It is devastating (a word used by Diane Keaton to describe her former husband in one of my other favorite Woody movies, Manhattan!).  Anyone who is interested in the problem of evil and if honesty pays in real life should rent this movie.  "},{"Title":"*****","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of Woody Allen's highest artistic successes is this delicately layered tale of morality among the upper classes. Martin Landau is having difficulty keeping mistress Anjelica Huston from ratting on the two of them to his wife (Claire Bloom), so he gets mob-connected brother Jerry Orbach to take care of it. Meanwhile, Woody is living in a lifeless, platonic marriage to Joanna Gleason while daydreaming about the associate producer on his latest documentary project (Mia Farrow). Alan Alda is a gas as Gleason's pompous, repugnant and totally successful television producer brother. The writing is top-notch, Sven Nykvist's photography couldn't be more beautiful, and the performances are all first rate (especially Landau and Huston).  "},{"Title":"Woody Allen at his best","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crimes and misdemeanors is one of the most amazing Woody Allen movies, great in every part of the plot, from love affair and murder to humor surrounding Allen's attitude towards the self centered millionaire,his brother in law (Alan Alda), and the battle of two totally different man for the love of the same woman (Mia Farrow). Martin Landau, also gave one of his best performances. This is probably, one of the least talked about, and known movies that this great director made during his long career, but probably, one of his best.  "},{"Title":"Extremely provocative","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is probably one of Allen's best films. It is a comedy, a drama, a romance, a crime story and a tragedy all at once, brilliantly balancing aspects all these genres.Very few writer/directors could have pulled this off, but Allen makes this film work in a wondrous way. I have seen it about five times, and each time I see something new and gain new insights.One of the basic questions the film contains, (can one be good in a Godless universe?), is raised in both a simple and complex fashion. The brilliance of the film is that it both asks and answers this question in a completely balanced and almost morally detached way. Both believers and skeptics can come away from this film thinking that *their* point has been shown, or not shown! Such is the complex nature of this film.By the end film, whatever your beliefs are, you will question them. You will either be uplifted, depressed or both. This film, in that sense, is like a puzzle that can never been solved. The questions it raises will be raised forever. "},{"Title":"Is this the finest American film ever?","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crimes and Misdemeanors was called by one Denver film critic one of the finest American films ever made, and that thought has stuck with me since I read that review. In the ten years, or so, since its release, I've viewed this picture probably close to 30 times; each time, as the end credits roll, asking myself that very question Is this the finest American film ever?If acting is a criteria to base this assertion, then the answer is a resounding 'yes!' Martin Landau gives the performance of a lifetime as Judah, the conflicted opthomologist, and is matched by Angelica Huston as his wounded, determined lover. Even Woody Allen - whose acting through much of the early 90s left a lot to be desired - gives a textured performance as Cliff, the earnest, but misguided documentarian.Allen's writing meets the challenge of his lofty ambitions with this film. Has there ever been another film that stares down the day to day existence of morality, and yet has the audience in tears with laughter? Any film that speculates the worth in worshipping a God over truth AND humorously compares a television executive (played by Alan Alda) to Mussolini and Mr. Ed - and does so in a meaningful, thought-provoking manner - certainly must be considered great art.Finally, the director Allen balances two contrasting storylines brilliantly - here, Woody proves himself worthy of comparison to the giants of film lore. This feature is a one of a kind project that will continue to provoke debate and discussion as long as there are means to view it. A tour de force all the way, and Allen's finest moment to date.But, is it the finest American film ever?It might very well be. "}{"Title":"Woody's theological summa","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  By far Woody Allen's darkest, yet most concise work of art to date. The hardest aspect in watching this movie is keeping up with the questions that Allen keeps throwing at us Is it possible to apply reason to evil and murder? Are we justified in labelling, or wanting to label Judah as an evil man? It is also one of his most intelligent movies, working on multiple levels The significance of the music which plays over the murder of Dolores, the implications in the name 'Judah'. I consider it to be one of his funniest movies as well, especially the first argument between Dolores and Judah, one which is possible to watch multiple times with the same effect. One question In the 'decision' scene with Judah where he decides to commit the evil act, is the presence of the Rabbi merely an imaginary one? But perhaps the most interesting aspect is the character of Professor Levi, where Allen is surely feeding us his own inadequate philosophical system more obviously than usual. Dark and depressing with his most interesting of characters, nothing escapes Allen's criticism. It leaves a strange and probing taste on the mouth. "},{"Title":"Allen's best because it sparks good theological debate","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The issue in this film is Would you kill in order to get out of trouble if you knew you could pull it off and not do jail time? Allen recognizes that only a theist with a firm belief in a personal God that will punish sin would have a logical objection. Therefore, Landau's character must completely dismiss his father's belief in Jehovah God before Landau can eliminate his troublesome mistress. CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS is a great film that exposes one weakness of Allen's own secular world view. I salute Allen for sparking such a good theological debate.  "},{"Title":"intriguing, fascinating, excellent","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crimes and Misdemeanors is a different Woody Allen than his other types of works escapist like Sleeper or comedic like Annie Hall. A very unusual film, Crimes simultaneously follows two separate stories, one comedic and one tragic/serious. The comic story follows Woody, an obscure documentary filmmaker and his courtship of Mia Farrow, an assistant on his new movie. The tragic story features Martin Landau as an eye doctor. The connection between the stories is Sam Waterston as  a rabbi. Crimes and Misdemeanors is a must-see film, completely unique. It is a story of irony that questions, Why do bad things happen to good people, and why do bad people not get their just punishments? Fascinating! "},{"Title":"A Modern Parable","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crimes and Misdemeanors, (which is really two quite separate films artificially threaded together at the end), and Manhattan are to my mind the only two great films Woody Allen has made. But few directors even make one, and this film deserves to be seen again and again. One part, the less substantial, though at times amusing, story with which Allen aficionados will be familiar concerns an unfocused and not unattractively self-absorbed individual   (Allen) who is given a job by his thrusting and even more self-absorbed brother-in-law (Sam Waterstone). The job is to produce a cinematic hagiography, but Allen has his own ideas, and his appreciation of his brother-in-law's qualities lead him to produce a less than flattering portrait of a man he despises, but who in the end if not exactly harmless is certainly not dangerous. The other story concerns a mature Jewish eye-surgeon (Martin Landau), a pillar of the community who in the interests of his marriage seeks to terminate an affair he has been having, but finds that the object of his desires (Angelica Huston) is not so keen to be brushed aside and threatens to reveal the affair to his wife, a prospect which fills Landau with enormous foreboding as it threatens his life as he has known it. As he contemplates the future, his options seem ominously to close-in on him, leading him to consider the prospect of murder. The dramatic irony underpinning the family scenes in which he acts the part of community patriarch is underpinned by the fact that he is a representative of a culture which has traditionally recoiled at violence as a solution to personal problems. His dilemma and his responses to it are powerfully evoked by Landau who gives perhaps the performance of his career.Those who look to Allen to perform his usual role of neurotic New-Yorker will not be disappointed, but neither will those who look to more serious themes in cinema, for this is a Woody Allen film like no other.  "},{"Title":"What a tangled web we weave...and Woody Allen is here to put it all together.","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's 19th film, 1989's Crime and Misdemeanors, is a simultaneously chilling and comedic look at life. Although a tad more depressing than some of Woody's other approaches to life, Crimes and Misdemeanors is a good movie. It follows two stories that are connected (ironically) by an unsuspecting rabbi. There is Judah (Martin Landau), the wealthy eye doctor, who is found himself wrapped up in a messy affair with the ansty Delores (played brilliantly by Anjelica Huston). And then there is Cliff (Woody), a documentary director who is constantly looking for a job. Judah and Cliff never meet until the last five minutes of this film, but when they do, the result is comedic Judah subtly pitches his life story (which includes a recent past of sin adultery, greed, and murder) to Cliff for a movie idea, and Cliff rejects it as unbelievable. Worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Bad mix of genres","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is divided into two story lines  on one hand, a very lighthearted, boring, cringeworthy rom-com , and on the other a very serious drama that brings depth to the scenario, even though the pseudo intellectualism and excess of religious references can irritate some. It's hard anyway to understand this association and draw a parallel between these two quite uneven story lines that seem to have a lot in common and that, unusually for Woody Allen, are not intertwined like one would've expected. Ultimately, Crimes and Misdemeanors is not a bad movie but it clearly lacks coherence and suffers from a more than questionable mix of genre. "},{"Title":"Great murder story! 6/10","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Review This is your typical Woody Allen movie which deals with troubled relationships and finding love, but he cleverly added an intense love affair which makes the movie interesting. The whole murder plot was put together great and all of the characters put in a great performance. It isn't a whodunit, like Manhattan Murder Mystery, but it shows how a simple affair can turn horribly wrong. Woody Allen didn't have to include the love affair between him and Mia Farrow, but it does lighten the movie, even though it doesn't end to well for his character. It does feel like two completely different movies in one, which is why the title fits the film perfectly. Watchable!Round-Up Martin Landau was brilliant in this film. He brought intensity and emotion to his role which made the whole situation between him and Huston believable. Alan Ada and Mia Farrow act the same in all of Woody Allen's movies so there performances wasn't that surprising, and I much preferred the toned down version of Woody Allen's acting which made the film bearable. Anyway, this is a watchable movie which shows that Woody Allen can write and direct other genres except for comedy.Budget $19million Worldwide Gross $18.2millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a man who tries to break an affair and a struggling director who falls in love with a co-worker. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A good example of why the screenplay is so great is the character of Dolores Paley, played by Anjelica Huston. She is a minor character; in essence serving as the 'in' to Judah Rosenthal, but Allen does not skimp. She is a fully realized character. Look at the scene where she is recalling her past with Judah, and we then see her soberly staring off into the ether. The door bell rings, she runs to it, and embraces Judah. We get the memory, which is positive, her reflection, which makes her seem to rue it, her desperation in running to the door, and then her blackmail threat. In a minute or so we get a complex arc of a character. But, while fully developed, she is also used as a device to get the viewer to sympathize with the amoral Judah. Her whininess, pettiness, self-importance, self-deceits, threats to Judah and his family, all make us dislike her, well rounded or not, and subtly make us actually want Judah to off her. Thus we are subliminally made to feel what Judah feels, and thus a small sense of complicity and guilt is rooted in most viewers. Yet, Allen does not settle for the easy out of having us totally on Judah's anti-heroic side, either. He is not Godzilla, and we do not totally want him to step on and/pr fry the scurrying little Japs that flee from his rampage. Instead, we see that he is a hypocrite and coward, unwilling (until the film's end) to accept his amorality. I earlier mentioned the scene where he invites his brother up to his home, just so he can pawn off the first mention of murder on Jack (who, in a great moment, exasperates that Judah was never comfortable playing 'hardball' in life), and this act is almost as repulsive as the act of murder he finances, and Judah is an even more despicable character than his brother, for he has the means to avoid such actions, and chooses not to.Yet, the screenplay's excellence is not out of tricks, even there, for we then get the film's resolution, which clearly rewards and glorifies those people (unethical or not) who are strong and bold, and crushes those who are equivocal and weak. Amongst the lot of 'winners' are the Rosenthal brothers (especially Judah), Wendy Stern, Lester, and Barbara's date. Amongst the 'losers' are Cliff Stern, Dolores Paley, Professor Levy, Barbara, and Ben the rabbi. About the only exception to the rule is the equivocal Halley, yet she is 'won' by Lester. All of the winners are decisive and create their own lives, whereas Cliff and his sister indulge in romantic fantasies (he's an unemployed, married filmmaker, short and not handsome, and he really thinks Halley will choose him over the rich, single, and handsome Lester?). By contrast, the winners cut their losses, and look askance at the worst possible outcomes they could suffer. And they succeed.Unusually, the critical reception of the film was almost wholly positive. The lone exception was the Chicago Reader's ridiculously bad Jonathan Rosenbaum who wroteThe first serious Woody Allen film with Jewish characters (1989) might seem like an improvement after the pseudoprofundities of Interiors et al, but it can't be said to dig any deeper. Martin Landau plays a wealthy ophthalmologist who plots the murder of his mistress (Anjelica Huston) when she threatens to expose his adultery and embezzlement. In quasi-comic counterpoint is the plight of an unsuccessful documentary filmmaker (Allen) who's stuck in an unhappy marriage, goes to work for his obnoxious brother-in-law (Alan Alda), a successful producer of TV sitcoms, and falls in love with one of his assistants (Mia Farrow). The overall philosophical thrust&#x97;that good guys finish last and that crime does pay&#x97;is designed to make the audience feel very wise, but none of the characters or ideas is allowed to develop beyond its cardboard profile (though Alda has a ball with his part). With Claire Bloom and Sam Waterston (as the perfect all-purpose symbolic Allen character&#x97;a rabbi going blind).Cardboard characters? Does not dig deeper? What film was Rosenbaum watching? I mean, he's known for being both a poor critic and writer, but this is like claiming 2001 A Space Odyssey had bad special effects. It's simply not tenable, whether or not he subjectively 'liked' the film.No, Rosenbaum is as wrong as one can be, and Judah Rosenthal and Crimes And Misdemeanors are artistic creations on par with two of Akira Kurosawa's greatest meditations on evil the evil and victorious vice president in The Bad Sleep Well and the realism of the kidnapper in High And Low. The former film show the triumph of evil and the latter a realistic depiction of evil's randomness, which contrasts with Allen's film. And compared with two lesser takes of his own, on the same theme, Match Point and Cassandra's Dream, this film digs deeper and ends far better. Those two films have potential, but drop the ball, in the end. Judah Rosenthal didn't. He played the game, and won, and the next time he ever needs to really 'win' in such a game of life, there will be no self-doubt nor flinching. He learned his lesson; that power and influence can let one cheat and kill with impunity. That's why he's real. That's why he's scary. That's why he's one of the greatest villains in not only film history, but the annals of human fiction. Because there are no supernatural Freddy Kruegers nor superhuman Hannibal Lecters in reality, only in Hollywood films; no matter how outrageous the tales are that come out about the latest serial killer du jour. But there really are Judah Rosenthals out there. They are life's 'winners.' And they simply do not care about you or me. And, as the film shows and argues, why should they? "},{"Title":"An Absolute Treat!!","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What better can a Film maker achieve than having audiences think about the film, long after its over. I spoke to about 10 people who have seen this film and everyone gave the same response, that this film made them sit and think about their own lives and things they have done. Having said that this film is not just an Artsy flick trying to pass any message. Its amazingly entertaining film with great acting, unpredictable storyline and some of the best dialogues. It has several layers and allows the viewer to go as deep as one wishes to and still be entertained. I agree with the earlier reviewer who said it is Allen's Best. Yes i think this movie far surpasses Annie Hall, which i think was a great film as well. Highly recommended to everyone. perfect 10/10!! "},{"Title":"a film with a brilliant scope into the moral implications of everyday life, both large and small in scale","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's Crimes and Misdemeanors ranks with the very best of his work in the 1980s, as it provides serious subject matter for its audience without being (overall) preachy, and acts as a terrific precursor to other Woody films (ie Deconstructing Harry, Melinda & Melinda, and Match Point to an extent). The side that is more dramatic sometimes merges very well with the side that's meant to be more of the real Woody movie with touches of real wit and truly laugh-out-loud moments. This is done by giving a kind of balance between the dilemmas of both of the characters. Both the doctor and the filmmaker deal with the issues of faith and infidelity and love, both on levels that will end up affecting them (or not) by the end of the picture. That it ends up being a little too 'pointed', if that's the word, by the end of the film, with quick images from before going by over the philosopher's main message, doesn't put down the strengths. It's one of Allen's more successful 'serious' films by tracking the existential quandaries of both of the leads, and what ends up being or not being important for them becomes what draws in the audience (or not).One of the strengths is the acting, of which Allen has assembled one of his very best ensembles. Landau is in a role where he has trouble facing realities as they are, and when he does it begins to bring him to doubt everything that he was raised to believe and think was right or wrong. His character is as if it was out of one of those Russian works of the late 19th, early 20th century- bourgeois to the point of no complaints, but with an emotional side that is crumbling. At this Landau makes Dr. Rosenthal one of his most memorable performances- even as there could have been even MORE scenes with him &/or his wife- as his often stone-cold, detached look tells more than anything. Anjelica Huston, while working sort of on a limited basis as the 'sensible' mistress, is also very good. But best is seeing Alan Alda as a harmless but undeniably hokey and laughable (to laugh at not with) comedian, who is never better at playing these kinds of roles. Other actors like Jerry Orbach, and Caroline Aaron (in one of the funniest scenes describing a date), are also great supporting players.If maybe the film isn't a flat out masterpiece, it might be because it leaves things a little too 'this is how it is' at the end, despite the good points made in the narration. It takes the reality on both sides, the neurotic but smart documentary filmmaker played by Allen and the pragmatic and flawed Doctor Landau plays, and fleshes them out so as to not be too convoluted or entirely unsympathetic. Many scenes, particularly those showing the religious nature of the film, also work better than expected. Basically, any little quibbles I had with Crimes and Misdemeanors can be overlooked for all of the interesting bits, which out-rank those of practically any given drama or comedy released in that time. 9.5/10 "}{"Title":"Brittle and brilliant chamber piece","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I had to pick the movie that best pinpointed Woody Allen and his concerns, this would be it. Crime and Misdemeanours, his most accomplished work (though not my favourite - see list below), is a great balancing act of comedy and drama, far more so than the crude demarcations of Melinda and Melinda. Allen draws uniformly elegant performances from the most unlikely sources. Alan Alda steals the film as the hotshot producer; Jerry Orbach is wonderfully sinister as the brother Martin Landau manipulates and is trapped by; Landau himself ranks as one of the best Allen stand-ins, channelling the director's concerns whilst never impersonating, but becoming a believable, empathetic Everyman; Sam Waterston is touching as the cruelly myopic rabbi; and even Allen himself reaches new boundaries, testing our faith in him constantly. Sven Nyqvist's cinematography is captivating, aptly Bergmanesque in it's shifting moods and tones. But what really sets this project apart from all of Allen's others is it's steadfast refusal to compromise. When the elliptical denouement comes, we really don't know , but would desperately like to know, where the two interlocutors, Landau and Allen, are going to. This ambiguous, compelling drama is Allen's best movie of the '80s. As for his best-10) Small Time Crooks - slightly too restrained, but good for many stretches, esp. the faux-documentary 9)Everyone Says I Love You - would be higher, but for Drew Barrymore's tin earred singing! 8)The Purple Rose of Cairo - little too whimsical for me, but a treat. 7) Sweet and Lowdown - almost made me like Sean Penn 6)Hannah and her Sisters - great direction of the women, and another great ensemble piece. And you thought only Altman made those! 5) Sleeper - wonderful riposte to Kubrick's bloated output 4) Manhattan - Michael Murphy's finest hour (criminally underrated, he is), and a beautiful poem to the Big Apple. That opening just makes me shiver.3) Love and Death - if only for this line My brother was bayonetted to death by a Polish conscientious objector. It's hysterical in context. 2) Crimes and Misdemeanours - see above 1) Annie Hall - luminous, uplifting, sad, beat Star Wars at the Oscars - all you could want form a movie!Thanks for your time. "},{"Title":"Probably the Best of his later works.","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is there a supreme being who doles out punishment equitably? Or are we all just running around pointlessly, without a God or worse, with one who couldnt care less what we do.Exhistentialism, Nihlism, Kierkagard, as I get older, I see a lot of haughty pretense in Woody's films that I confess I once was impressed by. This film has its share, the lecture on Schumann vs. Schubert kind of grates. Overall, however, this is the tightest effort of the film he's made about 8 times, ie the sophisitcated wealthy New Yorker thing with all of his philosophical meanderings sprinkled throughout. Its quite funny, hilarious at points, but I like the story and the irony he uses so well. Excellent cast, no hottie du jour, as we get from him nowadays. No disturbing images of him intimate with a Charlize Theron or Helena Bonham Carter.   "},{"Title":"His last uniformly great film","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie several times now, and each time I get something different from it--as is the case with Annie Hall, Manhattan, Hannah and Her Sisters and his other great ones.  Only Woody Allen could get away with the jokes (include several visual gags) and one-liners here, while presenting the tragic story (or stories) about unpunished crimes (like adultery and murder) and a maddeningly unfair love triangle.  The character Woody plays here is the same one he played in nearly all of his '80s films--it was a good summary of these characters, and of course he doesn't get the girl in the end.  The performances by other cast members are perfect, although Mia Farrow doesn't do anything new here and Claire Bloom is underutilized.  Some of the symbolism is pretty heavy-handed, for a Woody Allen film (having the good rabbi go blind being the most obvious), but the film requires multiple viewings, just like his earlier masterworks.  His films since Crimes and Misdemeanors are usually entertaining, but rarely as complex as this one (Celebrity being the possible exception). "},{"Title":"His crowning achievement","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody combined drama and comedy here so flawlessly, you wonder why he didn't do it more often. The final minutes to the story are very profound and moving. The cast here is perfect. Compare this to all the other great films in the Allen repertoire and you will realize he reached his peak with this one. He makes murder seem almost mundane and commonplace. The riproaring one liners keep it from turning too bleak. "},{"Title":"Another comedy from Allen","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not that I'm a Woody Allen fan, but this is another decent film from the master of comedy. Actually, Allen is the master of doing films about relationships. Like this film, Allen begins and ends in the same fashion that he did with Hannah and Her Sisters. Leaving the ending with a little hope for the future. The only other story teller that comes to mind that does this a lot is Shakespeare. Even though the characters in this story seem doomed, the ending is left with the possibility of hope like Hannah and her Sisters. Both films begin with a problem and certain tragedy and then builds up to a promising future as it ends. "},{"Title":"Allen's best film ever!","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen some films by Woody Allen that are pure garbage  Deconstructing Harry, Shadows and Fog ) some films that are tolerable ( Annie Hall, Zelig ) and two of his films have absolutely blown me away.  And those two are Husbands and Wives and this one.  Now it must be said that I am not a huge fan of Woody Allen.  As a matter a fact, I quite loathe him and his work. Most of it is the same piece over and over again.  But C&M is a great movie that has some truly interesting things to say about life.  The most interesting element of the film is the irony that is painted when the good are punished and the wicked seem to be rewarded.  That is good writing, especially coming from Allen.What is also amazing about the film is Martin Landau.  He carries the film. He is basically a good man with one small weakness..... that will be left up to you the viewer to find out what that is.All in all this is a terrific effort from Allen, it's too bad he has to make crap most of the time because this film proves he is a talent. "},{"Title":"Certainly not a crime but it may be a misdemeanor to some.","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As the title hints at, this is a Woody Allen movie consisting of two threads - one focusing on events leading to a crime and one full of many misdemeanors. That may seem a simplistic summary to give the film but it's also a true one.Martin Landau stars as a successful opthamologist who has to make some tough decisions when his family life and reputation are threatened by his hot-headed mistress (Angelica Huston) while, in the more lighthearted strand of the film, Woody Allen plays a documentary film-maker who takes a job following Alan Alda, the brother in law that he doesn't like in the slightest, and finds that he's falling for another woman despite the fact that he's already married (such material should come as absolutely no surprise at all to Woody Allen fans, of course).I've seen this movie garner almost equal amounts of love and hate, which I find strange because I land squarely in the middle. The more amusing sections are quite funny while the more serious scenes are well-done and provide food for thought but neither story strand is really anything special, leaving viewers with something that's a bit of a damp squib, though certainly not a terrible movie.Allen would cover very similar ground years later with Match Point and I actually prefer that movie, despite it's lack of any comic moments, over this one. While Match Point was more about luck and how it can be good or bad depending on the smallest turn I'd say that Crimes And Misdemeanors is more about making choices and how you end up living with those choices.The cast are all, as is so often the case with Allen's movies, pretty excellent. Allen himself is a lot of fun, Alan Alda is very good, Martin Landau and Anjelica Huston are excellent and we have Sam Waterston, Mia Farrow, Joanna Gleason and Jerry Orbach in some key roles.It's not up there with my favourite Woody Allen movies but it's certainly resting atop other, lesser movies and it's one that I encourage others to view and form their own opinion on. "},{"Title":"Slyly written, handsomely made serio-comic Woody Allen...","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Writer-director Woody Allen smoothly examines the parallels between a nervous documentary filmmaker in love with an indifferent female producer and a celebrated family man contemplating having his frustrated, frustrating mistress bumped off. A serious-comedy, saddled with a bit of pretentious banter as well as a draggy sub-plot with Sam Waterston as a rabbi losing his sight. Still, the incredibly rich performances from a well-chosen group of actors strengthen the film, including Woody as the filmmaker, Alan Alda as his egomaniacal film subject and brother-in-law, Mia Farrow, Martin Landau (in the film's best turn), Anjelica Huston, Caroline Aaron and Jerry Orbach. One of Allen's finest endeavors, cleverly-maneuvered and sly; it is by turns witty, beguiling, funny and ironic. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"and that's what they do...","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sometimes, Woody Allen gets so into stories about neurotic rich New Yorkers that his movies get boring. Crimes and Misdemeanors is acceptable. Ophthalmologist Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau) has been having an affair for some years, but is now considering having his mistress murdered, while filmmaker Cliff Stern (Allen) is trying to have an affair.Yeah, that sounds like something that would appear in a Woody Allen movie, but he does an OK job with it here. Pretty much everyone does a good job with their roles. Still, I wish that Allen would sometime return to the comedy that gave him his start. "},{"Title":"Well Crafted","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Possible minor spoilers, but not likely.Woody Allen displays an excellent narrative in this bilateral story.  The movie is about the problems which two separated characters experience in their life. Martin Landau is a wealthy, popular doctor, well liked by all, including his wife.  His character flaw resides in the fact that he has a mistress (Anjelica Huston), who is scheming to tell his wife of her husband's infidelity if their marriage is not broken up, as he had promised to her (Huston).  Landau's story deals with morality.  Not just the morality of having a mistress, but also the morality of his proposed way to quell the problems which she presents, followed by morality in the eyes of religion. This story is the brunt of the film, and Landau does a fantastic job acting.The second story is funnier than the first story, which has no comedy. Although not as dark as the Landau part, this story is the sadder of the two.  It involves Allen as a practically out of work documentary director/producer.  His wife's brother is a hot-shot TV producer (Alan Alda) who enlists Allen as his personal film-biographer.  Allen then falls for Mia Farrow, who somehow works with Alda.  She is a producer as well, or some colleague on the production side of the media.  However, Alda is also lusting for her, although Allen sees it as just lust, not love, and fears that she will choose Alda over him because of the former's looks, money, and power. Aside from a companion-less and love-lacking sister, Allen's biggest love is for his niece.  He provides a father and brother role for her.  This subplot was probably added in order to give his character some dimension. Allen's story is a complimentary opposite of Landau's dilemma.  He wants Farrow to love him with the same intense love which he has for her.  He realizes her passion for movies, which he also has, and her interest in a piece Allen is working on about a Jewish professor.  Allen and Farrow watch clips of this professor, which feature relevant discussions on morality, life, and death.The two stories intercede late in the film.  Landau's dark story meets Allen's sad story.  Yet in the end, both walk away with opposite reactions. Allen is downtrodden over failure, and his saddened and lonely future. The adage Better to have love and lost than to have never loved at all is thrashed.  Landau has an inner demon which seems to be dying weaker and weaker everyday, with the possibility of happiness in the future. However, happiness in this sense is an interesting condition.  Landau at the end of the film is happy.  He admits it.  However, his religion says that he should not be happy, and will not be happy.  For eternity.  Here, the proverb used in the movie The eyes of God are on us always is thrown to the floor, to be stepped on by Landau.The movie is very interesting.  These comments may be better read after seeing the movie, simply due to the inability for one to write down what happens on screen.  Allen crafted this movie fantastically.  The ending is its weakest part, albeit surprising, but it is how Allen wanted it. Originally, while editing, Allen wasn't happy with what he had, and put one third of what he had shot onto the cutting room floor.  He then proceeded to shoot more footage, and the result is the final product.This movie is very heavy, but is entertaining.  It can be taken in upon first viewing, but a second viewing a few weeks after the initial may well better serve the curious and intellectual viewer.  An interesting part is that there are no real noticeable flaws.  Allen's sister's problems may be the closest thing to one, simply because these don't carry the story, change it, or accelerate it.The film is a must for any movie enthusiast.  To miss this is to miss a fascinating look at modern morality (and also a scene which is pure homage to Bergman).  The subjects and themes in the movie aren't easy to write about, and Allen hit a bullseye with the screen play.  There may be a happy ending, and there may not.  And that goes for both protagonists. "}{"Title":"A Dull Dostoyevsky Dramedy","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If one is going to merge two short films together, one should at least establish stronger links between them (a tenuous one in the form of a blind Rabbi simply does not suffice). Yet Woody Allen is evidently content with the near-terminal drudgery of his screenplay as he directs his duel tale of existentialist infidelity and Jewish despondency.To give you a brief overview of these stories, half of the film follows the catastrophic developments of affluent ophthalmologist Judah Rosenthal's (Martin Landau) affair with emotionally volatile stewardess Dolores Paley (Angelica Huston). Dolores wants Judah to annul his marriage to the blissfully ignorant Miriam (Claire Bloom), but Judah is not too keen on the prospect. Unfortunately, Paley is not too keen either on the prospect of Judah just discarding her like a Mark Twain novel and decides to put pressure on her lover. This proves to be an unacuminous move on her part as Judah recruits his brother to annul her metabolic processes. It works, but Judah ends up having moral reservations over the murder. The other half of the film depicts the HI-larious trials and tribulations of frustrated filmmaker Clifford Stern (Woody Allen) as he is forced by his disenchanted wife (Joanna Gleason) to direct a documentary about his successful and impossibly obnoxious brother-in-law Lester (a very amusing Alan Alda). However, Clifford is bewitched by one of the film's producers, a woman named Halley Reed (Mia Farrow).The film, of course, ends with the separate protagonists meeting by happenstance at a wedding reception and engaging in a pseudo- philosophical discussion about the nature of guilt and the unfairness of the universe. And, Allen, of course, has to telegraph his nihilistic leanings by having amoral cad Judah 'walk off into the sunset', as it were, and Lilliputian moralist Clifford look morosely into the camera. An Oscar nominated script, people!It just defies believe that the screenplay for this film was actually nominated for an Academy Award. How exactly can great Gordian farces like 'Arsenic and Old Lace (1944)', 'Kind Hearts and Coronets', 'Nuns on the Run', 'The Dinner Game', and 'Burn After Reading' be snubbed whilst blunderous trite like this gets a top mention? Now, I have always tried to respect the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for their encouragement of higher technological and intellectual content in films, but really, the Academy is not doing themselves any favours by blindly bestowing Oscar nominations on venerated screenwriters just because they are venerated. It was bad enough that 'Raging Bull' lost to 'Ordinary People' for Best Picture in 1981 and that 'Miller's Crossing' was all but entirely snubbed during the 1991 Oscars.Thankfully, Woody Allen's sophisticated and intermittently acerbic wit prevents the task of viewing this film from falling into a level of internal haemorrhage inducement. The acting is generally passable, too. And, to Allen's credit, he did make a penance for his sins with 2005's 'Match Point', a true Hitchcockian triumph whose screenplay was deservingly nominated for an Oscar. "},{"Title":"Guilt.","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is about as close as Woody Allen is likely to come to real tragedy. Martin Landau is having an affair but his paramour threatens to lower the boom on him by telling Landau's wife. Landau arranges to have his love murdered but is stunned by what he has gone, haunted by moral lessons learned from a rabbi when he was a child, and ends the movie thoroughly chastened but not in jail. He gives a subtle performance too.That's what is know as the A story. The B story has Woody Allen as a documentary film maker in love with Mia Farrow, who is in love with Allan Alda, an egotistical, famous, rich nincompoop. The egotistical, famous, rich nincompoop gets the girl, while Allan's marriage dissolves, leaving him forlorn.Well, okay. It's not King Lear. But it's enjoyable and at times slyly thought provoking. (Is it really necessary to believe in God and an afterlife of punishment in order to feel guilt?) A rabbi, done to a turn by Sam Waterston, represents God and has gone blind. The symbolism is clear but the meaning is nebulous. The scenes of Jewish rituals are semi-real and heartwarming, like low-key versions of John Ford's weddings and dances.Allen's job is making a documentary film about Allan Alda, whom he loathes. Alda is foolish and, furthermore, he's got first dibs on the girl Allen loves. So the documentary, which is supposed to make a public icon out of Alda, turns out to be a disaster -- scenes of Alda shouting and bragging, intercut with shots of Mussolini on his balcony haranguing his fascist supporters, Alda copping a feel in a dark hallway. During the viewing of the film, we see Woody Allen seated in the theater and chuckling at his own cruel wit. Alda sits there aghast, his mouth open, and then fires Allen on the spot.Of course, the film is necessarily cluttered with Woody Allen's conversational tropes. How AHHH you? And, I just feel, I don't know, unsettled. Y'know? And Allen's compulsive wisecracks are up to par The last time I was inside a woman was when I visited the Statue of Liberty. Lots of dinner parties with guests, a wedding, a sentimental dance. The conversations are incredibly middle-class and banal -- the virtues of acupuncture and the center piece at Rockefeller Center. But the pace is deliberate, and the staging precise, as befits a tragedy.I preferred the B story to the A story. They weren't seamlessly blended. Yet it's watchable and diverting, and odd to see Woody Allen so seriously probing a concept like guilt. "},{"Title":"Martin Laudau amazing","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau) intercepts a letter from his mistress Dolores Paley (Anjelica Huston) trying to reveal their affair to his wife Miriam (Claire Bloom). Dolores insists that he leave his wife. In desperation, he turns to his brother Jack (Jerry Orbach) who hires a hit-man to kill Dolores. Meanwhile Cliff Stern (Woody Allen) is a lowly documentary filmmaker. His braggart brother-in-law TV producer Lester (Alan Alda) hires him to do a documentary on himself as a favor to Cliff's wife and Lester's sister Wendy (Joanna Gleason). Lester keeps hitting on associate producer Halley Reed (Mia Farrow) while Cliff falls for her. Cliff is miserable with the work and would rather film philosopher Prof. Louis Levy. Halley is of the same mind.Martin Landau is amazing in this. I like his side of the movie a lot. I like Woody's side, too. However I found the split rather distracting. I may want two separate movies out of these stories. Maybe Woody is making a point combining these two stories together. I can guess at the question being posed but at the same time, the point may be too subtle for an idiot like me. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen challenges himself","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It might seem odd to describe a Woody Allen comedy as challenging and thoughtful, but this twin story of faith and guilt isn't, strictly speaking, a comedy at all. Make no mistake, there's plenty to laugh at, with Allen himself in fine form playing a struggling documentary filmmaker doing a reluctant portrait of his fluff TV producer brother-in-law (scene-stealing Alan Alda). But the comedian's trademark neurotic humor seems to have been added almost as an afterthought, to counterpoint (and provide some much needed comic relief from) the heavier companion plot, in which agnostic ophthalmologist Martin Landau finds himself unable to avoid the all-seeing eyes of God after taking drastic measures to escape his insecure, possessive mistress. Altogether it's a peculiar but memorable blend of pessimism and hope, with the darker dramatic elements overshadowing the one-liners. The ensemble cast is (for once in a Woody Allen feature) more than just a parade of familiar faces, and ace cinematographer Sven Nykvist provides the luminous sunset hues which, depending on the particular scene, can appear either romantic or chilling. "},{"Title":"Excellent piece of cinema. very woody","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are some movies that we enjoy, that touch us and that open us in unseen ways. Then there are some which do all this and also remain with us. Crimes and Misdemeanors is one such movie. The movie revolves around 2 characters mainly. Both vastly different with their own sense of how the world ought to function. The doctor and the film-maker. There are a few other auxiliary characters who represent different point of views in different contexts. Woody's genius works like magic with the whole gambit of ideas coming together, with each character trying to juxtapose his morality against social norms and his own sense of well being. A tragedy of sorts about the assumptions and principles we work upon, being true to them, and their test in life. A must watch. "},{"Title":"The movie, as I see it","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the beginning there was Israel. Then there was Judea, ans Summaria. After Assyria conquered Summaria, all that was left was Judea. Judea was populated by the two remaining tribes, The tribe of Judah, and the tribe of Benjamin. Later, based on a false rumor, the tribe of Judah exterminated the tribe of Benjamin. I have restated part of the Old Testament, a part which Mr. Allen appears to be very familiar with. To me, the real story of C&M, is about the tribe Judah, as represented by Landau and Orbach, and the tribe Benjamin, represented by Alda and Waterston. Now, as was then, the audience finds that Judah still has blood on its hands. This time, its a paramour, Ms Paley, also a Jew. So its still a matter of Jew killing Jew. Say what you want about Lester, but he has not killed anyone. Lester is pompous, but his deeds are good. He finds love, he gives Woody a job, he pays for a lavish wedding. Deeds over words. What you do, is more important than what you say, that is Mr. Allen's ultimate message. Woody's character is punished in more ways than one, for sabotaging the job Lester has given him. That leaves the question of why Judah goes free, and Benjamin goes blind. I believe both can live with their fates, because of their beliefs, or lack thereof. The more obvious metaphor is the extinguishing of light, in lieu of a dark act, successfully completed. So Mr. Allen's message is morality exists within ourselves, for those who choose it. One other thing I applaud Mr. Allen for, is for casting, whenever possible, Jewish actors for Jewish roles. Mr. Allen talks the talk, and walks the walk, even if he is a professed atheist, In old Hollywood, and even in today's Hollywood, in the main, gentile actors are hired to portray Jews in films. So you see, to my way of thinking, Woody Allen is a Mensch! My only wish is, that I could tell him so in person! "},{"Title":"At long last...","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At long last, I get to say my piece about Woody Allen.Crimes & Misdemeanors (C&M) showcases marvelously the feeble finery of Woody Allen's filmmaking style.  There is so much that is wrong with this movie, and that is consistently wrong with Allen's attempts to pass himself off as a film artist.Most of the characters sound like Woody Allen.  With a few exceptions, he's not that good at writing dialog for varied voices.He doesn't know how to direct overlapping dialog.His music selections don't resonate; they sound gratuitous.*** SPOILERS AHEAD ***He wields weighty symbols like a baby scribbling in a book of poetry.  He fails to properly midwife those symbols and metaphors, and in that failure can't be excused for inconsistencies in the plot and story structure.  Examples of the latter  Judah pays to have his problem taken care of, and probably pays a bit of a premium.  If that's the case, then why does he have to mop up after the job, his evidence-destroying session thinly veiled as an exercise in closure?  He should have asked for a discount!  The plot twist wherein Cliff Stern creates a total media lampoon of Lester while on payroll is so stupendously implausible that any humor payload is jettisoned.  It winds up feeling like poorly sublimated aggression (Freud)--an audio-visual hotfoot--which shouldn't sit well with sensitive viewers.  It's probably even a bit galling for viewers who sense that Woody is lampooning real-world success when he would appear to be a sort of beneficiary of undeserved real-world success.I was looking forward to seeing Claire Bloom act; she was utterly wasted.It's watchable, which is a miracle considering the fact that it was half-rewritten during production.  There's some interesting ensemble work, and a few zippy one-liners.  Professor Levy is well-written, well-directed, and well-acted.  The symbols Allen shoddily assembles are good symbols, even potent (e.g., the rabbi progressively going blind).  But if I go to a garage sale to shop for interesting second-hand symbols, laid out haphazardly on dog-eared card tables and blankets, I don't pay for a ticket.  "},{"Title":"a serious consideration of the deepest moral issues","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS) In my view, this is the weightiest and most important, if hardly the funniest, of Woody Allen's movies. Ironically, in view what has been revealed of Allen's amoral lifestyle, this is a drop-dead serious investigation of the weightiest moral issues. Is there a moral order? Is there divine justice? Is earthly justice attainable? Is God all-seeing, just, &/or uncaring? Is there meaning in life and history, or is it all pointless? Deeply layered, and with many instances of ironic contrast and rich symbolism, primarily revolving around sight and vision, the movie reveals itself at deeper and deeper levels with successive viewings. The contrasts  Rosenthal's desire to cease his philandery and preserve his marriage against Cliff's desire to start an affair and break off his marriage; the rabbi going blind while maintaining his clear moral vision, while the ophtalmologist goes morally blind; the aged moral philosopher Dr. Levy, beloved subject of Cliff's film footage, committing suicide, while the execrable Lester, Cliff's other subject, flourishes, even winning the object of Cliff's desires. The absolutely bereft, stricken expression on Cliff's face as, at the ending party, he sees Lester with Halley gives the lie to the conventional wisdom that Allen can't act the look wordlessly conveys his devastation. Martin Landau's superb performance reinforces his stature as one of our finest actors. Alan Alda is convincingly reptilian as Lester. My only criticism might be that the deadly serious tone of the Rosenthal half of the story does not lend itself to the comic embellishment of the contrasting Cliff story. None the less, I think this is Woody's finest effort so far. "},{"Title":"Quite thought-provoking.","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crimes and Misdemeanors was a film that took a little while to get going for me, but it's turned out to be a true grower. Not only did I feel it got better as it went along, but as I reflect on it I find myself admiring it more and more. At first I greatly disliked all of the characters and I didn't think there was anything going on interesting enough to get past that. I thought that the stories of Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau) and Cliff Stern (Woody Allen) were too loosely connected and too different in tone, and it drew me out of the experience whenever we crossed paths, along with finding myself much more interested in Judah's story than I was Cliff's.However, as things progressed and the two became more closely connected, I found myself much more fascinated by how things were turning out. Allen does an interesting thing in his writing here; most writers would have the two characters meet and connect the stories that way, but instead he connects them thematically and I think it works brilliantly. Cliff finds himself focusing on trying to make a documentary about a professor, and in watching clips of this man speaking, the themes of life and love that are presented in Cliff's story add another layer to what is going on in Judah's. The storyline with Judah is surely the emphasis of the film (Allen himself has even admitted that he wished he hadn't written the story with his character), but I think these insightful moments with Cliff add a lot more weight to everything going on with Judah.I always find myself having a hard time caring about adulterers and that was true at the beginning of this film, but as Judah was fleshed out more I found myself caring for him in an interesting way. I credit this almost entirely to Landau's performance, which is one of my favorites of any Woody Allen film. His work here is internal and deeply emotive, without finding the need to shed a tear or exaggerate any emotion. You can just feel in his brilliantly written dialogue the weight of guilt and remorse that consumes this character.In classic Allen fashion, there's never a need to turn things into theatrical displays of emotion, but instead he relies solely on Landau's ability to portray these feelings and it pays off completely. A lot of the themes of the piece rely on Landau's performance here and he carries it all without a hitch. There's a scene with him sitting in front of his fireplace and just running through a monologue with himself that really floored me. I was a little shaky on this at first, but it brought itself together in such a fantastic way that made it all worthwhile. "},{"Title":"I Have Seen the Righteous Forsaken","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have been young, and now am not too old; And I have seen the righteous forsaken, His health, his honour and his quality taken. This is not what we were formerly told. This is how the English poet Edmund Blunden addressed the philosophical question of why bad things happen to good people (and vice versa). Crimes and Misdemeanors represents Woody Allen's attempt to tackle the same issue. Like this year's Melinda and Melinda it combines humorous and serious stories, but is a far better work. Melinda and Melinda suffers because its related plot lines are artificially forced into the trite and over-schematic framework of a debate over dinner between two playwrights as to whether life is comic or tragic. Moreover, the supposedly tragic story seemed insufficiently serious to merit that description. Crimes and Misdemeanors has two plot lines; one, which may be thought of as Crimes tragic, the other, which may be thought of as Misdemeanors, tragi-comic. The first concerns Judah Rosenthal, a successful New York ophthalmologist. Judah (brilliantly played by Martin Landau) is well-respected and regarded as a pillar of the community, but his private life is a mess. Unknown to his wife and family, Judah has been having an affair with Dolores, an air hostess. Dolores wants him to leave his wife for her; when he refuses to do so, Dolores threatens not only to inform his wife but also to reveal certain financial irregularities in his practice which could ruin his reputation. In order to silence Dolores, Judah turns to his brother Jack, a gangster with underworld connections, who offers to have her murdered. The other plot line concerns Clifford Stern, an idealistic but unsuccessful director of documentary films. Clifford is offered the job of directing the filmed biography of his own brother-in-law Lester, a successful producer. Under pressure from his wife, Clifford accepts, but only reluctantly as he despises the shallow, conceited and Philistine Lester. Clifford's own marriage is in trouble and during the making of the film he meets, and begins an affair with, Halley, Lester's assistant. Halley shares Clifford's idealism and they plan to make a documentary about Louis Levy, a philosopher whose work Clifford admires. This is one of Woody's darkest films, both physically and morally. Most of the action takes place in darkened interiors, and the predominant tones- browns, greys and dull yellows and oranges- are sombre. Morally, the film seems (at least at first sight) to reflect a world in which evil triumphs over good. Judah, after agreeing to Jack's suggestion that they should have Dolores murdered, is initially plagued by feelings of guilt, but as time passes and he realises that the police do not suspect him of involvement in the crime, these feelings fade away and he resumes his old life. Louis Levy commits suicide, which causes Clifford to doubt the optimistic, life-affirming philosophy he had taught. On a less serious level, Clifford is sacked from his job by the odious Lester, who even manages to seduce Halley away from him. The mood is lightened by occasional touches of characteristic Allen humour, mostly from Woody himself as Clifford, but much of this is of a dark, cynical nature, more so even than in most of his movies. (I don't know from suicide, y'know. Where I grew up in Brooklyn we were too unhappy to commit suicide.) Yet the film is not, in my view, dominated by pessimism to the utter exclusion of all else. It is that rare thing, a Woody Allen film that takes a positive view of religion. Elsewhere, his attitude has generally been one of religious scepticism, such as in Hannah and Her Sisters where Woody's character, suffering from a crisis of existential angst, adopts several religions only to reject them all in favour of a live for today philosophy. Here, however, religious and secular views of life are contrasted, and not always to the detriment of the former. Woody has often used his Jewishness for comic effect; here he raises some more serious points about Jewish identity, as the religion-versus-secularism debate takes place in the context of Judaism rather than Christianity. Judah was brought up as an Orthodox Jew, but has rejected his religious faith in favour of a bleak, nihilistic world-view, unable to accept his father's idea that the eyes of God see everything. (Images of the eye and of sight are important in this film). Some of the most important scenes in the film are the conversations between Judah and one of his patients, a Rabbi named Ben. Although Ben (another very good performance from Sam Waterstone) is slowly losing his sight, his religious faith enables him to bear the prospect of blindness with stoicism and he never loses his belief in a higher power or in an essential moral order in the universe. He may lose his sight in a physical sense, but in a moral sense he can see more clearly than any other character in the film. This is not a religious film in the sense that, say, The Passion of the Christ is a religious film. Woody is always too much of a pessimist ever to echo Blunden's conclusion that Over there are faith, love, virtue in the sun. Nevertheless, it is a film which (like two other great Woody films of the late eighties, Hannah and The Purple Rose of Cairo) discusses themes of philosophical and theological import and one that acknowledges the power of faith in peoples' lives. What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his soul? It is those who have succeeded in worldly terms, Judah and Lester, who have, metaphorically if not literally, lost their souls, whereas Ben and Clifford, less blessed by worldly success, have retained their integrity. 9/10 "}{"Title":"an enjoyable insight on real peoples morals.","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's movie is an enjoyable insight on real peoples morals. In the movie it discusses peoples morals, the philosophy of God and Love. The inner meaning is some what shocking to the viewer, even thought it is true. It is a concept that is not popular in religion and the mainstream films. You are not really punished you're your crimes. The movie is contrary to Hollywood that wants a happy ending, so the viewer can escape and to have the viewer escape to the movies is a social event. That is why people are going to the movies wanting to escape the reality for about two hours. It is like taking a trip. For example, rainy days, cold days and snowy days are the movie theaters biggest sale days for patrons to escape the weather. And this movie Woody Allen does is contradicting to these views. But the movie still works, being entertaining and gain knowledge of human morals. Another point Woody Allen makes using the character, Lester, is that comedy is murder plus time. Killing your audience with laughter. This point is the basis for the movie Judah kills the mistress and over time it is now a whimsical story. Throughout the movie Clifford the viewer is continually seeing contradictions to moral beliefs. And this is confusing to Clifford. These actions are not constant to his ideology and the cinematic structure. Like Lester, who is contradicting to Clifford's view about Lester, seduces Halley that he is a womanizer. Another good contradiction is the only good person in the movie is Ben, a good man that is stricken with blindness by the end of the movie. Clifford's sister is tied up and defecated on, to try and Clifford is also forced to understand how one can do that to another person. But to be vulnerable enough to let a complete stranger tie her up first of all, the reply from her sister is that it is so lonely. Which leads me to Professor Levy, that commits suicide. He surprises everyone, because it was everything he was against and was talking about it in the documentary movie that Clifford was filming. But in the end Professor Levy was lonely and depressed which lead him to suicide. Throughout the movie, Woody Allen questions the morality of people's morals. And he constructs the reality of people's actual lives and the ways they live. Judah and Jack are conspiring to murder the mistress (Dolores) that is threatening to expose the affair and his financial impropriates that has been going on for to two years. At the end of the movie, Clifford and Judah meet, Judah meeting Clifford for the first time. He finds out he is a filmmaker and discusses the Hollywood ideals of a happy ending. Then Judah begins to tell his story of a murder with a twist that is unconventional from Hollywood. Which is the good guy has a happy ending, and wrong doers are always punished. But intern the good guy is stricken with blindness and the suffering to follow. The man responsible for the murder then realizes that the inevitable punishment is haunting him, that justice is served, which is the whole basis of religion. But the twist is after a few weeks it begins to fade and his life is completely normal again. Clifford quickly dismisses the idea and Judah leave but then Clifford and the viewer is suddenly left to reflect on the idea. Bad thing happen to us, but it passes and in time, it all fades away. In reflection this essential element is what make a good movie better and inner meaning, something to have the viewer ponder on. It is also made in1989 and this movie today dome of the morals like defecation fetishes, suicide or adultery is more commonly heard about than when the movie opened.  "},{"Title":"What were God's eyes like?","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS, Woody Allen plays a documentary filmmaker named Cliff Stern who is working on a film about a philosopher who is also a Holocaust survivor. As Cliff shows a sample of his incomplete film to Halley Reed, played by Mia Farrow, the old philosopher drones away in the background discussing rather elementary questions of morality. Obviously oblivious to the sad fact that the old man's rambling discourse is tedious and banal, Allen and Farrow rave about his insights and brilliance.Meanwhile, Cliff is also making a TV documentary -- strictly for the money, about a crass Norman Lear-like television producer, played by Alan Alda. Lester, Alda's character, also happens to be Cliff's brother-in-law, and Cliff hates the man; supposedly because he is a crude and pretentious showman, but most probably because Lester is a financially successful crude and pretentious showman. Throughout CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS, Allen holds up Lester to a degree of ridicule that is equal to the degree of awe he reserves for the droning philosopher.It doesn't take a genius to see the parallel that this situation has for the way Woody has come to approach his film-making. He has this misbegotten desire to be taken serious as a dramatist and an insightful philosopher that clashes with the reality that what he does best is to create comedy, particularly comedy that mocks the very pontificating, overwritten gobbledygook that passes for deep philosophical ponderings.CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS is roughly divided into two barely related stories. The misdemeanor of the title is a variation of the standard Woody Allen love story. Allen's Cliff is unhappily married and he lusts after Farrow's Halley, who in turn has caught the eye of Lester. There is a nothing terribly new or original in this tale, but it does give Allen a chance to hurl his usual sardonic barbs at the male/female condition and the sorry state of the world in general.However, most of CRIMES focuses on the serious story, the crime. Martin Landau plays Judah Rosenthal, a prominent and highly respected eye specialist. However, Judah's perfect world is threatened when his unstable mistress, Dolores (Anjelica Huston), gets tired of being taken for granted and demands that he leave his wife or suffer the consequences. Not wishing to have his well-ordered life shaken up, he arranges for his shady brother, Jack (Jerry Orbach), to take care of Dolores, while Judah moans and groans endlessly about how awful the whole situation makes him feel. Allen's point in CRIMES is that while Cliff's life is ruined -- or at least messed up -- by his petty sin of coveting, Judah's only gets better and better after his involvement in a murder. Allen's question seems to be how can such an injustice happen if there is, indeed, a just and honorable God? Allen's point is well taken; unfortunately, his film is hard to take. As a filmmaker, his style can become stilted, arch and cynical. When he puts these qualities into his comedy, it produces wryly sophisticated humor. When applied to his attempts at drama, the result is too often sterile, dispassionate and unappealing. His literate comedy turns into painful preaching and posturing.Allen is obviously most concerned with the story of Judah, a study of a basically good man who can commit and prosper from evil deeds. And perhaps the viewer could sympathize with Allen's queries if Woody hadn't inadvertently stacked the deck so that we sympathize to some degree with Judah's actions, by giving us a Dolores who is a belligerent shrew and a blackmailer. We aren't given a lot of reason to feel sorry for Delores, and even though Judah comes off as a transparently insincere hypocrite in his response to the killing, we are given every reason to believe that he has otherwise led a superior and moral life. Could it be that Judah can get away with a bad deed because he has worked hard to build up so much good karma in the first place? Woody won't raise that question.Woody, meanwhile, tries to give us Cliff as the noble little man who suffers unfairly in the shadow of a rich and powerful sinner like Judah -- and, for that matter, Lester. But Cliff is not a very nice person. Beyond being a potential philanderer, Cliff comes off as a mean and petty little man, who seems to blame others for all his failures. When Cliff finds himself down and almost out at the end, it's his fault, not God's.CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS is for the most part a parable, with the moral being Life is not fair; whether the crime is big or small, moral justice is an illusion. As obvious as it seems, it is also a self-serving moral that just doesn't ring particularly true, since neither Judah nor Cliff are all bad or all good and, most importantly, the story only examines fragments of their entire lives. Just as Cliff's film on Lester shows only parts that make him look bad, Allen is selective in how he reveals who Judah and Cliff are. It just may be that God has a broader view of what constitutes justice than Allen might embrace.Certainly Woody seems to be far more judgmental than God, especially when it comes to judging God. Indeed, perhaps the true moral of CRIMES -- and much of his other work -- is that It is all God's fault, or it would be if God existed -- but he doesn't, so let's blame God for not existing in the first place. For an atheist, Allen certainly places a lot of blame on an entity that he doesn't even believe in. In Woody's world, God just can't win. "},{"Title":"God, This Movie Is Awful...","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this in my Foundations of Story class this afternoon. The first hour had its occasional moments. Mostly in the Woody Allen acted material. The rest of it seemed to drag on. The storyline featuring Allen was pretty decent, but the other one featuring the doctor was quite boring. When the two storylines come together it comes to an unsatisfactory conclusion. It's almost as if Allen had an idea for two movies, and couldn't flesh them out to the proper length, and decided to combine the two ideas in an attempt to make one movie.  "},{"Title":"Realistic but not profound","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sorry to all the people who think this movie is like a holy piece of cinema. The question it asks about God is not profound but just one that is really common and proves a lack in understanding of the beliefs of God.First, about the movie. It is done really great. The cinematography is wonderful, the script was really interesting, and the editing in and out of stories, and forwards and backwards, was absolutely perfect.Okay, now let's look at the point. We have a supposed expert on the Bible in this movie even though he has no understanding of it. Doesn't surprise since the filmmaker probably has none either.The Bible (just the OT or both OT & NT) never state the wicked will surely be punished on Earth. In fact in places it states the exact opposite. Please read Psalms or if you'd care to go into the Christian part, read most of the NT.So, this movie showed me really great filmmaking skills, even with the symbolism. But it also proved (even more so after reading the comments here) that people have no idea what they are talking about when they are speaking of the meanings of the Jewish or Christian faiths.The only thing the Bible tells us about the wicked is that at the heart of man is wickedness and through God we can be saved from that. And that if we choose not to we will have chosen a fate that is horrible. See, Hell is the only punishment that the wicked will surely face according to the Bible. Of course if you follow the Bible Hell really isn't punishment, but a chosen destination, unless of course you're a Calvinist.Anyway, back to the movie. The acting here, although not Oscar worthy, was perfect for the roles themselves.So, on a scale of filmmaking I give it a 5 out of 5. On scale of knowing what the crap it is talking about, I give a 1 out of 5, add one point for entertainment level and Crimes and Misdemeanors gets a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Woody...aquitted!!","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At this point in his career, Woody Allen defined aquired taste. He won Oscars, he made studios' smaller pictures look good, and he was a critic's wet dream. But outside of that is only a very small faction that are Woody-ites who can delight in his style. I have never been one of them.Allen's approach of breezy conversation, small chuckles, and statements on life have never really done much to keep me awake. But lo and behold, stop them presses...somehow here he managed to appeal to the casual Woody viewer, and create at least one half of a tolerable movie. Who knew Woody could do Law & Order (with two of its stars in tow)??After much hem-hawing at the keyboard, I've decided to start with the good. That aspect focuses on a 50-something eye doctor who has found himself in an extra-marital situation he can't extract himself from. He can't reason with his paramour, but he also can't confess to his society wife. What options remain? Yep, he's ready to dial M, with the aid of his brother (Orbach, in his usually reliable, understated form). Landau's inner tug-of-war and some pretty good criminal tension permeate the story very nicely.What this is intermingled with doesn't work as well. Woody writes himself yet another waify loser who hasn't had sex in a year with his doornail wife. Who comes to his heartstring's rescue yet again? Yep, Mia Farrow, always depicted as his (and all other men in the cast) be-all, end-all of available women in the mecca of New York. Here, he battles an enjoyable Alan Alda for her affections.Though I admired the obtuse storyline of mixing humor with homicide, that becomes the film's problem. We're so pulled in by Landau's situation, that when Allen cuts away from it, we could care less about the stale romance being played out on the other end. And again, Woody's idea of jokes to the average film goer only net titters and smiles.He does incorporate a few solid touches camera-wise, such as Landau actually interacting with a flashback from his past, and using push-ins only when necessary. And despite his slight side of the story, Woody manages to finish it with a little bit of a surprise as to who Farrow chooses.Even with enjoying his darker side of the film, it was odd to see him borrow from the mainstream, as the Landau/Huston side of the film is basically a take on Fatal Attraction. Just minus the x-rated sex and bloody finale.So, take whatever you can from this Woody effort, possibly on a Sunday afternoon when nothing else is on. Or who knows, maybe you'll join the legion. "},{"Title":"Lesser Woody Allen movie","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" **MINOR PLOT SPOILERS** There are two stories going on in this film. The first one is dead serious and a tragedy. Opthamologist Judah Rosenthal (Martin Landau) is cheating on his lovely wife (Claire Bloom) with unstable Dolores Paley (Anjelica Huston). Dolores wants Judah all to herself and threatens to tell his wife about them. He tries to talk her out of it to no avail. Is murder the only way out? The second tale is a bittersweet and funny love story about a man (Woody Allen) unhappily married who is forced to do a documentary on an egotistical star (Alan Alda!). While doing it he meets a sweet woman (Mia Farrow) and falls for her--but so does Alda.I vaguely remember seeing this in 1989 and being severely depressed. It's still depressing now--and not very good. The shifts in tone from dead serious drama to comedy are jarring throughout. They don't mix together well at all. To make matters worse there's nothing new or interesting here. These stories and their outcomes have been done before...and better. The irony in these stories is applied with sledgehammer subtlety and gets annoying real quick. Allen was still trying to be Ingmar Bergman when he did this and it doesn't work.On the plus side it is very well-acted. No one is real bad but Landau is superb in his role (and was Oscar nominated) and Jerry Orbach shines in a small part. Also the script, while obvious, is very well written and there are some very funny moments (in the Allen segment). Good direction too. So this is a mediocre Woody Allen film...but it's still 80% better than most Hollywood films. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Strange mixture of comedy and drama works beautifully...","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS is a Woody Allen film I resisted seeing (not a big Allen fan) until now, but I found it thoroughly absorbing and full of interesting performances, structurally different because it tells two separate stories which become even more interesting when the two worlds collide. The one brought three Oscar nominations, no wins, but it was a commercial success.Not surprisingly Allen deals with moral ambiguities--a happily married man (MARTIN LANDAU) has to cope with an overly emotional, unstable and vindictive mistress (ANGELICA HUSTON), while trying to keep his marriage to CLAIRE BLOOM intact.WOODY ALLEN has to deal with an obnoxious brother-in-law (ALAN ALDA) with lots of money and an outsized ego, who offers him the job of producing a video biography of his day to day activities, a job Allen is reluctant to take.Allen has more success in developing the comedy aspects with the Alan Alda sequences than he does with the bitter exchanges between Landau and Huston, who is downright annoying in her role as a clinging ex-lover. I like mental stimulation, Alda tells MIA FARROW. Have you tried shock therapy? she shoots back.How Allen will cope with his crumbling marriage and Landau will solve the problem of a nagging mistress--including a confidential talk with his gangster brother JERRY ORBACH who can only offer one solution--is the gist of the story. Are you suggesting I get rid of her? he asks his brother incredulously.The uneven mixture of two stories--one serious, the other funny--doesn't always mesh the way Allen intended them to. Basically, the story is a serious examination of the inner conflicts of owning up to one's sins.While all the performances are beyond reproach, there's something ultimately unsatisfying about the whole piece. God is a luxury I can't afford, says Landau at one point. I will not be destroyed by this neurotic woman. Whatever, it's Allen's own philosophy of life that he puts on screen through his oddly interesting characters. Some will find a lot of self-revelation in the scenes he has with MIA FARROW, with whom he shares a passion for attending afternoon movies while munching on candy.Summing up Despite the themes, don't expect anything deep or too heavy. It moves at a reasonable clip but is certainly not one of Allen's best relationship comedy/dramas. The friction between Landau and Huston seems too forced at times to be natural, overplayed as it is. "},{"Title":"Drama/Comedy  = mediocrity","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is well acted, and Allen has done a good job shifting gears between humor and tragedy. Martin Landau is exceptional as the tormented Opthamologist. Woody Allen is somewhat subdued, and this is far from his best comedic film. I suppose you could say I was disappointed because the comedy is sub-par Allen, and the drama is simply not that engaging. My rating for Crimes and Misdemeanors is 5.0. Other Woody Allen films rate far better. Bananas 8.5, Everything You Always wanted To Know About Sex 7.0, 'Love and Death 8.5, Take the Money and Run 8.0, Play it Again Sam 8.0, Sleeper 7.5, Annie Hall 6.5 - MERK "},{"Title":"Missed Demeanor","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am beginning a review of Allen's films and decided to start with this one, as it is considered his most intelligent. Certainly, the focus of the film is at the end where the primary character proposes making this film to Woody, who has played a filmmaker. This directly self-referential device is bold, and could have been part of a fine web, as several other filmmakers have created.But the problem is that we're given pretty thin broth up until that point. Woody tries to be as honestly raw as Chekhov and as deeply symbolic as Kafka. Instead we get a sophomoric effort.God's eyes are mentioned a dozen times. And the protagonist is an eye doctor who is treating a rabbi who goes blind. `Get it?' Woody shouts. To set up the self-referential last scene, we are treated to Woody playing an unappreciated filmmaker making a film inspired by a Jewish philosopher who seems happy but is not. `Get it?' Woody nudge nudges. To underscore that in the theater, we are the eyes of God, Woody bluntly demonstrates by inserting his own viewing of films and philosophizing about film.This is not intelligent filmmaking, my friends. It is the clumsiness of someone smart enough to see what art is, but not clever enough to create it. Maybe he thinks 90% of creating art is showing up.Along the way, we get an interesting performance from Alda. But it is all too obvious that every character's dialog is Woody's and they are acting just as Woody has demonstrated to them. Check out their mannerisms. Maybe his comedies will be better. His books are excellent. "},{"Title":"A flawed film but one that is interesting and ambitious as it delivers a look at the meaning of morals and ethics","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Judah Rosenthal is a very successful ophthalmologist who has a wife and two grown children but has been having an affair for many years with Delores Paley. However she is threatening to expose their relationship as well as other financial dealings he was involved in. With no options left Judah confronts the ethical and moral issues and reaches out to his criminal brother to help him out with a permanent solution. Meanwhile documentary filmmaker Cliff Stern agrees to take the money and direct a fly-on-the-wall documentary about the brother in law he hates &#150; Emmy award winning TV producer Lester. He takes the money even though he hates the work and gets to know the producer of the film, Halley Reed and falls for her despite him being married.For all its many flaws, this is still a good film with a constantly interesting idea behind it and reasonable ambitions. The narrative is split into two threads that only temporarily come together at the very end of the film and this is part of the problem with the film &#150; it doesn't hang together as a story or a film terribly well. The plot is more of a look at morals and ethics in terms of where we get them, what they mean and the destruction of the idea that 'good will out'. For that reason the two plots are not so much stories as nails for Woody to hang his points upon and this may annoy many looking for a better structure. However, once I got what he was doing I understood why it was this way and I focused on the ideas behind it. In that regard the film is still flawed but it is consistently interesting in it's arguments and debate &#150; the film is structured well enough so that we aren't sure what it's conclusions will be. Those who criticise the film for it's conclusions are either very lucky or horribly naïve &#150; the ending may be pessimist but it is one that many of us see supported in our lives and the lives of those around us.The mix of material in the film is as flawed as the plots themselves. Judah's thread is necessarily dark and Cliff's is more comic; while both qualities work in their respective stories it is the uneasy and uneven mix between the two that doesn't quite work. However, as I've said, I still found this to be interesting enough in its content and ambitious enough in its aims to be more than worth watching. Of course many people will not give Woody Allen films a chance and will just assume he was trying to be funny but failed, or trying for a crime story but failed but then those people will just stick to multiplex action movies and rarely wander into the work of other American filmmakers (god forbid any non-US work). This is not to say that those that dislike this film are wrong, no, in fact I salute them for trying something that may not be their cup of tea; I just think it a shame that a film such as this will be dismissed by so many without them even watching it.Anyway, ramble over. The cast are all pretty good. Allen plays his usual character but his real work here is as director and writer. He gives himself a handful of good lines and he does well to deliver his lighter side of the film even if he fails to mix the two threads. Landau is excellent as he carries the core of the debate throughout. It may be a Woody Allen film but the heart of it is with Landau and he delivers it really well with tangible moral complexities. Outside of these two the support cast are mainly good by having good actors in the cast as opposed to the 'star of the month' complex that he has had recently. Alda, Huston, Waterson, Farrow, Orbach and Victor Argo are all good additions even if they didn't all have a great deal to do.Overall this is a good film even if it is one that is filled with flaws. The plots don't totally satisfy and hang together however it is hard to ignore that it is consistently interesting and serves as an interesting look at morals and ethics. Sure it isn't Allen's funniest film, nor his most serious, nor his most intelligent, nor his best structured but it is interesting, thought-provoking and well worth a watch.  "}{"Title":"The comedy part is good, the drama isn't.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Woody Allen comedy/drama. One story is drama, the other typical Woody Allen stuff. The drama part is seriously hampered by that nepotist monster Angelica Houston; not only is she as ugly as ever, but her acting is very unconvincing and therefore in stark contrast to Martin Landau's, whose lover she plays. Fortunately, Landau's character's brother arranges to have her bumped off, so the viewer is spared the ugly sight of her for the second half of the picture.More about this 1) she met Landau while working as a stewardess. A stewardess?! Her? Give me a break. What kind of an airline was this; Monster Airlines? 2) Landau's character would actually cheat on his wife, played by Claire Bloom - a good-looking woman, with whom he has a great marriage on top of that? He'd cheat with Huston??!!! I'm getting a little bored with Claire Bloom, so I think I'll start an affair with one of those lame-looking Monster Airlines stewardesses. I don't think so.The other nepotist factor that made me unsure about watching this film is Alan Alda, who plays a talkative, egocentric-but-friendly TV producer in the comedy half of the movie. Now, unlike Angelica Houston Alda doesn't screw up the acting part, and is sure as hell better-looking than her (which shouldn't be difficult for ANY person, regardless of sex). Nevertheless, it has to be mentioned that the only reason why Alda doesn't screw up is because his role was a well-written one and one which was obviously fun to do. Also, another actor would have stolen the show with that role; someone like Steve Martin, Bill Murray, John Turturro, Dustin Hoffman or Jack Nicholson. Any of these guys would have made a great part out of that role.Woody Allen ought to pick out his cast a little less out of the talentless pool of nepotism and more from the pool of real actors. This has particularly been a problem in his movies since the 90s. Otherwise the film is interesting, with funny moments - though not as many as in some other of his films (this one's more drama anyway) - and with the usual accurate and consistent characterization typical of Woody Allen's movies. Allen's jealousy and resentment of and towards Alda is very cleverly scripted and played out. "},{"Title":"Improved by Match point","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is really strange the way Woody Allen imagines his films. After a long period doing comedies, when everybody thought that he was far from his bitterest films, he has rebuilt Crimes and misdemeanors with his new film, Match point. He has succeeded. Match point has an energy, a richness of details and an incredible strength in the facts he tells, that Crimes and misdemeanors rests as a very, very little film. Seen today -with the possible comparison with this new film-, the picture is poor, as if it was unachieved, and the social environment Allen pretends to describe is much more unsatisfactory than in Match point. Crimes and misdemeanors is more an intellectual film -very, very close to Bergman- than an emotional film. In this picture there is no a great performance comparable with that of Jonathan Rhys-Meyers. There is no a portrait of the high class so detailed and subtle. It is a film that makes you remember the comedies of Woody Allen. When you are seeing it, you think Why has he lost his time? You can't think while Match point. "},{"Title":"*","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't see why everyone loves this film so much. True, it does have good intentions and meaning, but you cannot compensate for such a poor script. Woody Allen is a brilliant filmaker, but I'm afraid this is just a piece of garbage. It's extremely predictable and the subject matter is all too visible. I happen to be a huge Woody Allan fan and love most of his work, but this I cannot recomend. "},{"Title":"i want the time watching that movie back","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" That was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Why would someone make a movie about getting away with murder!?! Mr. Allen again plays the only type of character that he's able, the sexually stunted man who can't get the girl. Get a clue, Allen, there's a reason that's the only character that you can successfully portray. Stir clear of this movie! It's a waste of time, unless you want to know how to successfully murder someone. I feel sorry for the actors who say 'yes' to Woody Allen. Look at his cast, and tell me how many of those people are still working. My respect for all of the actors, who work for him, immediately goes down, because they chose to participate in the film. "},{"Title":"so poor...","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A few words for the people here in germen's cine club The worst crap ever seen on this honorable cinema. A very poor script, a very bad actors, and a very bad movie. Don't waste your time looking this movie, see the very good mutantes verdes fritos anarquia radioactiva, or any movie have been good commented by me. Say no more.  "}]