[{"Title":"Perfect Late '80s Skater film","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok I know this film is old, but who cares?  Let's get that out of the way, it's old it's old it's old.  I don't care if it's old.  I was 13 1/2 when this movie came out, and I know a lot of people even my age (27) would consider this a dated old school movie, but like I said, I don't care, it's still fun.I was a middle school skater in the very late '80s, and this film brings back great memories.  Ok the fashions got old by like 1991, but again who cares?  Forget the fashions and just concentrate on the skateboard stunts, they'll blow you away.  Legendary skater Tony Hawk is in this film, and everyone who was or is a skater knows how valuable Hawk was to skateboarding.  These days I see a lot of teenagers skateboarding in parking lots and malls, it seems the trend has come back since being dormant since 1990.  Even though the skating fad died down then, I was still skating as a teenager into around 1995.  It was uncool to be a 19 or 20 year old skating back in the heyday of grunge, but once a skater, always a skater. Many times when I see these kids skating today, I want to haul my old 27 year old butt out there and show them how us 13 and 14 year olds did it back in 1989. "},{"Title":"The best the 80's had to offer","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a sweet movie.  This movie just about wraps up the rad pop culture of the 1980's, and puts it into one film.  The skateboarding is incredible, and it features Tony Hawk who developed into the #1 skater in the world.  While this movie might not be realistic, it made me laugh all the way through. The best scene by far involves Tony Hawk and a Pizza Hut truck.  Enjoy this movie and remember the 80's. "},{"Title":"Cold War Skate Movie","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love Gleaming the Cube, with the exception of the coyingly senitmental dialogue going on and some of the forced grief by Slater. It's a pretty cool 80s action movie for skaters.A kid mysteriously winds up dead after he goes poking his nose into questionable problems with shipping orders for the Vietnamese Relief. The cops say all signs point to suicide (or at least they're not conclusive of any other cause of death), but his skater brother is determined to prove that he was murdered. Gleaming the Cube, as Brian's (Slater) friend Yabbo (Perlich) explains, is about finding your place. A soul searching that is bound by no rules and standards, in other words.    It's actually a pretty fun, if not different, story involving athletes, nevermind skaters. Although, I'm pretty sick of the super-patriotic themes. Plus, you have a few of the Bones Brigade cast in the main role (actually only Tony Hawk and Tommy Guerrero get lead parts) while the rest of the Bones Brigade took up stunt parts (Cabby and Rodney Mullen, most noteably). Plus, you have a pretty rad soundtrack, and Christian Slater and Max Perlich make believable teenagers, and entertaining ones at that (rather than obnoxious or totally stupid). Skaters saving the day? What could be better?The music, the story, and the actors, it's a score! It's one of my favorite skating movies and certainly one of my favorite 80s movies.  "},{"Title":"A fun stupid film","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the story of a young confused high school punk who loses his adopted Vietnamese brother to a couple of gun runners. What is he to do? Well he could figure out who these people are and when he's frustrated, he could just skateboard while he's pissed. To lighten things up, he could hit on his dead brothers girlfriend.There are many famous skaters who lent their abilities to this film. This does rank above the break dancing movies ('Breakin'')and the evil dancing movies ('Footloose' and 'Dirty Dancing') of the eighties, but I don't think it comes close to bike movies ('Rad' and 'The Dirtbike Kid') "},{"Title":"whoa, this is simply the coolest.  skate or die man!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It doesn't get any cooler than this.  This is the best skate boarding movie ever.  There are some really impressive scenes and the movie totally rocks.  Its a bit old school now, but so what?  It just adds charactor and proves that it doesn't matter how advanced technology gets, they don't make gems like this anymore.  yep, they sure as hell don't!  Check out Christian Slaters hair!  Its awesome. And so's this movie. Heh, Sorry to sound like a air headed boy of 13. The only thing I would ever slamm this movie for was some of the acting. Christian Slater is cool, but there were some weak performances by others. This doesn't effect the movie on bit though! Hey, and it has Tony Hawk in it.  The man!  Need I say anymore?2 very enthusiastic thumbs up, 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I love the 80's","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie! It's got a plot, good skating, and its entertaining.What more could you ask for. It is just your typical 80's movie and personally, I think those are the best kind. If you don't like it, maybe you should try suspending disbelief. That usually works for me.My recommendation...Check it out if you need something to do late at night and you're tired of watching all of the normal blockbusters that come out these days. "},{"Title":"Pastiche of skateboarding, murder, romance and action has soul","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You don't need to be of the 80s generation or an 80s lover to like this movie. I'm 72 and I like it. Christian Slater and his buddies do such a nice job portraying smart but good kids who don't fit into the rigid system. Good for them! So they're middle class and well off, so what. They're loyal to one another and they're not a violent gang.The skateboarding is fantastic.The action chase at the end is a darn good one.The strange thing is that it's a murder story and a detective story, which is why it appears on some neo-noir lists.The movie actually has some soul in its own way. "},{"Title":"Great 80s film, nothing amazing, but certainly competent in what it does, and not many films like it","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the first films of its kind that I had seen and is still really entertaining, after I hunted it down on DVD and watched for the first time last night for years. I like the portrayal of the skater guys. It frames their attitude nicely. Slater's 'I miss you' speech was pretty cringing for me, but apart from that, the film carries itself really well without trying to take itself too seriously, and it comes off better for it.The Corvette guy was a terrible addition in many ways, but despite being so bad, it was hilarious. One of those scenes where you'd say 'who would do that???' and then... 'who would carry on doing that after this?'... you'll see what I mean... "},{"Title":"classic!","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is great, if you like skating you will love it. if you like mad effects from an 80s movie you will love it. if you like Slater you will indeed love it!!!it is a good movie with a very bizarre story but it works well and is a great feel good movie. the story is about Slaters brother getting killed when he finds out some imformation about his work that he shouldnt know. Slater takes it in to his own hands to find out why his bro was killed  and in the process finds out serous stuff. Must see, one of slaters classics!!!!8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"skateboarding international crime drama","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Brian Kelly (Christian Slater) has his group of skateboarding friends in Orange County. His adopted brother Vinh is the star of the family. Vinh works for Colonel Trac at the Vietnamese Anti-Communist Relief Fund which supposedly is sending medical supplies to Vietnam. He's also going out with Colonel Trac's daughter Tina. Vinh gets fired after uncovering suspicious invoices. He sneaks into the VACRF warehouse and is taken by the head of the operation Ed Lawndale. It spirals out of control and Vinh is killed. The police puts it down to suicide. Brian knows better and investigates. After witnessing a killing, he goes to police detective Al Lucero for help.It's weird that a skateboarding film turns into a crime drama with a Vietnamese flavor. These things don't mix easily. In a skateboarding movie, one would like lighter fare. It would concentrate on the skateboarding. This is more like a crime drama from a TV show. Graeme Clifford is more of a TV director. The story is trying to be smart but it's really only B-movie quality. Slater has his teenager swagger. It's got a nice cult movie feel. "}{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Alright, the movie ain't ALL THAT, but it brings back warm memories.  The whole style of the movie was real cool back when I was 10, and the feelings kind of stuck.The story line is stupid but the skater-guys are cool.  A lot of the acting is poor, but a GOOD MOVIE.  You have to look past all the bad stuff and just try to sink into the whole 'nice family' good brother avenging the death of his step-brother theme.  THEN you will enjoy it.  -)Regards, Chafie "},{"Title":"Blast From My Past!","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I first watched Gleaming The Cube probably twenty years ago, I was highly excited by this farce. I liked it so much I probably watched it everyday for a week, hell maybe even a month. Then once I had finished watching I'd take my skateboard round to my friends then we'd head down to school, climb onto the long flat roof and skate around for hours rein-acting scenes from the film. Gleaming The Cube was just one of many films that had us acting like this in our youth.Having just finished watching Gleaming The Cube for the first time in years I realised two things. 1. It doesn't have the same hold over me as it once did (but really why should it? I'm not ten anymore). 2. It isn't anywhere near as bad as some of the reviews I've read over the years.Starring one of my all time favourites 'Christian Slater' in the lead role of Brian and starring no-one else worth mentioning, Gleaming The Cube is without doubt the best skateboard/mystery/drama that the world has ever produced. Slater spends his usual amount of time trying to pull of intense 'Jack Nicholson' style faces, but that's one of the things I always loved about him.When Brian's stepbrother is found dead, the police say its suicide but Brian thinks different, so he sets out on his skateboard and tries to solve the mystery of his death. That's basically it as far as plot goes, but the film is carried forward with chase scenes and skateboarding action.All in all it's everything an 80's skateboarding film should be. And I like it. "},{"Title":"Rip it up!","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Christian Slater is out for some get-back in this 80's skater classic with a wacky title. Gleaming. This is what the movie comes down to. Whatever gleaming is its awesome and all skaters do it, or did about twenty years ago. Watched this often as a child and it helped propel, sustain, my skateboarding throughout the careless 80's into the carefree 90's and on and on. I still skate and conjure up images from the film when I'm in a helicopter scoping out some killer bowls or when I'm skitchin off Tony Hawk's Pizza Hut delivery truck, which happens quite often. The movie follows Slater as he tries to connect the dots of his brothers murder. Adopted as he may-be Slater nonetheless goes on a crusade that includes pool halls, weapons cache's and in true 80's fashion a geek to chic makeover scene that has to be witnessed to be real. So along the way there are some truly rad sessions from street to vert to freestyle. The scene with him skating mad through the warehouse is probably my favorite, but to nail down one thing alone i like about this movie would be an impossibility. Slater looked cooler in this movie then he has before or since and everyone on film cash's in a good performance to back him up. Plenty of twists and turns and mctwists as well so strap on your kneepads and take an acid drop off a high building of interest into this movie. You will not be let down. Slater ill never let you down girl! Ten skirts. "},{"Title":"under-appreciated","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this movie is iconic for the 90's and the entire skate boarding era. I will admit I am 28 and have been watching it just about daily since it has been out. my fab cousin taught me how to skate board when i was a youngin' and I have been hooked ever since. If any one that is a true skater and has not seen this movie they need to re-evaluate their priorities and get it done. NOTHING BEATS THIS skate film period. Tony Hawk is hysterical in his lanki-ness and cuteness and hair cut, really? Hey there's my pizza hut! I have been obsessed with this movie since it came out and have been introducing it to many a young-en and older my entire life. Everyone thanks me for the introduction and doesn't understand why it was not more widely promoted. Thank goodness for the followers. My entire family was searching for the DVD for me and the sound track for years before they found one and at a reasonable $40. I recommend any chance you have to get a glimpse, do it! "},{"Title":"Average Movie...Great Time","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As anyone knows who has seen it, Gleaming the Cube is not on par with Citizen Kane or a film with A-list acting, but what it does do is capture the zeit geist(I think thats how its spelled?) of the late 80's. It captures the spirit of the time in a way that few other movies have, maybe Thrasher, but that movie is almost impossible to find. I remember five of my skater buddies and I pooling our money together to get the movie. It was one of those movies we could watch over and over. We loved the skating! Christian Slater's fuck off attitude didn't hurt either. We would watch that movie and then go out and skate for hours, it was great. I'm sure you just had to be there, but for those of us who were, it was awesome. "},{"Title":"my 2 cents","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this is a great movie...........slater before he so blatantly rips off jack nicholson. the k-mart skateboards are a laugh as is the scene in the plane when the guys are sticking skateboard type stickers all over it. i used to draw that rat symbol on my desk at school all the time. and i never knew tony hawk was in it.....but i am lame. in fact it must have been lame for tony as he doesn't do any skating in this movie at all. he drives a red utility with an old pizza hut roof on it (u have to see the movie just for the pizza car) and according to the credits he doesn't perform any of the stunts nor is he listed as a skater the story line is a bit dads film for a skate board movie which conflicts with the whole alienated teen thing however with some things, the more over the top the better. "},{"Title":"Pro Slater Movies","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie, no doubt about it!10/10. A great display of tacky, bad acting, bad storyline, eighties brilliance at it's best.Drop me a line if you the same way. There has to be more than just myself out there who love this kind of trash. "},{"Title":"My Favourite film ever!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is my favourite film ever. From when I first saw it on Sky when  I was 9 I have been hooked on it! And after a 8 year search to find it on Video and now DVD I own it on both formats! The film is really enjoyable if you get past the slightly lame plot, but it does contain some really cool skating sequences and some of the dialougue is cool. Especially the line about when Brian wanted to be a vet so he could look after cows long enough to make them into hambugers! Overall my favourite film and one I hope I never tire of seeing! "},{"Title":"i used to love this film.....  .....and i still do!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i remember watching this film when i was much younger and i loved it to bits as i was an aspiring skater at the time, i used to really like the first bit with the theme tune and them skating down the airstrip. i saw it again a short while ago and i will definitely say it hasn't lost any of it's character, i probably like it still because i liked it so much when i was younger but it is definitely a top film, the skating is superb even if it is on  those old school boards and the bit where slater is skating down the massive hill is awesome. a true skating classic. "},{"Title":"Old School, Oh Well","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gleaming the Cube is the only half-way decent skating movie around.  As far as cinematic art goes I don't know how I'd rank it, but as there aren't any others like it we'll just have to settle.  The tricks are good, being that they're over a decade old and all and I have no real problem with that. After all, we can't progress if we don't know our history. "}{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a decent movie...if you were ever into skateboarding then this movie is a must see...it's good for the time frame it was created in(late 80's)..it also has a lot of big time pro skaters in it Mike Vallely,Tony Hawk,Rod Mullin,Lance Mountain,Mike McGill,Natas Kaupus,and Eric Dressen.....I think the only big actor is Christian Slater...so this is obviously a skater oriented movie.. check it out...its worth the money if you can handle the old skool skating and a little cheesy storyline drama.. "},{"Title":"Slightly disjointed...","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well, yes. Christian Slater is a good skater character, and yes, Tony Hawk does some skating in the movie (beginning pool scene), but I just couldn't buy the death emotions portrayed. The parents weren't nearly sad enough, nor was Brian. And, the fact that Vinh's girlfriend would be remotely interested in him was a complete stretch. And that Brian's friends would pick on him for dressing like a prep instead of noting that he might be grieving his brother? Not terribly believable. I also think that perhaps Brian would have planned out the revenge a little better than just crashing through a plate glass window at someone's house, as well as not hiding the lighter he swiped. Oh well. Gotta love the '80s fashions and sentiments. Car chases are good! "},{"Title":"A cube not that gleaming, but....","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There's a scene in this movie, one would say freakily idenitical to one in another Christian Slater, years later, Kuffs. It's Slater farewelling his stepbrother here, spouting the words I fu..in' love you man Watch Kuffs and you'll see the same dialogue. GTC is no Kuffs though, with fantastically shot skateboarding scenes, some quite breathtaking. They do quite well compensate for some of the films faults, although GTC is quite entertaining, too being one of Slater's first films, which had a brief run at the cinema. Again making references to Kuffs, Slater is again, an avenging hero, not playing by the rules, and causing s..t and some tempers to flare. One being a young detective, Al (Steven Bauer) who sides with him, to take down the corrupt party who wasted his Vietnamese stepbrother (again I drawer reference to Kuffs, Slater's brotherly love problems). I don't really know how Bauer's character fits in, as far as Slater's acquaintance, (Is he just some old friend, now a cop who busted Slater and pals one too many times) e.g. Slater and skate addicts crashing a house, and using a deep unfilled pool as a skating rink. That's what I boil his character relation down too. GTC isn't really a film that impresses. It's a good popcorn flick, but don't look for anything beyond that, except the great thrill seeking skating sequences. I was disappointed at the start, expecting a Point Break moment in that plane, prior to them crashing that pool in upscale suburbia, though. Try and count the time Bauer, flicks Slater's ear. Ouuch! "},{"Title":"Thriller, tension and intrigue  in this skateboarding movie","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie deals about a skateboarding adolescent(Christian Slater) investigates his fostered brother's killing. His parents(Ed Lauter, Mercurio) are profoundly grieved. His brother from Vietnam origin is killed by an organization led by a nasty(Richard Herd) but he aware that the store he worked sends arms to Vietnam instead of medicament. Meanwhile a tough police inspector(Steven Bauer) track down the killers. The down-and-out teen has a skateboarding team(Max Perlich) and and he suddenly become involved in several risks, helped by the group skateboarding Trashers.The film displays action, suspense, thrills and, of course, spectacular skateboarding. The stunts demonstrate their perfect craft in the empty swimming pools of unsuspecting urban homeowners, pioneering a stirring new sport. The picture impresses with its stunts footage with thrilling bounds and leaps. Noisy musical score made with synthesizer by Jay Ferguson. The motion picture is professionally directed by Graeme Clifford. He's a good director with his greatest success  ¨Frances¨ and Ruby Cairo, today directs for television only Last Don I, II, among others. Another films about Skateboarding sub-genre are ¨Skateboard The movie(78), Skateboard kid I(93) and II(95) and Skateboard madness¨, though the classic movie is ¨Lords of Dogtown¨ directed with Catherine Hardwicke and with Emile Hirsch and Heath Ledger. For those with teen interest and skateboarding buffs. "},{"Title":"fun movie, if you like Slater films.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this movie was fair, and  most of  the time was fun to watch. i'm not a fan of skateboarding,  but,  it was fun to see slater's character go after the man  for his brother's death. and to see christian with short spikey blonde hair, and wearing a dangly earring. his brother was  fun  to see on screen. some action in this film to keep you excited.  "},{"Title":"Skateboard Vigilantes?!?","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of silliest male bonding movies ever...Should wind up at the top of Christian Slater's list of movies he wishes nobody remembers. Cone to think of it, the only male bonding movie Slater ever succeeded in was Interview With the Vampire, because all he did was to interview Brad Pitt's Louis. He is at his best as the outcast Heathers, Pump Up the Volume "}]