[{"Title":"It Is All About Kin and Clan","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What makes this action drama particularly moving is the comparison between the extended family of a Sicilian crime boss and the clannishness of the hillbillies. While Joey Rosellini insults the mountain folks as people who farm rocks his boss John Isabella sees the link -- that is what they said about our people back in the old country. It is not a matter of who wears the nicer suit; it is a matter of blood, of kinship, and of ensuring that the one with the greater grievance has justice is done for his family. This is a very old tradition, both in the Sicilian families and in those Celtic clans that moved into the hills of Appalachia. In this aspect Next of Kin reaches a level of art not usually found in action films. The scene of the women packing sandwiches for the big hunt shows a level of clan community not well understood by us city-folk.Watch this film and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Love Chicago, love Patrick, love this movie!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have lived in Chicago all my long life, and I really appreciated the authenticity of the location scenes.  The area around Wilson and Broadway is exactly where the hillbillies (forgive the term), especially the single men, generally migrate.  The characters in the flophouse and bars must have been taken right from the street.   The project was recognizably Cabrini-Green, and Truman and Jesse's restored three-story house could almost be pinpointed to Lincoln Park (except that the bad guys, and Truman, would never have found such open parking - they'd still be circling the block).The cemetery where the final showdown occurred is Graceland on Clark Street, as everyone who has toured or visited this landmark would know.   It was an agony to watch these historic monuments being blown to bits - I had to keep chanting it's only a movie, it's only a movie.But the readiness of the Kentucky family to jump into the fray was very real.  That wonderful scene of the pickup truck on its northbound trek up Lake Shore Drive has its counterpart in everyday life, so I've been told.Liam Neeson is a revelation.  It's hard to believe that the same actor who plays to perfection this tight lipped, lean and mean mountain man, will later be nominated for an Oscar for his heart-rending portrayal of a sophisticated German industrialist.Truman Gates may be my favorite Patrick Swayze character.  There's plenty of blood-and-guts action, but it's easy to believe that a concert violinist would fall madly in love with this exciting, unusual cop.  Helen Hunt, as his wife, and Michael J. Pollard as a benighted flophouse manager, are excellent in their roles.See this movie for a good story, authentic characterizations, and non-stop interest. "},{"Title":"Crazy Swayze's second action film from 89 is just as good","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When his brother is murdered, a policeman is caught between his devotion to the law and his family's desire for revenge in this action drama. Patrick Swayze plays Truman Gates, who left his backwoods Appalachian home for life as a Chicago police officer. When his brother is killed by a gangster, Truman is determined to seek legal retribution. His older brother Briar (Liam Neeson) has different ideas, however, and travels to the city to seek old-fashioned vigilante justice. Truman must now choose between his family's belief in mountain justice and the duties of his job. Though the film is not particularly action-packed, director John Irvin does provide the expected gunplay and macho confrontations. However, despite a surprisingly distinguished cast (also including Helen Hunt and Michael J. Pollard), little distinguishes the film from numerous other revenge stories with a similar outline. Next of Kin is the second action film that Patrick Swayze starred in from 1989. The film is full of action and has some great fight scenes. Daniel Baldwin is great as the bad guy and look for a young Ben Stiller before he hit his prime.  "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Affecting Movie About Family","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Worth watching as both a vigilante movie and as a meditation on the meaning of family, this movie surprised me with the level of it's performances. Liam Neeson contributed his usual fine job, as did a nicely creepy David Baldwin, and a nice mob boss performance by Andreas Katsulas (better known as the One Armed Man from the Harrison Ford movie of The Fugitive). Good little wussy role by Ben Stiller; nice supporting job by Helen Hunt. Patrick Swayze does a good dependable job in this movie, but is outshone by the finely understated performances of the men playing his relatives from backwoods Kentucky.  Great use of Chicago locations, though the L trains running past my house don't appear to have the conveniently flat roofs to jump on. (Alright, a minor quibble).  All in all, quite worth watching. "},{"Title":"predictable but enjoyable","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Patrick Swayze stars in this action crime drama as a Chicago cop from the south avenging the death of his brother.  So the plot is pretty basic, so what, it is still an enjoyable action/crime-drama.  The cast was very good in this film, which includes Liam Neeson, Bill Paxton, Helen Hunt, Adam Baldwin, and even Ben Stiller in a smaller role.  The action was pretty good too, especially the chase on top of the train.  The film also used its Chicago locations very well, which is something I like in movies.  The film has a few faults, including an extremely predictable ending.  But aside from that its a fun film for action fans. 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Blood Feud","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The murder of young Gerald Gates, Bill Paxton, by the up and coming rookie Mafioso, Joey Rosselini, Adam Baldwin, for not stopping the truck that he was driving, for a rival vendor company when ordered set off deadly repercussions that went from the city of Chicago to the hills and coal mines of rural Kentucky.Geralds murder by a member of the Mafia's powerful Isabella family started a violent blood feud between the Gates' and Isabell's that even dwarfed the legendary feud between the Hatfield's and McCoy's. Gerald's older brother Truman, Patrick Swayze, who's an undercover cop in the Chicago PD knew what was coming with the Gates family back in Kentucky up in arms and wanting revenge for their brothers murder. Showing up, unannounced, in the big city is Briar, Liam Neeson, Gerald's other brother looks to track down his killer, or killers, but Truman talks him out of taking the law into his own hands and letting the police and courts bring Geralds killer to justice. When there's nothing happening in getting Gerald's killers by the law Briar goes into action and tears up the Isabella mobsters only to later get shot down and killed by them. Even Truman begins to realize that only him and his kin will have to be the judges juries and executioners of Gerald's killer and leave the Chicago justice department and police alone on their coffee break, which seems to last the entire movie, that their on. The Kentucky Hillbillies turn out to be more then a match for the Chicago mobsters taking the fight to them in a final and bloody shootout at a local cemetery. Not even the dead are speared in this film, with the mobsters being shot with shotguns and bows and arrows as well as chased by dogs. In one horrifying one of the scene one of the mobsters is trapped in a trailer with dozens of dangerous snakes, poisonous as well as deadly constrictors, who go on to do a job on the poor smuck who's hopelessly trapped there. The head of the Isabella mob family Big, or Big PaPa, John Isabella, Andreas Katsulas,ends the bloodbath by blasting young Joey who's incredible and brainless arrogance and stupidity started this whole mess by murdering Gerald. It was the mob-hillbilly conflict that lead to the death of Big PaPa John's one and only son Larry, Ben Stiller, who was blown to bits by the outraged Bariar Gates.Patrick Swayze comes across as his usual pleasant and nice guy self as Truman Gates and at first tries everything to stop the impending war between his people, the Hillbillies, and the Chicago mobsters. Later Truman sees that the only way to settle things is with guns not with do-nothing lawyers DA's and police investigations and gets with the program set by his brother Briar and his fellow mountain men. Truman is also not as unsophisticated as his fellow home boys being married to Jessie, Helen Hunt, a concert violinist and well educated young woman. Loseing both his brothers, Gerald and Briar, in the war with the mob Truman can now look forward to his wife giving birth to a future Gates and go back in peace, as a Chicago policeman, to raise his family. The movie Next of Kin is a bit unusual with the mob getting the hell beat out of them by a group of people who they never had any contact with and always looked down on, like the vicious and ignorant Joey, and never really took seriously until now. "},{"Title":"Cultues Of Vendetta","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shot on location in Chicago, Next Of Kin is about a culture clash between two groups that are known for longstanding vendettas. They would be the Sicilian Mafia and the hillbillies of the Appalachians.Patrick Swayze is one of three brothers of whom the youngest, Bill Paxton, is killed after organized crime takes over a trucking firm he was a driver for. They killed the wrong guy because in addition to being Paxton's brother, Swayze is also a Chicago police detective. Of course Swayze has to operate within the parameters of the law. That's not the case for the oldest brother Lian Neeson. He comes to Chicago just looking for them that did the deed.Andreas Katsulas is the Mafia crime family head and he's got an idiot son played by Ben Stiller whom he turns over to enforcer Adam Baldwin to learn the business. Stiller goes right to the top of the criminal food chain with Baldwin when he and Baldwin kill Paxton. But Baldwin is a survivor and he'll do whatever it takes to survive.The showdown between hillbillies and Mafioso takes place with a cemetery at night serving as the OK Corral. It's quite a battle and justice is served if not the law.Next Of Kin is your routine action film, but it does have one thing going for it that I have to praise. The hillbillies are real people here, they're not the Clampetts of Beverly Hills nor the mouth breathers from Deliverance. I'm glad that the producers avoided stereotyping them which would have been easy. Swayze is a good action hero and his leading lady is Helen Hunt who as Mrs. Swayze in the film is not given all that much to do. Fans of the late Patrick Swayze will be very happy with Next Of Kin. "},{"Title":"A howler and well worth a look -- when you're dead drunk","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's Kain-tuck hillbillies versus the Chicago mob in a typical John Irvin bad classic, NEXT OF KIN. A wooden but beautiful Patrick Swayze stars as a Chi-town cop originally from Kain-tuck whose brother (a young Bill Paxton) is murdered by a psychotic mobster (FIREFLY's Adam Baldwin). Another brother, straight out of the Kain-tuck hills (a bearded Liam Neeson doing a perfectly dreadful hillbilly accent) shows up to avenge Paxton's death, and all hell breaks loose. It's the Hatfields versus McCoys, downtown style. A young, somewhat awkward Ben Stiller plays the son of the mob boss. The final showdown is a comedy classic, as an army of hillbillies who come to the rescue, armed with bows and arrows among other things, takes on the gun-slinging mob in a graveyard. NEXT OF KIN is no ROAD HOUSE, although Swayze races around a lot in an old Camaro. And he wears a funny hat. Plus he has a mullet, which he sometimes twists into a fetching ponytail. In fact, depending on the scene, his hair out-acts him. I sometimes wonder how John Irvin kept getting jobs, but I suspect the studios loved him for his one-take and let's move on attitude. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Liam Neeson is GREAT in this movie.","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I chose this movie for a report in my Communications class.  I have seen it several times but looking at it from a different angle this time, I saw the development of Swayze's character or his return to his family roots. However you want to look at it.  The first time I saw this movie I was blown away by Liam Neeson's portrayal of Briar Gates, he brings his character to life as much as any actor as ever brought a character to life in any movie. Years later when I discovered that Liam was british my opinion of his acting abilities skyrocketed.  My favorite quote in the movie was by Liam, My name is Briar Gates and I want the man that kilt my brother.  In print it doesn't sound like much but when he delivers it, this quote is truly amazing. "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Underrated And Entertaining Action-Thriller","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Next Of Kin is a terrific,underrated and entertaining Action-Thriller that is filled with fine direction,a great cast,wonderful Action,an impressive script and a good score and soundtrack. All of those elements make Next Of Kin a solid film worth your time.Set in Chicago,Illinois,Next Of Kin tells the story of Truman Gates(Patrick Swayze),a Chicago cop from the hills of Kentucky who is investigating the death of his little brother Gerald Gates(Bill Paxton)who was killed by gangsters. Meanwhile,Truman's older brother Briar Gates(Liam Neeson)has come to Chicago to do his own investigation and the gangsters find out you mess with their family you mess with them.Released in 1989,Next Of Kin is a wonderful and very underrated Action-Thriller that wasn't a hit at the Box Office and was panned by critics but in later years the film seems to have found an audience on cable and home video. And while the film doesn't reinvent the wheel and isn't very groundbreaking or revolutionary,Next Of Kin is a movie that gives viewers great entertainment for 108 minutes. From beginning to end Next Of Kin is a movie that gives viewers a good balance and mixture of Action,thrills and drama with grit and style that never changes throughout the movie and is happening on the mean streets of Chicago with intensity and violence all around. The tone and atmosphere of Next Of Kin can at times be bleak and downbeat but you are never depressed while watching the film because while the tone of the movie is serious the film at times has some humorous moments that are funny and give Next Of Kin a light tone. The storyline moves at a fast pace and keeps you glued to the screen and will keep you wondering what will happen next in most of the scenes. What separates Next Of Kin some of the Action movies of the late 1980s and early 90s is the the depth and themes discussed in the film. The main theme that is repeated throughout the film the theme of family and blood we see families from both sides whether it's with Truman and his relationships with his brothers and family or with Gangster John Isabella(Andreas Katsulas)and his family and no matter what conflicts or problems you still have blood,loyalty and family will always be with you. The characters Truman and Briar Gates we see that the two brothers are estranged because of Truman leaving for Chicago which Briar saw as betrayal but when their brother is killed we see Truman and Briar try to repair their relationship while trying to find out who killed their brother and it's pretty obvious that even though they don't say the two truly love each other and care for one another and the dialog between the two feels real and truly adds to the film. In NOK there is a contrast between the people in the big city in Chicago and the hills of Kentucky showing the Gates family living in houses in the woods and hills that are in the dirt which is opposite of the Isabella family who wear expensive suits and live large houses in the big city of Chicago. One of most interesting things about Next Of Kin is the cast in the film which includes actors who were either already famous or would become famous later on such as Patrick Swayze,Liam Neeson,Helen Hunt,Bill Paxton,Ben Stiller,Adam Baldwin and Ted Levine with all of them giving fine performances. The screenplay by Michael Jenning is impressive and well-written with Jenning's script giving most of the characters power,depth,emotion and Humor that makes the movie works so well. The Action scenes in Next Of Kin are wonderful as well as simple but effective and are in tune with the kind of Action scenes that were done in other Action flicks of the 1980s and early 90s. The ending of Next Of Kin is great because the ending has Action,excitement and once again deals with family and loyalty as well as gunfights and some hunting. A terrific conclusion.The cast is outstanding. Patrick Swayze is excellent and at his best as Truman Gates,a Chicago cop. Liam Nesson is brilliant and memorable as Briar Gates,Truman's older brother and has great scenes with Swayze. Adam Baldwin is terrific as Joey Rosselini,a hot headed Gangster. Helen Hunt does a fine job as Jesse Gates,Truman's wife. Andres Katsulas is outstanding as John Isabella,a Chicago Mob Boss. Bill Paxton is wonderful as Gerald Gates,Truman and Briar's younger brother. Ben Stiller is great as Lawrence Isabella,John's son. Michael J.Pollard is amusing and fun as Harold,a Motel owner. Ted Levine(Willy Simpson),Del Close(Frank),Valentino Gimo(Rhino),Paul Greco(Leo),Vincent Guastaferro(Paulie),Paul Herman(Detective Tony Antonelli)and Don James(David Jenkins)give good performances as well.The direction by John Irvin is great,with Irvin always moving the camera and giving the movie a wonderful visual style. Fine direction,Irvin.The score by Jack Nitzche is fantastic,intense and memorable and fits the tone of the movie. Terrific score,Nitzche. There is also a few cool songs on the soundtrack by Gregg Allman And Lorrie Gates(Brother To Brother),Larry Gatlin & Patrick Swayze(Brothers),Rodney Crowell(Hey Backwoods),B.B King(My Sweet Understanding Lady),The Charlie Daniels Band(My Sweet Babies Gone)and more. A memorable soundtrack.In final word,if you love Action-Thrillers,I highly suggest you see,Next Of Kin,a terrific,underrated and entertaining Action-Thriller that is worth your time. Highly Recommended. 9.5/10. "}{"Title":"* *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Patrick Swayze stars as Truman Gates a police officer who is torn between justice and loyalty to his brother Briar (Liam Neeson) who is provoking a war with a mobster(Adam Baldwin) who killed their younger brother Gerald (Bill Paxton) in this surprisingly engaging action flick. Patrick Swayze makes for an appealing hero and the actionscenes are tight and spectacular however Next Of Kin doesn't quite meet it's potentional. "},{"Title":"You ain't seen bad yet.  But it's comin'.","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Hillbilly-turned-Chicago cop Patrick Swayze sets out to find his brother Bill Paxton's killer. His other brother Liam Neeson comes to the city to find the killer himself -- hillbilly style! It's hillbillies vs mobsters on the streets (and a cemetery) of Chi-town. I'm sure whoever did the casting on this movie had a brief career. I can buy Swayze and Paxton as hillbillies but Neeson? Also, Ben Stiller as a Sicilian mobster?Swayze is a citified hillbilly. We know they've civilized him because he pulls his mullet back into a fashionable ponytail. Neeson is not civilized. We know this because he wears a dirty baseball cap at all times, even when he has on a suit. Helen Hunt is Swayze's city wife. She plays the violin, which Swayze's hillbilly kin refer to as the fiddle. Rest assured, this movie never misses a chance to traffic in clichés.The action is so-so and the performances are about what you would expect. Swayze takes his part very seriously. Adam Baldwin seems to know the score and hams it up appropriately as the villain. There are many quotable lines, which is the mark of a good cheesy action movie. It's not at the top of my list of great '80s actioners but it's worth checking out anyway. "},{"Title":"I Laughed.....","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After the success of Dirty Dancing Patrick Swayze embarked on a string of tough guy films. All of which were bad beyond belief. Mr. Swayze may know how to dance but his acting prowess leaves a lot to be desired. Next of Kin is one of those bad beyond belief films. Swayze plays Truman, a Chicago cop who is searching for the killer of his brother. To make a long story short Truman comes from a white trash background in hillbilly country and he seems to be the only one who made it out and the rest of his family is well...hillbillies. The ending of this film was so hard to believe I was laughing my head off. Do you suppose that a group of backwoods rednecks would be able to come to Chicago and be able to find their way around? Well that is what they did plus help in finding and killing the people responsible for killing Truman's brother.Liam Neeson must have been hurting for money to be in this one. "},{"Title":"wow... boring","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this movie wasn't serious enough to be a drama, too serious to be a comedy and only your grandma would think it was an action movie. I realize that Patrick Swayze isn't the best actor in the world but when you see a movie with Liam Neeson and Ben Stiller you'd expect that it wouldn't suck... you'd be wrong. "},{"Title":"Pure Drek!","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The acting is fine. The cast is great. The script is lame, lame, lame. And did say it was lame? If the writers could exploit any ethnic stereotype in shameless fashion, they did. This story about culture clash and crime could have been told intelligently without resorting to over-the-top, sniggering, Hollywood-style bigotry. How could anybody take seriously a crime drama where two of the young mafia types' last names are Isabella and Rosselini? The only thing worthwhile to me was looking at all the Chicago exteriors and spotting the errors in geography.It is kind of fun to see a young Ben Stiller as a baby mafioso. I am relieved that this movie didn't wreck Adam Baldwin's or Liam Neeson's careers. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is a very average 80's action/thriller. There really isn't a lot of action until the end, but I can't imagine it being categorized as anything else because the plot was so transparent and shallow that it couldn't be considered a drama or anything. This one has it all Cheesy lines, the aforementioned bad plot, horrid and forced acting and really bad special effects.The movie's upside, which most people already pointed out, is the cast. What were these people thinking when they agreed to be in this stinker? There's tons of big names in this film from when they were very young. Ben Stiller as a mobster, Liam Neeson as a 'hillbilly', Helen Hunt as the girlfriend...Adam Baldwin, Bill Paxton, and obviously Patrick Swayze. Speaking of Swayze, it's movies like this that really stopped his career from going from 15 minutes of fame to possibly 15 or more YEARS of fame.Bad accents, forced acting, out of place casting and everything else mentioned above made this movie a below average film even for its time. Unless you're a Swayze nut, stay away from this movie. "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Next of KinThere's a lot of potential wasted here in this story of a redneck (Liam Neeson) whose big city brother (Bill Paxton in a brief cameo) is killed by crime lords (including a very young Ben Stiller). Taking revenge into his own hands, the redneck makes the trek to the big city and there finds his other brother, a cop (Patrick Swayze), doing virtually nothing about the case. Swayze tries to stop his brother from comitting murder--vengeance is up to the law--but he won't hear any of it.This could have been an amazing sort of culture clash revenge movie fueled by some great performances (we've got a top-notch cast here!), but it's wasted because the film is (a) too long, (b) too stupid, and (c) far too inept to notice that the potential for great film is somewhere deep down below.What a disappointment.Rated R for violence and language.** "},{"Title":"Truly laughable!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst films made by many of the cast!  Oscar nominee Liam Neeson as a hillbilly brother of Patrick Swayze! Hah! Bill Paxton and Oscar winner Helen Hunt went on to much greater success in 'Twister', but seem to just be paying their dues here.  Ben Stiller looks miserable. Unfortunately, Patrick Swayze has made too many films like this one; he actually seems to belong here.  Truly laughable from start to finish! "},{"Title":"Well, He Should Have Drove Them Home And Cut Them There, Melvin, Would Have Saved Us A S---load of Trouble.","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The film is directed by Englishman John Irvin who has made a rather unsung career out of bringing a stronger-than-usual sense of characterization to genre films. Although Irvin's filming of the action scenes are a little pedestrian, he still has a strong visual sense and manages to vividly contrast the conflicting worlds of the country and the city. The film's supporting cast is well chosen and both the heroes and the villains all come to life with a surprising amount of dignity. At no point do any of the actors demean their roles by playing... typical hillbillies or, for that matter, typical mobsters and that shows an unusual and admirable amount of integrity for a film of this sort. Paxton isn't on screen long but remains, as always, a likable presence and Adam Baldwin makes a compellingly understandable and hissable villain. Michael J. Pollard shows up as a hillbilly and brings his trademark quirkiness to the proceedings while the role of the nerdy mob scion is played by Ben Stiller, of all people. It's a little jarring to see Stiller show up on screen (especially playing an essentially villainous role) yet he gives a strong performance without resorting to do any standard Stiller bits. Helen Hunt's role is... typical but she's probably far warmer in this role than she's been in any of her prestige pictures. Certainly, the best performance in the film is given by Liam Neeson who dominates the proceedings with the grim sincerity he brings to his quest for revenge. This Irish actor also manages to perfectly capture the unique accent of the Appalacian region. As an actor, Patrick Swayze has always been limited and he's always been better at projecting sincerity than complexity. Luckily, his role in Next of Kin has been designed to require little more of him than sincerity and, if Next of Kin doesn't represent his best performance, its certainly his most likable.The music was great in this movie, a little culture and a lot of country. Swayze again wrote a song especially for this movie Brothers sung by Swayze and Larry Gatlin. All in all, Great acting from Liam Neeson and Patrick Swayze.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Chicago revenge movie, Swayze and Neeson were in fine form.","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Last week I was perusing the racks of movies on disk at my public library and came upon the BluRay of this 1989 movie. I figure that even an ordinary movie looks good on BluRay and I was right.I enjoyed this movie for a number of reasons. First it was good to see a 30-something Swayze who died way too young. It was also good to see a 30-something Neeson playing a hillbilly. And a young Helen Hunt, plus a young Ben Stiller. Plus I have two daughters and two grandchildren from Chicago, I have visited often, it is good to see the city in 1988.This is a pretty straightforward revenge movie. The Gates brothers are from hillbilly country. It was filmed in Hazard, Kentucky which is really in the middle of nowhere and a quick glance at Google street view shows it is your typical hick town. One of the Gates brothers is in Chicago to earn money as a delivery driver to go back home and start his own business. He is in the wrong place when a conflict arises and is killed, execution style in the back of his delivery truck, by the member of a Chicago mob family.Patrick Swayze is the brother, Truman Gates, who is also on the Chicago police force. He wants to do it by the books, find out who killed his brother, arrest him, and let the process work.But his brother, Liam Neeson as a much less refined Briar Gates, leaves his backwoods home to inflict justice himself. The key mob members are Adam Baldwin as Joey Rosselini and Ben Stiller as Lawrence Isabella, son of the boss. Helen Hunt is Truman's wife, Jessie Gates, pregnant with their first child. It was also good seeing character actor Michael J. Pollard as Harold the operator of the seedy boarding house Briar ends up in to plot his revenge.On strict technical merits, story, script and acting, it isn't a particularly good movie but entertaining if you like a good revenge movie.SPOILERS The execution was carried out by Joey with Lawrence as a witness. Lawrence was burned and shot dead by Briar but Joey got the best of Briar in a shootout at their offices. Now having lost two brothers to these wise guys Truman gives up his badge and sets out to hunt them down. With bow and arrow at night in a cemetery. Ready to do in Joey with a handgun, the big boss shows up, kills Joey himself for bringing so much trouble to the family. The feud is over. "}{"Title":"Several Big Stars, But Nothing Special","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Next of Kin has a rather unusual story about hillbillies fighting against mafia in Chicago. It all starts when an ordinary hillbilly named Gerald Briar who moved to town in order to become a truck driver gets killed by mobsters while doing his job. The main villain is Joey (played by Adam Baldwin), a very brutal and relentless member of the Isabela crime family, who has to work with his boss' harmless son Lawrence (Ben Stiller). What he did not know is that the trucker had a huge family of highlanders, and his brother Truman Gates (Patrick Swayze) lives in Chicago and works as a detective. After Gerald's funeral, Gerald's second brother Briar (Liam Neeson), who is just an ordinary unsuccessful hillbilly, decides to travel to Chicago in order to investigate his brother's death. He occupies a room in a cheap motel, prepares some bullets, and starts beating or threatening anybody who gets in his way. Meanwhile, Truman, who has a beautiful violinist wife Jessie (Helen Hunt), also starts his own investigation but through peaceful means and more subtle threats.The movie is quite slow-paced and the Briar brothers actually try to get the full picture of the 3rd brother's death before killing anybody. However, the movie's finale is just a dumb shootout scene where mobsters get brutally slaughtered with weapons including shotguns, bows, crossbows, throwing axes and even snakes! One must wonder why the movie is so long when in the end everything comes down to fighting and Truman's plan of lawful arrest fails, but that is probably due to movie magic. The rest of the movie is forgettable, with several events that do not make any sense. There is one exciting scene where Briar is being chased by mobsters and has to jump on moving trains which is worth watching. The scenes showing the Gates family in the hills are also well-made and successfully capture the spirit of a big highlander clan.All in all, Next of Kin does have some famous actors, most notably Liam Neeson and Patrick Swayze, but it's just an average crime action movie with several flaws. "},{"Title":"If you're in the right mood this is pretty fun and filled with young, on the rise talent","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Oh Patrick Swayze, as much as I adore you, you did make some questionable (bad) movie choices in your career. I wonder whose idea the mullet tied into a ponytail was here? Not a great look but hey, it was the 80's so much can be forgiven.Here Swayze plays a Chicago detective who sets out to find the (mobster) responsible for the death of his brother. His other brothers (all mountain Hillbillies) want to avenge his murder too and the relatives come to odds about the kind of justice to be used. Yup, it's hillbillies against the mob. Wow. And Liam Neeson, well he plays one of the backwoods brothers (didn't see that coming) What an accent.However for such a terrible movie it is filled with a bunch of young, on the rise talent. Helen Hunt is Swayze's wife, Bill Paxton and Liam his brothers and a baby faced Ben Stiller. If you're in the right mood this is kind of a fun movie. 09.13 "},{"Title":"Some fun moments.","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's high concept time in this tale of the hill folk of Kentucky taking on the Chicago mob. Patrick Swayze plays Truman Gates, who's from the hills and now works as a Chicago cop. His baby brother Gerald (Bill Paxton), a driver for a vending company, is murdered in cold blood by hot tempered cretin Joey Rosselini (Adam Baldwin). Well, Trumans' people get wind of this and his reactionary brother Briar (Liam Neeson) vows that vengeance will be meted out. Truman actually wants to do things the legal way and haul Joey into a court, but naturally things just don't work out that way.This may be far fetched and silly, but at least it's an entertaining story. One standout sequence has Briar escaping from the mob by hitching a ride on a train, and the climactic showdown when Trumans' family helps him take on a bunch of thugs is some pretty amusing stuff. (You gotta love the moment when Rhino (Valentino Cimo) finds some slithering friends waiting for him inside a bus.) It's all directed capably enough by John Irvin (Ghost Story, Raw Deal), with efficient location filming and an enjoyable soundtrack.Certainly the cast gives it some real interest. Neeson is a hoot as the older brother, but Paxton disappears a little too soon from the story. Swayze is okay, nothing more, as our hero, but he does handle himself well in fight scenes. There is one funny sequence where Truman and Briar tussle while handcuffed to each other. Helen Hunt has a rather thankless role as a typical Concerned Wife. Andreas Katsulas plays the mafia boss and none other than Ben Stiller plays his son. Michael J. Pollard is his usual nutty, amusing self as a motel owner. Del Close appears briefly, and Ted Levine has one big scene.All things considered, this is all pretty routine and watchable. At least the redneck family aren't portrayed as one dimensional cartoon characters.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"You know, paybacks are a b!tch","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This was the same year that Patrick Swayze had made the cult-action joint Road House, and the following action feature Next of Kin was a decent, if not particularly memorable outing by director John Irvin. Along for the ride was a familiar Hollywood cast (filled with character actors) and the material on show seemed to be presenting a theme of family values and blood is family --- linked together by the motivation for revenge. Two brothers from the south, Truman now a city cop who rarely sees his family and the other the older brother Briar a former coal miner worker share a shaky relationship when Truman left along with their younger brother Gerald for the city. However a tragedy occurs where Gerald is executed by gangsters. Truman hurting inside wants to catch the guys who did it by the law, but Briar turns up in Chicago to settle the score himself with or without Truman's help.Not really inventive (City folks underestimate what they see as simple mountain folk); nonetheless the slow-boil action is tough and brutal, even if it doesn't really pack much of a sting despite its somewhat dreary urban atmosphere. Some odd comic elements feel a little misplaced. Still it's quite grounded, until it reaches an all-out assault between the two families one night in a graveyard and poetic justice is reached. The stunts are well delivered and Irvin's mechanical style is well crafted. Patrick Swayze is likable in the lead and Liam Neeson as the square-minded Briar adds the sparks. Adam Baldwin is perfect as the scummy mafia man who caused the mayhem. Also dependably showing up is Helen Hunt, Andreas Katsulas, Ben Stiller, Ted Levine, Michael J Pollard and Bill Paxton as Gerald. "},{"Title":"Awash in mobster and hillbilly stereotypes ..........","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Never believable as hillbillies, Patrick Swayze and Liam Neeson struggle with a one idea script that runs out of steam in the first half hour. Helen Hunt adds little as the violin teacher love interest. A few action scenes, one involving elevated trains, and the presence of the always interesting Michael J. Pollard help, but can't move the film beyond mediocrity. Believability flies out the window and what remains is such a stretch that the movie bogs down. The cops stand by while the vigilante hicks run amok with bows and arrows and shotguns. Then in the finale, the main mobster pulls a no surprise surprise ending that does little more than leave the audience more unsatisfied than before. - MERK "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked Next of Kin.  Liam Neeson did a great job as a hillbilly - hard to believe he's from Ireland after watching this film.  Talk about versatile "},{"Title":"Worst movie I ever saw","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For all the big names in this film, it is truly pathetic.Shallow, cartoonish bad guys, and one-dimensional characters throughout. I can't believe this one was ever released theatrically, nor why it is being shown on TBS now. Back in 1989 some of the now-big name actors like Ben Stiller were just getting started, but others should have turned this one down, like Liam Neeson. His casting as a backwoods hillbilly out for vengeance in the big city of Chicago may be the worst casting I can remember. Patrick Swayze does his usual pathetic job of trying to be tough and sensitive at the same time, and again I am unimpressed. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Truly a horrible motion picture. I can't believe I wasted almost 2 hours watching this piece of crap. The acting was second rate at best by all involved. Should have been listed as a comedy. I see that this is the only movie script that was written by Michael Jenning, I can understand why. John Irvin must have been short of cash to agree to direct this. Found it kind of amusing that the Stiller and Baldwin characters last names came out to Isabella Rosselini and their first names equaled Joey Lawrence. This movie has no redeeming value even with a cast of well known actors. They should have all donated their salary's to the Chicago PD or Appalachian relief fund. I can't say it enough, horrible, horrible movie. "},{"Title":"Wooden","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A less-than-rousing Patrick Swayze action flick directed by the usually dependable John Irvin. This is no ROAD HOUSE. It's not even up to BLACK DOG. The final battle is awkwardly edited and flatly staged, so the series of skirmishes between hillbillies and mobsters leading up to the big finish sadly come to nothing in the end. This is strictly a by-the-numbers formula revenge flick. Swayze is about as animated as a wooden Indian, which is usual for him, and Liam Neeson is badly miscast as his backwoods brother. Bill Paxton can be seen for two minutes at the beginning of the flick as their apple-cheeked kid brother. NOK used to play frequently on TV, as did ROAD HOUSE, both being staples of cheap programming on cable stations. The always-stilted Swayze, a sort of poor man's Kurt Russell, has seen his star fade badly in recent years. I wonder why. Not. "},{"Title":"Next to Nothing.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A hot-headed mob hitman (Adam Baldwin) kills the brother (Bill Paxton) of a cop (Patrick Swayze) and starts a war between the mob and Swayze's country kin folks. Liam Neeson comes up to Chicago to take care of the problem while Swayze is torn between his duty and his blood. The film then turns ugly as more deaths occur and by the end a showdown between Swayze's people and crime boss Andreas Katsulas' associates is the only possible outcome. A good cast gets wasted real quick with a silly story that becomes nothing more than a revenge flick that has no creativity. Helen Hunt, Michael J. Pollard and a then-unknown Ben Stiller complete the film's players. 2 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Liam Neeson's high water mark!","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A so bad it's hilarious classic from the late 80s, this fine film represents Liam Scenery Chewer Neeson's high water mark in the role that he was born to play. Starring as the stereotypical redneck with a stereotypically redneck name (Briar, y'all! SHOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!), Neeson plays the foil to his supposedly reformed and equally inbred brother, Truman, capably portrayed by The Swayze.Rest assured, mindless rednecks aren't the only species receiving the stereotype treatment here - Chicago mobsters (including an early performance by Zoolander himself) also manage to get into the act, making for 108 wacky minutes of hijinx, merriment and goofiness, the likes which the Three Stooges would have found to be impressive.So hat's off to Liam Neeson and the pinnacle-topping performance of his mighty career! "},{"Title":"Hillbillies vs The Mob","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Kentucky native Truman Gates (Patrick Swayze) is a Chicago cop married to violinist Jessie (Helen Hunt). His younger brother Gerald (Bill Paxton) follows him to Chicago but is killed by Joey Rosselini (Adam Baldwin). Joey is trying to take over the Isabella crime family. Briar Gates (Liam Neeson) arrives from Kentucky to seek revenge for brother Gerald.This is the hillbillies versus the mob. It is stupid at times but also gritty good at other times. Patrick Swayze does a good job as a guy trying to straddle two worlds. Liam Neeson is surprisingly convincing as the redneck. I was on the fence for much of the movie. Then we got the final ridiculous shoot-out. I had to take one point away for all that stupidity in the cemetery. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is just a good old eye for an eye, you kill one of mine I will kill anyone involved movie. Patrick Swayse is a Chicago cop whose brother is killed by the mob. Liam Neeson, a hillbilly brother, comes to Chicago to try and find the killer. The two end up collaborating and go after the bad guys. Guess what, it turns out to be a very visceral blood bath. I do call bull s**t on the scene where Liam Neeson is reloading. You can not reliably reload ammo without a press. Ben Stiller as a bad guy??? He tries to carry it off but is a little short. Adam Baldwin plays a very impetuous but high level mob member. He gives no respect to the country folk and ends up paying for it. What the bad guys started the hillbillys finish. "},{"Title":"Hillbilly Heaven","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" NEXT OF KIN (1989) Back in the 80's action movies where all the rage, remember when everybody was seeing/talking about Die Hard, Predator, Lethal Weapon or the latest Rambo entry. Reenter those wonderful unforgettable days of ole for this piece of underrated southern fried vengeance and mayhem action flick starring mullet hero Patrick Swayze and a then largely unknown Liam Neeson, who sets the groundwork for his future metamorphosis from Oscar nominated actor to 21st century Charles Bronson, here.Directed by John Irvin, a maverick of the underrated action movie with credits like the Dogs of War and the superior Schwarzenegger vehicle Raw Deal, Swayze stars as Truman Gates, a reformed hillbilly turned windy city cop. When mobsters kill his little brother (Bill Paxton), he finds himself torn between what he should have done and what has to be done. So enter his estranged older brother, Briar (Neeson), the kind of Appalachian who keeps a severed deer's head in his fridge next to his beer. Briar comes to the big city looking for the men responsible and more than willing to stomp a few creeps to get some answers. Truman, unsuccessfully attempts to keep him on a leash, but soon finds himself drawn into the dark side of vengeance too.Not nearly as giddy silly as the much loved Swayze starrer cult classic Road House. Still, Next of Kin offers plenty to recommend like an awesome showdown in a cemetery, amiable characters, funny cheesy duologue, and a great role for cult character actor Michael J. Pollard as the proprietor of a flophouse who gets the film's single funniest line (Hell, no. I'd shoot somebody).Having never looked better than on the new Blu-ray release with it's 1851 high definition transfer, it easily replaces the poor quality budget pan & scan DVD from years ago. Featuring a stunning cast of actors who would continue to various levels of stardom, not just Neeson and Paxton, but also a never lovelier future Oscar Winner Helen Hunt, Adam Baldwin (Serenity) as the chief heavy, a young Ben Stiller as a mobster flunky and Ted Levine (Monk) .Next of Kin is not as well known as many of the other actioners of it's day, but it is one of the best. As expected there are plot holes, inconsistencies and plenty of good old clichés, but it's also a lot of fun and an agreeable time waster. A perfect lazy Sunday afternoon movie. "},{"Title":"Over the top, but still entertaining","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this film when I was 13 or so. I enjoyed it then, and I still enjoy it today.The plot is simple. WHile doing a hijacking of their own company truck, the truck's driver is murdered. Little do they know that the murdered trucker has a brother who's a Chicago Police officer.The murder only helps to strain the relation of Truman Gates (Swayze) and his brother, Brior (Neeson)and Truman with the rest of the family. Many of whom feel betrayed because Truman left the simple country life for the bright lights of the big city. This is much evident in the scene in which Gates and his wife (greatly played by Helen Hunt in a small role) arrive via a train. When Gates says that his family ain't too comfortable around strangers his wife replies I'm not a stranger, I'm your wife. To which Gates replies I wasn't talking about you. Despite the over the top premise, then film spends it's opening act to develop the characters, something that in todays special effect overdose, seems to have been greatly lost. The Gates brothers go on the usual hunt to find the killers.There is even some humor involved, as Neeson and Swayze banter well with each other. This is also a early starring role for Ben Stiller, who's gone on to make a string of forgettable formula comedies. The film also features, in minor roles, Bill Paxton as the ill fated Gates brother, Michael J. Pollard, and ANdres Katsulas as the mafia family head.The grand finale that takes place in the grave yard is a little over the top. However, the final resolution between the families shows the vengeance doesn't need to be taken on the innocent bystanders. ANd with the loss of his two brothers, Truman soon finds himself at a cross roads.If you're looking for Lawrence of Arbia, keep looking, because you're not going to find it here. If you are simply looking for a movie that intends to do nothing more then be entertaining for the viewer, this is perfect for you. "},{"Title":"Another top performance from Swayze!","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Although Patrick Swayze is at his best in the romantic and light humour films such as Fatherhood, To Wong Foo Thanks For Everything; Julie Newmar, Dirty Dancing etc. 'Next of Kin' was definitely no disappointment for me. A would-be hillbilly-turn cop avenges his younger brother's murder in a lawful manner, while a third brother goes about it in typical redneck-hillbilly style, causing more problems and endangering them both, as well as the pregnant wife of Truman (Swayze). The best part has to be the graveyard scene, where Truman's whole family takes on the bad guys, but their brother's murderer ends up being shot by his own father! With an excellent twist to the end, this is nothing short of a good flick to have sitting around for a rainy day. "},{"Title":"An almost hit for Raw Deal director","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Director John Irvin must have a real passion for mob movies. He tries his best in both Schwarzenegger's Raw Deal and now Patrick Swayze's Next of Kin to create a violent, good action film but make it passionate and dramatic and all about crime family vs crime family. However, Next of Kin is the later creation and he must have fine tuned some of the mistakes from the rather slow moving Raw Deal. Next of Kin is a much better film and perhaps a big part of that is the strong cast of future stars Next of Kin carries. Liam Neeson, Helen Hunt, Ben Stiller, Bill Paxton, and even Patrick Swayze who was really at the height of his career in this film...between Dirty Dancing and Ghost.Next of Kin takes a rather liberal view at a group of people not normally dealt with in films...mountain people...or hillbillies if you will. Swayze plays a former country boy who moved to the big city, became a cop, married his love, and is now urbanized himself. His little brother who aims to follow up in his footsteps ends up getting himself murdered by the crime family, Isabella. The rest of his kin want Swayze to avenge the death but Swayze is determined to let justice take it's course. Again, much like Raw Deal, Next of Kin is about vengeance and anger and it all bottles up until one big explosion of revenge in the end. The big difference is that Next of Kin stays interesting through the whole movie right up to and including the end and still has some really great action scenes to boot.The cast as previously mentioned is very well done fortunately for Mr. Irvin. Swayze plays a convincing cop and mountain boy and him and Helen Hunt have decent chemistry for their brief on screen moments. Adam Baldwin as the blood thirsty villain does a good job (not as good his later performance in Joss Whedon's Serenity (aka Firefly) as Jayne but he is convincing as the bad guy. Ben Stiller's brief role is also quite good as the smarter villain but he doesn't last long. Overall Next of Kin is mostly forgettable but a decent entry in the eighties action genre. It has it's moments and is worth checking out for those full of nostalgia. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The most accurate portrayal of hick America ever committed to film","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Reader, do you know all those cousins and distant relatives you have that live far off in such different places as Kentucky, Arkansas, West Virginia, Southern Ohio, Mississippi? Perhaps even North Dakota, or Iowa, or way out in Washington. The houses come complete with animal trophies mounted on the walls, bowling trophies displayed on the television, and piles of junk in the hallway and guest rooms and in the basement. They refer to our nations capitol as Warshington and in most of these places you can get a free shotgun if you buy a queen size bedroom set.Liam Neeson simply owns this movie, even Patrick Swayze has a hard time matching Neeson's intensity. Neeson's portrayal of your average ass-kicking coal miner from Kentucky is all the more awesome when you figure in the fact that the dude is Irish. Reader, do you think it's entirely impossible that they have rednecks in Ireland too? In the end, the mobsters (including a young Ben Stiller, who comes across remarkably like an arrogant little prick) can't defeat the dirty-fighting Hillbillies because the mobsters are sissies who like to look pretty and the Hillbillies, hell they don't care how dirty they get. They're hillbillies from Kentucky, what did you expect? "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable And Underrated Swayze Revenge Film, That's Pretty Well Made, With Fantastic Performances All Around!","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a very enjoyable and underrated Swayze revenge film, that's pretty well made, with fantastic performances all around!. All The characters are wonderful, and the story was pretty cool, plus Patrick Swayze is simply amazing in this!. Liam Neeson and Patrick Swazye shared an excellent bond as brothers and had fantastic chemistry together, and i thought Adam Baldwin, was wonderful as the main villain, plus the finale was quite exciting!. Most of the critics panned this, and i can't see why, it's got plenty of action, suspense, and fantastic performances, plus i thought Swayze's acting was fantastic!. The fight between Neeson and Swayze at the bar was very realistic and tense, and this features Ben Stiller in a very different and early role!, plus The ending was very surprising in my opinion!. Sure it may not be exactly original, but i really enjoyed as you care for the main characters,and root for them, plus it has quite a few powerful and shocking moments as well!. This is a very enjoyable and underrated Swayze revenge film. that's pretty well made, with fantastic performances all around!, i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is very good!. John Irvin does a very good job here, with great camera work, good angles and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is fantastic!. Patrick Swayze is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, very convincing, fantastic in the acting department, had excellent chemistry with Liam Neeson, and Helent Hunt, did awesome in his emotional scenes, and was just a lot of fun to watch!. (Swazye Rules!). Liam Neeson is fantastic as the brother, he made a great vigilante, had excellent chemistry with Swayze, was very intense, and was really into his role!, i loved him.Adam Baldwin is wonderful as the main villain, he is extremely sadistic, cold, although that smug smile of his made me want to slap him silly, i hated his character, and he played it really well, one of my favorite performances ever by a villain!. Helen Hunt is very good with what she had to do as Swayze's wife, and had good chemistry with him. Ben Stiller is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, although he didn't have much screen time, he had a great character, he was so vulnerable, and i just couldn't help but like his character i really felt sorry for him, he rocked! (Stiller Rules!). Andreas Katsulas is good as the father and did what he had to do well. Bill Paxton,Michael J. Pollard and Ted Levine all do great in there small roles. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Patrick second action film from 89 is just as good","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Next of Kin is the second action film that Patrick Swayze starred in from 1989. The film is full of action and has some great fight scenes. Daniel Baldwin is great as the bad guy and look for a young Ben Stiller before he hit his prime. "}{"Title":"Many people miss the underlying theme of this movie","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay...this is not a perfect movie, and it is hard to categorize because it is not violent enough for today's action movie label, funny enough for today's comedy tag or serious enough to earn the drama moniker.We also have to realize that this is early in the career of some of the performers.  Helen Hunt, liam Neeson, Ben Stiller and Bill Paxton are big today, but you cannot measure this movie by today's standards.What a lot of people seem to have missed here is the theme about family and friendships.  You had the hillbilly vs. the mob family -- hard to compare -- not really.  The movie accented that their were more similarities than differences.  There are too many examples to be worth singling any of them out.You also had the loyalty/friendship theme.  Think of how Michael J. Pollard, living in the basement of society, had high morals, or how the guys in the hillbilly bar could family up.  You could measure that to the members of the bosses crime family against the character of Adam Baldwin.All in all, this is not a great movie...good at best.  But there are some interesting points worth pondering.  And seeing an Irishman, Liam Neeson, playing a classic redneck hillbilly is worth seeing it all by itself.Finally...another overlooked part of this movie is the excellent soundtrack.  It is among my small collection of movie soundtracks, that should sum it. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have lived in Chicago my whole life and can tell you two things for certain one, no honest cop(least not the ones I know) could afford a house like Truman's, secondly, the area where he lived is typically crowded with cars; there is no way the mob guys could have just pulled right up in front of it. Liam Neeson was completely believable as a hillbilly,and the train jumping scene was fun to watch.  The flophouse he was staying at is EXACTLY where someone like that would end up. And I must say, that Patrick Swayze added a nice visual interest.  Is a shame that his real life wife didn't recieve credit for playing the violin. But, if you're a native Chicagoan, rent this movie...just to see the sights. Lake Shore Drive never looked better. "},{"Title":"Dull and uninspiring, but worth watching if you're a Swayze fan.","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Amazingly, I'd never seen this movie, though I'd seen its cover on the rental shelf countless times. It was the passing of Swayze that provided the motivation to see some of his other, lesser known movies.Swayze was as good as always but he didn't really have much to work with here. The plot certainly didn't provide anything we haven't seen a hundred times already. It had a gritty, dirty feel to it so if the director was trying to get that across then he succeeded in this point.The script was rather corny at times, perhaps because that was the way movies were made in this period but perhaps also because it was trying to show mountain people. If I was a member of that community I would have been embarrassed to have been portrayed this way but perhaps that is just my ignorance as a foreigner.One of the worthwhile reasons for seeing this movie is to catch a glimpse of some very well known actors before they hit mainstream popularity. Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton play rather wooden characters which sadly doesn't allow a hint of their talents to shine through. Neeson is excellent and quite believable as a scruffy looking mountain guy. The most out of place actor would be Ben Stiller. Knowing him as we do today it is just hard to take him seriously so in retrospect he is very miscast.The action is pretty dull by today's standards which might have been okay if the plot was complex and the characters well developed. Unfortunately, it makes for a somewhat boring experience. I found the tiny hints of life in the Appalachian Mountains very interesting. If this movie was remade with more emphasis on their culture and the problems they face then it could be an extremely interesting movie, perhaps showing the community in a way similar to how Witness gave a glimpse at Amish life.As it stands, though, it is really just a late night TV movie or for fans of Swayze. "},{"Title":"Good movie and well done.","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Personally, I don't think the comments from the original poster are worthy of this movie. I don't thin the original poster would know a good movie if it slapped him in the head...This was a very well done movie with a great cast. Patrick Swayze did an excellent job of portraying a redneck-gone-big-city cop. Liam did a fantastic job of playing the out-for-revenge redneck-vs-mafia role as well. There is not much that would have made this movie any better than it was. In fact, changing it would have ruined it. Perhaps if Bill Paxton would have had a larger role rather than a get-killed-quick cameo... but other than that, I don't see what would have made this much better... "},{"Title":"Don't you just love Family?","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well about the plot and the characters, you'll just have to see, it is fairly well done movie, lots of good scenes, although some bring up thoughts of deliverence , but don't come close to 'Squeel like a pig boy'. Anyways Good Movie, makes you think what family will do for you. But don't take my word. See it. Good waste of time like most films. "},{"Title":"good shoot 'em up","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Really enjoyed this one, primarily because of the vigilante angle. I like to see a guy get paid back for messing where he shouldn't. The bad guys messed with the family of the hero, so he came to town and paid them back in spades.  Swayze carried a double rig shoulder holster, and knew how to use the hardware. Lots of gunplay.  "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Next Of Kin'","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This wasn't too bad an action movie but it wasn't all that memorable, either. It's another Liberal elitist script that shows hillbillies as vengeful dumb-ass hicks. There also is the normal religious cheap shot of showing the morons put their hands on the Bible and say a life for a life. Amen. That's the typical subliminal message for their viewers that anyone who reads the Bible isn't really a moral person, but revenge just like them.These believers then head for Chicago to get their brother's killer. There was a good cast in the film with Patrick Swayze and Liam Neeson making an interesting one-two in the lead roles. I actually would watch this again, some 15 years later, just to see some of the supporting cast people who have gone on to become pretty famous such as Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Ted Levine, Ben Stiller and others. "},{"Title":"One of the Decades Worst Action Turkeys","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Here is an Example why Patrick Swayze (who? the haircut!) Never went Beyond His 15 Minutes of Fame and Liam Neeson is Still Going Strong. Talent and Ability. Director John Irvin Lost His Edge on this One and Delivered a Laughable, Clumsy, Shallow, and Listless Movie. The List of Name Actors going through the Motions here is Impressive and Long, but Doubtful that Any of Them Used this One on Their Resume. This Dog Don't Hunt.Occasionally the Action is Overscored by an FM Soft Rock Ballad with Lyrics about Family (or Kin) that make the Eyes Roll and a Knee Slap Inevitable. The Hillbilly and Mob Clichés abound and the Trademark Cultural Flourishes are on a Level Lower than Dirt. Adam Baldwin, Helen Hunt, and Ben Stiller all Compete with Swayze for the Razzberries.The Climactic Shoot Out is so Bland and Pretentious it can be a Hoot if You let it. There are Snakes on a Bus, Bear Trap, Bows and Arrows, Crossbow, Machine Guns, 45's, Shotguns, Grenade Launcher, Knives, a Hatchet. Hound-Dogs, and for the Really Big Ending...A Fist Fight.One of the Worst Action Movies of the Decade. The Only Attraction is the Big Name Cast and the Chicago Locations. Both are Misused and Mishandled. This One Misses all the Marks. "},{"Title":"Okay action movie, I enjoyed it better than Roadhouse.","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" From the score here I see that this movie is not enjoyed by all and is a universally well liked movie, but I thought it was rather good. The plot for me was much better than Roadhouse and you had an array of stars in this one to really make the movie good. Not only do you have Swazye, you get Liam Neeson too. Heck, you even have a young Ben Stiller in a small, but important role. The story has a guy from the south in the hills someplace as a cop in a big city. His brother is killed and while on a trip back in the hills his other brother wants revenge so he comes back to the city to seek out his revenge. About all there is to it with the plot though there is a surprise near the end of the film. The plot takes us to a couple of distinctly different locals on the way too as you have the city and you have the mountains too. The bad guys in this one are rather good too and the action is not super shoot em up or anything, but it is fairly exciting to watch. I liked the scene where Liam Neeson's character evaded capture by using trains to get away. In the end it is a bit different and while nothing spectacular it did entertain me. "},{"Title":"Another good movie for Swayze!","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's a good movie I saw with Patrick Swayze. However, there was some typecasting. But what did I care? This movie was great. The art of revenge, defending one's honor, that's what this movie was really about! Patrick Swayze plays Truman Gates, a Chicago cop with Bluegrass roots, who goes to Kentucky to find out that his brother was killed. The witness was a friend and partner of the brother. Why did he got spared? Who knows? Liam Neesom plays the other brother, Briar. He was bent on revenge big time!The same man that killed their brother kills a son from a family he's married to. So if you think the Gates family were out for blood? Well, think again! Mr. John Isabella(Andreas Katsulas, The Fugitive) is the other vengeful one. The final fight scene is memorable. The hillbillies versus the mob. The home-front advantage went straight to the Gates. However, the final redemption went also to the Isabellas as well, when the father killed his son-in-law. A divorce that's fully final. The cast are great, the plot is fulfilling, the results is an all or nothing smack-down for the honor of family. 2.5 out of 5 stars! "}]