[{"Title":"The Best Engineering flick in decades, great history and melodrama, too","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's rare for a movie to both encompass the process of problem solving and a fantastically far-reaching moral quandary AND be a fairly accurate historical movie, but Fat Man and Little Boy pulls off this trick.It's the story of the Manhattan Project -- the World War II effort to build the atom bomb, told as the conflict between the two men who made it happen, Gen. Leslie Groves and Robert Oppenheimer.The historical figures are a great study in opposites military vs. civilian, practical vs. idealistic, emotional vs. scientific, brute force vs. consensus-based problem solving, immediacy vs. long-term vision. A fictional character, played by John Cusack, is added as a sort of synthesis of the two historical figures, to show the humanity that oddly escapes the real people (and of course the obligatory love interest, played by Laura Dern). One looking for a straight documentary might criticize the lapses into melodrama (and occasional looseness with the facts, but that's Hollywood for ya), but the purpose of fiction is to synthesize and galvanize events into more universal truths, so I think this can be forgiven.One of the great visuals in the movie is when Oppenheimer witnesses the first atomic explosion it's done entirely through his reaction, and considering the awesome visuals inherent in an atomic explosion, it's a brave and entirely effective way of describing in a single moment the ambivalent effect on humans of unleashing such power (the sort of thing lost in the typical Hollywood shoot 'em up version of history.) The use of music is particularly excellent in the last third of the movie.Fairly accessible and highly recommended as both a historical movie and drama of the highest order. "},{"Title":"An interesting chronicle about the historic events referred to creation the first atomic bomb","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This exciting picture is a dramatization of nuclear run and follows the development of the Manhattan project in Los Alamos from first conception of the power within the atom , the 235 uranium , with the neutrons bombing into the piles of graphite which leads to nuclear reaction that produces the atomic bomb , ¨the Trinity¨ . The movie describes the power struggles and tensions between an idealist Robert Oppenheimer (Dwight Schulz) , the project's science leader and General Leslie Groves (Paul Newman) , the project's military commander . It was a race for the bomb because of the Nazis with the scientist Heisenberg were also making a nuclear bomb . Besides, there appears famous scientists who contributed to the atomic success with the first bomb as Leo Szilard , Enrico Fermi and Edward Teller .The film is overlong , a little bit dull and slow moving , though the semi-fictional accounts narrated are very interesting . Paul Newman as the military brain is excellent and Dwight Schulz (A team) as Oppenheimer , the head behind it , is magnificent . In real life, Newman was a liberal and Schultz is a conservative , opposites of the roles they played in this film . Furthermore , a distinguished rest cast as John Cusack , Laura Dern , Bonnie Bedelia , and Natasha Richardson , all of them are enjoyable . Director Roland Joffé cast numerous real-life scientists, including future Nobel Prize winner David Politzer, in small speaking and background roles . Exceptional and colorful cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond and sensitive musical score by the master Ennio Morricone . The motion picture was professionally directed by Roland Joffe (The mission) . Other films as ¨Fat man (this way called by bombing in Hiroshima) and Little boy¨ (so named by Nagasaki) are the followings  ¨Day one¨ , ¨Engola Day¨ , ¨Hiroshima¨ and for TV  ¨Oppenheimer¨ with Sam Waterson and one of the best is the Canadian series titled ¨Race for the bomb¨ with Maury Chaykin as General Groves and directed by Allan Eastman . Rating  Good and worthwhile seeing. "},{"Title":"We've Got The Bomb","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It was a fascinating story waiting to be told. FAT MAN AND LITTLE BOY takes us inside the trials and tribulations of a group of top American scientists handed a lofty task during the Second World War beat everyone else to the atomic bomb. Sequestered in a heavily-guarded New Mexico compound, the brainiacs slowly turn the idea from ambitious concept into immense reality.FAT MAN AND LITTLE BOY is one of those films that requires your close attention. It's a real thinking person's movie, not only from the scientific aspect of developing a seemingly impossible weapon, but also the moral implications of contributing to killing on a massive scale. Characters are constantly torn between that reality and their wartime duty as Americans. The film is never preachy about, however, leaving us free to marvel at the enormity of the inner turmoil these men face. The performances deserve special mention as well. Paul Newman delivers one of his great, understated performances as the Pattonesque general in charge of delivering the ultimate big stick for the Allied Forces.Where FAT MAN AND LITTLE BOY loses much of its traction is in the unnecessary romantic component. Dwight Schultz as the leader of the scientific team struggles with his affections for his family and his relentless obsession with his big project. Director Roland Joffe apparently felt the need to explore the more human angles of this story, but the romantic overtones serve primarily as a distraction. Besides, it's the interaction among the scientists and their military hierarchy that give us the greatest insight into the thoughts and feelings of these brilliant men.Still, it's difficult not to recommend FAT MAN AND LITTLE BOY. It's a largely forgotten gem that puts a human face put on one of the most intriguing stories in human history. "},{"Title":"One of the more accurate films about the making of the ATOMIC Bomb","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Having worked with all historical aspects of nuclear energy, radiation, etc. for 11 Years ( including working with the US D.O.E - Department of Energy during the cleanup of the Chicago site ), I found this film to be VERY accurate with only several exceptions ( such as groves did not meet Szliard in a bathtub in Szliards Apartment, the Critically accident referred to in th film happened later at Los alamos to Louis Slotin and Harrry Daughlin, and groves was slightly heavier than neumann's character, and not to mention much less harsh and abusive, although he was a perfectionist, always VERY concerned about the sites security and about the public's safety and sometimes got his way without exception, and finally there were other sites in the early project that should have been mentioned more...such as Chicago ). Technically, I feel that the producers/directors created a Perfect Feel for the time, as most sites I've been too are simply a-lot of high-dollar, high-tech stuff in the middle of quite isolated areas - very quiet with just the sound of wind blowing and creaking steel. I've seen some peoples reviews talking about this movie as if they're reviewing a love story.....Hello, This story is about an atomic bomb !!!!! I too feel that the brief love story romance is not really needed, but I'm sure that the directors put it in there to show you what oppenheimer was also going thru emotionally in addition to all the chaos he was already facing day-to-day on the projects sites !!! I have seen this movie on VHS, Laserdisc and FINALLY DVD, and I must say that the DVD release is the SHARPEST transfer made of the movie to-date; they did a very good job on the mastering as well ( No artifacts or blockiness - and to those Fatman and LittleBoy movie buffs, yes, they still left in the 1 or 2 screwed-up voice-overs ). Unfortunately, after waiting years for the DVD release to come out, there are really no special features aside from 43, Widescreen 169, and Dolby 51 ( which I was hoping for, since the soundtrack is AMAZING ), There isn't even a trailer for the movie !!! -( What was paramount thinking ????? Well, maybe they'll read this review and include some more special features ( Like interviews with Paul Neumann, John Cusack, Dwight Schultz, along with a TRAILER of the movie, and some behind-the-scenes making-of the lots ) if they ever release it in High-Definition 1080p !!! One can only hope. All-in-all its an excellent movie, but if your renting/buying/watching it because you thought it was a romantic movie.....DON'T BOTHER !!!!  "},{"Title":"Lazy and simplistic","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Fat Man & Little Boy plays like the Cliff's Notes version of an important period in history and science. The first moment we see a carefree, laughing Oppenheimer, it is obvious that the film is going to take quite a few liberties with characterization. When Paul Newman strides onto the scene, accompanied by Patton-like music, all credibility is immediately destroyed. My major problem with Fat Man & Little Boy is the character of Oppenheimer. Oppenheimer was a complex character, a misfit, a neurasthenic polymath. This film only scratches the surface of his personality, and the actor who plays him is horribly miscast, although he tries his best. Towards the final days of the Project, Oppenheimer had become extremely thin and cadaverous. The constant hounding by Communist hunters digging into his personal life coupled with his moral qualms about the use of the Bomb threw him into a state of nervous exhaustion bordering on paranoia. There is no hint of the inner man in this portrayal. The community of physicists at Los Alamos was a collection of brilliant and unusual men. There were many conflicts and a lot of competition going on which are pretty much ignored. It was frustrating to see all of this potentially rich material cast aside in order to simplify the film and make it accessible. In addition to ignoring the real characters involved in the Manhattan Project and misinterpreting the ones it treats, the film introduces John Cusak as the Everyman Physicist, a fictional character created to humanize(?)the subject and engage the average viewer, along with the obligatory love interest. This slows the movie down to a crawl and it was walking pretty slowly to begin with. This movie takes a situation rich in drama and conflict coupled with scientific and historical interest and turns it into a boring, simplistic soap opera. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie, Despite What They Say...","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cold War enthusiasts are like Civil War enthusiasts in that they get extremely upset when something is portrayed differently than it actually happened (or differently than they THINK it happened). When you read a negative review of this movie, that is what you are seeing. It may not be 100% factual with the timeline and all of that, but who cares? It is still an excellent movie. The acting is wonderful and the message is even better. Dwight Schultz does an amazing job with his role. The entire cast must have lost 50 lbs each to look like skinny 1940s people. If you haven't seen this film, see it. If you have and you didn't like it, please see it again and look at it with an open heart. It truly questions the moral issues of developing the bomb. It makes you think! "},{"Title":"For the scientifically inclined","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  We watched this movie in my chemistry class, so obviously it had educational value.  I thought the film did a really good job of intertwining the subjects of the science, moral issues and personal experiences of the manhattan project, but wasn't exactly focused on strong acting.    I would recommend this movie for the scientifically inclined or those interested in the moral issues behind Fat Man and Little Boy, but if the subject of nuclear bombs bores you, don't see it.  "},{"Title":"The Challenge Of The Problem","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Fat Man And Little Boy were the code names of the two atomic bombs that were dropped in reverse order on Nagasaki and Hiroshina. How these came to be and came to be in American hands is the story of this film.The terms by the way are the code names of two bombs fueled with plutonium and uranium. Fat Man was the plutonium bomb and that one was dropped on Nagasaki and Little Boy was the one used on HiroshimaThe film is primarily a conflict between General Leslie R. Groves of the United States Army and physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer who led the team of scientists who developed the bomb under Groves's direction. With two men from as widely divergent backgrounds as these were, conflict was inevitable.Paul Newman who all his life has been a disarmament activist plays General Groves. To his credit Newman does not play a man whose views he would very little in common with as any kind of caricature. Groves is a military man first and foremost with an engineering background. He wanted a combat command as trained military professionals would naturally want in this greatest of wars. But because of his background in engineering Groves got to head the Manhattan Project which was what the effort was code named. So be it, Newman is determined to make his contribution to the war effort count.Most of us first became acquainted with Dwight Schultz from the A-Team as H.M. Murdoch the pilot whose grip on reality is tenuous at best. If one was only acquainted with the A-Team, one might think that Schultz had a great future in comic roles.Instead Dwight Schultz is one of the best actors in the English speaking world with an astonishing range of dramatic parts since leaving that television series. J. Robert Oppenheimer in life was a complex man who recognized the dangers and benefits of atomic energy. The challenge of the problem also intrigues him. Later on Oppenheimer got into a real bind because of his left-wing political views and associates which everyone knew walking into the Manhattan Project. Some of the lesser roles that stand out are Bonnie Bedelia as Mrs. Oppenheimer, Natasha Richardson as Oppenheimer's Communist mistress whose affair with Oppenheimer got him in such a jackpot later on, and Laura Dern as a nurse at the Los Alamos site.But the best is John Cusack who as Michael Merriman is a composite of some real life scientists who might accurately be labeled as the first casualties of the atomic age. His scenes with Laura Dern, especially with what happens to him, take on a real poignancy.The debate over the bombs as the use put to them is still a matter of raging debate. Fat Man And Little Boy presents the facts and lets you decide what might have happened if an alternative use of them had been taken. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If you know anything about the Manhattan Project, you will find Fat Man and Little Boy at least an interesting depiction of the events surrounding that story. The film is in all ways a very realistic portrayal of these events, and in many ways it is almost too real (such as some scenes involving radiation poisoning). Paul Newman, as usual, is brilliant in his role and always manages to come off like a real person on the screen. The supporting cast, such as John Cusack, Laura Dern, Bonnie Bedelia, and Natasha Richardson, is fairly good as well. This film is not, however, one of the best examples of turning a true story into a movie. Great films are able to take a true story and use just enough artistic license to keep its audience engaged for the entire movie. This one, however, tends to drag a bit throughout, and some scenes (such as John Cusack and Natasha Richardson's love story) could have been eliminated entirely without causing the film to lose much. Nevertheless, there are enough interesting facts and tiny humorous bits to at least keep the audience interested enough to see the entire film. It does not always entertain, but as far as great depictions go, this is very accurate, fascinating, and will leave the audience with something to think about.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the movie enough to watch it 3 times.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The movie seemed a little slow at first. But it picked up speed and got right to the point. It showed exactly how the government and the scientist argued for humanity and the reasons of the gadget. I enjoyed it. It is very close to reality as any movie about the Atomic Bombs that were to be dropped on Japan. I have recommended it to friends. I was particularly pleased with the acting ability of Dwight Schultz. "}{"Title":"I Have Become Death Destroyer Of Worlds","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis movie tends to split viewers on two axes those wanting true history detest the movie and those, like your author, who hold the history to be secondary to the battle between these two men like it. Oppie and Groves could not be more antithetical to each other. We hear each of them echo contempt for the other and their conviction they will best the other. The iconic scene of the movie is not the explosion, rather it is the parade of celebration at the very end. Watch Groves and Oppie's eyes meet with Morricone's sad music in the background. Oppie's show resentment, recrimination and disillusionment, Grove's have only triumph in them. Newman's Groves gives Oppie hegemony over the scientists while carefully manipulating the information flow. Like the scene where a subordinate is told not to tell Oppie that the Germans are making little progress on the Bomb, Groves says,Don't show him that, I am having enough trouble with him already. After Germany's surrender, Groves, cleverly, takes him to the warehouse with the empty bomb casings using his scientific curiosity deftly against him. All through the movie, Groves uses his Machavellian gifts to control Oppie. He even makes him break up with his communist lover, causing her to commit suicide. The communism was a cloak for control over his mind.I like the movie for it depicts the tragedy that was Oppenheimer. When the bomb explodes, watch for the horror on his face. My header, an ancient Hindu text, were the words he spoke upon seeing his horrific creation. Many objected to the Cusack love triangle sub story. This is here to show you the hideous fate of the victims of the Bomb. Nobody knew back then how radiation killed people. Joffe lets you see what it does to its victims who lacked the good fortune to be next to the blast. The film does show the pressures put upon Groves, with Fred Thompson playing his superior storming in and promising him pay back after the project it done. He was using all his boss' resources,I will remember and I happen to have another star. When reviewing this movie, I must be honest with you the movie focuses on the war between these two men. The history of the bomb really is in the background. There is plenty of information about its construction but Joffe really centers in on the costs to Oppie.Great minds are distinguished from lesser ones by the power of their imaginations. Oppie was convinced until his dying day that he had invented the weapon we will wipe ourselves out with. When I watch this over, I think the depiction of the horror on his face echoes his quotation. He is already there temporally seeing us kill ourselves off with his creation. The movie has flaws, a bit slow and Schultz, while physically similar to Oppie, is a little weak to be with Newman. There are parts of his reading that are inflection-less and rigid. The Cusack sub story is a bit too long; the point could have been made without drawing it out this much. Yet, for all its flaws, I recommend the movie. Read what happened to Oppie after this, persecuted as a Red by the people who used his weapon. His life was one long tragedy after this moment in time. I must admit I share Oppie's view of our collective future. One can only imagine when the guys like the lunatics on 9 / 11 get the Bomb what will happen. Newman gives an excellent performance; admittedly, it is far from Joffe's best but it is still a good movie. "},{"Title":"Boring, slow, silly and incorrect beyond belief.","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Wanted to write a review, since I watched this movie last night for the first time since the early '90's. I was so disappointed. I've been reading a lot about the Manhattan Project, since it and things regarding atomic physics has been a bit of a hobby of mine, since childhood. I'm a huge fan of Newman, but that was wrong casting beyond belief. While it was common knowledge, General Groves was a very strict and stern person, I've never come across any information that portray him as a Patton-like classic military hard-ass. He was quite a sensible person, who carried a great deal of respect around him, but he was also a person capable of showing this respect towards others, IMHO, this movie and Newman completely miss this, and portray him as being a bit of an arrogant a-hole. The entire story surrounding the Project is so flawed and thin, it beggars belief. Oppenheimer, or Oppie was, as others have said, a very complex person. This film portray him, frankly, as a bit of a clown. The entire romantic plot is just down right stupid, and does not ad a single thing to the film. It only manages to slow it down even further. It does not help, that John Cusack is rather annoying is his role as well. The lack of historic characters, like Fermi, Szilard, Einsteim, Neddermeyer, Teller etc. makes it seem pointless. The way the entire screenplay is set up, as the usual Hollywood soap drama, puts the final nail in the coffin for this disaster of a movie. If you want to watch a good flick about the Manhattan Project and people surrounding it, watch Day One. It was made and came out the same year, and is a fantastic piece of film, where every single character and the story is nailed very close to spot on. A glitch here and there, which can only be expected, but very, very good. Why Day One did not become the popular one and FM&LB did, is only a testament to what is wrong with Hollywood and critics. IMO. "},{"Title":"Weird and Compelling","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a weird and compelling film. The topic, about the atom bombs created at Los Alamos, NM in the USA and used on Japan during the latter part of World War II, is huge, and of course deeply disturbing. The film's plot takes on a lot of heavy issues and the actors have to carry much of the creative tension. I had never seen the film, or was much interested in it I have to admit, until I read the book Smoking in Bed Conversations with Bruce Robinson. Robinson wrote the story and screenplay. I think the film was better than I expected from reading Robinson's point of view in the conversations about it, but I can see how he thought it got derailed. I think Paul Newman is pretty good, but is somehow at bottom, miscast. He's too Hollywood. At one point, a big, mean-looking guy storms into Newman's office and has such a striking presence, I immediately thought he should be playing the character Newman is playing. The other lead, who plays the head scientist, is also fairly good, but somehow not brilliant enough to portray the huge angst that goes with the part - the immense responsibility for creation of an ultimate machine of death and destruction. One of the more effective characters seems to be a composite personality, played by John Cusack. He is oddly affecting throughout, and in the end, is the character whose fate really hits home and who made me think most vividly of the fate of more than 200,000 Japanese people in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. "},{"Title":"skin deep history lesson","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The director and co-writers of 'The Killing Fields' condense the 19-month Manhattan Project into a confrontation between the freethinking scientific community and the more pragmatic military mind, represented on one hand by physicist Robert Oppenheimer and on the other by General Leslie Groves, who staked his career on not only getting the atomic bomb built but doing so before the war could end and thus make the project redundant. By necessity the film has to skim over too many fascinating moral debates; nineteen months is a lot of ground to cover, especially with so much valuable screen time wasted on romantic subplots. But even dodging some vital issues the film still presents a tense, tidy historical drama, and Paul Newman's performance as General Groves may be the best portrayal of a military man since George C. Scott ran roughshod over the krauts in 'Patton'. The title, by the way, refers to the nicknames of the A-bombs eventually used on Japan and not, presumably, to the film's two protagonists. "},{"Title":"The Biggest Damn Stick in the Play Yard!","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I find it remarkable that so little was actually done with the story of the a-bomb and it's development for decades after the Manhattan Project was completed. My suspicion is that this was due to serious fears in the movie and entertainment industries (in the 1950s through the 1970s) with McCarthyism and related national security phobias (including the Hollywood blacklist). There was one film in the 1950s (with Robert Taylor) about Col. Paul Tibbits who flew the Enola Gay in the Hiroshima bombing, but otherwise nothing else. One could glance at a side issue tragedy (the sinking of the U.S.S. Indianapolis soon after the delivery of the bombs to Tinian) in Robert Shaw's description of the shark attacks on the survivors in JAWS. But the actual trials and tribulations of Groves, Oppenheimer, and their team was not considered film-able.And then in 1989 two films appeared. I have reviewed one already (DAY ONE) which I feel is the better of the two in discussing the lengthy technical and emotional and political problems in the Manhattan Project. The acting of Brian Dennehy as General Groves and David Strahairn as Oppenheimer was first rate and neatly balanced. Small side vignettes concerning the anti-bomb crusade of Szilard (Michael Tucker) help fill out the story well.That's the problem here. Paul Newman is a great actor (as is Mr. Dennehy) but Newman approached Groves in a different way that while not dreadful is lesser than Dennehy's intelligent but soft spoken military brass. Newman seems too popped eyed about the possibility of the weapon as the biggest stick to confront the other boys in the after-school yard with. Yes it certainly was, but the real Groves would have been more like Dennehy keeping his mind not on that great toy of the future but on the business of creating that great toy. Dwight Schultz's performance as Oppeheimer helps maintain the film's basically interesting and good production, aided by Bonnie Bedelia as his wife. But the most interesting aspect of this film is in the upgrading of the two tragedies of Daghlian and Slotin, in particular the latter, in the character of John Cusack's Merriman. Inevitably in all technological advances people are killed. It's just that these two tragedies (on top of the tens of thousands that were lost in Hiroshima and Nagasaki) brought home the dangers of the new unleashed power even in a so-called peaceful, controlled experiment. The two tragedies (particularly Louis Slotin's slow, agonizing death by radiation poisoning) showed how much care was needed in using atomic power - and how the barest of chances could still cause disaster. The only really different thing I saw in Cusack's performance (and the script) and the actual incident with Slotin was that Slotin actually took some time after the accident to figure out where all his fellow research scientists were when they were hit by the radiation from the accident (he was able to show that only he got the full effect of the accidental blast, so that only relatively minor treatment would be needed by the others). Perhaps the full story of Slotin's actions was too technical for the screen, but given the humongous pain he suffered in the end that he took time off to think of the others shows what a first rate person he really was. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Out of five stars, I would give Fat Man and Little Boy three. One reviewer who said they had watched this for chemistry class commented the history was good but the acting wasn't strong. I will agree the history was fascinating, and that the acting appeared not to be strong. However, I saw the script itself as being the problem, not the actors -- Paul Newman, Dwight Schultz, John Cusack, Laura Dern -- all were excellent insofar as the script allowed them to be. My feeling is the scriptwriter tried to capture too much all at once and cram it into a two-hour movie. It tried to tell the story of how the Manhattan Project affected not only American policy but also the personal lives of those involved, but instead of adopting an intimate atmosphere in which to do this, it went for broad, broken strokes. To me, it was just too ambitious for one movie  -- the Manhattan Project is not like the sinking of the Titanic, a tragedy that happened in one night; it was a long, arduous process that sapped brain power and spirit from the people who had the knowledge of how to tap atomic energy, but also the conscience to worry what would be done with it once they did. "},{"Title":"FAT MAN AND LITTLE BOY (Roland Joffe', 1989) **1/2","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" An interesting &#150; one might say, inevitable &#150; depiction of the birth of the Nuclear age (I had watched the very first treatment of the subject, THE BEGINNING OR THE END 1947, some years back), with the title a reference to the nicknames given the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and which hastened the end of WWII. For director Joffe', it was a follow-up to two impressive movies, both similarly involved in eliciting outraged public response to man's inhumanity to his fellow man &#150; THE KILLING FIELDS (1984) and THE MISSION (1986) &#150; which, like the film under review, was scored by Ennio Morricone; this, however, puts the culprits rather than their victims at center-stage &#150; while taking care to present almost every possible angle in the issue. Having said that, the film never quite moves one like it should and is awfully slow-moving to boot at one point, the scientist (The A-Team's Dwight Schulz!, though surprisingly convincing) commissioned to work out the device tells his collaborator (John Cusack who, in a harrowing sequence, eventually becomes the first victim of the A-bomb) that they are not responsible for how their handiwork is ultimately put to use&#133;which is utter crap if you ask me! As if to suggest that the people concerned lost something of their own along the way, we are treated to glimpses into both their domestic lives (Cusack falls for a nurse at the Los Alamos base, Laura Dern, whereas Schulz carries on relationships with two women simultaneously, wife Bonnie Bedelia and mistress Natasha Richardson &#150; with the suicide of the latter character coming across just as futile as the recent tragic death of the actress playing her!). For the record, I acquired the film late last year around the time of its leading man's own passing, Paul Newman; he appears as the General who oversees the invention and building of the bombs and, in that respect, was not afraid to tackle a role which was obviously unsympathetic (the last shot, in which he raises his closed fist in victory to Schulz &#150; being cheered by the crowds after the result of the bombings &#150; but retracting in shame after recognizing the scientist's broken spirit, is telling). By the way, I have to wonder whether the film was originally intended to be longer the cast list at the end gives reasonable prominence to the name of 1970s character actor Ed Lauter, yet he is given no more than one fleeting shot in the released version! "},{"Title":"Well performed","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this again today for the first time in about 6 years.  I had forgotten how well acted this movie is.  Paul Newman gets the billing, but Dwight Schultz holds his own and shows how good an actor he really is. "},{"Title":"A Haunting Vision...","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I certainly disagree with the last user comment.  I can't speak to the complete accuracy of the events but I do know there was debate at the time over whether the project should be used or even completed.  The film is beautiful directed with some truly haunting moments, showing both the external and internal stuggle of the characters.  It also tackles the morality of the issue without beating the viewer over the head.  You will be moved by the end of the film.  It illustrates humankind's almost fanatical need for progress and domination, no matter the cost. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I know one is not supposed to comment on other users' comments, but I will say that a lot of the negative reviews seem to come from people who already knew quite a lot about the Manhattan Project and were annoyed at things that were left out. (From his book 'Smoking In Bed' it appears the original screenwriter Bruce Robinson is another such.) I knew very little before watching the film, however, and found it rivetting. Dwight Schultz is absolutely mesmeric as Oppenheimer - a truly magnetic, charismatic presence, an inspired piece of casting that makes me wonder why he isn't given better roles and more leading parts. John Cusack and Paul Newman are excellent as always. One could quibble with various script or direction choices, but as it is the film is extremely intense and horrific at times and overall I give it four stars out of five.  "}{"Title":"Disturbing...  In many ways, a Nasty Little Film","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There have been numerous productions that tell of the development of the atomic bomb. The Robert Taylor film ABOVE AND BEYOND (flag waving interservice propaganda really; if you believe this one you think that the Army Air Corps, in the person of Paul W. Tibbits, ran the entire show!), the NBC produced ENOLA GAY (probably A LOT closer to the mark), and the BBC-TV series, OPPENHEIMER, with Sam Waterston in the title role.FAT MAN AND LITTLE BOY takes the same approach that the BBC series did but widens it; it avoids the Gee Whiz technology of the Manhattan Project and focuses on human aspects; the personalities involved in the work. Instead of focusing on Oppie, it covers a wide swath of mythical but pretty typical people who were part of it.With reservations, Dwight Schultz did a good job as Oppie, presenting a dreamy, Ivory Tower academic who struggles to relate his contributions as a physicist to his inclinations to view the world in a wider social and moral context... only to have that struggle won by an overriding lust for personal power and glory. In THE DAY AFTER TRINITY it was made clear that Oppenheimer viewed himself as a superior being by virtue of his vast, wide ranging intellectual prowess. In the end that was Robert Oppenheimer's downfall; he saw himself as a sort of Philosopher/King, a moral and intellectual superior who could (and rightfully SHOULD) wisely prescribe what was best for the rest of the world re. nuclear weapons development and deployment. Unfortunately, wisdom doesn't dictate the actions of nations or direction of events on a global scale. Wisdom doesn't bestow temporal power. When it tries to exercise such nonexistent power (as Oppie found when he opposed the development of The Super, the hydrogen bomb), wisdom is ignored and banished by those who REALLY have the power.I found myself faulting Schultz character in one way; his Oppie exposes himself TOO closely and personally to the Manhattan Project, despite the doubts and fears that tore at his intellectual basis. The real Oppenheimer would have had to take a different approach; at the beginning he would have had to come to the firm resolution that the project would result in ultimate good. The ugliness it produced along the way would be an incidental price that must be paid to attain that ultimate good, and it must be ignored... at least until the end of the project when there was leisure to assess the gains and losses. Oppie clearly did that, and it resulted in his controversial postwar statements to the effect that science had now known sin, and that was a knowledge it could never lose. While the project went on, such considerations HAD to be pushed aside if he was to maintain his sanity.Because of this ambiguity, Schultz character comes off as a weak, frightened little boy who could NEVER have served as Coordinator of Rapid Rupture, as Oppenheimer unofficially dubbed his post.Paul Newman's take on Gen. Leslie R. Groves is fascinating, and a bravura performance, if possibly a LITTLE BIT over the top.Groves was a civil engineer by training, but first and foremost he was a SOLDIER, and a general to boot! He's accustomed to DEMANDING that things go HIS way... intensely driven, a foul mouthed, spoiled child who has tantrums at the drop of a hat, who reveres his country and isn't too proud to fall on his knees and pray. In other words, very much like REAL (ie, NON civil engineer) soldiers, aka George Patton! Grove's MISSION not only comes first, it is his ONLY consideration... feelings and egos be damned, except for his OWN, of course! Groves couldn't admit it, but he knew full well that he NEEDED Oppenheimer; military rank meant NOTHING in the world of theoretical physicists. Oppie was a necessary interface between the two worlds he had to straddle.Again... I have to fault the script on this, and for the same reason.In reality, Groves already OWNED Oppie; if he didn't, Oppie would never have been chosen for the post in the first place. History tells of MANY cases where other scientists, some as stellar as Oppenheimer, simply walked away from Groves recruitment efforts. At one point Groves was so desperate that he proposed DRAFTING the physicists he needed!Groves attempts in the film to maneuver and control Oppie were UNNECESSARY... they only exist here as a dramatic device which indeed helps make the atmosphere of the film quite ugly.Kusak's Michael Merriman is a composite of several real characters, but they're from a different time frame. Several research accidents similar to the one depicted happened in POSTWAR weapons research. Merriman's radiation overdose creates another ugliness in the film, but one which is, IMHO, necessary, and pretty accurate. People with weak stomachs will have a hard time handling the hospital sequences; they're all TOO real.The main idea that comes across, but not strongly enough IMHO, is the big truth of the Los Alamos experience. The scientists who signed on were young, idealistic and naive as well as talented. Most were on their first excursion out of the shelter of the campus. To them the project was a patriotic adventure that allowed them to practice experimental physics on a large scale without the constraints of budgets or excessive bureaucratic oversight. It was not only their brilliance, but their youthful exuberance that produced the atomic bomb. There's plenty here to make the thoughtful viewer intensely uncomfortable about this movie. Just the same, if you filter out the Hollywood BS (there isn't that much of it really), this is probably a pretty accurate view of the inside of Manhattan Project. "},{"Title":"If you want to see the real deal, see Day One instead.","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This rendition is as about as far from the historical reality of the Manhattan Project as a docudrama can get. It's not only a bad movie, but it's almost as far from the truth as one can get. If you want to see a genuinely accurate depiction of the true story of the Manhattan project, as well as being a terrific movie in its own right, watch Day One instead with Brian Dennehy playing a realistic General Groves and Michael Tucker (of L.A. Law fame) playing an excellent portrayal of Leo Szilard, the true genius behind the bomb. Now that movie is as true to life as any historical movie I've seen. This one, however, is one best skipped. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman forceful performance","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's 1942 and 9 months after Pearl Harbor. Gen. Leslie Groves (Paul Newman) expected to move out from behind the desk to go to the frontlines. Instead, he is transferred to his perceived dead-end boondoggle. Oppenheimer (Dwight Schultz) advises him to gather the scientists in an isolate place for creative stress. Together they would lead the Manhattan Project in Los Alamos, New Mexico. Michael Merriman (John Cusack) is the young wide-eyed scientist. Kathleen Robinson (Laura Dern) is the nurse who falls for him. He befriends Capt. Schoenfield (John C. McGinley) who is the doctor investigating radiation. Seth Neddermeyer comes up with the idea for implosion. Oppenheimer is cheating on his wife Kitty (Bonnie Bedelia) with communist sympathizer Jean Tatlock (Natasha Richardson).The movie achieves something a little more difficult. It made a bunch of scientists interesting and it made the science understandable. I do hope that the story is more fact than fiction. However I won't rest my review on its accuracies. Paul Newman delivers a forceful performance. I wish Dwight Schultz is a bigger actor to counter Newman's star power. The story is compelling although the puppy love story is a bit artificial. "},{"Title":"Like a sandwich without meat, this film is bland, bland, bland.","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Never have I seen a film so boring, so downplayed, so exposition-laden, so god-awfully slow, it gives the same effect of rubbing sandpaper on your eyes. The only character worth a damn is Paul Newman's character, not only because Paul Newman is a damn good actor, but he had some generally funny scenes in this flick. Dwight Schultz on the other hand, is more or less like a dirty old rock you find on the side of the road. When he yells his lines, it's like sticking a grasshopper in your ear; unpleasant and obnoxious. The next problems with casting come down to John Cusack and Laura Dern. As for John Cusack, he just adds to the awkward blandness of the film, and it feels like a Matthew Broderick-esque performance, and you don't really feel anything for or from him, which definitely comes in to play in the second and third act. For Laura Dern, however, I feel bad that she literally only got a minimal amount of screen time, and had an even blander character than Dwight Schultz. It's a shame, because we know Laura Dern can act, and the fact that they don't really do anything with her makes it all the more disappointing.But away from the characters. This is the story of the Manhatten Project, the infamous nuclear bomb experiments. you'd think a movie about bombs would have some decent explosions in it, right? Come on, I know your inner man-child lust for destruction is begging for some fiery mushrooms in the sky! And what do we get? A couple little poofs and a nuclear explosion we barely even see. So, not only is the writing your average sandpapery boringness of a war-movie-that-doesn't-actually-have- very-much-war-in-it, not only does it have some typically boring actors besides Laura Dern and Paul Newman, and not only is this film blander than bread, it doesn't have any good explosions in it! By God, if I'm gonna watch a movie about bombs, it better show some good explosions!In conclusion, yes, this movie really should be avoided. There are definitely other movies you could watch on this subject. Hell, you could just watch a documentary on it and get the same information. So, don't bother watching it because it would be a waste of a good couple of hours, a couple hours where you could watch some actually good war movies based on WWII. Like Full Metal Jacket or Saving Private Ryan. "},{"Title":"A not bad lesson of history","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Roland Joffe , author of epic and beautiful The Killing fields and The Mission , tries to ask some important questions about morality and responsibility in this movie . Unfortunately , Fat man and little boy  is just a shadow of mentioned movies . Yet it's still a movie worth watching.The movie feels like a TV movie . Joffe doesn't have a chance to impress us with beautiful views (like in his best movies) , because most of the action happens in laboratory or office. FMALB is a character driven story and very dialogue heavy . That's another problem . The movie can't surprise you because you already know how it's going to happen . FMALB wants and tries to be objective about it's heroes &#x96; Oppenhaimer and General Groves . Yet in my opinion they end as one dimensional characters  Groves is cold hearted soldier that wants the bomb to satisfy his pride . He believes that violence solves problems and that his country will be save thanks to the bomb. Oppenhaimer is a man obsessed with his work that slowly sacrifices everything to achieve his goal. There is important symbolic scene in the bathroom &#x96; Oppenhaimer washes his hands. In the end movie seems satisfied with retelling the events . It shows us the motivations of the characters , but never really is able to make a comment to their actions . The important questions seems to hang in the air , but are never asked. The movie sends pro-life and anti-war message (the scene with pigeons) , but I was expecting more drama , more unnerving questions &#x96; Is it moral to build a bomb ? Does end justify the means ? Is it good to sacrifice personal happiness for greater good ? Dwight Schultz as Oppenhaimer and Paul Newman as General Groves are good in their roles , despite that they don't have chance to show their acting abilities fully . John Cusack is nice as Michael Merrwin . I believe that in some way he symbolizes us &#x96; the humanity , the common man. He stands between Oppenhaimer and Groves . He knows what love is and has doubts about the whole project. Our instinct &#x96; tells us to kill or to save life ? I believe that if we had choice we would choose life. Those are important words coming from Cusack's character . Fat man and Little boy shows us people who created history and who didn't really understood the consequences of their actions. They were too wrapped up in their own obsessions. In the end they forgot what it means to be a human and it cost life of many people. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Merely good despite its high flaws","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Fat Man and Little Boy presents the story of the people involved with the creation of the Atomic Bomb in what was known as the Mannhattan Project and how they managed to develop such an risky device in a rushed period of time (because of the still on-going war efforts in Germany and Japan) and lots of other pressures. Those with interest on the subject will be delighted with this piece even with some inaccuracies and fictional compositions made throughout the film.The movie takes us back from 1942 to 1945, the period when the project was conceived under the command of General Leslie Groves (Paul Newman) who personally selected physician J. Robert Oppenheimer (Dwight Schultz) as head of the bomb creation team. The whole crew of militaries, physics and technicians move to Los Alamos Canyon, a desertic spot northwest of Santa Fe where Oppenheimer's challenge is to built the device over a short period of time in order to be tested and used in the war. Great deal of the movie is portraying the ethical conflicts the scientists have with the Army about using such a dangerous weapon over innocent lives versus the need of winning the war at all costs, and militaries need something that would reduce the time spent with more and more battles and reduce their losses. If it was just that presented in a motion picture it will be fine but there's the personal problems of the characters involved with the project, such as the melodramatic involvement between Oppenheimer and his mistress (Natasha Richardson), and the lovely sparkles between one of his young scientists (John Cusack) and a nurse (Laura Dern). This prevents the film a little of being more effective.While the whole scheme of presenting the project can be easily digested by audiences which makes this film more accessible than it looks, the script written by Bruce Robinson and Roland Joffé isn't much challenging or exciting to be fully appreciated, some of the dialogs aren't well written, quite uninteresting, rarely memorable. For a story like this, we needed more excitement, more tension to feel completely immersed in its complexity. Managed to succeed in presenting the clashes between science and ethics with the battles between the two main characters in charge of this big endeavor, hearts and minds that changed the world by playing of God for a small moment of their lives. However, the more discouraging aspect of Fat Man... was the performances. While Newman was somewhat miscast (but he's good given what he had to do), Dwight Schultz comes as an strange choice for such big role, here's an actor who's hard to get used to, his presence on screen isn't that remarkable and since this was a high budget project made by a big studio they should demand to the director Joffé an more familiar face to Oppenheimer's part. The supporting cast makes the ride more interesting and fun specially John C. McGinley, Dern and Cusack, Fred Dalton Thompson and Bonnie Bedelia. Neither much memorable or so forgettable, Fat Man and Little Boy (Shadow Makers in UK) is a good film, greatly recreates those times and it is historically fascinating. Very underrated. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Perhaps Too Overly Dramatized, But A Good Consideration Of The Moral Dilemma Surrounding The Development Of The Atomic Bomb","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This account of the experiments that led up to the development of the atomic bomb in 1945 chooses to deal with the issue far more from a human perspective than from a scientific perspective. The focus is on the men who were involved with the project - especially Gen. Leslie Groves (Paul Newman), who was in charge, and the lead scientist Robert Oppenheimer (Dwight Schultz.) The more technical issues aren't ignored, but the story revolves around the way in which the project impacts on the men's personal lives. On the negative side, the movie takes on at times a bit of a soap opera feel, dealing more with the men's love interests than with the project itself. It was also unfortunate that the movie chose to create the fictional character of Michael Merriman (played by John Cusack.) The accident in which Merriman is poisoned by radiation and later dies really happened, but it took place in 1946, long after the war was over, and the victim was actually a Canadian physicist named Louis Slotin. Why this imaginary bit of history was conjured up wasn't really clear to me, except for the fact that it obviously dramatized the dangers of the project, and allowed for the insertion of a tear jerker moment, when a nurse who had fallen in love with him (Laura Dern) comes to him on his deathbed to make sure he knows her feelings. Emotional to be sure, but perhaps a bit too much dramatic licence was taken there.Where the movie hit home, though, was in the depiction of the growing moral qualms felt by the scientists who were working on the project. At first working willingly when it seemed as if there was a race to get the bomb before Nazi Germany, questions began to bubble when it was discovered that the Nazis had no real interest in the bomb. Then they were defeated and Japan didn't even have the capacity to make a bomb. The moral questions were very real, and very well depicted.Everyone involved with this did a credible job. I didn't think this was an outstanding movie, but it provided a glimpse at what was going on in Los Alamos, New Mexico in the early 40's - obviously a key period in human history. "},{"Title":"Military Accuracy and an Applaudable, Visionary Film","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Hoorah! It is refreshing to see a film where military uniforms and badges of rank are, it seems, are intended to be worn properly. In many films it seems the dresser places a Brigadier General's stars out on the sewed-down portion of the epaulet as is done with lower officer ranks. This is always incorrect. Todays Class A uniforms still offer this choice but for many services, they now have a slip-over sleeve with the rank on it that goes over the epaulet as seen on a shirt worn when the jacket is not worn, so with these, an error is not possible. In later views about twenty minutes into the film the stars were put out on the sewed-down portion of the epaulet. The dark brown dress jacket first seen at a later time also had wrong placement of the distinctive single star. It seems without constant supervision of shooting or writing out instructions, this error occurs on a General's star(s) more often than not. At about thirty-five minutes they are back, centered on the Class A dark brown top. Apparently the one who had been instructed in proper display was not always the one in charge of the uniforms. This was a sad note to see introduced into such a fine film.I am always surprised to see this because almost any military man knows this. The General's star placement is done differently for a number of reasons, one likely being that his rank, above all others, is instantly discernible even with a greater distance.Many good reviews are written about this film, I just thought the military accuracy due our serving men and women should be given the correctness the uniform deserves.It was very refreshing too, seeing Dr. Oppenheimer's driving to a location he loved and was instrumental in choosing, in that fine, perfectly restored, beautiful vintage yellow Packard convertible.I thought another comment was appropriate by this observer. Though there may not have been any physicists or other highly placed scientists of color, if one looks very carefully as I did, you will see an American of African Heritage as an attendant in an ambulance and helping load a box diagonally stenciled OAK RIDGE.Similarly, close observation shows a person of Latin heritage and a person of native American heritage. A comment and dismissal to Michael Merriman of no romantic interest with Nurse Kathleen Robinson and Dr. Schoenfield's attention directed seemingly unexplained elsewhere which may simply be to maintain professional distinction but he is never seen in the film with a woman so it might be meant to give a hint of his lack of interest in the opposite sex.I found the incorporation of these attentiveness issues to be quite appropriate given the many considerations in this film, religion notwithstanding. I also noticed a derogatory term applying to the Japanese was noticeably nearly missing and was heard used only twice, and in the Pentagon. I applaud those connected with the film for this sensitivity. It is a very commendable and often overlooked. This is a very good film with much of the physics shown accurately depicted; heard and seen in discussions. Very minimally touched upon was the major contribution made on the plutonium bomb with shaped charges designed for armor-penetrating ordinance. This and other accomplishments were much a part of the many earlier trial and error work of our British and Canadian allies though their program code named Tube Alloys. It had been going on for a much longer time actually beginning in 1939 with the French seeing the need for a moderator of the reaction, then done with heavy water. Knowledge of this by even the Germans was one of the reasons they had occupied Norway with Europe's only heavy water plant in Norsk, Norway. But the British and Canadians began with exiled German scientists in 1940, with their knowledge of many specifics. It seems our own Manhattan Project's beginning was among the last since it was known in these other countries where here it only began after it languished with a few thousand dollars funding and almost no research since Professors Szilárd and Einstein's letter to President Roosevelt in August, 1939. Even the Japanese had theorized the possibility of making an atomic bomb many years previously in 1934. Historically interesting was Einstein's unspoken thought that the process leading to making a destructive device such as a bomb, never even occurred to him. Thankfully, German scientist's religion had effectively doomed Germany's progress toward making a bomb.I was very impressed with John Cusak's willingness to see accuracy shown; submitting to the loss of much of his hair for reality in the film. Though as a physician I was quite upset showing his intense suffering though this may have been done to make a point. I would hope that one so massively destroyed with radiation would have had most of the extreme suffering removed with the adequate use of morphine. These scenes do have a basis in reality with unnamed hero, Armenian-heritage Harry K. Daghlian, Jr. during necessary testing, accidentally causing what is called a nuclear excursion when he dropped near critical-mass pieces together which required him to use and expose his ungloved hands to separate the then critical mass nuclear components and expose his whole body to the massively fatal radiation source. In 1946 Louis Slotin also died of a similar accident and these are mentioned in this review principally to show the testing in uncharted territory and done with the crudest of methods as shown very accurately in the film, using just a screwdriver.Many perspectives and the fantastic development of its story and its telling are of the highest order not often seen in a film. It gets high marks from me. "},{"Title":"Fictitious sub-plot added for melodramatic  or political effect","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Six stars for Paul Newman's portrayal of General Groves, negative four for the inclusion of a highly fictionalized event where the truth is well documented. Michael Merriman did not really exist. His character--or at least his fate--is based loosely on that of Louis Slotin, a Canadian physicist who did not come to Los Alamos until after the war. He conducted his lethal tail of the dragon experiment in May 1946. This is a critical point. The effects of hard radiation on the human body were not known until they were observed in the victims of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki blasts. Had anyone died of radiation poisoning at Los Alamos before the Trinity test, it's very possible that the scientists would have abruptly stopped their work, and history would have been changed. Whether for the better or the worse we can only speculate. Someone should ask the producers and the director whether they added Merriman's character for dramatic effect or to deliver an anti-nuclear message. For a more even-handed and accurate treatment of events at Los Alamos during the Manhattan Project, see the TV movie, Day One, or better yet, read the Peter Wyden book on which it is based. "},{"Title":"A curiosity and very little else","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I've read just about every major book about the Manhattan Project. Most people know what it was, but few people understand the depth and breadth of the project. Its scope was immeasurably massive -- rivaled in US history perhaps only by the space program of the 1960's.There were -- literally -- MILLIONS of people involved from all walks of life at numerous sites (most clandestine) around the country, each involved in a specific and different aspect of the project that they couldn't talk about to the person sitting in the cubicle next to them, much less their family. The logistics are overwhelming, particularly given the considerations of wartime communication, security and transportation in the 1940's.As an example -- my colleague's father was a carpenter who worked for one of the companies that had a contract with the federal government for the Manhattan Project. His job was to supervise a crew of about 30 other carpenters, who were responsible for manufacturing forms for the pouring of concrete for the massive research installations at Hanford, Washington. That's all he did, six days a week for nearly two years. These carpenters needed food, housing, sanitary facilities, hospitals and materials just as much as did Oppenheimer and his crowd at the top of the pyramid. Just think about it! That being said, it's simply impossible to do the subject justice in a 2-hour movie. In defense of Joffe, however, I would say that they had an impossible task, particularly since he chose to have a diverse screenplay with multiple plots, multiple angles, and multiple characters. What, exactly, was he thinking, and how could he be so arrogant to think that this would work? That's Hollywood, I guess.FAT MAN AND LITTLE BOY has so many flaws that it would take a book to list them all. Horrible casting. Dreadful (and politically-motivated) writing. Bad science. The portrayals of Groves and Oppie are particularly inaccurate and downright galling. Notwithstanding the screenplay's all-too-obvious agenda, it is STILL incredibly bland and sloppy.These flaws have been listed elsewhere on IMDb, but I was particularly struck by the fact that the scientists had so much time on their hands -- softball, horseback riding, parties, semi-formal dinners, ballet, etc., not to mention romance, and of course circulating political petitions. According to FM&LB, if these great brains had gotten off their duffs and actually spent some time in the lab instead of seducing Laura Dern, we might have won the war before D-Day.One final gripe -- FM&LB mentions that Fat Man and Little Boy were the code names of the two atomic bombs, but it doesn't mention that these names were a semi-good-natured jab at Groves (Fat Man, for heavy stature) and Oppenheimer (Little Boy, for his slight stature). Another reason Paul Newman should not have been in this movie... "}{"Title":"Better off watching a documentary","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The film falls flat for many, many reasons, both historical and aesthetic. The history is, well, problematic, to say the least, but that's hardly a Hollywood surprise; much worse off is that the writing is quite poor, the acting is in general pretty poor, and the film doesn't really know what it wants to be.Is it a story about Oppenheimer and Groves? Is it a story about Los Alamos? Is it a story about working to make the Fat Man bomb? Is it a story about the morality of the bomb? Is it a story about John Cusak and Laura Dern smoochin'? Maybe a truly epic film could be all of these things, but it isn't that epic and so it just feels like a fragmentary attempt at best, unwieldy and somewhat cheaply made. It would have been better, I think, to just throw the historical concerns out the window make it an interesting plot, not a docudrama. As it is, it is really a pain to watch.If you want to watch something on the atomic bomb with great acting, suspense, and plot, try Jon Else's documentary The Day After Trinity. Whereas Fat Man and Little Boy, leaves you feeling bored and let down, The Day After Trinity will leave you with a hushed awe. It's too bad that this movie is so poor, it is certainly not for lack of interesting subject matter, but unfortunately there was no real artistic vision here, and that's really why it becomes a drama-historical hodgepodge, and a dull one at that. "},{"Title":"If you want to know about Trinity, go to a library.  If you want to watch a good movie, this isn't it.","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I watched this years ago on television when I was sick (I don't know, I tend to be more complacent with my TV viewing when I'm sick; too much effort to use the remote control, I guess).From what I can recall, every aspect of the movie--casting, acting, writing, directing, etc.--was ill-advised at best. I could have forgiven the historical inaccuracies if this film had created a sense of what it was like to work on Trinity; but it didn't. There were attempts to humanize the scientists, but they were insufficient and never transcended caricature.I didn't know very much about the people involved in the Manhattan Project at the time, but the portrayals in the movie were so cartoonish that I became interested in learning about the real personalities. And I did. So I guess this horrible film has done a very small amount of good, after all.This is not an in-depth review, but FMLB neither deserves nor requires one. You might enjoy it if you're a fan of bad movies. "},{"Title":"2.5 stars","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Informative, but repetitive, story of the development of the first atomic bomb in New Mexico during the Second World War.  Story focuses on separation between scientific and military mindframe and is most adept at representing the ever-present conflict between scientific freedom of thought and exchange and military secretiveness and security.  Newman's character, an overbearing, domineering General Groves, and Schultz's torn lead scientist Oppenheimer are both overdrawn.  Most compelling character is Cusak's, the true first victim of nuclear weapons, but he is not given the focus or intimacy he deserves.  This film is at its best when it deals with politics and at its worst when it slips into melodrama and needless romance.  Last half-hour are engrossing in contrast to rushed, ineffective first hour. "},{"Title":"Interested in the subject?  The movie Day one is far better!!!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is an interesting, although ultimately unsatisfactory, film.  First of all, the casting is wrong in Fat man & Little Boy - particularly when compared to that of the TV-movie Day One.  In Fat Man, Paul Newman is just not the right type to play Gen. Leslie Groves - the man who also built the Pentagon. He's wrong physically.  In Day One, Groves is played by the excellent Brian Dennehy - who, quite frankly, is just bigger, more of a bear of a man - which is excatly what Groves was! Also, while Dwight Schultz gives a decent performance in Fat Man as Dr. Robert Oppenheimer, in Day One he is portrayed by the actor David Sraithourn, who much more closer resembles him, and gives a truer, more cerebral depiction of the ascetic Doctor.  To me, Day One's Dennehy and Sraithourn WERE Gen Groves and Dr. Oppenheimer, whereas with Fat Man it is much more apparent that we're witnessing film performances.Another problem is that Fat Man just does not seem to know what type of movie it wants to be - is it a docu-drama, a wartime romance, a WWII action flik, or what?  It is just too disjointed, or perhaps ambituous, for its own good.  Day One on the other hand is a much more gripping, straightforward, clean re-telling of a fascinating story from history.So, in summation, Fat Man is not a terrible film.  But if you want an accurate, less movie-cliched, depiction of the Manhattan Project, with great acting, without a trite romance thrown in,  and also with a more fleshed-out analysis of the political maneuvering and battles that went into the decision to actually drop the bomb, see Day One. You will not be disappointed!!!  "},{"Title":"Poor acting and bad script result in an uninspiring movie","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The United States built the atomic bomb in order to show their superior military power and to end the Second World War.  The movie Fat Man and Little Boy is a portrayal of the efforts of American physicists to invent the technology necessary to create the bomb, and the tension that existed between the scientists and the military over the potential uses of the bomb, and even the acceptability of its creation.  The scientists thought that the bomb should be created as a deterrent, a mechanism that would halt the war by wasting as little life as possible.  Fist, they saw themselves as in a race with German scientists, who were attempting to build nuclear weapons themselves.  When the Germans were defeated, many scientists hoped to stop work on the bomb project, as they knew that the Japanese did not have the technology necessary to build a nuclear weapon, and therefore did not pose a threat of massive loss of life.  Those who favored the continuation of the Manhattan Project hoped that the bomb would be used as a demonstration, inviting the Japanese head of state to view its deployment upon some tiny deserted island.  This massive display of force, they felt, would be enough to win the war-no killing would be needed. The US military, under the direction of General Leslie Groves, hoped all along to used the bomb as a actual weapon to be deployed against the enemy, first against the Germans and then against the Japanese.  Because of the persistence of Japanese soldiers on the small Japanese islands, the US decided to drop the bomb on populous cities in order to end the war, first Hiroshima and then Nagasaki.  The display of that vast amount of force also served notice to the rest of the world that the US was the dominant military power, a message aimed especially at Russia, whose growing military power and economic weight in Eurasia threatened our preeminent world position. Fat Man and Little Boy was a movie that had good intentions in mind, but muddled them rather badly by the choice of actors, script, and cinematography.  One of the main points of the movie was the struggle between the military view of science for killing, and the scientific view of science for knowledge.  The keystone of this conflict is the continued disagreements between General Groves and Dr. Oppenheimer.  Mr. Newman does his job in the part of the General, craggy, massively angry, and radiating his dependence upon the success of the project. Dwight Schultz, on the other hand, never puts up much resistance at all to the General's demands, always looking rather weak, deflated, and phlegmatic in his audiences. John Cusack presents a stunningly unsympathetic character in as flat a role as I have ever seen-it looks like he is just reading his lines.  Laura Dern seems to be suffering from the same malady.  None of the characters are helped by the script, which is almost childishly ridiculous in the way it attempts to explain scientific concepts unscientifically, offers the most unrealistic stock relationship between Mr. Cusack and Ms. Dern imaginable, doesn't even give us the cheap thrill of watching the army drop nuclear bombs on Japan, and relies heavily on voice-over-a technique that is evil anytime, even when explaining a characters true innermost thoughts, or for the narration of something that cannot be possibly show on the film medium, but is used here to read some absolutely trite selections out of Cusack's diary.  The cinematographer offers us several shots of the ominous shadow of the two bombs, which might be striking if it didn't look like they were cardboard cutouts instead of bombs, the fake atomic fire really does look fake-and why use it when the stock footage on hand is so genuinely stunning and realistic--, and the pervasive brown tone doesn't seem to be thematically appropriate.  Besides that, it's not a bad movie.  "},{"Title":"Small, small film","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There are lots of other comments here about how poor this film is.  What I wanted to point out is how this film took the largest science project in history and made it look small.  The Manhattan project was an incredible achievement and it was huge.  Virtually all silver in the country went into making wire for electromagnetic separators.  If there was every a choice between two alternative ways of doing things they just did both.  The first sustained nuclear reactor was fired up under the stands of the University of Chicago football stadium with graduate students wielding axes as a scram mechanism.  It's a fascinating story involving hundreds of locations and thousands of people that this film seems to reduce to a small group of eccentrics in New Mexico.The other thing I really disliked was the huge moral debate over if we should continue the project after Germany surrenders.  Okay, we have thousands of (mostly) men who worked for years to make a really big boom.  Does anyone think they didn't want to see it work?  There was some controversy at the time about if we should use the device, but it was not that serious, clearly not the huge debate this film makes it out to be.  "},{"Title":"Lieutenant Barclay's Holodeck Addiction","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It' s easier to watch this film if one views it as a scenario created by Star Fleet Lieutenant Reginald Barclay during his holodeck addiction. (Barclay is a recurring Star Trek character played by Dwight Schultz.)Dwight Schultz is miscast as Oppenheimer. Oppenheimer's character is poorly written, so we never see the depth and breadth of his knowledge. Instead, we see a shallow, two dimensional figure from a soap opera. Paul Newman is also miscast as General Leslie Groves, but this movie's problems go beyond having the wrong actors in the wrong roles.The factual errors and great liberties taken (with the chronology of events) in order to advance screenwriter Bruce Robinson's political agenda make this movie embarrassing to watch. That's probably why this movie has found a home on the so-called History Channel. Fat Man and Little Boy combine bad science, bad history, bad screenwriting and mediocre acting to produce a movie that should not be viewed by impressionable high school or college students who know nothing about the Manhattan Project.  "},{"Title":"not the whole story","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" rather, a badly savaged original screenplay. i've just been reading the chapter on this film and its inception in Alistair Owen's brilliant book of interviews with Bruce Robinson ('Smoking in Bed'). the point made here is that the then wonder-boy Roland joffé royally bum raped the screenplay through his own ego. Bruce Robinson defends his case well in the book and the documentary evidence which he accumulated during his research sounds pretty incontrovertible. (i can't help feeling in this respect that lot 49's comments are made from the position of ignorance he's so very keen to vilify.) it's just one of the ongoing catalogue of misfortunes for Bruce Robinson and the viewing public that he didn't get to make this particular film and we'll never get to see it. file alongside his film on jack the ripper being passed over - a proper film as opposed to the glossy, banal travesty that was...i can't even remember what the feck it was called. i just remember it being utter shite. "},{"Title":"Not to be taken seriously","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have seen this film at least four times. Each time  I happen to see it I am pretty much only interested in the drama and Laura Dern. I like Newman, and Schultz, but the dramatic scenes where Merriman (Cusack) is fatally irradiated and the accidental setting off of the explosives are well done. I love Laura Dern's emotional portrayal of the nurse, and she does a wonderful job of showing intense pain when she learns that Merriman is dying.But the biggest issue at stake, besides the fictional aspects of the scientific design of 'The Gadget' as the bomb was known, is the way some physicist just 'stumbles' on the concept of implosion dynamics and solves the problem of how to start a chain reaction. This is clearly bull. And long before the bombs have reached any final design stages, you see both of the devices fully assembled and awaiting their lethal payloads hanging in a hangar, for anyone to see. This was even before the Trinity device was built. It was closer to a Walt Disnew version of the Manhattan Project than historical reality.  "},{"Title":"Not awful, not that good, either","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a definitive 5. I finally caught it on HBO the other night. I remember when it came out in theatres telling a friend that it would never be a hit because Americans didn't want movies about history, especially movies that were more about ideas than action. I don't know if that was the reason FMLB didn't do well, but now, having finally seen it, I can add a few observations of my own.First, while Dwight Schultz has been fine in Star Trek and The A-Team, as the lead in this movie he is off-putting. I kept expecting him to shout out Jon Lovitz-like, I am ACT-ING! He phrasing and tone of voice sounded like he was trying very had to be an ACT-OR, on a stage where he had to emphasize strangely various words and phrases. Second, I enjoyed the sly positioning of Paul Newman's character as a manipulator who, at every turn, strives to herd these cats (the scientists) along to get to his goal. Third, there was some discussion of the moral implications of creating the A bomb, and whether the US should use it. Probably not enough of this, or as in depth as warranted.Finally, there seemed to be an awful lot of twists thrown in for dramatic effect. I don't know how much of the events in this movie are true to life, but things like having the test bomb slip in its chains or having a lab accident caused by a spilled coffee cup (and a scientist killed as a result) were stretching the bounds of believability. Maybe that stuff, or events that were similar, really happened, but it sure felt like various scenes were added solely for dramatic effect, which undermined the whole tone and purpose of the movie.FMLB was OK. I need to read more about the actual events to know if it was over the top or just mostly accurate. "}{"Title":"Great Story -- Awful Production","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  So many fascinating tales have been passed on by those who were a part of The Manhattan Project.  It surely is impossible to capture the spirit of all of them in a two hour movie.Fat Man and Little Boy fell far short of giving a glimpse into what was one of the most incredible stories of the twentieth century.  While it presented a great cast, the storyline and production were both horrible.  Watching it was like trying to read War and Peace in a day.  It's truly a shame because there was a great opportunity here to tell some of the great stories past on to us by some of the great men who were there.  If this movie is the only thing you've ever seen or heard about The Manhattan Project then you have no idea how much you're missing.  I was very disappointed after watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Pride and Prejudice","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's difficult to know how to interpret these events, the complex personalities involved in them, or the particular spin the makers of this movie want to impart.  This is far from the only attempt.  The first, made during the post-war period, with Brian Donleavy was a zany laff riot.  Donleavy is General Groves (quickly promoted from colonel to give him the extra juice necessary to carry such a project)who struts around giving orders like, Put the cyclotron over there.  The next that I am aware of is a superior TV series, Oppenheimer, in which Sam Waterston's Oppie is all too human and Groves is an understandably perplexed engineer.  Brian Dennehey a few years later gave us an intelligent, self-confident Groves who was all business.  In Fat Man and Little Boy, Paul Newman's Groves is impatient, bullying, single-minded, and perhaps not meant to be taken too seriously.  He gruffly orders a New York Times correspondent at the site to prepare three reports.  One if it works.  One if it fails.  And one if we disintegrate.  It's conceivable, judging from the rest of this film, that no one involved in its production, Newman included, realized this was funny.  A poorly performed Oppenheimer goes through the motions of being concerned about the moral implications of what he and his colleagues are about, but in the end becomes as rabid as Groves.  The arguments against the use of the bomb on Japanese cities are specious.  There is a general staff meeting of politicians and military types towards the end which is emblematic.  An admiral announces that the use of the bomb on cities is not an honorable way to wage war and claims he will resign his commission if the plan proceeds to completion.  Who was this guy, and why is the incident doubtful?  Someone brings up the possibility of a demonstration of the weapon on some uninhabited atoll, with Japanese witnesses invited.  Oppenheimer himself gives the reasons why a demonstration wouldn't work.  First, if it failed to explode in front of the Japanese witnesses, it would give them even more determination not to surrender.  The problem with this reasoning is that the assumption behind the use of the bomb on cities is that, hell, they'll never surrender anyway.  As one participant put it, They're all kamikazes.  The second argument against a demonstration is that if it didn't work it would result in an immediate shortage of critical radioactive materials in this devil's retort.  The logical problem here is that if it didn't work over a Japanese city, we'd be equally short of critical materials.  Anyhow, they had the second bomb lurking in the wings, didn't they?  Some new information has recently surfaced in print, including a carefully researched New Yorker article in, I think, 1995.  The main motives for using the bomb to destroy two Japanese cities in three days seem to be philosophical inertia, revenge, and politics.  By philosophical inertia, I mean the tendency on the part of the US authorities, especially Truman, to treat the atomic bomb as simply another weapon to be used against an enemy, an instrument of moral nihilism.  Our B29s had already leveled most important Japanese cities with incendiaries dropped from low altitudes.  (Curtis LeMay's idea.)  Hiroshima and Nagasaki had been spared so far not only because they weren't good military targets but because we wanted pristine targets available to measure the effects of the explosions.  By revenge, I mean the desire to kill as many Japanese as possible as quickly as possible.  Before he died, Frank Merrill, of Merrill's Marauders, told his daughter gloomily that he had just spoken with LeMay who was chomping at the bit to drop the bombs before Japan had a chance to surrender.  They Pearl Harbored us, didn't they?  Let's nuke 'em.  By politics, I mean this.  Before Russia entered the war against Japan, Japanese diplomats were trying to negotiate surrender terms through Moscow.  But their bureaucracies were even slower to move than most.  Nobody wanted to insult anybody else.  And Hirohito stayed out of it.  As the film brings out, Japanese defeat was already inevitable, and if it dragged on Russia would enter and occupy Japanese-held territories, at least on the mainland.  The bomb would give Truman something lethal to put in his back pocket when he met with the Russians.  The film also points out the thoroughly legitimate concern about the number of Allied casualties that could be expected if an invasion were carried out.  But would it have been necessary to invade the islands, given the destruction of Japanese supply routes by sea?  After all, Japan has no natural resources to speak of, except labor.  We've never been good at waiting patiently for things to happen, even if the things are good.  A nation of day traders and momentum investors, whether in the Pacific or in Waco.  John Cusack's love affair and tragic sacrifice have no place in this movie.  The writers, the producers, the director, the performers -- no one seems to know what the movie is trying to say.  Skip this one and get Oppenheimer if you can find it.    "},{"Title":"AA bomb! Oppenheimer character a caricature. Amateurish dialog.","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It was excruciating to watch this.  Probably among the worst 5 films I have ever seen. Right down there with Island of Desire (Linda Darnell and Tab Hunter. Luckily I saw it on a rented tape and was able to fast-forward through the really awful parts.The Dr. Robert Oppenheimer character set forth by the director and screen writer is a desecration of the memory of one of the greatest intellects of the century. The film version Oppenheimer runs around and expostulates as frantically as Mickey Rooney scurrying about trying to get Judy Garland, Ann Rutherford, et al to put on that great musical in the old barn.  Clearly the screenwriter never saw the TV interview of Oppenheimer by Ed Murrow.The real Oppenheimer was a true polymath, literate in Sanscrit as well as being a a scientist who could hold his own with Bohr and Fermi. The Oppenheimer on the Murrow interview was a man with an intensely focused expression and riveting eyes, who carefully repeated each question posed by Murrow, as well as the possible variations, and answered them one by one, in one of the most impressive displays of sheer intellectuality I have ever witnessed. I can't imagine Oppy ever raising his voice and raving as he does in this flick.There are many other major problems and here are a few1) We hardly hear about the greats who really made the Manhattan project go. Particularly Nils Bohr and Enrico Fermi.  I believe there is a passing reference to an Enrico but we're not told who he is or what he does. Indeed, the Enrico of the film (who has a very brief appearance on camera is a somewhat buffoonish Italian stereoptype -- yet Enrico Fermi was probably one of the most brilliant physicists of the 20th century -- and arguably the real father of the atom bomb in that he produced the first sustained nuclear chain reaction. I'm surprised that the Fermi of the film was not shown doing an organ grinder routine with a monkey while singing La Donna e Mobile. (Indeed there was a pet monkey in the film but he belonged to one of the other characters. Don't ask me what the monkey was doing in Los Alamos)2) The science is pitiful. About the level of that shown in Frankenstein when the fiendish Dr. F. pulls the big switch on the  mountaintop lab as the lighting flickers about and all the meter pointers move this way and that way.3) Many of the expressions in the dialog were laughably anachronistic. They just didn't exist in the early 40s. (I know; I'm that old!)4) The attempt to introduce women into the screenplay was pitiful and irrelevant. Oppie's relationships with women were really very peripheral to the real story of the Manhattan project.  The good-hearted jeep driving nurse whose boy-friend got zapped by a radiation leak was unnecessary and probably didn't exist in real life.5) A lot of movie time is spent over the agonizing of whether the bomb should be dropped (once the first demo at Alamagordo proved successful). The high level of emotional intensity on the part of the physicists is unconvincing.6) The screenplay and direction stuck the very competent Paul Newman with a deadly character (Brig. Gen. Leslie Groves, the director of the Manhattan Project)who could not be rendered plausible even with Mr. Newman's ordinarily formidable talents. Groves comes across as a combination of a compleat (sic) ass and an avuncular bumbler.  In reality he was a hard driving, rather mono-chromatic military man, who did the job he was asked to do.This is a really bad film.  It might make it as a cult film some day. who knows? "},{"Title":"The horror, the horror... the horrible acting and pacing!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Just returned from a trip to Los Alamos, so we just had to rent Fat Man and Little Boy... Amazing, the filmmakers took one of the most dramatic, compelling, and momentous stories of all time and managed to make it seem dull and boring! The acting is mostly awful - in particular the guy playing Oppy makes the famously charismatic scientist seem like a whining spoiled wuss. The presence of Paul Newman does not lessen the pain in *any* way; Newman's Leslie Groves grunts occasionally and rants about commies and winning the war, but we gain no insights into the inner man or his character. This movie is very lifeless and wooden; even the Trinity test scene was botched, as the build-up and tension were ruined by constant interruptions of the lame romance scenes. Finally, the Victor Frankenstein bit was just silly. Skip this lousy movie; see the excellent The Day After Trinity instead. "},{"Title":"AA bomb! Oppenheimer character a caricature. Amateurish dialog.","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It was excruciating to watch this.  Probably among the worst 5 films I have ever seen. Right down there with Island of Desire (Linda Darnell and Tab Hunter). Luckily I saw it on a rented tape and was able to fast-forward through the really awful parts.The Dr. Robert Oppenheimer character set forth by the director and screen writer is a desecration of the memory of one of the greatest intellects of the 20th century. The film version Oppenheimer runs around and expostulates as frantically as Micky Rooney scurrying about trying to get Judy Garland, Ann Rutherford, et al to put on that great musical in the old barn.  Clearly the screenwriter never saw the TV interview of Oppenheimer by Ed Murrow.  The real Oppenheimer was a true polymath, literate in Sanscrit as well as being a a scientist who could hold his own with Nils Bohr and Enrico Fermi. The Oppenheimer on the Murrow interview was a man with an intensely focused expression and riveting eyes, who carefully repeated each question posed by Murrow, as well as the possible variations, and answered them, unemotionally, one by one, in one of the most impressive displays of sheer intellectuality I have ever witnessed. I can't imagine Oppy ever raising his voice and raving as he does in this flick.There are many other major problems and here are a few1) We hardly hear about the greats who really made the Manhattan project go. Particularly Nils Bohr and Enrico Fermi.  I believe there is a passing reference to an Enrico but we're not told who he is or what he does. Indeed, the Enrico of the film (who has a very brief appearance on camera) is a somewhat buffoonish Italian stereotype -- yet Enrico Fermi was probably one of the most brilliant physicists of the 20th century -- and arguably the real father of the atom bomb in that he produced the first sustained nuclear chain reaction. I'm surprised that the Fermi of the film was not shown doing an organ grinder routine with a monkey while singing La Donna e Mobile.  (Indeed there was a pet monkey in the film but he belonged to one of the other characters. Don't ask me what the monkey was doing in Los Alamos)2) The science is pitiful. About the level of that shown in Frankenstein when the fiendish Dr. F. pulls the big switch on the  mountaintop lab as the lighting flickers about and all the meter pointers move this way and that way. No mention of the problems of isotope separation and what went on at Oak Ridge, Tenn. and Hanford, Wash.3) Many of the expressions in the dialog were laughably anachronistic.  They just didn't exist in the early 40s. (I know; I'm that old!)4) The attempt to introduce women into the screenplay was pitiful and irrelevant. Oppie's relationships with women were really very peripheral to the real story of the Manhattan project.  The good-hearted jeep driving nurse whose boy-friend (the one with the pet monkey) got zapped by a radiation leak was unnecessary and probably didn't exist in real life.  5) A lot of movie time is spent over the agonizing of whether the bomb should be dropped (once the first demo at Alamagordo proved successful).  The high level of emotional intensity on the part of the physicists is  unconvincing.6) The screenplay and direction stuck the very competent Paul Newman with a deadly character (Brig. Gen. Leslie Groves, the director of the  Manhattan Project)who could not be rendered plausible even by Mr. Newman's ordinarily formidable talents. Groves comes across as a combination of a compleat (sic) ass and an avuncular bumbler.  In reality he was a hard driving, rather mono-chromatic military man, who did the job he was asked to do.        This is a really bad film.  It might make it as a cult film some day.  who knows? "},{"Title":"I am still mortified!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I did a screen test and read the script for this turkey in 1988. It was awful then and even worse now - I spotted it on VHS at the local HollowWood Video and said, oh, what the hey, for auld ang sine. Yech.They had to shoot most of it in Mexico after they ran out of money, a couple of the stars pitched bitches because they ran out of some kind of exotic fruit drink crap. The movie's plot is OK, I suppose, but I happen to know that the writer intended for it to have a spy catcher thread running throughout.Dr O ended up being a cartoon character. He must still be whirling in his grave over in the Kremlin Wall.Technical errors were all over the movie, not only with the infant atomic technology but with the uniforms, insignia, and military jargon. They were too cheap to hire a professional military adviser, of course. Even Mr. Newman's august and expert presence couldn't have saved this bird from being stuffed for Thanksgiving. "}]