[{"Title":"The Divine Comedy","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"160 out of 209 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Imagine the universe as a restaurant. The parking lot is the world. The kitchen is purgatory. The ladies's room is heaven. The dining room is hell. Hell is ruled over by Albert Spica, (Satan) excellently played by Michael Gobon. Dante is Michael (Alan Howard) a cataloger of French books. Beatrice, Dante's perfect woman, Georgina Spica (Helen Mirren) who is married to the devil.In the beginning, the cook (God) in the real world is seen kicked and smeared and fed dog feces by Gabon. He is humiliated and in tears, but He endures and eventually helps to further the love between Howard and MIrren. Sex, in its pure form, is looked at as something sacred. Gabon lords over everyone in his realm with a tyrant's fist, caring nothing about anyone or anything. He wants two three things out of life&#151;superiority to all other being, food and sex, while Mirren, as a reluctant Persephone, sneaks off to be with Howard. A couple of times Gabon even finds his way into the sanctity of heaven, but this is only short-lived.The mood of the film is dark-black, heralded by brilliant reds or greens, and the tenor of an angelic child throughout. Every image is like a painting. Emotions creep in from all directions.This is a film that would never, no matter what year it was produced, have won an Academy Award. It is too refined, to subtle, too sensual, too intelligent.Watch it, rent it, buy it. It must be seen. "},{"Title":"Recipe for Revenge.","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"80 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Greenaway brought to the screen this visually striking tale of revenge centered on its four characters and in its 124 minutes he pulls out all the stops to make sure he not only dances over the edge of the cliff, but jumps right over and shows us the belly of the beast.At a symbolic level, this may very well be the thinly veiled parable against Thatcherism that many critics have pointed at, and it's not hard to see. Taking place at a restaurant in which Albert and Georgina Spica (expertly played by Michael Gambon and Helen Mirren) dine day in, day out, always accompanied by Spica's entourage of yes-men (among them a young Tim Roth), Albert indulges in the excesses of food and berates everyone around him, including his mutely suffering wife.The first scene -- as a matter of fact -- establishes the entire mood of the film. Albert Spica is seen outrageously humiliating a naked man outside the restaurant as the overwhelming stench of decay and the presence of wild dogs linger on. Employees from the restaurant shortly come and hose the man from the excrement he has been slathered in. What it is saying is, we are entering a world of moral and spiritual decay in which Those In Power abuse their positions to the extreme, as the observers only stand by and go on with their business.These bystanders are the people who work at the restaurant. Among them is the Cook, played by Richard Bohringer, who faithfully serves Spica and his yes-men meal after meal and makes no opinion as they loudly banter about the difference between this dish and that dish -- essentially saying nothing worthwhile --, while all the time Georgina silently eats on, almost like a non-entity. That is, until she notices a quiet, intellectual-looking man, reading a book. This man is Michael, the Lover, played by Alan Howard, a man who does not talk but oozes intelligence. And it's this element which attracts Georgina's eye... and then more.It's clear where Peter Greenaway is going to take us, the viewer. The scenes involving the urgent, dangerous lovemaking between Michael and Georgina are unspeakably intense, even in later scenes when they meet in the kitchen among the ever-present cooks and are getting more comfortable with themselves. Greenway's Spica becomes so completely menacing his presence overflows the screen. He commits acts of intolerable cruelty against anyone who stands in his way -- he is the Terror during the French Revolution, the Dictator from every country who has had one who will torture those who give of even a slight resistance. And once Georgina's and Michael's clandestine affair is brought to light, needless to say, all hell breaks loose and Greenway sets the stage for his horrific, stomach-turning denouement.In Georgina, Helen Mirren has created a character that is deeply suffering, infinitely patient... and that makes her the more dangerous. That she has to go through so much pain and humiliation to make a 180 degree turn to cold, ruthless avenger makes her the ultimate heroine. Her foil to Albert -- an essentially one-note role -- also serves his undoing. Alan Howard communicates so much as well in his almost silent role, and in a revelatory note, I'll say this their nude scene is one that is rife in sensuality and proves that one doesn't need Hollywood hard-bodies to make an erotic scene work.THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE AND HER LOVER is not a movie for all tastes -- pun intended. However, it's one of the most avant-garde, intelligent stories that demands to be seen numerous times. I admire the lavish scenery Greenaway created for each area of the restaurant because it gives this extremely modern film a Renaissance feel and elevates its inherent symbolism. Grotesque but beautiful at the same time, it has a powerful cinematic language that has a style all its own. "},{"Title":"Color changes everything!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"84 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The inside story of this film is color. Most professional reviewers, with nation-wide media exposure, missed this underlying story element entirely, as did I, until half way through my first viewing. Once I realized the colors of the costumes changed, as the characters passed from room to room, I had to go back and see it again. That's how I got hooked.During the next viewing, I took note of the creativity and effort that went into the design and construction of the costumes, several times, as each one had to be rendered in several colors. The next time through, I noticed how the color of each room related to the activity that normally took place there, even in the outdoor sequences. With the subsequent viewing, I concentrated on the soundtrack.From that point on, my awareness of all these elements, served to enhance my appreciation of each character and his or her contribution to the story line. That's when the much talked about gross-out aspects of the film seemed to diminish in their ability to shock. In fact, by that point, they seemed to fit much more naturally, although the NC-17 rating is absolutely appropriate.This is a sumptuous feast for the eyes and ears of intelligent adult viewers. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Terrifically complex, terrifically beautiful, and just plain terrific.","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"59 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's the weird secret of this movie you might actually enjoy it.Peter Greenaway once commented, film is too important to be left in the hands of story- tellers. Like almost everything Godard ever said, it's a preposterous statement that ought to be heeded.As a filmmaker Greenaway has always delighted in puzzle-pictures; from the twin-based symmetry of A Zed and Two Naughts to the subliminal counting-game of Drowning by Numbers to the mad frames-within-frames of Prospero's Books his films resemble nothing so much as one of Graeme Base's wonderful children's' books (The Eleventh Hour and Animalia for instance) brought to life. Plus, of course, a great deal of nudity and assorted nastiness-- enough to get the works of one of the most original filmmakers living a rather sordid reputation.So, once you've recovered from the visceral shock of watching The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover the first time, take a step back and watch it again. Yeah, I mean that, do it. Look at it this time as you might a painting by Heironymus Bosch what appears to be a madman's chaotic hellscape turns out to have a precise allegorical order, and contains such a wealth of symbolism that one viewing cannot possibly be enough to absorb it all. A scene that may seem gratuitously horrific (a naked couple enclosed in a truck full of rotting meat-- probably the moment that jolted me the most) in fact reveals a medievalist's precision (Adam and Eve, cast from Paradise for the First Big Sin, are suddenly subject to the corruption of the flesh). An abstract concept is thus made perfectly and accessibly literal.Different viewers may prefer to see this movie as religious allegory, political screed, or wry class commentary. The fact is it is all of these, and probably more. The irony of Greenaway's quote above is that he is in fact story-telling on several levels at once. (It's the same irony in the comment that Seinfeld was a show about nothing when in fact there was more going on per episode than in any other ten sitcoms. It just wasn't simple.)In response to criticism over the bloodshed in his movies, Godard once said It isn't blood, it's red. Meaning it's all part of a composition, the way color is used on a painter's canvas. It's there for a point, just like Greenaway's explicit yet elegant shocks. With that mind, watch this movie, and enjoy it. It's sharp, gruesomely witty, and as remarkable to look at as almost anything in the Met. If you can handle really thinking, you can handle this, and we all can, can't we? "},{"Title":"Among the most disturbing films ever made.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"52 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"   Let's say that you're an avid film-goer and you want to test your level of tolerance in terms of the type of bad taste, vile and disgusting screen images you can bear. Certain people would direct you to the zombie/cannibal movies made in Italy in the 1970s and if you took their advice you would indeed find yourself faced with some pretty unpleasant viewing material. However, such films are also very poorly made, with an emphasis on exploitation and somewhat shaky and grainy camera work. For an equally vile and disturbing film, made with considerably more skill and elegance (not to mention aspects of a Jacobean revenge play to please the intelligensia) look no further than The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover. This movie is just as outrageous, nauseating and horrific as any Italian cannibal flick, but in a breathtakingly artistic way. Michael Gambon gives a menacing portrayal as a vulgar gangster with a penchant for rich food. He is a regular customer at an elegant restaurant where he and his cronies, and his unhappy wife, wine and dine while exchanging tales of crime and debauchery. One evening his wife claps eyes on a rather geeky librarian at a nearby table; she fancies him immediately and before you know it the pair are embarking on a torrid sexual affair. Gambon discovers that his wife is having this affair so he has the librarian killed but his wife teams up with a cook from the restaurant to come up with a terrifying revenge plot. It's impossible to reveal the details of the revenge plot without spoiling the film, but suffice to say that it is unforgettable, revolting and ingenious. Greenaway directs the film in his customary unique visual style, but the narrative is more viewer-friendly than usual in his films, making this one of his more watchable and entertaining offerings. The actors give great performances (brave performances, too, considering the explicit full frontal nudity they are asked to do). The music richly complements the scenes on screen. This film is remarkable on many levels but it's definitely adults-only stuff and even then it's not for all tastes. However, if you want something a little different and you're not afraid to be seriously disturbed, this will do nicely. "},{"Title":"A beautifully filmed, ugly and disturbing film.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"56 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this almost fifteen years ago and I still have crystal clear mental images of some of the scenes. The chef at his table in the kitchen, planning his menu stunning! Put it in a frame, hang it on the wall. In the restaurant scenes, you feel like you're there at the table as the camera pans, without cuts, from one person to another. Our heroes locked in the truck full of rotting meat horrible, disgusting, perfect. It's a classic purification ritual and it's literally putrid. Greenaway is a genius. My only criticism is a minor one. There is a full frontal nude scene of the wife and her lover, where he is clearly more relaxed than he should have been at that moment. I'm a bit disappointed in Greenaway for not showing him at attention, as he would have been in real life. But then, I guess he would have been accused of making porn. Whatever. This film is not for everyone. My wife didn't see it. I'm sure she would have hated it if she had. For that matter, I can't actually say I liked it, although I consider it a masterwork. But I'm glad I saw it. I'll probably see it again, but not until I can see it on HDTV. Plain old DVD couldn't possibly do it justice. An amazing movie.  "},{"Title":"Just don't watch it before you eat a roast lunch (very mild spoilers)","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One can probably assume from the film 'The Cook, the thief his wife and her lover' that director Peter Greenaway has a rather warped view of humanity; he is nihilistic about society's future, abhorrent of Thatcher's regime and furiously condescending of the entrepreneurial upper classes and their exploitation of the workers. This anger manifests itself in the shocking scenes of violence and depravity contained in the film, which earned the film an X certificate back in 1989 and (surprisingly) resulted in the film reaching a larger audience than anyone anticipated (the film grossed over $7 million in the USA) and proved that there is more weight to the old adage 'no publicity is bad publicity' than one might expect. However it should not be forgotten that the film received almost unanimously euphoric reviews from film critics (or at least from those that didn't flee from the cinema) and is indeed one of the most brilliant, visceral, imaginative and unique pieces of cinema. It's not for all tastes, but those who can stomach it will be rewarded with a slice of delectable cinematic cuisine of the highest order.The film's central locale is 'Le Hollondais', a restaurant of the most impeccable quality in every aspect. Night after night the restaurant is attended not only by an assortment of wealthy and decadent noveau riche, but also by low-level gangster Albert Spica (Michael Gambon) accompanied by his tormented wife Georgina (Helen Mirren) and a consortium of pimps, hit-men and psychopaths. Each evening Albert treats the dining area of the restaurant like his court, spewing out vile speeches of ignorance and bigotry, making unqualified criticisms of the cuisine and assaulting any of the other diners if they object to his hog-like behaviour. The chef (Richard Bohringer) despises Albert, but presents a façade of obedience and servitude to avoid any maltreatment from Albert and his cronies (much like the other dining guests, who exhibit remarkable patience with the revolting Albert). Georgina seems resigned to marital martyrdom, but also sees the ridiculousness of Albert's arrogance and pomposity (though she rarely contradicts him, he hits her with the exquisitely calligraphic menu when she does). However, one night her eyes meet Michael's (Alan Howard), an intellectual who sits quietly in the corner of the restaurant, delicately eating his meal whilst engrossed in his book, seemingly oblivious to Albert's loud displays of crudeness. Lightning (proverbially) strikes and with little hesitation the two make for the Ladies toilet, where they engage in a passionate tryst in one of the cubicles. And thus the cycle begins; each night Albert continues his rants and consumption of excessive amounts of food, whilst the cook assists Georgina in finding hiding places for her and Michael to make love. However the naturally distrustful Albert soon realises he is a cuckold and orders that lover be killed by having each page of his book thrust down his throat with a sharp spindle. Georgina, however, is able to turn the tables on Albert, which leads to the films shocking denouement where the thief receives his just desserts in a manner best described as poetic justice.So what is the film about? Is it a darkly humorous political satire on our materialistic times? Is it exploitative pornography coupled with scenes of unnecessary brutality? Or is it simply a story about a cook, a thief his wife and her lover? This is not an easy question to answer; the film's political undercurrents are intentionally enigmatic and vague, Greenaway certainly isn't handing us the answers on a silver platter (in interviews he refuses to talk about his film's subliminal meanings) and we are left to our own devices to discern the films message (if indeed it possesses one). Whilst one could simply accept the film as an updated Jacobean tragedy mingled with the savagery of a Charles Bronson revenge flick, this would rob the film of its allegorical significance, which the film most certainly possesses (in a strangely subversive way). I personally tend towards the argument that 'The Cook the thief his wife and her lover' is Greenaway's manifesto for his disgust at Britain's social hierarchy; the excesses of the wealthy, their subjugation of the workers and their insatiable desire for (as Dickens's Oliver would put it) 'more'.The quartet of main actors give performances of uninhibited power; they must metaphorically (and in the case of Helen Mirren and Michael Howard, literally) bare all. Each inhabits their character perfectly; the dour, soft spoken Richard, who subversively undermines Albert's authority by assisting Georgina in her sexual caprices, is played with model restraint and calm by Richard Bohringer (although his thick French accent is sometimes hard to comprehend). The part of Lover is less straightforward (he says nothing for the film's first 40 minutes) but Michael Howard acquits himself well to a rather limited role, the real tour de force performances, however, are delivered by Mirren and Gambon. Georgina's transformation from abused wife, to daring lover, to seeker of vengeance is perfectly portrayed by Mirren, she is the film's defiant heroine and earns our sympathies for her desperate plight. As Roger Ebert surmised so aptly 'Gambon plays Albert as the kind of bully you can only look at in wonder, that God does not strike him dead' he is the epitome of excess (gastronomically, egotistically, financially etc.) and lacks any redeeming features, but Gambon also has the talent to give a performance that makes us realise what a pathetic and (surprisingly) vulnerable character he is (though he's still utterly loathsome).Upon its release many saw the film as a political allegory with the thief representing the tyrannical Thatcher, who subjugates the dutiful workers (the cook) whilst ruining Britannia (the wife). This behaviour is all ineffectually opposed by left wing intellectuals (the lover). Whether or not this is true, indeed whether or not you love or loathe this film, it is a powerful experience that will linger with you for quite some time.My Score 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"An unforgettable piece of total cinema","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, I have to say that this film is one of my personal favorites, and that it is one of those things one must see during his or her lifetime.Truthfully, however, I first got into this film after hearing clips of the soundtrack on the Japanese version of Iron Chef, during a time before it was acquired by the Food Network. This film score, composed by the great post-minimalist Michael Nyman, is still one of the most haunting and soul-stirring scores in my opinion, if not the one of the most impressionable bodies of musical work ever. I still listen to the album on a weekly basis - it gets under your skin that way.The film itself is a piece of total art, as others have said. The sets are saturated with their singular color schemes (blue for the restaurant's exterior, green for the kitchen, white for the restrooms, and red for the main dining hall) , and people who have any sort of artistic training have valued and will continue to value this film as a character study of color. In this present age where most films present their interpretations of visual thrill through costly CG and SFX technologies, this film is a testament to how color can be a driving influence behind effective set design and cinematography.The principal actors, including the always amazing Helen Mirren and Michael Gambon, are first rate. Helen Mirren's Georgina is a truly heart-wrenching character, especially in the face of Gambon's portrayal of Albert Spica, a poor excuse for a human being and one of cinema's cruelest villains. The cook and lover are merely catalysts, serving to instigate the final act that is the undoing of Albert's overreaching tyranny.I suppose the anti-Thatcher sentiment is highly applicable to this film, but since I am not a British citizen, I feel that I cannot comment on this. However, I think the film's allegory can also be applied to other scenarios where a brutish figure uses violence and exploitation as a way to control others whose primary fault is only residing in the same physical/social/legal domain as the brute.In short, a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Bon apetit, Albert, that's French...","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Revenge has never been served so deliciously and artistically. The visuals, the costumes, the set decoration, the changing colors cinematography and the soundtrack in this darker than dark comedy are stunning - the grandmasters were working on the movie. Among them Peter Greenaway, first and foremost a painter and a fine one, his brilliant cinematographer Sasha Verny, his astounding composer Michael Nyman who used for the movie the incredible Memorial, and Jean-Paul Gaultier who designed the costumes. It also helped that Helen Mirren (as the long suffering wife, Georgina who in the end will serve her husband very well cooked revenge) and Michael Gambon (Albert- the thief, the gangster, the embodiment of pure evil and the owner of the swank restaurant) were two stars. Alan Howard plays a regular guest to whom Georgina is attracted to and carries on an affair with in the restaurant's restrooms and later in the back rooms, with the help of the Artist-cook (Richard Bohringer).Every frame of each Greenaway's movie looks and feels like an exquisite painting. A Zed and two Naughts is Greenaway's homage and admiration for Vermeer. The Draughtsman's Contract quite openly refers to Caravaggio, Georges de la Tour and other French and Italian artists. The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover, a fully realized vision of the director, a professional painter Peter Greenaway, is his tribute to the great Flemish and Dutch painters, Frans Hals, in particular. His large group portrait is constantly seen in the background of the hall in the London restaurant Le Hollandais that means The Dutchman. I see Peter Greenaway as Hieronymus Bosch of the cinema, the creator of enormously beautiful, divine canvas depicting all horrors of hell that only humans can inflict on one another. "},{"Title":"Albert's Special Treat","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The cruel and sadistic crime boss Albert Spica (Michael Gambon) has dinner every night in his restaurant with his wife Georgina Spica (Helen Mirren) and his gang. Albert abuses of his wife, his gangsters, the chef Richard Borst (Richard Bohringer) and the restaurant employees. When Georgina meets the gentle bookseller Michael (Alan Howard) in the restaurant, they have a torrid affair in the restroom and in the store, and they are covered by Richard. However the prostitute Pat discloses to Albert that he has been betrayed by Georgina and Albert kills Michael. However Georgina plots revenge against Albert with the support of Richard and the victims of Albert.The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover is one of the most grotesque, eschatological, bizarre and weird films that I have ever seen. But it is also absolutely original and mesmerizing, with intense use of colors, and with the contrast of vulgarity and art. Food, eschatology, sex, cruelty, torture, cannibalism and revenge are entwined along 124 minutes running time. The result is not pleasant and only specific audiences will appreciate this film. Last time I had seen this film was on 08 September 2000 on VHS. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) O Cozinheiro, o Ladrão, Sua Mulher e o Amante (The Cook the Thief, His Wife and the Lover) "}{"Title":"Appalling, bizarre yet compelling black comedy.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film adds a new dimension to the black comedy genre. We're talking pitch black, Friday the 13th dark here. From the first scene to the last, it appalls and discourages. Yet it's strangely compelling.It revolves around a trapped woman, engulfed by the wrath of her thieving husband, whose volatile temper triggers itself at any moment. She spies a lonely bookseller, and they start a dangerous affair together.The thief then discovers the affair, and his anger is let loose upon the wife and her lover.It's very over-the-top and horrific, the violence is graphic and the sexuality is explicit. The innuendo is terse and ribald, the comedy very film-noir. Those are the qualities which make the film so good.Nine out of ten.   "},{"Title":"Symbolism and art!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"34 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A play. A director. A crazy writer. Some more crazy actors. A perfect score. Mix them together, add a doze of Antonioni and Fellini, and you'll get this movie. This is not your usual film, and for the majority of people this would be `THE' craziest movie ever! But, for sake of art and originality, please see this movie with an open mind and take it as is an expression of originality and creativity. The costumes, the scenes, and the cinematography are like from a play in the decadent times. Very intriguing transitions from one scene to another, changing the light/costumes/music all at the same time, but following the same scenario idea, makes you wonder if the director/writer were `awake' when they created this.&#133;or a better way of saying something about this movies `it's a Greenaway'. You see a Dali painting and you know is by Dali, the same with this film something that you'll always associate with Greenaway and his original way of seeing the world.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.  "},{"Title":"Greenaway's elaborate and ornate revenger's tragedy - a must see film!","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" With the Cook, the Thief, his Wife and her Lover, Greenaway creates a self-contained world that is both a fabrication and abstraction of reality, but also an extremist reflection (nee, microcosm) of British society in the nineteen-eighties. The characters that he chooses to put forward to the audience as protagonists are archetypes of social and political caricatures that we would find in that particular decade; but heightened to conform to the over-the-top opulence/pestilence found central to the plot. His ability to craft characters and situations that resonate beyond the context of a particular scenario, coupled with his bitterness and unwillingness to conform is what sets him up as a satirist of serious note. He also elevates the film beyond the realms of mere art-house experimentation by fashioning a seriously funny script, which has ample opportunities for central character Albert Spica to prove himself the ultimate charismatic bully - part cockney hard man, part pantomime villain - who is never less than compulsively terrifying.The plot is a simple construct centred on the theme of revenge and the need for personal freedom. This is mixed in with the socio-political undertones as well as Greenaway's many references to art, theatre, film and literature. It is also elevated by the impeccable cinematic qualities that we hold synonymous with the director's work. Everything here is about pushing things beyond the reasonable limitations; so we have a stunningly intricate set that is both theatrically simplistic, but also as other-worldly as anything from the work of say Gilliam or Jeunet. The costumes by Jean Paul Gaultier scream over-the-top chic, whilst often mirroring the use of colour employed by the production designers. Greenaway even breaks continuity by having Helen Mirren's costumes change colour as she moves through each room of the restaurant, so that we have a green dress in the kitchen, a red dress in the dinning area (inspired by Hitchcock's vertigo no less) and a white dress in the lavatory. It's an audacious move, but one that pays off in the creation of a completely self-contained world; something that is further established by Sacha Vierny's sumptuous cinematography and the wonderfully bombastic music of the ever-excellent Michael Nyman.Some have clearly found the film's various abstractions problematic (yes, it is theatrical, yes it is occasionally shocking, and yes, it does evolve in a world of its own ostentatious creation). But it's also as artistic a film as you can get; a fact that some here have disputed. The reason that some define this as artistic refers to the use of colour, light and composition. The architecture of the sets too, and the way in which the production designers have chosen to dress them also adds to the artistic stylisation of the film. These factors are important to the narrative, as they are symbolic to what Greenaway is trying to convey, as well as what the characters are all about. Because of this, the design of the film becomes AS important as the framework, if not more so. But this film is more than a mere arty exploration; it's funny and intelligent and features a slew of great performances from a wonderfully eclectic cast. Michael Gambon as the thief Spica gives a grandstand performance to rival his own Phillip Marlow from The Singing Detective; hamming things up spectacularly but still retaining that much needed sense of humanity. The same can be said of the other principals too.Mirren as the wife exudes a quite and restrained sexuality in what must be her best performance, whist Richard Bohringer as the cook is in some represents the linchpin/catalyst for the film. Elsewhere we find everyone from Tim Roth to Ian Dury popping up to give the film some added character and easily furthering the film's already cult appeal. This was a turning point for Greenaway; a move towards the more expressive, elaborate and self-contained style of film-making found in films like Prospero's Books and the Baby of Maçon and away from the more easy to digest classics like the Draughtsman's Contract, Drowning by Numbers and A Zed and Two Noughts. "},{"Title":"Bon appetit.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Writer/Director Peter Greenaway teams up again with cinematographer Sacha Vierny and composer Michael Nyman, delivering a banquet of sound and colour, light and dark.  And dark and dark.  A simple if disturbing morality tale sits atop a canvas of grotesque characters, carefully-composed frames and revolting details.  The restaurant setting forces analogues with a meal, and it's easy to oblige - a rather formal affair, bordering on pretentious, with its influences conspicuous - sumptuous, exotic, intoxicating, memorable, if perhaps too rich and over-long, and it plays havoc with the digestion. As acquired a taste as any of Greenaway's work, and by no means an unqualified triumph.  This film does not deliver on all its promises.  But at least they were big promises.  Try a piece - if you don't like it, you can always go back to your burgers and fries.  Nine out of ten.Notes1. Michael Gambon's Albert Spica (the Thief of the title) surely ranks as one of cinema's all-time nastiest villains.  Sorry Darth - no cigar.2. The title of this film has become a template for headlines in British newspapers, e.g. The A, the B, his C and her D. Don't ask me why.3. Cook/Thief is one of four similar and inter-related films that Greenaway made during the 1980s, the others being The Belly of an Architect, A Zed and Two Noughts and Drowning by Numbers.  While Cook/Thief stole all the headlines with its snazzy visuals and outrageous grotesquery - not to mention various collisions with the censors - For me,  Drowning is the best of the bunch.  And somewhat easier on the eye (and stomach). "},{"Title":"Painfully Awful","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember it like it was yesterday...This film arrived at the tail end of the eighties. The spin doctors of the time implied to us that the nineties were going to be some grand orgy of sex, drugs, violence, and detatchment, and films tried to jump the gun on all this. Many filmgoers, especially critics, seemed to be engaged in a kind of extreme viewing competition. If you could sit through the most vile hunk of garbage and comment artistically on it at the end, you apparently scored points. If you couldn't, well, you probably didn't belong in the theaters during this daring new wave of creativity.The Cook, the Thief, His Wife, and Her Lover was controversial at the time because the MPAA would not give it an R, forcing it to be released with no rating, with the result that many theaters would not show it (it was actually this film that inspired the creation of the NC-17 rating). Critics howled that our conservative and antiquated rating system was preventing the mature filmgoing public from seeing important work suitable for adults only. It generated huge publicity. People went to it just to see if it was as daring and artistic as it sounded.Confession I lost points on this one. I've seen over 1000 films, of all budgets, genres and nationalities. I've groaned my way through hundreds of terrible works, films that offended me to my core, all the way to the end, in the name of some artistic dedication.This is the ONLY film I have ever attended theatrically where I stood up from my seat, kissed my money goodbye, and walked out, reminding myself that it was a small price to pay for such a valuable lesson I'd been had.Read the descriptions of other reviewers that spoil bits of the plot. Tell yourself that this film is worth checking out because there has to be SOME redeeming quality to it. Waste your cash.It's not well produced or well acted enough to be art, not fun enough to be a decent gross-out film, not important enough to make it worth sitting through.It's just a well-marketed piece of crap. "},{"Title":"Holds the distinction...","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film adds a new dimension to the phrase 'bad indie' film. We're talking over the top, like it was intentional, 'what else can we do' - 'bad indie'. From the first scene of excrement smearing, to the last scene of cannibalism, the movie appalls and makes you want to go rent 'You and me and Everyone we know' - it's that bad a film.The title is the plot, and the revolting mechanics are mostly brought about by Michael Gambon &#150; an actor I like. His wife &#150; Helen Mirren &#150; is another actor I like. Tim Roth and Ciaran Hinds also play roles &#150; I like them too. I'm halfway thinking it's me, it's me who is an idiot &#150; these people all wouldn't have been that idle all at once to accept roles in this absolutely terrible endeavor; and then not be able to see what a worthless film it would be, would they? Then since I'm kinda thick and didn't realize it myself, I see that it's an 'an allegory for Thatcherism'&#133;ahhh, that explains it. Hatred for the PM is what drove these Brit actors to this paycheck&#133;OK, I would do pretty much the same thing for an actor's paycheck too.But no way is this film worth the time, nor the patience, nor the amount of churn your stomach will do over the course of its either 2 hour uncut version, or its 98 min US version. As far as it being called 'art' by many, it's art if you consider Serrano's crucifix in urine art; or all of Mapplethorpe's work art. I'm an old man, have seen many films, and this one holds the distinction of being the bad film to end all bad films. "},{"Title":"Simply vile","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"26 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I submitted my rating (1) for The Cook, the Thief, His Wife, and Her Lover I looked at the previous voting breakdown and was astonished to find that one-fourth of the over 2400 voters had given it the highest rating (10).  Holy smokes!  It made me wonder if I was an artless rube in the field of film criticism and appreciation.I then read several of the user comments.  I will admit, much of the visual sophistication and allusive storytelling went unnoticed or unappreciated by me while I was in the movie theater.  What I did notice, however, was how badly I wanted to leave the theater.  I have never walked out of a movie in my life (It might get really good at the end), and frankly have been deeply tempted to do so only perhaps four times in my life.  But this movie takes the cake.  I hesitate to say this about a film that is clearly ambitious and crafted with such knowing technique, but this may very well be the very worst movie I've ever seen.Bottom line  I just didn't see the point of it.  It may have been a portrait of abject evil; but if that's the case, I would have to say that it was badly focused.  Was it some sort of social commentary or social criticism?  If it was, it was pretty shallow.  It may well have been chock full of cinematic and literary allusions, and had erudite style and sophistication oozing out its pores - but to what end?  What story did it tell me?  What aspect of our world did it illuminate?  What did it show about, say, evil that I didn't already know before?  My only reaction to the story was that they should've shot the bad guy dead in the first scene so he couldn't have wreaked his pointless havoc throughout the rest of the movie.  If mere technique and visual panache are supposed to impress us, then by extension scales and exercises could be great music and crossword puzzles great literature.I can appreciate that others may not agree with me, but I found no redeeming value in this movie.  I might choose to regard it as a pretentious exercise in gangster-movie-making, or a nihilistic message about Thatcherite England.  Either way, my chief opinion was that it was simply vile. "},{"Title":"Gross but gorgeous","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the most amazing films i've ever seen.... It's almost hard to describe .Disgustingly ugly,stunningly beautiful.Gorgeous intro scenes to the restaurant each night. A supremely believable bad guy (you almost feel like shooting him yourself to stop the bullying).Scenes and ideas you just don't expect The haunting yet beautiful singing by the young kitchen boy (in a kitchen that looks 300 years old),the dog being run over in the car park (looks too real),the truly disgusting scene of the lovers being locked in the truck full of rotten meat (naked,lol) and the method of revenge chosen by the wife. A standout movie,no doubt. Amongst the best ever? Yes,but not for the usual reasons.Not a great story,more an experience. Compulsory viewing ? YES.....but only for some.If you don't mind violence and grossness then absolutely Even for those that would have trouble stomaching the ugly stuff -it's worth putting up with for the moments of stunning beauty "},{"Title":"Is to film what a twinkie is to nutrition","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I sat transfixed by this film's ability to become increasingly depraved, always without any redeeming quality whatsoever. We would have left except that I became fascinated by the ability of the director and writer to hit bottom and then keep drilling. The story is familiar enough but there are no protagonists. There really are no antagonists either. Just a bunch of people you care nothing about doing things you don't want to know about. If a friend did this stuff to another human and wanted to tell you about it, you would scream for him/her to stop.To top it off it has a score by Michael Nyman who had just enough talent to write one bad film score and retreads it for every film that a producer is stupid enough to hire him to score. "},{"Title":"A Nasty Piece of Work","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" So many, many people miss the point.The jarring contrast between the lush backgrounds, lovely set design and gorgeous soundtrack and the hideous violence is the whole point. Bountiful riches smothering a rotten core of moral decay. Exploitation and brutal manipulation seething beneath a thin veneer of respectability. The Elephant in the living-room that no-one talks about. The gangster's leer at the heart of the lipstick-smeared culture of greed.This is an unforgiving film with a starkly *un*pretentious *political* message. It is propaganda, and should be seen as such.Structured visual allegory with narrative footnotes. Meaning that each character is a *symbol*, not a character. The Thief is the filth-obsessed brute force necessary to power the engines of capitalism, the restaurant full of patient diners ignoring the hideous monster at its centre are the consumers of late 20th Century, the Cook is the intelligentsia attempting to construct society, The Thief's Wife, the choirboy and the other victims are various stages of Innocence being abused by the system and (for the sake of narrative) Her Lover is Mercury, the lightning bolt that brings Change. All very simple. Far too simple for an ordinary movie, really. Not exactly entertainment.The volume in everything in this movie is turned UP. It sounds and looks pretentious, yes, but this film is an exercise in *stripping away* unnecessary detail, not *adding* it as in previous Greenaways, to sharpen the knives to an exquisite edge, to flay the rotting flesh from the 80's paradigm's bones. It's a polemic, a rant, a scorched-earth blaze of cold rage.But is it a good movie? Objectively? No. Not really.It's too long, it's stomach-churningly violent, the lover characters are subtle and clash with the rest of the cast bizarrely and th colour-changing between environments, whilst stylistically clever, is disjointed and meaningless.But is it a good series of perfectly lit photographs strung loosely together through time for neatnesses sake whose visual structure lends deep and powerful meaning to the central message of the film, that the only hope is that Innocence can triumph over Brute Greed? Subjectively? YES.But... should one DO such things? SHOULD one make such movies? Who knows? Who cares? But... IS Capitalism REALLY that horrible? Did we really have to sit through all that filth just to be told that our social systems have consequences that we are not only completely aware of but are quite happy to ignore even if these consequences are blaring in our ears, interrupting our enjoyment of the choice sweetmeats the same system bestows on us so long as we let it do it's thing? Loaded question. And those who think they already know the answer will love or hate this film accordingly.Me? I liked the costumes. And the dialogue. And the imagination. And I *respect* a film-maker who openly despises Evil. As for the political subtext... on some days I can forgive it and on others I can't, but one cannot expect to go looking at works of art that people have made and *never* see something that disturbs you. Artists have things to say.Certainly he says it very loud, but that doesn't bother me. I have no problem with the grinding of axes, so long as the axe-grinder knows which end of the axe he's grinding... "}{"Title":"Unforgettable and Beyond Brilliant.","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Cook, the Thief, His Wife, & Her Lover' is a film about politics, cannibalism, vomit, love, death, betrayal, and torture. 'The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover' is part black comedy, part crime thriller, part horror, part film-noir. It is about about four twisted characters and a series of events that play out over an entire week. The owner of a French restaurant, Albert Spica(the thief), occupies it daily in order to stuff his face and beat on the innocent bystanders that surround him and cannot touch him. The owner of the restaurant(the cook) constantly watches in awe as Albert Spica humiliates everyone and talks and talks and talks, yet says nothing. The thief's wife, Georgina(his wife), is beaten, raped, and humiliated every day by the thief. She falls in love with another man at another table, Michael(her lover), and begins to have a rather passionate affair with him. What results is one of the most outrageous and bizarre films I've ever seen. Peter Greenaway has created a film that is unlike anything that has ever been made before. It is a film that is so disgusting and dark and tasteless, and yet so beautiful and intelligent and fresh that it must be seen to be believed. All of the performances are unforgettable, especially Helen Mirren as the wife, in a heart wrenching performance. Michael Gambon is absolutely terrifying as the thief. People can discuss the political implications that the film implies all they want. I really don't care about that stuff though. Even if that's what the film is about, it isn't why I love it. I love it because it challenges me and a way a challenging film should. The attention to detail in the set-pieces depict the one pertaining to the outrageous and decadent nature of our time and the times in which we live where the thief consumes everything and is wasteful. As a result, there is a genuine sense of true horror throughout the film. The graphic violence and sex only add the the dark nature of the depiction of a world, long destroyed by the greedy punks that have overrun the world. The punks in this film are much older than the ones that are usually depicted, and we the post-apocalyptic world outside for many brief glimpses in which there is a lot of fog, smoke, grime, and filth. We really get a sense that the world that is depicted in this film was once truly beautiful and open to possibility, and the fact that it is a world that is long gone makes the film far more tragic than we would usually expect, especially one with such grand texture and such a dark sense of humor.This is the kind of film that reminds me that people in the film industry can still make intelligent, smart, and brilliant films without having to pile on the excess. The film works because it is not only effective, but it is also original storytelling. The film's use of it's set design only amplifies the way it is presents and gives the film even more meaning with it's vibrant colors and the way that each set piece in the entire film represents a different color of the rainbow. The music by Michael Nyman is simply one of the most chilling and unforgettable scores I've heard in a film. It only enhances the beauty of the film though. While the film is certainly not for everyone, especially children(although it won't be easy for them to view it given it's NC-17 rating), this film is for the kind of adult audience who likes to think and not just be shown something that will waste their time. The content is really tame compared the garbage that is allowed to be played on public television these days anyway. For people who want to be challenged and shown a film that will make them think about the world in a different way than they normally do, It's a must see. This is one of my personal favorite films. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortable and Arresting","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The masochist in me really enjoyed the hell out of this ridiculous tour de force. It's shamelessly repugnant in every aspect. The story is marvelous, even more marvelous is the operatic way in which the story is told. Dame Helen Mirren is breathtaking in this. The one character that struck me as fascinating, and extraordinary, was the mob boss, Albert. He could be the most hateful character in all of cinema. He's like a nightmarish combination of Mr. Creosote and a Joe Pesci mobster. Dumbledore himself gives one of the most physically and emotionally exhausting performances I've ever seen, and I can't for the life of me understand why he wasn't nominated for an Oscar for this. This is an all around, perfect exercise in the grotesque and the surreal. I've never been subjected to a movie more equally enjoyable and painful to watch than this. "},{"Title":"Over-rated, over-cooked and over-lookable","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a noxious little dish this is, served up with all the trimmings of Greenaway's apparently constant dislike of women, (first detected in THE DRAUGHTSMAN'S CONTRACT but overlooked by the politically correct as it posed as an `art' film), his `operatic' sense of self-importance, ideas lifted from other movies, (the changing dress colour previously happened in ORPHÉE in the late 40s!), and the somewhat infantile notion that `daring' and `shock' are somehow synonymous with `genius' or `profundity'. A squalid, sordid little opus that really tells us little more than the fact that some people find cruelty entertaining, and middle-class `intellectuals' still get a charge out of slumming. Monotonous, dreary, shallow and pretentious. "},{"Title":"Self-indulgence dressed up as art","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's too long since I've seen this to do a proper hatchet job, but I recall thinking that it was needlessly difficult to watch. Art films don't have to be jarringly stilted, but this one groans under the weight of Peter Greenaway's constant reminders that he is AVANT GARDE. It's the film equivalent of a dinner party guest who spends the evening spitting in your food to show that he is free from the constraints of social norms.There are elements - the class observations, long panning shots and colour changes from room to room, to name three - that show Greenaway's unusual talent, but they are overwhelmed by a tide of gratuitous overacting, overlong scenes and functionless dialogue. The film is an extended metaphor for Margaret Thatcher's thuggish reign as Prime Minister of Britain, and the subject seems to have thrown Greenaway into such a frothing rage that he was unable to concentate on anything but the metaphysical.Some people believe that the film succeeds because of its anarchic, freewheeling nature, but I think that is precisely its failure. Greenaway's reluctance to rein in the more self-indulgent parts of the film smacks of laziness and an inability to distinguish the benefits of experimentation from the dross it inevitably throws up.It is as if he is saying Who am I to intervene in art? Well, Peter, you are the director. You are perfectly placed to do so, and we really wouldn't hold it against you. "},{"Title":"Get me a hat - I think I'm going to throw up","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most pretentious pieces of crap impersonating art I've ever had the misfortune to view.  I sat through the entire flick in the belief that *some* redeeming quality would evidence itself before the end.  With the exception of the cinematography (which was stellar), this assumption of mine was sorely mistaken.  The pseudo-action and situations were stilted and contrived, the players' deliveries were wooden, and the symbolism was sophomorically transparent.  I could only recommend this film as a how NOT to guide for future film aspirants. "},{"Title":"The Adolescent, the Adolescent, His Adolescent, Her Adolescent","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"22 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's interesting to note that if a dozen monkeys typed randomly on a dozen typewriters for a few weeks, you could put it all together as a screenplay that reviewers would give four stars to - and then each of those reviewers would say it means something entirely different.This movie is the peak of the urine in a glass is art movement.All you have to do as a filmmaker is to hire good actors, an excellent costume designer, an innovative cinematographer (even if he only has one innovative idea), and a musical score composer who is instantly identifiable because any 10 seconds of his score is identical to any other 10 seconds, and then people will think - there must be some profound idea here.   It just has to look artsy.Well, I'm sorry, but as someone who has seen a majority of the more well known art films (and some of which are excellent), I haven't the slightest doubt that there is nothing going on here, except an adolescent being allowed to make films.The small skeleton of a plot is stolen from Born Yesterday (1950), except that here the gangster's wife is not uplifted by her association with her lover - in fact, there is no evidence that any of the characters, or the filmmaker himself for that matter, has a clue what uplifted means.For a more substantive review that I agree entirely with, see below the review that starts Jim Nygaard  Saint Paul, MN  Date 6 September 2000  Summary Simply vile "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece. (spoilers)","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie for the first time, I was pleasantly surprised to see that creativity could be stretched in that direction. Many directors try and aim to pull the strings of our revulsion, but never with this much success. High marks for this film which has also the merit of giving a new dimension to Michael Niman's Memorial a modern classical and a masterpiece in its own right. The cast is impeccable, superb, but my only reservation is the very thick French accent of Richard Borhinger. The story is simple a woman married to the most cruel of men has an affair in her husband's restaurant. Everything is fantastic in this uncompromising movie. I think it is more - way more - pertinent than other movies that were meant to offend any audience (Salo, Caligula, Full Metal Jacket and other works where cruelty meets depravity). Although I think it not for everyone, I highly recommend this movie to movie goers who are able to stomach anything that is thrown at them. It is a 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gorgeous, insane and utterly brilliant. I'd seen a few Peter Greenaway films prior to this, but none of them have particularly worked for me. This one just blew me away. Michael Gambon plays a crook who has bought a share of a fancy French restaurant. This means he can spend every night sitting in the middle of the restaurant loudly barking his particular brand of rudeness at his minions (including Tim Roth and Ciaran Hinds) and his put-upon wife (Helen Mirren). Mirren is so sick of her life she wanders off to the bathroom to have anonymous sex with a book-reading customer (Alan Howard). After a few nights of this, Gambon catches on and, well, the results aren't that pretty. Two things in particular stand out in this one first, Gambon. Holy crap, he is one of the most brazen bastards ever to be seen (and especially heard) in the cinema. The performance is utterly brilliant. I hate this guy, don't get me wrong, but I could listen to him yell for hours and I wouldn't stop laughing. Second the production design. It's one of the neatest looking films I've ever seen. Shot on an elaborate sound stage, the restaurant (and its exterior) are color coded. It's brilliant. My favorite bit of it are the urinals in the men's room a shoulder-high pillar in the very center of the bathroom with the urinals on each side, so the urinators have to stare right into their neighbors eyes as they pee. The story has an allegorical meaning, apparently about Thatcher, but at this point that's only a historical footnote. The film holds up great with all its nuttiness. My only minor complaint the last sequence is a tad too straightforward. But, really, I absolutely loved this. It's one of the best films I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"Greenaways never forgotten 90's mobster masterpiece, of death cooked up","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are people out there, who absolutely hate this film. I can run down a few names. I liked it when I was 20. At the end of it, I had to sit down for a half and an hour, getting over what I had just seen in the shocking finale of it, in it's near 2 hrs running time. Some people out there, just won't appreciate the film, as if it takes an acquired taste to like it. Gambon, in an unlike Gambon performance, which I still consider this to be his best work, plays one of the scariest mobsters in film, apart from Pesci in Goodfellas that same year. Oh bring on the nineties. Gambon owns this expensive, lavish restaurant. Just check out the loud sets and costumes. The dishes of food are too little, and aren't to everything's taste, although you haven't seen the final dish, a distasteful offering. Gambon just revels in this ugly character, going all out with it. He's a thug, bully, oaf, has no respect for woman, or mercy, when it comes to people owing debts. By example at the start, in an exterior shot, just outside the restaurant, one poor sod is being basted in faeces, left to wash himself down, amidst barking dogs loitering around him. We then pull away, pan across into the kitchen, some cooks shirtless, and they we come into the extravagant dining area. Gambon's wife, Georgina, played by the great Helen Mirren, back in the day, when she was much less known, is the butt of Gambon's abuse, physical and verbal. Gambon too, hates the fact that she smokes. Throughout the night, she keeps looking off, attracted to this average looking guy, loner, sitting afar, who likes to bring a few books to his dine ins. Gambon points out a harsh truth, when striking up a quick conversation with the stranger about lonely diners and their books. Soon this guy and Mirren are having a sexual affair, trotting off to the loos, every five minutes, and where ever they can do it, in secrecy, and when hubby finds out, he sees red. And in the finale, as concerning the last course, what goes around, really goes around. Watch out too for the fool of Gambon's gang, the fine Tim (pre Mr Orange) Roth as Mitchell, who likes to push Gambon. Judge for yourself, this film, especially lovers of visual cinema. It's up to you to have the final vote. "},{"Title":"Very Theatrical... Very Brilliant!....","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love the visual style of this film; it's very theatrical but with huge backdrops; some of the scenes in the restaurant almost look like they're filmed in an aircraft hanger. The use of colour is quite brilliant, even down to the actor's costume changing colour as they move from room to room. I thought the music fitted the piece quite brilliantly too (aside from the operatic stuff &#x96; those that have seen it will know what I'm referring to). All the performances were excellent; in particular Helen Mirren and Michael Gambon; they both really shone in this one! It's certainly one I'll be seeing again sometime and one I heartily recommend although some may find certain scenes distasteful (definitely not for the youngsters!).SteelMonster's verdict HIGHLY RECOMMENDEDMy score 8.9/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "}{"Title":"The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I heard about this film because of its sexual content and a few of the actors starring before finding out it one of the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die in the book of the same name, so that made me even more keen to see it. Basically high-class Le Hollandais Restaurant, run by French chef Richard Borst, the Cook (Richard Bohringer) has been taken over by vicious, malevolent and sadistic English gangster Albert Spica, the Thief (Sir Michael Gambon), and he makes numerous nightly appearances at the restaurant as host to dining parties of fellow thugs. With no interest and respect for the feelings and integrity of his staff and customers Spica's despicable behaviour causes many confrontations and he loses some of their company, but he gets away with taking their money. The one who suffers the most from his intolerable attitude is his finely bred and beautiful spouse Georgina Spica, the Wife (Dame Helen Mirren) who is forced into joining in his activities, and she often is victim to his abusive comments and occasional disrespectful actions. She has obviously had enough, and she soon enough catches the eye of and starts a passionate affair with bookshop owner and regular restaurant customer Michael, the Lover (Alan Howard), and with the help of the staff she manages to continue it right under her husband's nose. Eventually Spica does find out about the affair, and despite having no clothes Georgina and Michael escape from his raging tirade in the back of a truck containing rotting meat and vegetables, and they hide out in the bookshop, the always singing soprano boy working at the restaurant brings them food provided by Borst. Spica tortures the boy to find out where the bookshop is, and while Georgina is with the boy recovering in hospital, Spica's men torture Michael, force-feeding him pages from his books, choking and bleeding him to death, and Georgina discovers his body when she returns. In grief and rage she decides to exact her revenge on her husband in the only way she knows how, the gangster was heard shouting that he would kill and eat Michael when he found him, so she begs Borst to take Michael's body and to cook it, after a while of refusal he eventually agrees to this. The end sees Spica losing his restaurant business with financial downfall, and all the people he was horrible to him are gathered to watch his comeuppance, and Georgina brings out the cooked body of Michael and forces Spica at gunpoint to eat a mouthful of the body, forcing him to gag, and she shoots dead. Also starring Tim Roth as Mitchel, Ciarán Hinds as Cory, Gary Olsen as Spangler, Ewan Stewart as Harris, Roger Ashton-Griffiths as Turpin, Ron Cook as Mews, Liz Smith as Grace, Doctor Who's Alex Kingston as Adele, singer Ian Dury as Terry Fitch, Diane Langton as May Fitch and Roger Lloyd-Pack as Geoff. Gambon gives a brilliantly grotesque performance as the cruel and hateful criminal who only cares about himself, Mirren is really good clothed and unclothed as the long suffering wife who finds strength and true love, and the supporting cast all get their good moments as well, and the direction of Peter Greenaway is well paced and executed. This film obviously made an impact during the time of its release, especially for its controversial and thought provoking material, the use of nudity and graphic violence and dark sense of humour, the best scenes are definitely a sex scene at the same time as some chopping and food preparation and of course the hilariously gross ending, I would absolutely recommend this risqué and marvellous black comedy drama. Dame Helen Mirren was number 7 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, and she was number 5 on Britain's Finest Actresses, the film was number 91 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Very good! "},{"Title":"Excellent dark comedy","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this film to be highly entertaining. The colors, soundtrack and the cinematography were very interesting. Nothing really absurdly great, though. I mean, it is artsy in some level, but it is not that artsy.Though, it wasn't a masterpiece by any means I saw 8 1/2 in the same day and it's mythical awesomeness contrasts with this highly awesome film still restricted to a mortal level of greatness. It is a good film, but not a great film.Its a dark comedy and it is sure to make people less accustomed to film than I am to be impressed/disgusted by some of the scenes. "},{"Title":"masterpiece","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes you see a movie that gets into your head and will never leave it again. This is such a movie. After not having seen this movie for a year or so i woke up one day hearing the little boy sing, seeing different rooms in different colors and smelling the rotten meat. It was like a nightmare, but the next week i saw the movie on video and everything that i thought i had dreamed was real. "},{"Title":"Pretentious tripe","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have a problem with art-house films like THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE & HER LOVER and it's that the directors of such fare are often totally ignorant when it comes to decent film-making. Sure, they obsess over designer costumes and make-up, and they focus intently on the colour palette of their movies, but when it comes to movie-making staples like pace, character, dialogue, and intrigue, they fail.Peter Greenaway is such a director. This controversial 1989 opus is known for its gruesome scenes of cannibalism, yet take away the controversy and there's absolutely nothing here to rate this. The running time is as slow as a snail, and much of it is made up of scenes of the repulsive Michael Gambon character berating his wife and associates.Greenaway's a better director than he is a writer, because the script is terrible. We get the gist of Gambon's character and the situation with his wife in the first ten minutes, yet two hours of non-action go by in which we're bludgeoned over the head with his sheer monotonous brutish nature. The whole film takes place on a cheap-looking set that quickly becomes boring, Helen Mirren spends most of the running time naked and forgets how to act, and luminaries such as Tim Roth and Ciaran Hinds are wasted.Yes, there are a few shocking scenes, yet cannibalism is dealt with in a much more entertaining fashion in both B-movie fare (such as Pete Walker's 1974 FRIGHTMARE) and Hollywood flicks (like RAVENOUS). I'm not against arty films where nothing happens, but there has to be substance to go with the style; Nic Roeg's DON'T LOOK NOW is a case in point one of my favourite films of all time, but hardly action-packed. THE COOK... just wastes a great deal of potential and proves to be another case of The Emperor's New Clothes. "},{"Title":"The Gross, the Foul, the Mean-Spirited, and the Tired","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not really sure why this was such a darling with critics.  This movie has a number of problems.  The love affair was not hot, hot, hot the way it should be in a small-budget indie.  The villain had almost no redeeming qualities, including charisma (disappointing effort by Gambon).  The color scheming was obvious and uninspired (as opposed to Traffic).  Finally, this is one of the most disgusting movies I've seen, and I don't mean SPOILERthe cannibalism at the end.  I'm thinking about the torture of the boy soprano.  While I hate boy sopranos as much as the next guy, 'e's got one button left! is one of the most hateful things I've seen.  The only redeeming quality of this film is that it was the first time I'd seen Tim Roth, who was funny because his lack of engagement with the action around him at the dinner table showed how superior he is to this crap. "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Festering","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I do not deny that this is a superbly, beautifully, and imaginatively filmed movie. It is breath-taking.However, the plot is so monstrously horrible that all pleasure of the beautiful cinematography was destroyed for me.The audience is treated to such unnecessary scenes of horror and repugnance, that I could never reccomend this movie to another human being. It was ghastly. "},{"Title":"A real art piece... Amazing!","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw the movie I was really shocked. I mean it's sadistic, sick, spooky, and yet it's a real art piece.The story really touched me, yes, it actually did, and I really liked the way they shot the movie. Specially the details, like, it looked like a play, cause the whole story took place only in 6 places The parking, the kitchen, the restaurant, the rest room, the book store & the hospital.And I liked the fact that all the colors turned to red black & white in the restaurant. The idea itself is amazing. And the acting was really good too. The plot might be pointless, but it still has something... I thought for a while what it was, and than I got it. The movie shows that even the people who didn't know what love is still want it, though everything... I hope you get the point... I just love this movie, call me sick, but i still like it. "},{"Title":"Not a great work of art.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is the worst movie I've seen in a long time.  It was interesting at first, with its great use of color and costume.  But by the end, I was very sick of it.  The grotesque element is played out to an extreme.  It wasn't the violent and often disgusting imagery that I disliked (though that is excessive), rather, it was the fact that everything in the movie was WAY too obvious.  I think a movie that attempts to be artful ought to have meaning on a subtler level.  But the symbolism in this movie was thrown out at your face, a lot like a force-feeding.  All the value that this movie contains can be had within the first twenty minutes (i.e. the use of colors and costume).  As for the rest - I think the director takes himself way too seriously.  My friends and I couldn't help laughing at the scenes that were meant to express the greatest pathos.  The ending scenes were so ridiculous, such a bombast, that I had to leave the movie.  After it was over, my friends and I really felt offended that we had been subjected to so much pretentious -and, I think, false - art. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw it when it first came out, I suppose, in 89 or 90.  It gave me an upset stomach and a headache for about 2 weeks afterwards.  And even now, 10 years later, just thinking about it really makes my stomach upset.This is without a doubt the grossest film I've ever seen.  Juvenile sadism masquerades as art.  It's very difficult to me to attach myself to a film which features nothing but repugnant characters; to do so, the characters have to be really, really interesting.  These aren't.  They are brutish and nasty to the very end, yet terribly 2-dimensional.  You don't care what happens to them after a while.  But the shear grossness of the film compels you to watch, the same way one is drawn to watch an accident.  I actually almost walked out of this film, but stayed for some unknown reason.  Not the wisest decision I've ever made.I'd give it a zero if it were possible, but the 1 will have to do.  I better stop now.  My headache is returning. "},{"Title":"profoundly disturbing, but not in an acceptable way","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is not art. So do not let your mind think that what you are viewing is acceptable because it is art. Its themes and emotions are too blatantly shoved in your face for it to be artistic. What you get instead is a compilation of vile characters, unspectacular sex scenes and unnecessarily crude violence.This film relentlessly forces scene after scene of ugly, debauched filth into your face, hiding behind the facade of art. there is nothing artsy about the sex scenes, between a respected actress (before i saw this film) and a man who later gets stuffed with pages from his books. The final, fatal blow though resides at the films finale, where director Greenaway unleashes perhaps the most nauseating and intolerable scene in cinema history. Cannibalism... in its most horrific form to date.The characters are shallow and two-dimensional and the plot is simply tasteless. The cinematography would normally be considered as good work but the colours and theatricalities of it all just add to the grotesque, debauched, pseudo-artistic. In short there are no redeeming qualities to the film. I apologise for the repeated use of the words 'art' and 'artistic' but they are words that I hear being used in conjunction with this film that desperately need to be retracted to avoid giving other artistic films a bad name.I am now left with a sickening feeling in my stomach having thought about this piece of vile filth for this long. Don't watch it. "}{"Title":"Eyes Wide Shut meets Salo with a little bit of spice","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow. I had never heard of Mr. Greenaway before coming across this film so i didn't know what to expect. It definitely was not this. Even after seeing Salo, or The 120 day of Sodom, I never would have imagined such a sinister and forbiddingly vehement film can be so strikingly alluring in a figurative and theatrical sense. The set design, colour aspects and cinematography where like thrusting into a Kubrick-ian alternate universe. Michael Gambon's portrayal of the heinous Albert was so trembling to watch but his every action was such a captivating experience. I also loved the subtle but ever so intriguing, young Tim Roth as Mitchel. He was dubiously sound, revolting in a reluctant scheme to over shadow Gambon's character theatrically. Michael Nyman's score was like the desert we didn't deserve; the ever so needed dash of spices that adds that perfect touch from begging to end. It saddens me that a film like this will never rise to prominence because there are very few individuals who are on the same wavelength as Peter Greenaway. Hollywood, or this planet rather, is deprived of more minds like Greenaway. I now look forward to divulging into his universe of films. "},{"Title":"Vibrant!","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The wife (Helen Mirren) of an oafish restaurant owner (Michael Gambon) becomes bored with her husband and considers an affair with a regular patron (Alan Howard).First thing worth noting is the color scheme, with its bright red, blue, green and white. Not just a clever way to indicate what room the action is in, but a great use of the colors themselves. There is the risk that too much color is garish, but not here. Perhaps the best use of color since Suspiria.Then, you have the bold nudity, not typical in an English-speaking film. Helen Mirren, fully nude for several minutes? And Alan Howard, flopping in the breeze? You bet. But it is not just nudity for nudity's sake. It really shows how vulnerable these folks are. "},{"Title":"Different but great","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is unlike anything else out there . That's what makes it great. Not suitable for sensitive individuals. The ending is predictable however. Although it fits in with the story it is perhaps the weakest part of the film. I have watched this movie several times and each viewing is a treat.There is some graphic violence which is not gratuitous (also true of the sex scenes) but is far too graphic for my taste (referring to the violence). Again, however , it does fit in with the general feeling of the movie. Fortunately, it takes up only one short part of the film. Helen Mirren is great as ever even though this was close to the beginning of her career. Every actor stretches his/her acting skills to produce an amazing picture. It is a very, very, dark humour and may not be suitable for everybody. "},{"Title":"Dazzling, Poetic, Spectacular","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I see that quite a few people got quite a bit out of this. I see some of it. Some I see not at all. But what IS important here is that this film can generate such discussions, such thoughts, such artistry and philosophical posing(phrasing if you prefer). I will look at the film straight-on(as much as possible) as it is undoubtedly surreal. It is other-worldly. The story in simplistic terms is about a horrible, vile, odious thief named Albert who has a lovely wife named Georgina - who is not satisfied on many levels with her brutish, vulgar, common, loud, sadistic thief husband. This husband owns perhaps the most chic restaurant in town. It is a tapestry of beautiful colors with a mix of unreality generously garnishing it. I have seen very few films that rival this in its use of colors and lighting(Mario Bava's films come to mind as someone similar). Director Peter Greenaway(also the writer) does such a splendid job painting this film for indeed it looks visually like a moving painting or poem or some other aesthetic endeavour. Anyway, I digress, this thief and his wife are eating dinner when the eyes of Georgina meet with those of a timid, bookish man named Michael eating and reading at his table. Their eye meeting is sex(not unseen in this case) and explodes eventually into physical passion. The affair is eventually uncovered and Voilla! we get one of the grossest, bizarre, poetic(again that word) denouements in film history. This film is not big on plot and action but on emotion, passion, feeling, disgust, hate, love, sex, etc... Greenaway is the real star with both his urbane, witty, sadistic script and, more importantly, with his eye for aesthetics and innate beauty. He creates a very real film in a very unreal world. The restaurant is like no other in the world. Its parking lot is the same. Even the meat trucks are done in the most grand guignol fashion and have more in common with a scene from Sweeney Todd then anything about meat. The kitchen is huge with one man shirtless, a small boy singing what sound like melodious fugues, and there is Richard the French cook who gets his crowning moment in the final act of the film. The music by Michael Nyman is almost as important as the director's artistic lens. It pervades and moves each scene. And finally, though not unimportant in any way, is the acting of Michael Gambon as Albert, Helen Mirren as Georgina, Richard Bohringer as Richard and Alan Howard as Michael. All shine in their roles but Mirren and Gambon are moving. Mirren, the woman who won an Oscar playing Elizabeth II, is just the sexiest thing on screen in her lingerie, or eating her asparagus, or caressing her lover. She, like the camera lens, the music, moves symphonically. Gambon, however; is the real acting star. He is the pillar of disgust. He is putrid. He is wonderful in his role. I would even go so far to say he is delicious(but let's leave that for Alan Howard shall we). I guess I am gushing. This film deserves it. I do not often sit down to watch something and just become entranced with it. I knew when I finished this film that I had witnessed not just a film nor a great film but art. The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover is just that. Make no mistake. "},{"Title":"Brutal and fascinating","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is Peter Greenaway at his best, and the first place I ever had the pleasure of watching Helen Mirren's work which is, as always, outstanding. A former roommate told me he could show me a movie so disturbing I would not watch it. I countered with this movie, and won, hands down. We never got to my roommate's film. Despite this aspect, the film is beautiful, lyrical and dream-like, and the images will stay with you forever. The uses of both colour and music in this film are unique, putting one in mind of a grotesque Cirque de Soleil event. Edgar Allen Poe's Masque of the Red Death should someday be filmed with this much visual breadth and depth. The story itself is not meaningful literature but when the visual experience is this good, who cares? "},{"Title":"Sometimes Revenge is a Dish best served piping Hot!","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Cook, The Thief his Wife & her Lover, is probably Peter Greenaway's most well known film; mainly do to its controversy and NC-17 rating. Many viewers find the film disturbing due to its dark subject matter. It's somewhat like Blue Velvet gone to dinner. People missed the point that the film was a satire on totalitarianism in a Margaret Thatcher controlled England. The story concerns the wealthy and brutal thief Albert Spicca (Micheal Gambon), who presides over the four star La Holland restaurant. Mr. Spicca doesn't even own the restaurant, but him and his thugs including Mitchell (Tim Roth) make all the rules. The cook is the one who is really in charge of the restaurant, he looks out for Albert's wife Georgina Spicca. Georgina is bravely played by Helen Mirren. Her character is symbolic of the oppressed. Georgina has a tough life. Her husband is a bigot who's cruel, abusive and brutal. He beats and rapes her just for disagreeing with him. Then Georgina meets the quiet bookworm Micheal (Alan Howard). He's almost like a liberator for Georgina; a man of passion who gives her love that she never had. They have sex in various parts of the restaurant including the bathroom and freezer. Albert thinks that Georgina is going to the bathroom to smoke every time she leaves the table. Little does he know about the affair. When he finds out, he vows for vengeance. The film is chock full of surreal imagery and symbolism. The most noticeable is the little boy who washes dishes while singing. Another amazing aspect of the film is its costumes and use of color. The character's outfits change color along with the setting. Outside is in blue color tones, the kitchen is green, the bathroom white and the dining area red. I didn't realize this until my second viewing. The film is very beautiful even though it is somewhat disturbing and decadent with its themes of lust, greed and gluttony. It's not a film for everyone, but if you like bizarre art-house films that challenge you; you should definitely see it. "},{"Title":"One of a few gem-movies which are true to my experience","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Setting visuals and music aside - true personalities inhabit this film. No wait. Sumptuous feast of visuals and music. Back to the characters. I knew both personally and closely the boorish husband and his refined wife depicted in this movie. I even know why she married him - succumbed to his persistency and her own romantic fantasies of being won by a daring suitor. Twenty years later &#150; habitual marriage in which he repeats the same tried and trite maxims and periodically reminds her and her friends who is her master, while she habitually contemplates suicide and longs for a high spirited lover to rescue her from mundane life in the burbs. Sorry `Georgina', couldn't help you. Nobody but yourself can.So much for romantic fantasies&#133; Which incidentally do often lead to `romantic' murder, but that's another story. 9/10 - the real Albert is a bit craftier (has to be). I can assure you, my reader, from her perspective there is not a shred of emotional exaggeration in this movie.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful, artistic and Greenaway's most central picture","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Greenaway's next film after Drowning by Numbers is this more accessible offering about sex, lust, food, gluttony, murder and revenge. It's a controversial film and has a NC-17 rating in the US. The film opens with a vulgar scatological scene, when a man is smeared with excrement by 'The Thief', Albert Spica. Most of the film is set in an elegant gourmet restaurant called Le Hollandais. Spica dines at this restaurant frequently, along with his gorgeous wife Georgina (played by solemnly sexy Helen Mirren) and his group of uncouth associates.Spica is a vulgarian, who growls his orders towards those around him. Georgina then becomes fixated with a customer in the restaurant (Alan Howard) and the two of them have a dangerous sexual affair there. Eventually, Spica discovers their liaison, and the film draws to its memorable and shocking conclusion, which is the ultimate retribution. Sumptuous to look like at and superbly performed. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of a film is disturbing, but also a rare bird that improves and changes with repeated viewing as more is revealed and the viewers perspective changes","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite films of all time. I don't know if its one of the best but it doesn't matter since the film is simply good enough to simply demand your attention.The plot is simple enough, the course of a week during which a bunch of thugs take over restaurant and force its cook to prepare meals for them as proof of their good taste. Meanwhile the Thief's wife begins a clandestine affair with one of the other regulars, which is destined for a bad end.Clearly artificial and allegorical I'm hard pressed to tell you what the film is about really. I don't think it's possible to come up with a definite answer short of having director Peter Greenaway tell us, and even then I could argue that would be wrong. Why do I think that the film isn't about anything? because I've seen it at least a dozen times and its never once played out the same way for me. Sometimes its a wild comedy of manners, other times a horror film, others an allegory, yet another time its pretentious trash. Its all of these things and none of them. Greenaway gives us clues and references, from references to pieces of art, to changing color schemes, to biblical parallels to others that refer to Thatcher's England. The film is packed with ideas that aren't always clear, even when you've seen the film numerous times. The film is about everything and nothing, its one of the few Greenaway films that touches the heart as well as the head (we feel for the lovers), which says a great deal (Greenaway's films more often then not are intellectually exciting but emotionally cold). I think the film is a masterpiece and a touchstone for where the viewer is.Recommended whole heartily, with the proviso that the film has a graphic nature (violence and nudity) and is ultimately disturbing. "},{"Title":"Operatic masterpiece garnished with hollandaise","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, I just finished watching this film and it blew me away. The story is suspenseful and entertaining, and the imagery is exquisite. Greenaway successfully creates a modern day opera. One of the most amazing things about this film are the colors of the rooms, drastically changing as if to clearly show the change of set, and the opera stance on props. No large object is movable (i.e. cars), no outdoor shots other than one night scene which is used throughout the film, and the sets are made to create the feeling that all the action is being seen on a stage. For criminey, there's even a role that a castrato would play had this been an opera in the 18th century. Some could easily dismiss this film as lewd and gory and three shakes away from being classified as pornographic, but let's remember that this is from Europe. You know, that place where everyone ISN'T deeply offended when they see a breast? Enjoy the absolute beauty of this lush tale of infidelity and revenge. "}{"Title":"Medieval Triptych","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching this film strongly reminded me of the Flemish Masterworks that depicted Heaven Hell and Earth in the format of painted triptychs. In fact every single frame of this film was painterly in the extreme, straight out of the Renaissance, if you will. I found this film riveting and brutal in the extreme. I had to remind myself to breathe throughout. I was in danger of becoming anoxic simply because I was so focused that I continually stopped breathing. I couldn't and haven't seen this film since the first time I watched it in 1991 simply because of its brutality. But it was exquisite. A modern day Heronymous Bosch (sp?). Not for the faint of heart and the delicate sensibility.  "},{"Title":"In Greenaway's hands, two hours seems like a weekend.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD...An oafish gangster with an acute case of verbal diarrhoea turns up at his posh restaurant with his browbeaten wife and accomplices in tow. They force one of the kitchen staff to eat excrement, then urinate on him. This happens in the first five minutes. Forgive me for taking something of a populist line, but I can't help thinking that if the above had been depicted in a low-budget horror film rather than in the self-consciously artsy 'meaningful work of genius' that this film purports to be, the censors would've flatly rejected it and condemned the director as a sick weirdo. But hey! Peter watch and squirm as I pad out a ten minute idea to two stultifying hours Greenaway's behind the camera, so it's all okay.  Greenaway is cinema's equivalent of one of those oh-so-smart college tutors who inflicts his misinformation and absurdly pretentious theories onto his poor, befuddled students for hours on end, daring anyone to interrupt him, because they just know they'll be crushed with withering sarcasm and disdain. If you don't like it, you don't understand it is Greenaway's arrogant view, and we really do suffer for his art. Yes, the film looks stunning, but it spends a long time saying NOTHING. You read me correctly - nothing at all. Critics love stroking their chins over this kind of film, looking for hidden meanings and searching for allegories where none exist, but I suspect the reality is that Greenaway simply enjoys pushing the envelope, dressing his grisly ideas up with lavish sets, respectable actors and sumptuous cinematography, getting away with acts of extreme sadism and degradation because it's all art, therefore it must MEAN something.The Cook, The Thief, His Wife And Her Lover is a high-budget Troma movie. No more, no less. Therefore I would only recommend it to thrillseekers, curious adolescents and sexless geeks. "},{"Title":"A Visual Melville","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My introduction to Greenaway was `Prospero's Books,' which I rate very highly. I next saw `The Pillow Book,' which also was magic. I now delve into this earlier work, which is before Greenaway became master of overlayed windows. And also before he developed (at least in the two films mentioned) a clean sense of layering allegory.In this early film the sense of allegory is simplistic, and the notion of narrative is largely abandoned. All in all, this is a cleaner film. Greenaway's fulcrum is the creation of a massive clockworks kitchen with dozens of concurrent, interrelated processes. Everything revolves around this, or more precisely the vision of this. Around this center, we see both vile and sublime forces acting on the kitchen, which is a sort of metalevel over the world from which creation emanates.I suppose many will remember some of the more disturbing incidental images. Not me. I'll remember that extraordinary kitchen. "},{"Title":"A delight for the strong-at-heart adventurous cinematic connoisseur out there!","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having previously watched Greenaway's 'Prospero's Books', basically from the same era, one definitely gets a sense of the auteur, of great visualizing prowess in the Welsh native. I adore watching Helen Mirren from ANY era, but particularly here, in between the young adulthood beauty she displayed in Michael Powell's 'Age of Consent', through the remarkably absurd and audacious 'Caligula', straight to the sophisticated and very dangerous gorgeousness displayed in 'The Comfort of Strangers'.It's great to see any dude who's mean to a beautiful woman get their comeuppance (particularly the wealthy--it offers a sort of 'wish fulfillment' for the 99% of us), and the climax here is one of cinema's most articulate presentation of that phenomenon. It definitely made me wish to see the rest of both Greenaway's movies and of Mirren's performances. Well worth the acquired taste necessary for this sort of delicacy. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but profoundly disturbing","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A monstrously cruel and violent gangster discovers his wife has been unfaithful at the restaurant where they eat every night he takes his revenge. She, in turn, plots revenge on him.That synopsis is deeply misleading it gives the principal story beats, but conveys nothing of the subtlety of this very disturbing film from Peter Greenaway, a filmmaker of unique sensibilities. On the surface of it this is a simple story of betrayal and revenge. Yet it operates on several levels, and features stunning acting (especially from Helen Mirren and Michael Gambon), music, direction, and colour management. And it is impossible to convey just how beautiful and revolting it is, often at the same time.I highly recommend this, but only if you have a very strong stomach. "},{"Title":"Cook Michael for me, will you?","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Notoriously labeled as a uncompromising provocateur, a controversial auteur in the cinema realm, Peter Greenaway's sixth feature film THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE AND HER LOVER might be his most well-known work to date, it is a sheer revelation to watch, imprinted by its unique palette of the stage setting, gliding long-shots of tableaux vivants, and the excessive verbal abuse from Albert (Gambon), aka, the thief, sometimes commingled with Psalm 522 sung by a boy soprano.Scatology, sadism, nudity, necrophilism all take their turns in this black comedy, happens in an upmarket French restaurant Le Hollandais, run by chef Richard Boarst (Bohringer), where the foul- mouthed, egoistic, snooty gangster Albert comes every night with his cohorts. In an ostentatious arrangement, Greenaway ingeniously confers a distinctive colour-pattern (green, red, white) to three main sets (the kitchen, the restaurant and the lavatory) - where food is possessed, consumed and eventually excreted - even the characters' costumes are compliant to this pattern.Cook Michael for me, will you?, pleads Georgia (Mirren), the wife, to Richard, Michael (Howard) is her inamorato, tortured to death by her jealousy ridden Albert. Cannibalism has entered this highly conceptualised allegory in its boldest manner, served as the ultimate poetic justice to the basest vulgarity, pomposity and violence.Among the four titular characters, Georgia is the victim, married into wealth but is abused by her brute husband on a daily base, there is a shocking soliloquy she addresses to Michael's dead body about her agony which she is too ashamed to tell him when he was alive. To conduct tryst everyday in the restaurant under Albert's eyelids is the only rebellion she is capable of doing, and she is quite good at it until the truth goes out inevitably. She should and must be the one to relish the thrill of a thorough revenge. Mirren emerges as a gutsy and sensual heroine in this unheralded performance here.Michael, a bookshop owner, an intellectual whose libidinous impulse will incur his doom, but under Howard's collected mannerism, he couldn't care less about his own safety other than arriving on time for his quotidian rendezvous. Richard, is the secretive abettor of their affair, he detests Albert to the core, but bears a phlegmatic front to avoid getting embroiled, but he will never miss a golden opportunity to exert justice to the lowest of the low as if he is the omnipotent God. Finally, Albert, the scum of the earth, epitomises the pure vice inside a human being, is obnoxious up to the hilt, Gambon wields his master-class theatrics to filibuster for nearly two hours, which is something not everyone can stomach.Integrating food, sex and death to excesses, Greenaway's unapologetically experimental stunner is a sui generis accomplishment, riveting, voyeuristic, provoking, only in the fullness of its running time, it betrays a tint of hesitancy, does the gratifying wind-up taste good? After all, rough justice arrives a tad too rash, if that's the right way to eradicate vice from the world. "},{"Title":"Art-house style mixed with quite a lot of real nastiness","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is easily Peter Greenaway's most famous film. This is despite, or most probably because, of its somewhat notorious reputation. Whatever the case, this has to be the most accessible film in Greenaway's highly inaccessible filmography. Although this is only a fairly relative statement because, despite having a fairly linear story, this is still very idiosyncratic and odd. It also displays the extremely cold tone that typifies this director's work in general. It could best be described as an art-house film with exploitation film subject matter. It contains all manner of unpleasantness, with physical brutality, humiliation, scatology and cannibalism; while it is sexually very frank with much full-frontal nudity and graphic conversations.So it's a very full-on film content-wise but what makes it very unusual is that it is quite uncommon for this type of material to be presented in quite the way it is here. Its visual style is thoroughly eloquent, with the cinematography of Sacha Vierney being particularly notable. Vierney is perhaps most famous for photographing Greenaway's favourite movie, namely Last Year at Marienbad (1961), a key experimental movie that clearly influenced him in many ways. Like that film, this one looks very lush too, with painterly compositions that are captured in widescreen by the carefully constructed tracking shots. The décor and costuming are both carefully considered, the latter are designed by Jean-Paul Gaultier; both give the film its own self-contained world that is very striking. The other key collaborator is composer Michael Nyman, whose soundtrack is again memorable but heavy going at times, with the high-pitched singing being a little hard to take. The actors do good work, although they are playing types as opposed to realistic characters; Michael Gambon certainly is in his element chewing up the scenery in his role as the obnoxious thief and Helen Mirren makes an impression in the tough role of his downtrodden wife.This is a film I like but with reservations. As always, Greenaway's style is very hard to fully embrace. The unpleasant aspects are slightly more sickening in some ways when presented in his deep-frozen style. While I believe that there is seemingly an allegory on Thatcherism in here apparently, I continually fail to detect it myself, so I simply take its events at face value. This isn't such a bad thing, as I do appreciate the self-contained world Greenaway has created and I do like his commitment to visual ideas. It's certainly a real oddity. It goes without saying but this film is categorically not one for everyone. It's easy to see why people hate it. But it will reward those that can take Greenaway's eccentricities. "},{"Title":"I think those Ethiopians enjoy starving. Keeps them thin and graceful.","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Michael Gambon (Perfect Strangers, Longitude, Wives and Daughters, The Singing Detective, Dumbledore in the last Harry Potters), the thief in the title, is a pig. He represents all that is wrong with the 1%. He is concerned only with his pleasure and spends his time berating others. We can on;y watch him and hope that he gets his just desserts at some point.His wife, Helen Mirren (The Queen, The Last Station, Gosford Park) is America, a toy of the rich, only to be used and controlled. Mirren is fantastic as always, and transforms after the ultimate indignity to seek her revenge. It is not a satisfactory revenge, as it is much too short, but one that we take pleasure in, as we would take pleasure in those who rape America.Alan Howard (the voice of The Ring in The Lord of the Rings) is the liberal establishment; ineffective against the boorish, gluttonous, murderous 1%. One should note that the liberal NPR could not find it within itself to interview the director. Writer,Director Peter Greenaway is well known for his hatred of the British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, and many would find this a criticism of her, but I feel it is much more - a critique of the rich and privileged and ignorant like Bush, Palin, Bachman, et al. If only the left had as much power as it is rumored to have instead of been a paper tiger. "},{"Title":"English males never win...nor does what they stand for.","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers movie's narrative given in parts, action discerned.Why did Greenaway become Dutch, that reasonably hard and eclectic of nations? Greenaway loathes the English male. Michael the Bibliophile is as soft a 'man' as you'll find. Spica, a successful gangster is vile as his antithesis. Yet the interplay of two Englishmen is not sufficient to save the male in general. Borst, a French restaurateur creates value artistically with superb cuisine and decor. Unfortunately, as a man Borst is unable to save his restaurant from Spica's criminality and worse, Spica's anosognosic attempts to become a gastronome. The English male either despoils or when he does not he is as limp as the asparagus Michael feeds to Georgina.Both Spica and Michael feel they are superior, the former by possessing power and ownership, the latter arcane knowledge. Not enough to save either. As for the wonderful boy soprano, who has angelic purity of voice, even that is not enough to stave off Spica. Greenaway's middle period films finds males popping off the Loakes in rapid order. And like the middle period films Nyman's music contributes greatly.The important question is not to simply mention Hals' Banquet of the Officers as a reference to the Netherlands Glorietijd. It is to draw parallel the world of Spica, sitting underneath the officers as one who through misdeed and ruthlessness made his money. With it Spica has become whatever he wanted to be. He bought a slice of society and its values, yet this very gauche road to power is a process through which he undermines his acquisition, a robber baron capitalist par excellence.As the relationship between capitalism and oil painting has moved from Marxist critique (Berger) to mainstream thinking so does Spica move from the red room of capitalism to the engine rooms of kitchen with Indian (colonial) cooks, where Georgina and Michael find love and pleasure in prep rooms, storage rooms of differing colours and significance. Fragile qualities hide from driving, controlling capitalists with Spica's linear intrusion into these areas. Love and meaning, the pleasure of sensuality is found in each other as in the food Borst specially prepares for them. While monied art sought permanency in oils art as a live expression like Georgina's relationship with Michael is fleeting.When (gangster) capitalism no longer harnesses but believes it is responsible for output a train wreck ensues. The foreshadowing of Spica's demise is the chap in the opening sequence who doesn't understand finer things. Eventually the creative (Borst), the oppressed (Georgina) and the factors of production (staff), rebel. "},{"Title":"The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover (1989)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" His most famous (and arguably most accessible despite some rather extreme subject matter and imagery) film could be read as a condemnation of Thatcherite policies or simply as a exceedingly stylish study of evil. Either way, it's magnificent in how it combines the glorious and the repulsive. The music and visual design are transcendent, with gorgeous use of color and the widescreen frame. But the behavior of Albert Spica is utterly vile, you could even accuse it of being cartoonish if the rest of the film weren't also dressed in artifice. Gambon immerses himself in the role of one of the most boorish, violent, megalomaniacal characters to ever grace the screen. It's a powerful performance that would threaten to dominate the proceedings, but the aesthetic aspects of the film (as well as the other actors, including the always fine Helen Mirren) keep pace, making him part of this heightened, brutal reality. I'm not entirely on board with the ending, if only because I don't think Spica would be so reluctant to do the deed he's forced into. But otherwise I think it's a terrific work. "}{"Title":"If you are interested in a movie that doesn't take into account Hollywood's values, but rather artistic merit, this is for you.","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 8.7Most of the movies that people are familiar with are of the Hollywood style. Big budgets, famous actors, usually unoriginal yet satisfying plots, and either lots of action or drama (or both). This begs the question Why do people make movies? We can assume why production companies fund films. To make money, of course. But what about the hundreds of filmmakers that are behind a film? What are they in it for? Every now and then, you see a film, usually low budget, where it seems that the filmmakers put in the effort and time to create something with artistic merit. An expression in the format of film.The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover is such a film. The film doesn't take place in many settings. It is very similar to watching a play in a theatre. The camera doesn't move around much, either. It usually stays where the fourth wall should be, and most actors are facing the camera. Even though this is in my opinion a weakness of the film, it gives the film a comfortable mood and allows for the characters to come through easily. Everything else is tied down, but the characters and their personalities are all over the place. It has an interesting effect. This movie does not need spectacle to impress.Visually, the film is very appealing. Much attention was paid to color. Certain sets or places in the film have a color scheme. At times, unlike the camera, the colors are dynamic. Music swells and the next room changes to red, along with a character's dress. This has a stunning effect on the viewer, and doesn't get old throughout the film. Every time that music started, I got chills.The film is also a bit controversial. It is rated NC-17, but earns that rating with style. There is a lot of nudity and cruelty in the film, sometimes both at the same time. The abrupt ending is intense, as is most of the film. It is incredible and a bit disturbing to see how the Thief character affects the lives of those around him. The film is basically centered around him, as is the camera or stage most of the time. If anything, the film leaves you with a feeling to be kind to others.It is not the type of film that you would expect yourself to catch at a theater on the weekend. If you are interested in something that doesn't take into account Hollywood's values, but is rather a group of filmmakers' earnest efforts to create something that can be labeled as art, then you can look no further than The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover. "},{"Title":"Disgusting and depraved, and that's just the opening segments; but a brilliant film documenting all things sordid within a decaying world full of decaying minds.","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's a lot to admire in Peter Greenaway's 1989 film The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover, on an aesthetical level as well as on a visceral level; so mush so that the really nasty, ugly, distasteful and full on content comes across as quite beautiful in its sordid inclusion whilst the fancy sets and stunning cinematography deliberately sits uneasily and in stark juxtaposition with most of what's going on and who's instigating it. Affairs are had; fully grown men are humiliated and abused but come staggering back for more; certain individuals are interrogated and tortured; obsessive behaviour over a fellow human being is played out whilst a lot of eating, swearing and grotesque conversations about all things sordid unravel.If one were to classify the film as one of the gangster variety, and gracefully acknowledge the Thatcher-driven theories that come with it, one would deem it only fitting that the British film industry would begin and conclude the decade of the 1980s with John MacKenzie's gangster film The Long Good Friday, and all the Thatcher-driven theory which revolves around that film with its dealing of expansion and globalisation; ongoing relationships with the Americans and constant threat of the I.R.A; before ending with The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover, a film that deals with powerful, menacing individuals and those caught up in the web that engulfs them. Note how both Hoskins' and Gambon's powerful, predominant characters are portrayed throughout either pieces at either end of Thatcher's reign as prime minister.At the centre of the film is that all encompassing, powerful individual; a man named Albert Spica, a role that Michael Gambon plays with a perverse aplomb in spitting vile, depraved lines of dialogue; an individual whom abuses those closest to him, be they personal or professional; the dinner guest from Hell, a frothing mad; psychotic creation from the mind of Greenaway who degrades everyone around him, labelling them mules and going so far as to highlight the incompetence of one character, that they'd probably find it difficult to organise a rape in a brothel. The world may revolve around him within the world of the film but he is a mere supporting player to his wife Georgina (Mirren) and bookshop proprietor Michael (Howard) in the film overall. Gambon's performance is one of those instances in which the greatest individual acting performance of the film is the one that belongs to a character we do not necessarily revolve around, but is still rather prominent, thus causing it to stick in memory along with the overall plight of the primary characters. This often causes films to come across as better than they actually are when they're able to call on such back up in the form of such a powerful acting performance; but it isn't the case here.The film begins with an odd, disturbing sense of symmetry as Albert and his criminal cohorts arrive at a French restaurant he has recently bought out; the walkway to the entrance and the manner in which two trucks are parked near the entrance to which ninety percent of the film will play out is an extravagant and iconographic way in which to start. It's an announcing of the location, a distinct establishment of the place in question; like a thin, rocky walkway over the fires and flames below as you descent down the ramp into a Hellish reality populated by disturbed people and passive onlookers sitting at other tables seemingly oblivious to most of the action that plays out. The grotesque first action of the piece twinned with a very low, numbing and pulsating sound effect - a series of noises akin to machinery, or distant explosions, which become really apparent later on during Albert's internal anger that rages following the awareness of some developments plunges the audience, indeed entrenches them, within a frightening world.Such is the power of the screenplay and the assurance of the direction, that a full hour travels past before a character that isn't Albert Spica speaks to someone else; the aforementioned Michael and Georgina whom exchange looks around a restroom area in the company of some harsh, red lighting signalling danger as Georgina's red dress omits similar messages. The meeting works on a number of levels, initially and foremost because of the previous time spent in building the character of Albert and the kind of person he is; we sense danger if he were to find out his wife were with another man. But the scenes the two share with each other, at least initially, are in stark comparison to Albert's constant talking and persistent rudeness. These two share silence, they share moments in which they merely look at one another before branching out, and it's quite jarring given the preceding sequences. When Albert comes as close as he does to catching her early on, the rush into spoken word in response to him is quite the jolt in conversational exchange between the two.Ninety percent of the film unfolds at the location of the restaurant, a mixture of the restroom area; a large dining area; a kitchen and an outside car park-come-entrance. The entire place as one is a distorted, disturbingly intertextual blend of the post-modern with cubist inspired walls and objects such as table layouts and toilet cubicle formality; a blending of 19th Century locales in the grime of the kitchen with the smut and pomposity of ancient Rome in both the exquisiteness of the dining area and the attitudes therein. This odd, period setting sense blends with a futuristic dystopian feel about proceedings, especially apparent in Albert's minions sitting, usually motionless in a robotic daze, as everyone else around them appears to return to the restaurant each night despite the animal that is Albert in consistent proximity. This blending sits unnaturally and uncomfortably, but deliberately so; gripping the film with confusion and terror and gripping us throughout the process. "},{"Title":"Visually Fascinating","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had to think about this one. The visuals were all so interesting. The sets and set decoration were extremely detailed, which was enhanced by the camera sweeping across them. The increasingly elaborate costumes, specifically Helen Mirren's, which interacted with the lighting of each room was intriguing. The acting was of course very solid as the be expected from such a cast, but the story and themes were very confronting, but the motivations of Helen Mirren's character explains, or excuses it or rather ties the themes together.But in hindsight, it all worked so well together. A strangely beautiful film. "},{"Title":"A Scary, Disturbing but Utterly Brilliant Film","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Greenaway's The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover is one of the few films that has made me want to scream out loud in horror.Sleighted upon early release, The Cook, The Thief etc. has become a cult favorite in recent years. And it's not hard to see why although the film is dark, depressing and utterly disgusting it is one of the best depictions of decadence ever captured on screen. Almost every character in this film is flawed The Cook is an egotistical snob who allows thugs into his restaurant simply because he is obsessed with wealth; the thief is one of the most disgusting characters ever captured on screen, the wife takes bloody revenge without battering an eyelid and so on and so on. There are few redeeming characters in this movie but really, isn't that what life's really like? Lives intersect, men are murdered, affairs destroy lives in an instant and although the film's end seems initially hopeful we quickly discover no one has pure intent. This movie does not provide us with an easy ending and that's what makes it great. Because in reality, there's no such thing as happiness without a price. And this movie captures that wonderfully. Although you'd never call this movie 'entertainment' I still encourage you to go out and grab a copy of the DVD. Trust me This is a movie you'll never forget. "},{"Title":"About art and ways to consume it","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Greenaway again, with his penchant for symbols and obscure symmetries where the scatological is strangely balanced by the cerebral, the chaotic by the orderly. For some reason this one among his filmography served as his brief foray into the limelight. Actually it makes some sense why. It's the most readily decipherable and eminently rewarding in the short term. The least puzzling, while retaining some appearance of the puzzle.There's one bright spot in this, a conversation between the cook and wife where we see her struggle despite herself to recreate an experience she lived. Without outside confirmation how could it have been real, she wonders. Without someone to observe, how much is in and off the mind? As usual with Greenaway, a lot of this is also about the creative process. About making cinema, about gorging in it with utter disregard for its secrets or delicate flavors, about cataloging its long list of obscure knowledge. About crude, violent tempers who crave immediate pleasures loitering about in a place where small marvels are created out of humble, ordinary essentials.The place also deserves a mention. Above all the kitchen as the subterranean laboratory where mercurial alchemies are concocted, and where art finally takes its ironic revenge from the thuggish lifestyle of the newly rich that has used it as commodity and social leverage. Outside the restaurant it's pitch black and dogs cross and recross through billows of fog. The magical touch of Sacha Vierny again.It's not a great film and rather goes down easy, but perhaps it will inspire newcomers to seek other more important films by this man. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth is a brilliant actor!","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is art. Maybe some people just don't get it because they're too stuck up in the cookie cutter world. If you're one of the fortunate people that can live outside the pre-drawn box, than good for you, i'm sure you are one of the people who saw what the movie was really about and looked past some of the gruesomeness to the story. I think the acting was great especially that of Tim Roth. He should be in more films! Any way Quentin Tarantino has probably seen this film and liked it, so all you people who keep using Quentin in your reviews maybe need to contact him and ask his opinion before putting words in the guys mouth. I would actually like to make a wager that Quentin saw and liked this film and maybe was even slightly inspired by it. Well i only saw it for Tim Roth and i wasn't disappointed and neither will you...so enjoy the film! i give it a 10! although i would have liked to see Tim Roth more...just cause i love him!  "},{"Title":"Top stuff","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possibly Peter Greenaway's most accessible work, this is a highly engaging and  visually dense film. It's no spoiler to say that there is more than a little violence  (although details would be). Nor is there any shortage of nudity -- this is Greenaway, after all -- but what this film has in spades is powerful performances. Helen Mirren (the wife) couldn't act weakly if she tried, and every  word, every grimace or raised eyebrow is nuanced to perfection (indeed, only the likes of Judi Dench can better her), and Michael Gambon (the thief) makes  no attempt at subtlety as he unleashes a vicious reading of Albert Spica, a reptilian restaurant owner and general piece of pondlife. Tim Roth clearly has  fun as Gambon's henchman Mitchell, reminding us of why he became a Hollywood star -- the man can act.A highly-recommended film, entertaining and interesting. Yes, it's pretentious,  and unpleasant in places, and it's fair to say that the plot, such as it is, is thin --  but that's not the point. The script is a masterpiece, albeit a masterpiece totally  dominated by Gambon's Spica. The sets are lavish and totally overstated. The lighting and music make for a highly atmospheric piece. And the acting...yes, did  I mention the acting? "},{"Title":"Delicious","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think any other word could possibly be more appropriate for this film. The use of color, the use of innocence, and the metaphorical symbolism in general is stupendous. I do not recommend seeing this movie on a full stomach, yet, an empty stomach might be worse due to the film's gruesome and appauling nature. No one is better suited to portray western society's ideosyncracies as well as the fact that the people within it, even those that are fully aware of the fact and attempt to escape, are still inevitably trapped in their surroundings. When i first saw the film, what stood out to me (and many others around me did not notice) was how the color of the lovers' clothes changed. The colors changed for one reason alone to remain encompassed by their surroundings. They are trapped, just like the husband. Most definitely one of the most beautiful, if not THE most beautiful film of all time. Not seeing it is analogous to missing one's wedding meal. "},{"Title":"Had to say something about this movie.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a superb use of colour and transition.  Going to the bathroom never meant more than this.  I have watched this movie a few times and am always in awe at the beauty of it.  It is so visual and, at the same time, moving.  I have to say that, although the kid singing at the beginning of the movie was moving for a time, it got annoying.  The scene that was depicted at the time of the singing was very strong. Maybe I just don't like sopranos?  I love the movie on the whole and would recommend it highly to anyone. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"    This ranks as one of the most horrifying film I have ever seen.  The Thief (Michael Gambon) has got to be one of the most despicable characters put on screen.  He is a brutal, disgusting man, who has no motive or reason for what he does. Helen Mirren is the long suffering wife who has an affair and gets the best bit of revenge at the end.  Though most of the film is in the restaraunt, Le Hollandaise, the film doesn't feel static or stagy.  Michael Nyman's score is good, but doesn't stand up to his later scores for Gattaca or The Piano.  The ending is what I like best about this film.  While I won't give it away, all I'll say is that it is unexpected. "}{"Title":"My Skin Still Crawls","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film 10 years ago.  I learned what coprophilia is.  Great.  The images of the dead Lover with paper stuffed in his mouth and nose, the rotting meat outside the restaurant, the worms, will probably never go away. I wish I'd never seen this movie. "},{"Title":"A perverse fairy tale (may contain spoilers)","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film for which you have to suspend disbelief more than for most cinematic experiences. The Visual symbolism is obvious but none the worse for it, each element of this film leading into another.The restaurant is red, for wealth and for greed; the ladies is a white haven, the human figures looking out of place there. Finally the book repository is sparse, echoing the couple's nakedness. They have earlier been washed and the choir boy sings 'wash me', the lovers are reborn and have an all too brief innocent time.Innocence (or a warped kind admittedly) contrasts with Albert who is a creature of nightmare - a selfish bully, lacking any real power and we get tantalizing glimpses of a more vulnerable side which he is at pains to deny and he takes out his insecurities on those around him. It is that which makes his such a wonderful villain.The weak and the pure win out against him eventually leading to a sort of happily ever after - but in this film nothing is that simple. It is a fairy tale for cynics. "},{"Title":"crap for crap's sake","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must agree with other opinions here that this was an utter waste of time on my part and money on the producer's part.  Pretty sets and colorful cinematography does not Art make; much less art.  I was tempted to walk out of this film when I realized 'Damn,I'm at home!'.  Films that are bizarre are not the issue this was one of those experiments to see how far the public can be fooled into thinking that the director actually has a vision or purpose other than putting something on the screen.  The bizarre and ugly can many times be beautiful and thought-provoking, the pretentious can not. Even 'Happiness', which I found to be a morally bankrupt film, is far better than this look-at-me attempt at movie-making. Thank God it was half-price night at my local video store. "},{"Title":"Torturous","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just sat through this movie in a state of mind I can only describe as sickened but hopeful.  There are many things to praise about this film the lush cinematography and music, the acting, the symbolism.  But why, oh god why, do filmmakers feel the need to shove sadism and brutality into people's faces?  I'm all for exploring these topics and not shrinking from them, but it is sadistic to show them in such detail.  Violence can occur off screen; it can be suggested; it does not need to be demonstrated in excruciating detail.  To show these scenes only encourages desensitization and dehumanization. If only someone had had the courage to leave fifteen minutes of torture and degradation on the cutting room floor, I would recommend this film as a visually sumptuous study in tyranny, unrestrained gluttony, and the redemption of love.  As it is, I think this movie traffics in the same filth it attempts to criticize. "},{"Title":"Didn't  Like It","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I must confess that the only reason I watched this film was because it starred Helen Mirren who I knew took her clothes of in it. Sad maybe but there you are! Apart from this I didn't really know what else to expect as I knew nothing of the storyline. However, from the start I was quite taken aback by the sheer unpleasantness of it all. I know that it is supposed to have many meanings but all I remember is Michael Gambon's character being pretty awful to everyone and some poor book seller ending up on the dinner table. Even the nude scenes where a disappointment as the lighting appeared rather dim and fuzzy. Apart from Helen who oozes sex and sophistication I liked nothing else about this film. Repulsive rubbish!! "},{"Title":"Like Greenaway, but hated this movie","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really hated this movie, which was and is surprising to me; I thought I was going to like it, but I remember sitting in the theater feeling befuddled. The Greenaway movie released prior to this, Drowning By Numbers (which I love) was recently described by a local movie house as the last movie Greenaway made before going completely off the deep end. I agree. The Cook, The Thief, His Wife And Her Lover was universally loved by my friends, but I didn't see the point. Tim Roth is and has been one of my favorite actors for years, and the main reason why I saw this movie, but the only thing I remember of his performance is watching him throw up. The only things about this movie I appreciated were the room colors. Other than that, I thought it was gross for grossness' sake. "},{"Title":"Ice cold.","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There was so much talk about this film when it came and I wondered then if I'd missed anything. Saw it today and I now know I haven't. This film is deeply overrated. I did like the sets and Gaultiers clothes that changed colour but the rest, no. I thought the acting was quite bad, especially coming from these British stage actors! I looked forward to seeing Helen Mirren but she wasn't better than any of the others. Michael Gambon was not convincing as a cockney thug. There should have been more power to his bully. The characters, like the story, were very thin.After seeing this I realize why Peter Greenaway is largely forgotten these days... "},{"Title":"It's called artistry.","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a Cook, whose restaurant has been taken over by the Thief. The setting is transformed by Greenaway into a character itself, and divided chiefly into three segments, and strongly colour coded. We begin in a vast and cavernous kitchen, where the green glow and a soprano boy singing hymns whilst chopping vegetables shows how sacred this area is to Richard, the head cook. Then we dolly sideways through the wall, and the music changes into something more classical, and we enter dining area itself, which is rich and ornate in its décor, but has been invaded by Albert, a British gangster. The richness and warmth takes on an entirely different colour because of his ownership of the establishment. His Wife Georgina takes solace in the bathroom, which is pure white and spotless - in the men's room, the urinals are arranged on some sort of podium, elegant in its composition, but which Albert also desecrates. She hastily shuts the door to prevent a sliver of harsh red light emanating from outside, that seeks to expose her infidelity, and changes clothing and persona so effortlessly in masking her secret affair. Spica is less concerned with this and more with the status of his restaurant, which is towering (watch as Spica enters from the factory-like kitchen, pushing open the immense double doors, and walking out from a column of smoke), and headed by a talented chef, but his class betrays him - he purchases cheap cutlery and descends to thuggish behaviour.Albert Spica is not an entirely despicable character, and this is what makes him interesting. Gambon's performance is dominant, bullying and harsh, but he is not crass - he has led himself to believe that if he owns and dines at a high class restaurant each night, and familiarises himself with its fine and exotic cuisine, that he is better than his breed of gangster. He berates his subordinates for invading this space, for smoking, for having dirty fingernails, for not washing their hands, but is not aware that he is the most toxic presence of them all; a lingering on the silent table as he wanders off to terrorise yet another customer is telling. And yet, he does have his moments of sincerity, and these are sparing, but genuine. He tosses a coin to the same boy he will later torture, and when his drunkenness does not lead to violence and debauchery, he cracks and weeps briefly on the breakdown of his marriage, and his desire for kids and a family, and there is a tiny hint of a better relationship long lost in the past, under the pier. It is disappointing that I am much more convinced by the villain than those that seek to undermine him. The man who bullies and jeers at a more cultured specimen that stole away his wife is more interesting than the cultured man himself. Albert wants to be cultured and refined, but does not want to put the hard yards into it, and such an arduous task like reading is infinitely more difficult than purchasing an entire restaurant. So he bullies, and stuff pages detailing the French Revolution down a man's throat instead of slitting wrists or pulling out teeth. The lovers don't speak a word to each other for quite some time, but we see their urgent passion and escape in the white bathroom and the green tinged kitchen storage, while their naked bodies are bathed in a orange glow, something more intimate. But it is not wholly convincing. I think the most powerful scene should have been the quiet talk on the kitchen island, where the lost love between the Wife and her Lover emanate through her grieving words, and empower her desire for revenge, but is is empty, and vastly overpowered by the final act itself, because it is so disgusting what Spica endures, even as he deserves it tenfold. Another scene illustrates this drawback; the lover's naked embrace soiled by the swinging cuts and carcasses of meat in the chaos of the truck. Then again, the alternative is them lavishing in the meat, which is equally disgusting. Of course, there is much debate about looking past the literal story, and talk of the film criticising Thatcherism. I'm sure there is merit to those if you look closely enough, but I did not think about it much while watching. The cook and his staff, who are supposed to represent the dutiful citizen, the trampled people of the nation, has his own sort of underhanded revenge, where he charges more for food of blackness and death, of vanity in diets, of lustful aphrodisiacs, as if he is sneering and punishing at the decadence of the rich and privileged, but this feels more like a political jab than anything a cook would actually say. Oh, the dialogue is witty and cruel all right; Georgina taunts Albert about knowing where her lover's prick has been, right before shooting him in the head. Misery is heaped upon misery, and it doesn't feel much like anyone has won. "},{"Title":"Almost Shakespearian","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When a friend brought the DVD of The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover for me to borrow, he gleefully told me, *you'll see a Dame fully naked. I immediately asked, Oh yes, would that be Helen Mirren? to which he told me it was and asked how I had guessed. I said that Helen was famous for doing a revealing movie although I had never seen it and, I must admit, when I began to watch it, I was probably more titillated by the idea of seeing someone famous who I had long been a fan of naked than seeing a movie!However, as the film got under way, it became very apparent that this was no ordinary movie (whatever that is). At first, I found myself wondering what on Earth was going on but, as it progressed, I more and more began to feel as though I was at a live performance of a Shakespearian tragedy melodrama. Everything was dramatically overdone and I realised that this was completely intentional. If the naked love-making scenes had been faded out or masked, their impact would have been lost and the same applied to the gory scenes of abject cruelty.I did find myself wondering why Spica's (Gambon) restaurant had any clients at all given the way they were treated by him and his puppet henchmen and women and a number of other anomalies were also puzzling.However, after watching the movie, I thought I'd have a look at what other viewers had to say about it and logged onto IMDb. Amongst the few reviews I read, was one by Minerva Breanne Meybridge which, for me, brilliantly put the whole thing into perspective. Whether Minerva's interpretation is what the producers were aiming for is, of course, open to speculation but, as far as I'm concerned, excellently explains what is, after all, a decidedly bizarre movie.In fact, I would go so far as to say that Minerva's review should almost be mandatory reading before watching the movie. "},{"Title":"color-coded food","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Greenaway's gritty masterpiece The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover looks at an affair between the unfulfilled wife (Helen Mirren) of a despicable gangster (Michael Gambon) and a patron (Alan Howard) in a lavish restaurant that the gangster owns. The movie is widely noted for its graphic sexual content and violence. Of course, far more important is the usage of colors in the different rooms, each one representing a different mood (and in particular, how people's clothes change color when they enter different rooms). To be certain, the women's room is the only setting that looks light; practically the entire movie has a dark look (appropriate for the subject matter). The final scene is the perfect ending, given all that has happened up to that point.This was certainly an achievement for all involved. The dolly shots give the movie an added sense of realism, and the gangster's outbursts are enough to put anyone on edge. It's definitely one that you should see (provided that you aren't squeamish or prudish). Also starring Richard Bohringer, Tim Roth, Ciarán Hinds and Roger Ashton-Griffiths. "}{"Title":"How many insults can you stomach?","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Every once in a while there is this movie that just stuns me. The cook , the thief, his wife and her lover (henceforth CTWL) does just that. It's funny, witty, cynical, visceral, visually stunning and it features the most vile character ever put to film. Michael Gambons' brutally violent Albert Spica curses, insults, spits like no movie personality has ever done before. It is a joy (or a nightmare, depending on your own views) to hear him deliver a line like I think these Ethiopians like starving, it keeps them slim and graceful. The film focuses on the relationship of Albert and Georgina Spica and in particular the lavish gourmet fixation of Albert Spicain his own restaurant, which is the setting for a number events that will change the lives of the protagonists forever.Albert's wife Georgina is a graceful woman, unhappily married to this raving maniac. She decides she could use some love and adventure in her life again and starts an intimate relationship with a client of said restaurant. Albert is blissfully unaware of this and fails to notice this relationship, because he is too caught up in his egotistical pursuits. The cook is the balance in this whole story, he provides the necessary comfort, wise advice and off course the gourmet feasts that Spica values so much. However while Albert Spica stands out as the true villain, in the end all of them are damned by committing a truly repulsive act. Some might call it poetic justice for Albert Spica... In the meantime there's Albert Spica, a man bereft of all basic table-manners and conscience, hilariously trying to teach his cronies etiquette. The film is visually beautiful. Amazing sets and use of color and lighting set the mood for various scenes of gluttony, torture, lovemaking and vile insults. The costume design by Jean Paul Gaultier only adds to the whole experience.This film will shock you and make you laugh and it is never tedious. See this movie, particularly if you have a distaste for boys singing in a soprano voice! "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this 15 years ago and still hum the tune frequently. This is pure art, possibly not for the squeamish, but the images and the music will stay with you forever. It won't be to everyone's taste and nor should it be - this is one for the connoisseur. Possibly also the thinker, the artist, the observer, and most likely the pervert.Watching a Greenaway for the first time is like losing your movie virginity, so whether you enjoy or even understand it will depend on previous fumbling experiences. But if you don't watch it, you'll never know what you're missing. Many will become celibate or gay as a result, but all will have their lives en-richened. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"engrossingly disgusting","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although a little dated now, The Cook, the Thief... is still one of the most engrossing films I have ever seen. Critics often define it as a parody of the greed culture that typified Britain in the 1980s. But while certainly showing us greed in numerous forms, this movie transcends parody to portray human relationships as well as physical and emotional cruelty. Michael Gambon is imperious as the obnoxious Mr. Spekar and Helen Mirren balances his dominating performance with her moving and subtle depiction of his long suffering wife who finds love right under her dreadful husband's nose. Her torrid affair with a mild mannered bookseller is both passionate and erotic. The sex scenes between the two are stark and unpretentious.You'll need a strong stomach if you're going to enjoy this movie though. Vomit, dog feces, blood and cannibalism are all ingredients in this visual feast. They offset the lavish decor of the restaurant where most of the film's action takes place. If you haven't seen it before, do watch it. But be warned! "},{"Title":"i found myself gagging at times, but it was a good kind of gag","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" i can honestly say that i've never had a favorite movie just because none of the ones i saw could ever live up to my expectations of what a Movie (with a capital 'm') should be, until this. i was stunned, and i shook for about a half an hour after i was done watching. i didn't want it to end. it was perfect, and i want to watch it again. if that means i'm a twisted bastard, so be it.visually and aesthetically (the colors, the transitions from room to room, the architecture, choir boy in the background, HER DRESSES, the FOOD, that book warehouse!!), morbidly (nuff said), humanistically (it felt so wonderfully, scarily real and believable), incredibly, incredibly good. i will never be the same person again.i am debating posting this, because it's one of those movies that you want to keep close to you and not let anyone know about, ever. "},{"Title":"Disgustingly attractive","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover, is the kind of movie I never understood the purpose of, I guess I am too new to the world of movies. I probably don't appreciate certain aspect of movie making art. This movie had all kinds of disgusting things which normally will make you pull out your DVD from the player and insert something else, but I couldn't do that. The disgust in this movie keeps you engaged and you actually see the whole movie. In the end it kind of started making sense too. I perhaps don't know if I liked the movie, but I certainly didn't didn't like it. If you are OK with the most disgusting and awe inspiring scenes like two fully naked human lovers transported alive in a truckload of rotting meat, people's tongue, belly button being cut and fed to them; go for it. This was really a movie that left me a very different person from the one I was like before watching it. A permanent change. The people who I watched this movie with were like hypocrites for the movies they rent, said, well there were good colors in the movie! Give me a break!, if you can't find anything good in a movie then you start appreciating those disturbing colors. Anyway! Beware its not the usual movie which you could watch for recreation. Its very disturbing. Watch it when you are not looking for relaxing stuff. "},{"Title":"the epitome of avant-garde","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I won't say much. I thought it was very beautiful and thought provoking. It is a bit gory in parts, but for anyone that has seen Peter Greenaway's other stuff, you know the violence is unique in itself. It is a bit artsy, so if you don't like strange or confusing films, you might not like this one. I recommend to anyone who finds this movie interesting upon first viewing to, please, watch it a second time. I have found that I like his work even more after seeing it twice. Plus, at least for me, I catch things I missed the first time through. In fact, I watched it, rewound the tape and watched it again to get the full affect. I, also, highly recommend The Pillow Book which came out after this one. I think that The Pillow Bokk is a bit better, but I think both of these movies are quite good. "},{"Title":"mother of mercy, I have seen heaven and I have seen hell","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Am I one of the only people in the world to say this is one of the greatest and most important of all films?  I believe I am.  Shocked?  Yes. Horrified?  Yes.  Confused?  Yes.  But challenged and stimulated and moved? Oh, most certainly.Even without the sets, without the costumes, without the cinematography (which are all superb), we are still left with a dynamic and blessed film. Sure the ending is Titus Andronicus, but for Greenaway to borrow from Shakespeare is to do exactly what Shakespeare did.  But the moments here are visually profound, as opposed to linguistically.  The single greatest moment is the transition between the ride in the butcher truck, filled with guts and heads and many other unmentionables, to the shower outside the book depository.  We go from odious blood reds to heavenly golds, irritating sopranos to peaceful woodwinds, darkness to rain.  And the whole while, two great thespians stand naked.  They are Adam and Eve, and they have re-entered paradise via the wisdoms of the books.  I cannot think of a film filled with as much compelling suggestion and intellectual storytelling as this insulted and abashed prostitute.  He who is without sin . .. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever - but needs multiple viewings","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film takes my breath away every time I see it.  It is horrible, and wonderful at the same time.  Beautifully shot, the use of music and color in this film is magical - with shifts of both in camera traversals from room to room.But this is a film that reveals itself with multiple viewings.  I think that I watched it three times before I really appreciated just how wonderfully produced it is.  The problem is that you are overloaded with the violence and brutality in the initial viewing.  If definitely improves with time.The interplay between the Wife and the Lover fixates.The thief horrifies.My partner cannot watch it - it is not a film for the squeamish.My vote - 9/10 (I have never given any film a 10 - yet).Also recommended by Peter Greenaway - Drowning by numbers. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant, enthralling, beautiful, repulsive - a contradictory film","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure that anyone in their right minds could truly claim to have enjoyed The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover. It contains scenes which turn the stomach over - the trip in the meat van would be high on my list.The plot is pretty straightforward the thief runs a restaurant where he holds court, bullying everyone around him. His wife embarks on an affair with one of the customers, aided by the cook. The thief finds out, and takes his revenge on the lover; in turn, the wife wreaks revenge on him.Greenaway turns this simple story into a remarkable film. The Thief, as portrayed by Michael Gambon, is one of the most hateful characters ever to appear on celluloid; even the opening scene spares little. He dominates the entire film, and makes the wife's actions seem reasonable.Colour is one of the film's main features; each room is given a dominant colour, and the colour of the cast's clothes change as they move from room to room. Gimmicky, yes, but effective as well.The final pay-off actually left me disappointed; while understandable, it seemed to me there were other, more effective possibilities. But that's a minor quibble. This is a remarkable piece of work unpleasant, repulsive and tasteless, but also gripping and admirable. "},{"Title":"A Disturbing Trip Through the Looking Glass","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one will shock, disturb, and disgust.  It will also be one of the most rewarding experiences any film buff can imagine.I originally saw this film in an art house in 1990 because I had heard about all of the controversy surrounding it.  I was so taken with it that I saw it again at a different art house the following week.  And the week after that. Then, I bought the laserdisc.  This is one of those movies that gets under your skin and won't go away.  It possesses the quality of a truly great film it makes you think.The photography and use of color is sublime (check out the way Albert and Georgina's costumes match the color of every room they enter) and the dialogue is some of the most intelligently humorous ever committed to film. And the kitchen boy!See this movie.  "}{"Title":"Don't watch this during dinner!","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to imagine people could behave as the characters do in this film. It's also hard to believe that the grim and tasteless images depicted throughout it could be anything but sickening and off-putting.Well, surprise!Only Peter Greenaway could combine such extreme visions and come away with an art-house hit that has no equal, even among his previous and subsequent efforts.Be warned, there are some harsh elements to digest, but if you're game and can hang on till the end, it's quite a ride! I dare you to watch it just once! "},{"Title":"Brilliant and highly pertinent","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an amazing film. It is allegorical, and like all good allegories is steeped in symbolism. The most important symbol is the fact the movie is filmed on the backdrop of the French Revolution. The allegory is about mob mentality- low culture, devouring high culture. Taken in that light the movie makes perfect sense, and it highlights the very satisfying conclusion of the film. The acting by Mirren and Gambon is brilliant. The movie is visually spectacular- if shocking in spots. As we are living in an age where pop culture and sound bits are taking the place complex history and high culture, this film is a pertinent and timely statement about that process. "},{"Title":"Greenaway's best movie...beautiful and disturbing","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie years ago at the cinema I thought it was an instant classic and one of the best British movies ever made (seeing as I've only seen it once I'd have to see if that judgement still stacks up-but writing a review based on first impressions is valid, I think).The plot of the movie isn't that complicated-the title of the movie pretty much gives you the major players of the story and you can imagine how things turn out...especially if you substitute thief for thug and add into the mix the thief finding about his wife's lover! As for that other great British movie I reviewed today, Excalibur, this movie has still left me with two lasting impressions 1) the imagery and 2) the score.As for the imagery-original Movie Show reviewer David Stratton, I think, made a comment that perhaps I would never have picked up on myself (even knowing this information didn't mean I noticed it when I later saw the movie!)-namely, the use of colours. The gist of this is, I think, that the movie is colour coded-blues, reds, or what have you. What I have in mind is just how the images in the movie work their spell on you-they are mesmerising, hypnotic, enchanting. Perhaps this effect only works because of the score.As for the score-long time collaborator to director Peter Greenaway, Michael Nyman, has once again done a remarkable job in scoring a Greenaway film (another great example of this is for the Greenaway movie A zed and two noughts). It features a boy soprano or something (the age of castratos is thankfully over!). The way that the score and the images combined for a spellbinding effect was magnificent.Now, for some warnings-despite the spellbinding nature of this movie, there is some content which is challenging-I mean violence and worse. There is one nasty scene where a man has paper or something brutally jammed into his mouth with some sort of implement.More disturbing is a scene of a 'special' dish. It does give a killer line though-the wife's suggestion of what part of the dish to eat and why. Brilliant line! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, unusual flick","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films which seems to cry out for those commenting upon it to wax on in the manner we would expect, say, William Buckley to go on about Franklin Roosevelt. Two comments I read here purport it to be an allegory - one in a Biblical context, the other based upon Margaret Thatcher.Allegory, schmallegory, all this flick lacked was for Dennis Hopper to emerge, from his role in Blue Velvet, and to join the diners at their table (with his portable drug vaporizer), and to accost the the wife and lover duo in the john. Mirren, like Kristin Scott Thomas as her generation-younger successor, is the perfect example of the British gal who is not drop-dead gorgeous, but more sensual than just about anybody else around.The two men with whom she was involved - her thief husband and the bookish, somewhat nerdy lover - didn't provide a lot from which she had to choose. But somehow, these British actresses can provide steamier on-screen activity is rather seedy surroundings (Mirren here, Scott Thomas in The English Patient) than the likes of Julia Roberts in far swankier settings as in Pretty Woman.Instead of going into all of its allegorical and deeply-hidden and meanings and messages -- I'd just say this was an interesting, engrossingly weird film, with some very sensual scenes, a thoroughly noir feeling, and a fascinating and off-the-wall storyline. "},{"Title":"I don't think the world is ready for this kind of film","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Its as though an alien made this movie. Its really disturbing. I loved it. Some great directing. Very great acting. This film is practically theatrical. A great script. A great plot. Lots of symbolism. Some really heavy humour. Very English and pompous and rude. This film is drenched in scarlet sin. After you watch it you feel as though your soul and has turned all murky but it was still very much worth watching. A good laugh for those special few who are open minded enough to enjoy this really true masterpiece. I would not know for sure which genre to place it. A cult classic maybe. This is basically the story of the owner of a French restaurant, he is English and far from being classy enough to fill this post, very far. "},{"Title":"Work of Art!!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard this film was very unsettling and in the same vain as 'Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer' and because I am a fan of that film and other films like it, I bought this film. I enjoyed the film alot but I did not find it disturbing or unsettling at all, nonetheless I thought the techniques used to film it were great i.e the camera panning from the kitchen to the dinig room and so on. The performances were good especially that of the great Tim Roth and the music added a great essence to the film. I suppose soem people may be disturbed by the film but those who are not and who like different films, I recommend this.  "},{"Title":"Watch with an open mouth","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Albert Spica is one of the most dispicable villains in cinema history. At approximately three minutes into the film, we hate him and want him to suffer. Well I did anyway, especially after he performs some of his more horrendous acts like torturing a child, turning someone into a human fois d'gras and abusing someone just because his table was in the way of his floorshow. He's a horrible person, which is what makes the last ten minutes so satisfying.The film takes place in two locations a sophisticated French restaurant and a book depository. The restaurant, ran by the cook is being protected by the thief who dines there every night with his wife and his cronies. His wife is tired of her husband's constant abuse, both verbal and physical, of everyone, especially her. One night, she catches eyes with another diner at the restaurant, and it's love at first sight. They start a passionate affair right under Spica's nose, making love in the toilets and other parts of the restaurant while the staff look on tolerating it all. Spica, off course, soon finds out and extracts horrific revenge, which leads to even worse counter revenge...This is one of those films in which the viewer notices more everytime they watch it. It definately should not be watched only once, that would be a waste. Some notable themes I noticed was the way each part if the restaurant has a main colour, red for the dining area, white for the toilets etc. and people's clothes change colour as they move from one area to the next. This is a very clever touch, as is the way Spica is so persistent on table manners and etiquette when he is such a horrible person. There are probably lots more themes throughout the film, but it has to be watched at least twice to notice anything. Don't make the mistake of only watching it once. ***** "},{"Title":"Just Desserts","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unless, I am mistaken, this was my first Peter Greenaway film, and a fine film it was. The cinematography was astounding, the decorum, excellent. The dialogue, satirical, dark, succint, long-winded (depending on who was speaking, yet all the same, appropriate either way). Four excellent performances from the leading roles.  This film strikes me as a foreign version of a David Lynch film, with careful attention paid to the lighting, an excellent sense of environment (it's no PTA film, but fine all the same), and an array of peculiar minor characters. The one shortcoming of this film, in my humble opinion, is the plot. It's just not terribly complex or lengthy... it didn't wreck the movie, because wonders were worked with the limited material, but I felt that the film held back some of it's potential. With more of a plot, this film could have made it into my top ten, but as it is, it currently sits in the low teens... a fine, fine, work of art... definitely worth taking the time to find (this may be harder for some).   "},{"Title":"A Typical Greenaway Product","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've given this a seven, largely because it's visual impact is so stunning, almost pornographic.However, I can't help feeling that Peter Greenaway confuses the lavish use of money with being art. It looks great, but the story wouldn't fit an episode of The Bill or Coronation Street.The lover also looks disturbingly like Ken Barlow. "},{"Title":"Pointless surrealism","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cinematic surrealism about a gangster/resturanteur who torments and mutilates anyone who annoys him, then does more of the same when he exacts revenge on his wife's lover; most of the mayhem occuring in a gloomy gormet eatery against a backdrop of a perpetually nocturnal and lawless city.You would have to seek out Nazi concentration-camp survivors to find witnesses of anything more vulgar and obscene than The Cook, The Thief, His Wife & Her Lover.  Allegedly a satire on Margaret Thatcher, but is it really a satire if you have to do a library search to uncover its target? (My first hunch was Josef Stalin!) Fine production values, a solid (if simplistic) plot and good performances lend this movie a high technical polish--but it's all still gold-plate on dog manure.Worth watching if you care to dabble in the avant-garde shallows of the British Loony Left. And it is all shallows. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie on many occasions, the last time being last night on video. It is beautifully filmed with incredible use of colour. I take applaud Michael Gambon, Helen Mirren and Tim Roths performance. Although this movie seemed to appaul so many viewers, I have always found it so very funny especialy the table conversations. The music and wardrobe also stood out and really set the atmosphere perfectly. The movie seems to hold the viewer in suspense right thru to the fantastic ending. This is a must see. "},{"Title":"High-Brow Torture Porn","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Those who are attracted to the latest wave of torture porn movies probably didn't know that the high-brows had a go at it way back in 1989.That truly is what this film represents. An artistic amalgam of adolescent bathroom humor and stomach turning violence and deep depravity. All served up in an in-your-face metaphor of feasting equals fornication. It is all garnished with baroque imagery, primary color saturation, and operatic pretensions. This is vile, vacuous, and venomous and is recommended for those with a strong constitution or for viewers who inhabit the boundaries and patrol the edge for entertainment and possibly those interested to see what the upper crust is up to. "},{"Title":"Like it or not, you are going to remember it.","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Certainly this is not a movie an average movie-goer is going to appreciate. But then, thats the specialty of the movie that separates it from any other movie. Be it the lavish sets, magically changing costumes, slow camera movement, amazingly beautiful color effects, haunting background music, or better than average performances; or be it the vulgar language, disturbing images, rotten meat, or the passionate sexual encounters, This movie dares to venture into an arena where no movie has ever dared to go. So effective, so uncompromising, and so brilliant. It is basically one movie that you'll either not be able to tolerate, or you are going to instantly fell in love with. "},{"Title":"Strong meat for a strong stomach","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cannibalism has been a recurrent theme among fringe films intending to draw in their audience through their shock value. Most such films do not warrant any attention from the critics or even the audiences. Peter Greenaway's film The Cook, The Thief, His Wife & Her Lover comes into a different category. It is a sophisticated allegorical tale styled and produced with considerable flair, which should be of interest to everyone who wants to fully appreciate the range of work of which the modern cinema is capable. The trouble is that Greenaway believes in leaving his viewers to work out the meaning and symbolism of his films for themselves. Since they are brilliantly filmed with very believable characters and top rate acting many people take them at face value, ignoring any allegories and categorising them as disgusting pornographic works. It is commonly believed that this film was intended to parody the political situation in the U.K. at the time when it was made, i.e. towards the end of the Margaret Thatcher era, but there have been other theories and it does not really matter which of them you believe. What is important is that you do not simply judge this film on its storyline, most people who do this experience a very negative reaction. Its story line is unquestionably shocking but also intensely realistic, even down to the smallest details, and this is deliberately designed to force the audience to think through the possible messages being conveyed by it.	If you only watch a film when you want to indulge in a little passive voyeurism then this is not the film for you; but if you have a strong stomach and occasionally enjoy a feast of strong meat that is intended to set your grey matter tingling then do not miss this film when you next have an opportunity to see it. The cook, the thief, his wife and her lover are played by Richard Bohringer, Michael Gambon, Helen Mirren and Alan Howard. All of them give superlative acting performances but Helen Mirren probably has the strongest and most dramatic role. "},{"Title":"Brilliant irony","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The irony of this film is brilliant.  While the thief rambles on continuously throughout most of the movie, nothing he says is really all that important.  Meanwhile, barely a word passes between the wife and her lover - and this is where the plot happens.  So ironically, the story is told not by the constant dialogue of the thief, but rather in the moments between the wife and her lover in which there is mostly silence - what brilliant irony!  How terribly clever!!For art house/foreign film buffs and people who like to get meaning out of a movie, this is a good one to watch.  But for people who would rather pay $7 to stand in line and watch Scary Movie 2, you might not want to bother. I'd recommend it to a thinking person. "},{"Title":"Interesting, yet questionable","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe you think you know what I am going to say based on the title.  But, I will surprise you.  OK, so that was too much of a build up.  The movie was quite interesting, but it whelmed me.  It was not so much the gratuitousness of it.  I have seen Titus which contains the same ending.  I own Pink Flamingos which has more gratuitous sex in it to fill 3 or 4 copies of this movie.  I own the directors cut of Natural Born Killers and saw Very Bad Things 3 times in the theater.  Now, what could have whelmed me about this movie.The movie itself.  The movie had magnificent visuals, but it might as well have been a play.  In fact, the opening credit sequence was ripped off from a little known movie called Rear Window, in that it wants us to believe that this is a movie.  There is only 8 different settings in the movie (street, kitchen, bathroom, dining room, book store, truck, freezer, and hospital.)  The movie might as well be a play.  There are plays with stages that move in a circle to change.  This could be one of them very easily.  Different lights and such could make it a great play. ** spoilers ahead**But, enough of that, the movie ripped off so many things.  The death of the book keeper was ripped off from A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child.  Or vice versa, as they came out the same year, weird.  The finale was ripped off from Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus.  The opening shot was practically a bland/mix of Citizen Kane (the opera scene) and Rear Window.  I don't quite see what is so original.  The humor isn't that funny either.  Some of it is hilarious, but it just wasn't quite there.So, maybe I should give the film a second viewing, in letterbox, before giving my final judgment.  I may have missed so much, but I am not sure, so this is one of the few that will not get a number from me yet.  However, if you loved this movie, and don't realize what I have said earlier, go out and rent the afore mentioned movies.  It would make me so happy that I may have enlightened at least one person who thinks that this is a completely original and controversial movie.  (especially Pink Flamingos disturbing eat your hear out.) "},{"Title":"Count me 'disturbed'","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderfully acted, well written, suspenseful, and I don't really have anything negative to say. However, it IS a very dark and disturbing movie. I remember when it came out hearing much controversy over the sex scenes. That isn't the disturbing part. This movie left me feeling very unsettled for some time. Even though I gave it a 9 out of 10, I will not be watching it again. Ever. "},{"Title":"I have to admit, we left...","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The woman I went with had to leave before she got sick (of the film). I could've stood it, I guess, just 'cause I overpaid for the tickets, (that now seems to be my one reason to try to stomach the grossness), but I don't think I'll ever try to see the rest, even for free.I guess I mean Rated P, for Paregoric.Gee, they want ten lines before they'll post. The sets were pretty cool, I did like the lack of a relation to a real place - rooms were sort of disembodied? But I had to look away from the screen too often. I usually don't need to do this, even Pink Flamingos. Even the drag queen went to the hospital after that scene. "},{"Title":"*","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I sorry but is it just me but I really thought this film was just absolute utter rubbish. Just another excuse for some up talking student types to sit and ponder on its alledged artistic edge and deep meaning ...I cant help thinking that your average everyday joe bloggs wouldnt find this film in the slightest bit entertaining .. ever get the feeling your being had ? ......  "},{"Title":"Hated it","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a  piece of garbage that pretentious people will label important and engrossing. Those with no talent will resort to shock value every time, and that is certainly the case here. I saw this film 10 years ago and it stands out as one of the absolute worst to date, and I've seen a lot of bad movies. "}{"Title":"took too long to get decent","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was agonizingly bad and gregariously long, until the very succulent ending...overall it was a horrible movie, but I had to laugh at the end...another boffo performance from Helen Mirren! "},{"Title":"But... it's ART!!!!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This contains spoilers.OK... so some people think this thing is ART. I don't get it. The film's basic story is old a bored woman wants to escape her rich, dominating, unfeeling and unintelligent husband and has an affair with a poor but sensitive man. Husband finds out and seeks revenge. Wife retaliates. This plot line has been done MANY times. Yawn.The graphic violence is gratuitous and adds nothing to the film's story except to over emphasize how brutal the world of this couple is, show how mean the husband is, AND to give the enlightened movie critics something to which they can point as evidence that this is not a film for the average audience. The violence is so overdone, however, that its shock value wears off quickly, and the climactic banquet scene therefore has no real impact on the now numbed audience. Yawn.The cinematography, lighting, costumes, sets, featured art pieces, and almost all visual aspects of the film are spectacularly lush - but like a heavy, rich meal they tend to overpower and make one sleepy or not very alert. What the point of the color changes in the costuming between the dining room, lavatory, kitchen, and garage sets was meant to do except to work as a gimmick to wake up the audience - or give more fodder to the enlightened ones who wanted to claim that this was something only those in tune with Art could understand - is never disclosed. Yawn.In the end, only those who claimed to be enlightened applauded the film as a work of Art. The rest of us unwashed masses either woke up when the enlightened ones applauded or numbly sat in our seats wondering why we spent money and wasted time to see this artistic piece of trash. "},{"Title":"Did not like it!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have a problem with the movies which in the name of art becomes very vague. This movie has very interesting sets, color backgrounds, use of light but the significance of all this is not clear. Unless you have researched the background of this movie in great detail, you will find the movie to be pretentious. "},{"Title":"This is not culture, this is sick...","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love art and culture in all its forms and manifestations. I am not a simplistic best-seller reader, and I do prefer art movies. But I can't understand how anyone can say this is a good one. I am sorry, but this is a sickening-sadistic-child abuse-cannibalistic piece of fiction that I can't recommend to any sensitive human soul. I think people confound the extreme nauseating horror with some sort of art form. When they watch something really shocking, they tend to think that is something powerful and awesome. It is not! The horrors we encounter in our everyday world seem to have taken away our sense of what is beautiful, spiritual and worth seeing. I can't condone something like this. "},{"Title":"Greenaway Seems to Have Had a Bunuel in His Oven","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a pretentious pottyful of of art film crap.What a brilliant postmodern commentary.That's the tired, been-done-before genius of 'The Cook, The Thief, His Wife, and Her Lover' Greenaway is toying with us can you say Dada?Mercifully, the performers aren't toying the acting is superb, especially from Helen Mirren - from whom la grande overblown dame Streep could take immensely profitable lessons; and from Michael Gambon whose vulgar, sound-bitten, enfant terriblesque soliloquies are quite piquant. Visually imaginative this is, but only up to a point much of what we see here Salvador Dali and Luis Bunuel served up to us on black & white and on color platters decades before Greenaway lurked behind a lens. The script is Groucho Marx having thrown double-entendre to the winds and instead unselfconsciously waxed - no, indulged - scatologically; but it's also as incisively observant of human nature as Groucho ever was. Clever of Greenaway, n'est ce pas? At least I sense that Greenaway wants us to think him clever.The only grating element of this film is its score which, for the most part was rather nicely suited to the film's visual texture, but which at other times managed to hammer my finer sensibilities like the four-thousand three hundred and sixty-third drop of Chinese water torture.Countless reviewers have dissected this film with a relish not exhibited, at its denouement, by its character Albert Spica. Like the despicable Spica, critics chattered over and devoured eagerly what they're eating here none of them seems to have realized that Greenaway had gotten them to wallow in each other's excreta and to gobble each other up as reflected in 'Cook's' denouement. Greenaway owes much to his grand-dadaist forbears who, one suspects, sneer contemptuously down at his shameless plagiarism from their absurd little plot upon Olympus. As for me, by this cheeky, half-puerile, half-senile little opus I am chastised, but neither revolted, nor suffering permanent psycho-emotional or artistic damage; and I remain wordly, but unprovoked to indiscriminate promiscuity or to feel the correct measure of ennui. And Greenaway is lurking somewhere, grinning at all of us. You naughty, sophomoric man, you.By my peculiar ratings system 'The Cook, The Thief, His Wife, and Her Lover' is not suitable for audiences composed of priggish nuns, doctrinaire lesbian separatists and gender feminists, PromiseKeepers, or children under sixty-five. Of course, then, you must see it and go forth to persuade, inveigle, deceive, or shanghai those excluded by this ratings system to see it too. Before our culture goes completely to the dogs.There is something poisson-ous about it. "},{"Title":"There are three kinds of people in the world, those who can count and those who can't","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those lovem or hatem movies. I didn't like it. It is shot like a play, everything shouts look at the art, but I haven't seen much. To think that I had no space on my hard drive for a month because I kept this movie.Let me spell it out for you if you are a normal movie goer, stay away from this. It does have grotesque imagery, but it isn't fun like the gore in really stupid horror movies and it isn't shocking as the ones in historical or socio-political ones. It is with gangsters, but all they do is speak loudly and annoyingly the whole movie, spilling out pretentious garbage. Have you seen movies like Lock, Stock and Barrel? You remember the gangsters always talking a lot and in metaphors before doing gangster stuff? Imagine two hours of this guy talking the same rubbish, with the same accent, but doing nothing really.Now if you , for some reason or another, want to see all the movies with a particular actor or directed by a particular director and you stumble upon actors in this movie or the director, then watch this. You will not like the movie anyway, but you will achieve your goal.I rarely give a mark of under 5, but this film deserves it. "},{"Title":"Never has an exercise in disgusting the viewer looked so lovely","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The filmmaker attempts to disgust the viewer in every way immaginable rotting food, murder, castration, sticking forks into faces, and the grande finale -- you guessed it, cannibalism!  I agree that the scenes, lighting, and color are wonderful, but I just got the impression that the director was in the back of the theater, chortling over what he could force everyone to watch.  The only reason it doesn't get a 1 rating from me is the guy chopping the zuchinni at 90 MPH.  If you think that's shallow, go see the movie.   "},{"Title":"Sick and degrading","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was released in 1990 in the U.S. and caused a bit of controversy. The MPAA gave it an X rating and the studio releasing it (Miramax) protested. They wanted an R and went so far as to take them to court. They lost the case but it persuaded the MPAA to issue the NC-17 rating for films too strong for an R. Such a big deal for such a dreadful little film.Director Peter Greenaway sets out to shock and disgust his audience. He succeeds. The plot is pointless--Greenaway could care less about that. He just wants to disgust people. The opening scene has a man stripped, smeared all over with dog feces and even having it shoved down his throat! Incidentally, it has nothing to do with the rest of the movie.The settings are incredibly beautiful, there is an array of very talented British actors (Helen Mirren--Why? But she did do Caligula in 1980 so...) and the cinematography is stunning. But Greenaway is constantly bombarding the audience with grotesque, vile characters (the thief) sickening imagery (some very likable characters are tortured, maimed or killed), characters being degraded in sickening ways, and tops it all off with cannabilism. If anyone protests this, Greenaway could always say--Look at the setting, the cinematography, the actors--this is ART! No, it isn't. It's just assault--pure and simple. Sadly, Greenaway thinks otherwise. As one critic said at the time of this film's release--Greenaway's like a big bully--he throws you down on the ground and kicks art in your face. Exactly.A sick, vile piece of exploitation. I KNOW I'm going to hear from Greenaway's fans but I'm standing by my opinion. "},{"Title":"One word","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This must be one of the worst films i have seen. It rivals Brokeback Mountain as my worst movie experience. Such big hype and terrible, really terrible film. imagine going to the dentist and having a tooth out without any pain relief. That's what watching this film is like. Was with friends who thought it was wonderful i just wanted to leave as soon as possible. It's like being forced to listen to Bob Dylan or the Rolling Stones. Murder, truly murder. If I was ever going to be interrogated, just show me this film and I would admit it straight away. Was fairly young when I saw it but I can still remember how bad it was. Maybe the sign of a good film, if I can remember it that long ago "},{"Title":"The Great Michael Gambon!!!!!!!","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A few months ago I was just clearing out my loft of some old junk and I came across a box of old video cassette's. Most of them were old family videos but among the pile was a cassette in which the title caught my eye The Cook The Thief His Wife And Her Lover. When I saw it at first I was shocked at the amount of detail in the violence and nudity but I looked past all of that and I learnt to appreciate the great acting from Michael Gambon! I had recognised his face from something else that I cant remember but when I saw him in this I instantly recognised him as one of the greatest actors ever.The films plot is unforgettable, it is about a local gangster who owns a restaurant and he eats there every night with his wife and his underdogs talking about stories of murder. One night though his wife Georgina spots a bookkeeper and in the forthcoming days she starts an affair with him. Albert (her husband) soon finds out and has him killed by stuffing him with his favourite book. Georgina then who is aided by Richard the head chef of the restaurant plans out the most horrible revenge you could ever think of.I just cant help thinking that I was just meant to see this film. I am hoping to pursue an acting career in the years to come and Michael Gambon is the sort of Actor that I can really learn from. Also watch out for great performances from Richard Bohringer, Tim Roth and Helen Mirren whom I also saw in Caligula! Also listen to the films unforgettable soundtrack!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"not your standard fare","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  there's one thing certain about this film - it's not your standard fare. not only is the subject matter a bit out of the ordinary, but the style, too, is decidedly different. not better, or worse, or over-stylized, really, but different. half of it is shot like a filmed play...lots of scrolling dolly shots in front of three sets that are linked side by side. in the first half there isn't much three-dimensional camera movement like there is in most films and, with the exception of the bathroom scenes, the action takes place in the aforementioned group of three sets (outside, the kitchen, and the dining room). there's a definite concerted effort to use color, though i'm not entirely sure about the reasons. lots of red which i suppose could speak to two of the dominate themes - love and rage. at the half way point the film shifts a bit. in the first half horizontal movement was dominant (that scrolling i talked about) and in the second we see a lot more movement into the scenes (and into different scenery as well). the tone, too, has changed. the second half is decidedly serious whereas the first half, at least for me, was more comic because the excesses of the thief were directed towards less sympathetic characters. once we see his sadistic rage touch his wife in more than a passing way we can't go back to laughing about his tirades. it's a good looking movie that has plenty to like, but didn't resonate with me so much as to consider it great. i like what it offered me while i was watching it and i will remember its style and the some of the subject matter (i don't want to give it away, but it's not easily forgettable), but it didn't have that special something that would have made it great. oh, and i think this was the first film i've seen that was scored by michael nyman (piano - which i still haven't seen) and i liked his stuff...he's a minimalist like philip glass. B. "},{"Title":"A beautiful journey around art.","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know that many people will say that this movie It's horrible or disturbing or disgusting , but we all have to agree that it's no just another movie, Peter Greenaway gives us a total different point of view about what you think a movie is.He opens our minds and give us another level to classify movies.To me this is a piece of art, a total must see for whose enjoy not only a god plot (because is not here and it's not needed) but also, good acting , strong images, a spectacular colorful scenes and symbolism.I know most of the people will disagree my qualification (9/10) but you have to accept the fact that this movie has done something positive to you It's expanded your horizons in which movies refers to. "},{"Title":"I saw this film three times in the theatre","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has been a while when I last saw this film. When it came out to cinemas, I simply loved it. It somehow amused me that every time I went to see it, large part of the audience left before the end.Visually, the movie is stunning. As a story, it touched me. Yes, the story is simple, shocking, brutal, and maybe even pointless. Not that many twists and turns but still... In brutal, pointless world, it is ecouraging to see brief moments of love. Was this the message of the movie? Who cares. To me movies are experiences, not pieces of something to be analyzed.This film haunts me. I remember only one other movie to have blown me away like this Pedro Almodovar's Matador. I must see both of them again and again.  "},{"Title":"Surreal and Wonderful","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very surreal.  Another movie with a message about the seven deadly sins and the debauchery of excess.  I enjoyed it.  The movie is set up like a stage play but without the visual restrictions.The movie centres around a gang leader, his wife, her lover, and the chef of the restaurant owned and frequented by the gang leader.  Most of the movie takes place within the confines of the restaurant.  It could be considered a dark comedy and treats violence and death in the offhanded way as such movies as Pulp Fiction. "},{"Title":"A Greenaway film you can understand","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Greenaway films, and I think this is nearly the best of them, and I think his most commercially successful as well. It involves a gangster played by the marvellous Michael Gambon and is set in the 5-star restaurant he owns. His wife, Helen Mirren, is a kept woman who clearly is suffering through her life. Then she sees a man in the restaurant, and they become lovers inside the restaurant itself. The rest, I'll leave to your imagination. The music and cinematography and costumes and visual effects in this film are magnificent. It is simply beauiful to watch and superbly written as well, with much witty dialogue. I would say this is an absolute must see- but maybe not for very young children or the puritanical.  "},{"Title":"Graphic and Schocking in an arty way","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my favourite Peter Greenway movies. I just loved (like so many people) the cello music. The simple panning of the camera, the colours and the end. This does stand back. It is very graphic but I loved it for the reason it made me feel as if I was at a play. Very simple and very effective. For lovers of this movie I'd recommend 'The Draughtsman'. It is my favourite Greenway. Very good! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie makes absolutely stunning use of color, sound, music, and cameras to create a movie that caters to the senses more than any other I've seen. I will always recommend this movie to those that can stomach some potentially gruesomescenes.  "},{"Title":"A+ all the way!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a little late with this as there are already 26 pages of comments. I saw this too in the theater, I was sure it would win an oscar. This movie was snubbed by the Academy. I made sure to tell all the people I meet to rent or buy this movie. You don't see the quality of this level much these days. "},{"Title":"Splendid!!!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful movie. The DVD (unrated of course) gets released next week. I've seen this movie many times and each time I get more from it. Like all Greenaway films, it is somewhat of an acquired taste (no pun intended). It is visually stunning.  "},{"Title":"Not for the casual Hollywood film fan","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply stated, this film is one of the most beautifully filmed movies I've seen yet.  As Greenaway himself is a fine artist, his films always show the vision that he has for color, light and pattern.  And the Michael Nyman score is used perfectly here. Any movie that makes half the people call it a work of genius and beauty, and the other half detest it's grotesqueness and show of bad taste can't be so easily dismissed.  The greatest pieces of art challenge us and cause us to respond at the highest degree of emotion, provided they have an underlying intelligence at their root. This movie has an uncompromising approach that I personally found exciting. It's one of my favourite films.  If you plan to see it, be prepared... and send the kids to bed first. "}{"Title":"A Visual Feast","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this film just after its release in London, the cinema was packed at the start of the film, but from about 30 seconds into the projection, people started leaving, apparently shocked by what they saw on the screen. At the end of the seance, only about half of the seats were still occupied.I cannot understand this reaction at all this film is one of the most fantastic visual feasts available. OK, it's not your mainstream Hollywood production where the whole thing is dished up on a plate for you, but for anyone who is prepared to engage two or three neurones to enjoy something a little deeper, this film is caviar.The film does contain some (many?) shocking content - but it is only shocking if taken out of context. In the film itself, you are (if you are paying attention) always skillfully prepared for what you will see or hear, so that the image itself should provide little more than a confirmation of your expectations.In any case, this is a Greenaway film, and we would be disappointed if there was no challenge to its appreciation... and like all Greenaway films, it bears watching numerous times - each time revealing new subtleties, new meanings, and more pleasure. Be it the sumptuous (Jean-Paul Gaultier) costumes, all colour-coordinated with the magnificent sets. Or the biting dialogue from the boorish Spica (Michael Gambon). Or Michael Nyman's fabulous music, without which no Greenaway film would be complete.Greenaway has presented us with a generous tableau of gourmet cinema, to be savoured 'sans moderation'. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Strange","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie is the worst piece of **** that I have ever seen aside of course from Titus. The only redeeming part was seeing the hot scenes of Helen and her lover, but she could have been in a better movie. This movie is just sick and makes you disgusted that you wasted your money. I rented the rated copy from the local video store and was surprised to find that the love scenes were basically destroyed, but the disgustingly in-depth scenes of low class portrayals were still in there. I wish they had cut down the scenes of grossness and left in the love scenes intact. I advise don't watch this movie, Helen Mirren is a better actress than this movie portrays her to be.     "},{"Title":"On Michael Nymann's music","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michael Nymann is known as a minimalist composer (a term used for a style of 21st century composition that I still haven't figured out yet). Director Peter Greenaway has done bio-films on minimalist composers such as Philip Glass and John Cage so it isn't a surprise that he has chosen Michael Nymann to so the score for this film.  Nymann's music complements this film very well. There is so much going on with the visuals, Sets are intricately designed, vibrant colors, colors that change from set to set and from mood to mood, etc. The style of music composed by Nymann almost relaxes our senses after all the complex visuals because it basically consists of chords played by instruments of a certain chamber orchestra that pretty much beat in a straightforward rhythm. And any of you music theory majors might explain that better than I do but that's what I hear. As far as the film itself, it definitely requires multiple viewings. Like a complex work of art that you need to look at for hours and hours.The disturbing parts of it require an open mind and an un-conservative attitude. The acting is brilliant, especially the thief and the cook. This was my first Greenaway film that I Wathced. I enjoyed his directing quite a bit. Set and art decoration was superb. As I said, this film is like a work of art. However, there were times where I felt bored by the flow of the story, the repetativeness of each day that takes place in the film. It seems like it doesn't lead anywhere but then we get a superb finale. 8 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"Just when you think this film could be ending...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...the best is yet to come.Excellent casting, direction and cinematography. Some will say it's too long, and I wanted more. Compelling, funny, sad and sexy this is one of the best films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"This movie constitutes a perfect synthesis of picture, sound and story.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is not a coincidence Greenaway i.a. was awarded an honorary doctorate by Utrecht University, one of The Netherlands top-universities.Especially in this particular movie Greenaway has managed to achieve such a perfect synthesis of full and heavy sound and picture, along with a great plot, that watching the movie gives a similar sensation to smoking a beautiful cigar while drinking espresso and an XO cognac listening to a baroque string and oboe concerto of Vivaldi. In other words superb. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, engrossing, entertaining-sheer magnificence.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To see this film is to enter a dark world of violence, passion and retribution.  The characters are complex creations, the sets are steeped in ever changing colour and the script swings wildly from vulgarity to erudition, all held together by the inspired direction of Greenaway.  Not a film to watch without the knowledge that it will shock, its sheer power is its greatest asset.  In short, one of the masterpieces of English cinema.  "},{"Title":"it'a ride if you have a strong stomach!","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had people warned me about A Clockwork Orange, but no one ever warned me about The Cook, the thief, his wife and her lover.  I lost my appetite for the entire evening after I finished the movie.  However, if you have a stomach strong enough to stay tune to the entire movie, it will be one of the best movie you will ever see.  The story, the use of color, the performance are all brilliant.  The ending, in my opinion, is the best ending I have ever seen.  If you are looking for something different, this is the movie you want to see, just don't watch it with a full stomach! "},{"Title":"DVD out of print?!","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have been looking for this film on DVD and all I can find are used copies going for $70.00 or non region 1 DVD's. What gives? Is there a deluxe version of this coming out soon? Maybe a Criterion edition? Why are all of Greenaway's films available but his best one (in my opinion)? I have found exactly zero information about this and NO ONE is discussing it anywhere. Strange... And now I have to write more lines to get this comment onto IMDb's precious web site. Well, this is completely retarded that I have to write on and on and on and on and on about absolutely nothing just to get my comments on this site. Do people really want to read ramblings about how I have to take up more lines when my comment has been made? Why are concise comments not considered important enough to go onto this site? "},{"Title":"An emotional experience","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie takes you to incredible highs and the lowest of lows. It's exhausting! There are scenes of unbelievable beauty interspersed with completely revolting scenes. The scene with the young boy singing in the kitchen is certainly one of the most touching things I've seen in the cinema ever. I won't spoil the fun by talking about any of the disgusting scenes.This is the only movie I've seen that made me physically sick to my stomach, and I think it had more to do with the ups and downs of the movie, rather than just the revolting scenes. Somehow I managed to now throw up in the theater. I'll certainly never forget this one. "},{"Title":"What a beautiful film!","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A loud, garrulous, chauvinistic, vulgar thief (played brilliantly by Michael Gambon), and his reserved, miserable wife (Helen Mirren - another great actress), who frequent the same restaurant. The wife notices a gentleman who's another regular customer, and the two begin an affair. Their secret is kept by the cook, who hates the chauvinistic thief. The film was incredibly intense, and definitely stayed in my mind long after I watched it. It may be the most beautifully filmed movie that I've ever seen. Each room in the film (and there aren't many, maybe six) has its own color, and Helen Mirren's outfit changed color depending on which room she entered. It did a lot to set a specific tone for each room. Also, the ending to the film was incredible, as I'd heard. Everyone is encouraged to see this (provided you are not offended terribly easily), but only if you can watch the full version, which is rated NC-17. There was an R-rated version released in the U.S., but I just don't see how it could even live up to the version I saw, as there is almost a 20 minute difference between the two. Not for the squeamish, but a totally incredible film! "}{"Title":"Why this is a Great Film","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took me a long time to see this film.  I remember Siskal and Ebert's review of it, and it has been on my list since 1989.  For some reason, it took me a while, but I just watched it on DVD this month. It is a great film, and I can tell you why. First, let me address the tenor of most of the objections others have voiced.  They are disgusted, the film is sick, and so on.  These judgments are, essentially, unrelated to the merit if the film and more related to the squeamishness of the reviewers.  It is not a film that spares the viewer any unpleasantness, but it is a film that rewards the viewer with a cogent, essentially moral, fable of good and evil. Here is what makes the film great, in simple terms we can all readily grasp the sets; the performances; the music; the cinematography; the costuming; and the emotionally gratifying and timely catharsis at the end.The sets are brilliant.  This is not a naturalistic film, but a symbolic one.  What happens in the film is fantastic, and not likely actually to happen (another similarity to opera).  Therefore the fantastic, operatic sets, freed from any close correspondence to reality, create an environment in which the exaggerated venality of Albert and his gang can be believed.  In a naturalistic setting, no one would believe Albert's hyperbolic behavior.  While some have compared this film to a low-budget horror film, it is unlikely that one will find the equal of Helen Mirren or Michael Gambon in one of those.  Their performances are simply brilliant.  Mirren's and Gambon's performances both rise to the level of a tour de force.  Helen Mirren's fine, chiseled voice and her excellent timing absolutely stand out.  For example, the line, at the end, when she holds the gun on Albert and says, You vowed you'd kill him, and you did.  You vowed you'd eat him.  So eat him,  The perfect length of the pause before the last sentence is sheer artistry.  It is, in part, subtle details like this that stand out before the sweep of the film that make it a great film. The music -- especially the main theme -- contributes significant authority to the film.  The main theme is introduced with strings alone; as the climax of the film approaches, the strings are augmented with a raucous, ripping chorus of saxophones.  At the penultimate moment in the film, when a roasted human being is presented to the hapless villain, the strings and saxophones together reach a pitch of distress that matches perfectly the grisly outcome of the plot. The costuming, the symbolism of the colors, but above all the sheer villainy expressed in Gambon's performance as well as the lovely, determined longing of Helen Mirren's character, Georgina, place this film far and above the usual. There is limited space here to explain why this film is truly great.  The astute viewer, who perhaps disliked the film because of the shock value, should consider that the shock value is not Greenaway's intent.  The shock is there to help throw into sharp relief the noble human qualities of love, loyalty, and kindness.  The tragedy is that these qualities were able to oppose the villain's cynicism only by resorting to rough justice. One of the greatest films, ever.  "},{"Title":"It all comes out the same way in the end","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you can make it through the opening -- Albert Spica (The Thief), Michael Gambon), that piggish oaf and his cronies grabbing a man at the back of a restaurant, undressing him, covering him with feces and urinating on him -- then the rest of the film should be a walk in the park. That's basically all the film is about. Well, there's a little more to it Georgina, Albert's wife (The Wife, Helen Mirren), meets up with Michael (The Lover, Alan Howard) out in the hallway of the restaurant and the two start up an affair. And The Cook, Richard Borst (Richard Bohringer) prepares a bunch of meals that Albert crams down his throat while blurting out whatever comes to his mind.It's the kind of film loaded with allegorical meanings and symbolism that's wasted, because the very people the film's message would be aimed at are the precise people who'll never see it (and people like me who do see it don't care). The film is full of contempt and derision, and Greenaway seems like he'd be the type of person who gets his thrills from mocking anyone in kicking distance.But for all that, I didn't dislike the film. The film works in the artistic preciousness of proper British sensibilities and in the excessive tastelessness unique to America. It's like Blue Velvet (a film Greenaway admires), told from the English perspective. One of the things I liked was that we know that in this film anything could happen (and does). The lavish, visual elegance of the film (let's not forget Mirren's magical, color-changing dress) and the excessively detailed and precise set design really is a feast for the eyes. While the colors -- mainly reds and blues -- are enthralling, the camerawork does become a bit repetitious inside the restaurant, gliding along from side to side. The music -- leaving out that high-pitched screaming of the choirboy -- is wonderful, as well. It works best as an exercise in style and edginess than of anything else.There are some thrilling moments here, most notably in two scenes where Albert comes looking for Georgina. Some of the most interesting, for me, however, were the behind-the-scenes moments in the kitchen, watching Richard and his crew prepare the meals, slicing up onions at light speed, and plucking a duck. There are interesting quirks in the film the forking, the shirtless kitchen staff member, the rotting, worm-infested fish and meat that's never really explained.This is the first Greenaway film I've seen and I doubt he could top it. (I caught about five minutes of The Pillow Book, but it looked like Japanese porn, so I shut it off.) It seems to me that Greenaway would be wildly inconsistent; that if he were left to his own devices, he'd make a terrible mess of a film.The Cook, The Thief, His Wife, and Her Lover is an extreme, sometimes vile film that's fairly accessible. With all its pretentiousness, it's not cold, either. In fact, it's bubbling over. **** "},{"Title":"One time viewing only","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film to see just because a true film devotee should see it.  Very expressionistic with every scene crammed with things to look at.  The only exception would be the bathrooms but they are so blindingly white and clean that one cannot notice anything.  Some positives about the movie  Michael Nyman's score is very mesmerizing.  Michael Gambon's performance was fantastic.  As mentioned above, the scenery was fun to look at but it also was very colorful, each room was bathed in a different shade of color.  The negatives  The numerous sex scenes gets tiresome fast.  The cruelty is overwhelming and one particular scene of torture is pretty unbearable.  The ending is a little too pat for my tastes.  So I would have to say that this is one movie that should be seen once but any more than that would be considered masochism. "},{"Title":"The Cook,the Thief,His Wife and Her Lover * *","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Cook,the Thief,His Wife and Her Lover is probably one of the most twisted films I have seen.The entire film is set like a stage play and the cinematography is moody.I didn't have much interest in this film.I found the film to painful to look at while other scenes were pretty much rewarding.This is definitly the kind of film that I wouldn't be allowed to see 12 years ago.I have to admire the film for it's ending which delivered a kick to my stomach.The Cook,the Thief,His Wife and Her Lover isn't a film that is to be taken lightly.I have seen films that I would consider to be far worse than this.I wouldn't place this on my favorite films list because my attention or interest span kept walking away from me.Next time I go to a local video store,I'll probably know what not to rent.I have to give a thumbs up to the director though for surprising me with the ending. "},{"Title":"I didn't know if I should laugh, or look away in horror 9/10","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Cook, The Thief, His Wife, And Her lover is no doubt a required taste, but those looking for something a little nasty and different -- look no further.  Unbelievably grotesque at times, this film is not for those with a weak stomach, but I find the film to be wonderfully hysterical and poignant.  The acting by Michael Gambon is absolutely amazing.  You need to see this movie for his tour de force performance. "},{"Title":"used to like it","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really used to like this film- bought the soundtrack and managed to see all of Greenaway's other films- but I only saw it recentlyand boy, is it pretensious to the utmost or what? What a struggle to watch it! All I was pretty much thinking was- just preach your one-liner concept out loud and let me be!  It was the basest premise stretched out to 2hrs of lavish scenery...what a waste... "},{"Title":"Is Greenaway a truly great artist or he merely seems so?","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this in 1990, shortly after it came out. I was eighteen back then, and the movie impressed me so much, I saw it three times in a week. When I watch it now, I realize how pretentious the movie is. It has some very strong visual works, but the dialogue and the situations are ridiculous, not to mention the gratuitous shocks Greenaway imposes on the audience. To the uninitiated, Greenaway seems to be a masterful artist, but the more you watch great movies by great directors (Tarkovsky, Kiarostami, Hou, Imamura, Godard), you realize he is more of an impostor than a real artist. And Greenaway's misanthropy means his films has no real insight on human nature, the characters in his movies are constructions not flesh-and-blood people. Yet, there is not denying the strength of his vision.  "},{"Title":"Too much for me I'm afraid","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie for years but I can remember it vividly. The scene where the lover is killed still makes me ILL even now. And the bit where the boy is attacked - UGH! This is a great movie if you have are not overly squeamish. I am, and I am never going to watch it again. That's my loss. I was (and still am) too overwhelmed by the yukky bits to say anything intelligent about it. Ick!I'm sorry that bit with the books and stuff was really too much. I have just been thinking about it and I am not going to sleep tonight. I'm going to have a drink of water and a lie-down. Blech!  "},{"Title":"A modern symphony of colour and light. If you like that sort of thing...","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is undeniably beautiful to see, dazzlingly lit and composed. The famous musical collaboration between director and composer ensures that every scene is given the correct emphasis, the themes of lust, gluttony and betrayal are big and important. There is a terrible monster.But the whole edifice is so inhuman. The characters have either good manners and correct diction, or appalling manners and regional accents. The images of decay and corruption are thrust at one. The violence is so calculated. The endless waiting for the obvious ending is like Ravel's bloody Bolero.After an hour and a half, I was surprised to suddenly find I hated it, and turned it off. I liked Greenaway's other films, but I revolted against this one. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had mixed feeling when I watched this movie.  If you look at it from a cinematic point of view, it was a good movie the camera, the colors, the costumes, the music and most of the acting was good. On the other hand, there were a number of flaws which irritated me very much.The main villain was portrayed in an extremely annoying way. His behavior was such that I cannot imagine that he could have existed for a very long time without someone doing something about it. He is a restaurant owner, a thief, an extortionist and a gangster, He uses violence and torture and has no problem whatsoever with the law, revenge, or even loss of customers whom he mistreats. I could believe such a character could exist a few ages ago, but not in the last half of the 20th century. The other problem I had with the movie is that it virtually has no story at all. The plot centers around the different aspects of revenge, but had no sub-plot at all. The cook and the lover characters have appearances with the two other characters, but we learn nothing about their background or why they behave as they do.The last part which bothered me was the ending There were a lot of witnesses, but somehow all the supporting villains were missing to prevent what happens. If you like beautiful pictures you will like it, but if you like a believable villains and a consistent and good plot, skip this movieI like both, therefore I gave a 6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Hmmm....","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Films like this make me realize why I seldom watch foreign films.  To me, this is typical of Europe  sex sells.  As for this film, I found it neither amusing nor appropriate.  It did, however, have nice acting and cinematography.  Those two attributes are the only things that salvage any respectability to this film. "},{"Title":"Still not sure if I love or hate this movie","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's been almost 17 years since I saw this movie and I still don't know whether I liked it or hated it. It may be termed a flawed masterpiece at best or a bloody mess at worst. One problem is that I was really never sure what genre it fit was it horror, drama, or farce? Some directors can blend different elements seamlessly but I didn't see that here. And if this movie was a political commentary on Thatcherism, I missed it completely - The Full Monty does a better job and is more fun to watch. If there is some other allegory contained here, I would like to know what it is - even the director/writer isn't telling.On the plus side the plot was easy to follow, the acting superb, and the cinematography interesting to say the least, and I love everything Helen Mirren is in. This is tempered however with what I saw was unnecessary and gratuitous nudity and violence that did not really advance the storyline. Some of the visual imagery was very repugnant. "},{"Title":"Waste of my time...","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watch a lot of films and this one was sad a waste. Basically the film revolves around a series of gross-out moments that really weren't that gross. The ideas and concepts of the shocks are indeed disgusting but the theatrical staging of the film, combined with the artistic lighting and unintelligible Cockney spoken by most of the cast causes the viewer to feel so far removed from this film that when the shocking moments happen you never really feel their sting.I think one reason a lot of Asian shock cinema has been so successful is the physical intimacy the audience has with the characters - to the point where the character often stands as the only thing between the camera and the horror. This allows the audience to get almost as close to the monster as the characters can. In this film there is always a table, a car, a pretentious singing a$$hole or some such nonsense set between the camera and the characters. The director and his followers will call this artistic staging but, to me, it just looks like set. When I watched this movie I felt like I was viewing it through a tunnel looking into a cold, damp warehouse - filled with over the top actors bathed in green and red light.Michael Gambon, who I normally respect, is so over the top in this flick that he, not his character, becomes clownish and almost seems to be begging for an award. The rest of the cast was fine. I always like Tim Roth's presence, as well as Helen Mirren (who shines much brighter in films like Gosford Park and the Mosquito Coast).Lastly, let me say that mumbled dialog in a film so reliant on it's witty script ought to at least have the option of closed captioning. The version I watched from Netflix didn't have subtitles or even C.C. for the hearing impaired. I might have found this film endlessly more entertaining if I didn't have to have the volume blasting and sometimes having to skip back to segments of Gambon's rants.This film is pretentious and wasteful - especially when you consider it is supposed to be a metaphor for the reign of Margaret Thatcher. I would like to see the reaction of a real victim of Margaret Thatcher's policy and society to this film. I have a feeling he or she would rate both the PM and the film equally - out of touch and sterile.BTW - Any comparison between this film and the works of either Terry Gilliam or Jean-Pierre Jeunet should only be used in contrast. The detailed and smoothly executed works of TG and JPJ only shame a film like The Cook, The Thief.... If you want to see a critique of 1980's England, I personally feel Brazil! is a much better film on ALL levels. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Pretentious","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film deserves a 10 for art direction and a 0 for content.  Probably the most pretentious film I have ever seen.  Cruelty and vulgarity can have there place, if they serve a higher purpose.  Here, however, it seems more like highbrow voyeurism.  Vulgarity does not become art simply because it is artistically lit. "},{"Title":"Totally repulsive waste of time","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a totally repulsive waste of time. If you are a brutish pig, then this movie has a good lesson for you to learn (I guess). Otherwise, if you are a normal human being, then don't waste your time on this repellent, repulsive, artsy schmartsy, very pretentious piece of trash. "},{"Title":"Pretentious boredom","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Greenaway's work in Prospero's Books but haven't found the rest of his work to contain as much depth or interest.  He was outré and trendy and successfully shocked and disgusted a lot of the more adventerous movie-goers in the 90s but this flick, 'The cook, the thief, his wife and her lover' has not aged well.  As usual with Greenaway his sets are full of things to gaze at, if only he'd let you, and provacative dialogue and action that more often than not leads to an intellectual and artist dead-end.  Add Michael Nyman's Philip Glass-like derivative score and it all equals one great big yawn.  Greenaway also seems obsessed at exposing middle-aged actors' naked bodies in fits of passion, also not very absorbing after the first viewing.It is strange that so many wonderful actors work for him.  His casts are always superb and mis-used.  In this case Helen Mirren, the great Liz Smith (see her in 'Apartment Zero' where she shows what she can really do) and a number of others are asked to say and do things that are just plain brutal and boorish, but I suppose that is what Greenaway  wanted.If you want to be shocked and moved and return to a fine out-on-the-edge film I recommend Lars von Triers' 'Dancer in the Dark' not this bilge from Greenaway's dried up well of creativity.Basil Seal Rides Again! "},{"Title":"Self indulgent trashola","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Do you like cannibalism? How about torturing children? Long, long camera shots sweeping across monochromatic walls, interrupted by pretty young things in fetish outfits? How about squeaky operatic music?If you answered 'yes' to all of the above, then boy is this the movie for you. However, if you like a little substance with your imagery, you're not going to find as much here as this movies fans will claim. The story is pretty insubstantial, the characters weakly 'developed' by voice-over and mime alone, and contrary to the pseudo-intellectual 'critics' who gush over the cinematography, there's nothing here that any student MtV director couldn't accomplish.Like too much of Peter Greenaway's work, this is pretty much an excuse for the notorious auteur to indulge his personal perversions. The audience is simply along for the ride. And if you're into the same things Greenaway is - little blonde boys who howl ecstatically while immersed in water seems to be a favorite of his - then you're going to find this movie a real charmer. For anyone with an ounce of sense or taste, however, save your money and time for something with a bit more narrative, a bit more quality, and a LOT more substance. Something from the My Little Pony line should do just fine.Grade D-. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, Elitist Nonsense!","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the most elitist film I've ever seen. But it's an exquisitely photographed piece of pretentious nonsense. Writer/Director Greenaway seems to equate the cruelty of the working-class thief with his lack of appreciation for fine art. I'm particularly amused by how many people want to see this as a metaphor for Margaret Thatcher's oppression of the working class -- the politics of the film are the exact reverse of that metaphor. In Greenaway's vision, the educated are helpless victims of the ignorant working class. (Does Greenaway forget that his beloved Shakespeare had no formal education?) He seems to have made the movie as a poison pen letter to the ignorant masses who showed no interest in his previous pretentious movies. The truth is that Greenaway makes boring art films. (And I love a good art film, but it better deserve that label.) It's still a very well acted film, with superb cinematography. The sets and costumes are so color coordinated that, when Helen Mirren moves from the red room to the white room, her dress changes from red to white. And most moviegoers don't seem to notice. But it's set in a very artificial world. (It's a pretty small world, too. It only consists of four rooms and a parking lot.) We get no sense that there might be some authorities investigating the crimes committed in the film, or that our heroes might just move away to avoid the cruel thief. Greenaway's universe is as small as his vision. Many moviegoers are mesmerized by the stunning visual design, but it wasn't enough to hold me in. The thief's graphic brutality is downright repugnant. For all it's visual pretensions, the story is completely tasteless. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've read some reviews and am so glad SOME people agree with me. This movie is awful! In fact I am giving it the award ofworst film ever made. What an honor! And not an easy thing to achieve either, with so many millions of movies out there. Yet, cook,thief, wife and lover has pulled it off! I've seen alot of films but never seen anything as bad as this.Many have mentioned how disgusting some of the scenes are here. I agree, but mere disgust in a movie wouldn't be to bad as long as there was a reason for it. This movie went beyond disgusting, and the insult was it had no point to it, because the plot was standard only more vicious then this plotline would normally be.Everything was elevated in this movie-the level of disgust, the meaness, the shock value-WHY? What were the filmakers thinking? Let's make a film that shocks people and makes everyones' stomach turn?? I doubt it actualy, but watching this your just left with that thought-WHY!!!  This wasn't art or great filmaking, it was shock for shock value-big deal.Whoever voices negativities about the violence in Kill Bill oughta have a look at this film because anything Tarentino does  looks tame next to this and at least there's a POINT to Tarention's violence-the man is a genius and makes great films-Violent maybe but great-but seriously Pulp Fiction this ain't. It's so bad, I'm amazed critics-ANYcritics reviewed it so positvely and if I'm not artistic enough to get it, my loss I guess(not!) "},{"Title":"dinner is severed","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nobody should consider seeing Peter Greenaway's notorious black comic allegory without knowing what to expect scatology, cannibalism, vomit, violence, grisly death, sex and maggots, all in and around a posh London restaurant where only the privileged are allowed to sate their appetites. Prominent among them is the crude, obnoxious, almost infantile crime lord who routinely victimizes his long-suffering wife, prompting her to find solace in the embrace of a kindly book worm dining at a nearby table (while the omnipotent Cook looks on). The film dishes up all manner of filth and excess, but the formal design and pretentious stylization takes the edge off the outrage it's all too unreal to be truly offensive. Writer director Greenaway knows how to set a colorful table, but for all its opaque symbolism and highbrow sensationalism it may well add up to a five-course meal of empty calories. "}{"Title":"My opinion","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is not for the average movie goer. I initially watched this movie because of Helen Mirren. I must say that the use of color in this movie is amazing, also the acting is very intense and very very good. One of the best performances by all actors. The sound track is also phenomenal.This movie (from other comments) has made other viewers nauseous. I think this movie is great for expanding on observation skills in regards to color, sound, and overall cinematography. This movie is worth watch twice, to receive the full effect.I highly recommend this movie if your tired of the hum-drum movies that we are frequently subjected too.This movie is also included in the book 1,001 Movies You Must See Before You Die... "},{"Title":"Stylized","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a rather common place story of adultery but it is filmed in a very stylized manner with many rather gross scenes.  The ending is shocking and a tad disgusting.  Some great performances by Helen Mirren and Michael Gambon.  Don't see it on a full stomach.  I think Helen Mirren is a wonderful actress and I've enjoyed her in every movie, and TV show, she has been in. "},{"Title":"captivating","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, cringing also.hmmm. I have not commented on a film in some time... mainly because I tend to agree with /everything/ everyone else has already written, sans some confusing comments that are... anyway.well, the same goes here.I didn't find it terribly pornographic in any real sense... unless Prospero's Books could be called thus. The love scenes rather providing respite from the constant onslaught of Albert..Why didn't they kill him in the beginning? Why did they kill him in the end? I do love some good healthy cannibalism... currently I think I agree most with the users Ian(Ian23) and Olehhmmm.... ......... I think it needs another viewing.A feast for the senses is wonderfully correct, though. I need to see more Sacha Vierny, and The Three Crowns of the Sailor again, wherever it can be found...  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Peter Greenaway is a brilliant master of dialog, I will grant. The lines he puts in the Thief's mouth are brilliant, with wordsmithery on the order of, say, Tom Stoppard at his best. Would that he used his powers for good and not evil!  I liked the comment from the person who said this was comparable to an episode of Tales from the Crypt.  Yes, it's about on that level. The ending is cheap, lurid, and, frankly, plain dumb--the sort of ending a ten year old boy would invent to finish his story with a flourish of cheap sensationalism.I won't say it is a bad film merely because the subject matter is vile.  Actually, purely as a film it is well above average, and the writing is well wrought, as I've already said.  But...as a work of imagination, it is cheap and uninspired.  Does that make sense?  It seeks to thrill and impress by being shocking and revolting, and that is the oldest trick in the book for artists who have nothing to say. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautifully photographed movies I've ever seen!","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It seemed the me that everything meshed wonderfully in this film. The cinematography and the score worked together like ARIA or DREAMS. I can understand that some may comment that it disturbed them, but I've found that any truly great film has disturbed me on one level or another. Besides (without giving anything away) if the portion of this film that disturbs most people were in a teen-slasher flick, I might be more likely to be more offended. This is the type of film that IFC should show more often (although I'm not sure they ever have). When I think of an art film, this one always comes to mind. I have not watched it in a few years, so I am now planning on ordering a copy online so I can spread the word to my friends. A real treat if only for the score! "},{"Title":"stage diving","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is theatre on stage, but not a movie. The male protagonist is a great actor. but this is still theatre and no movie! actually the setting looks like a huge kitchen on stage. I don't wanna talk about what is going on in this film. but you can watch it in a theatre, ban it from the cinemas... the main male character is an anti protagonist therefore this said to be film is kind of saved his performance manages to help you through long mono passages in the picture art it pretends to be a art movie, but it's far away it would be a great piece of theatre but in film...well, go practice "},{"Title":"a terrible, luscious universe inside a snow-globe","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most violently intense, intricately beautiful and deeply affecting films I've ever seen.At seventeen, when I saw it for the first time, I was amazed that adults more than twice my age could walk out on a stunning work of art, unable to see that beneath the revolting scenes waited an elegant and warm vision of human courage, richly imagined and perfectly detailed.As you probably know by now, almost everyone who sees this film either thinks it's brilliant or despises it.It's perhaps easy when fed on mainstream pabulum to assume that any character portrayed on the screen is meant to be seen as a protagonist, a stand-in for the director and the director's worldview.  From this naive point of view, the film would be insufferable, as all the negative comments make clear.But Spica, the thief, is not the heart of this film.To borrow the gastronomic allegory of the movie, he is its bile, its rotten liver, its perpetual indigestion.The achievement of this film is to show, beneath their bruises and understandable trembling, the amazing strength of the cook, the wife and the lover (not to mention the boy) in circumstances that are shown to overwhelm even hardened gangsters.  Their acting, down to the smallest gesture or facial expression, especially Helen Mirren's (in a masterpiece performance as the wife, Georgina), is pitch-perfect throughout.When Richard, the cook, slowly describes his recollections of his parents' love affair to the despairing Georgina, the slow hypnotic whipping of the kitchen fan is the only motion onscreen, yet the cook's voice alone is enough to convey the quixotic persistence of human belief, creativity and compassion in the face of all that is dense, ugly and despicable (pun very much intended) in the world.The art direction, cinematography and costuming are some of the very finest ever filmed.  The soundscape comprised of the haunting soundtrack and ingeniously captured sound-effects is nothing short of magical.It takes great psychological insight to capture the fiendishly controlling persona of Spica accurately, but even greater insight to convincingly portray how wit and gentleness can endure that obscene childishness and retain the strength to resist. "},{"Title":"Vulgarity for vulgarity's sake","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie of extremes--the most unpleasant character in a long time (Albert), deafening soundtrack, obvious exaggeration and gratuitous surrealism.  Sort of early John Waters meets Fellini (but a Fellini without nuance or love).  Its goal seems to be to impress on the viewer horrific images, which it does manage to do.  But without knowing why these characters are who they are and why they act as they do, the film ultimately falls well short of greatness. "},{"Title":"Hmmm... different, Delightful!!","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Grrrrr! Some reviewer will never learn! Listen to this US geek Too bad I couldn't give it a 0! as if if this nerd gave this extraordinary film a null, it would made its impact less! Get a life!So, on to the film! This is the first Greenaway film I get to see, and after watching it his quotes I read (here in IMDb) are more interesting. This guy has certainly a clear vision. I am not sure how clearly his vision is represented in this very film, though. By now you know what to expect, well at least, you know this is no ordinary film. It slightly reminded me of Le grand Bouffe, because there is much talk about food in both movies. In both cases, nevertheless, the food habits and discussions are means to deeper subject matters and symbolisms. Yes, the music is great and haunting. Yes we get to care about the characters, at least I did, and scenery is BOLD, despite being stagey and simple.Sure, this film IS violent, but its not violence that is in the foreground, so I recommend this beautiful unique film to everyone who is up to something different!  "},{"Title":"The Idiocy, The Stupidity, The Nonsense & The Bad Movie","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good God. Stay away...stay far far away for fear some of this dripping wet dung may actually splash up and stain you. One couldn't possibly dream up a more overwrought, pretentious, heaping pile of maggot ridden garbage(fittingly, one of the actual scenes, by the way) if they were paid too.If the constant mind-numbing screeching of the choir boy throughout the movie's soundtrack doesn't get you and make you want to slap him, the droning on of the orchestra's string section will. Lest we forget the in-you-face symbolism used as a thinly veiled attempt at looking clever. All of the deaths are related to eating....yes, I get it now, thanks. Please. Art? You must be kidding. As though Jean-Paul Gaultier's trashy, over the top decorations could somehow elevate this dreck to couture like status - if anything all they did was enhance it's absurdities and put them on display like so much shock art.The movie aspires to be a Renoir, but ends up like a Joe Blatch.Who?   Exactly.  "}{"Title":"most stupid movie that I have EVER seen!!!!","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by far the most stupid movie I have ever seen and I must say that I have seen a lot of movies. What is the point of this movie?All that I could think of was a very good way to help you throw up when you need some help with that. It did work with my stomach and very fast.I have never seen such a pointless parade of violence and absurdity. If you can, AVOID this movie by all means(unless you're a cannibal or you really like your stomach to be inside out). It's a good thing I did not pay to see this movie;it would have been the most stupidly wasted money ever.P.S.Too bad that I couldn't give it a 0!  "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot, fantastic dialogue","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is beautifully shot, has fantastic costumes and backdrops, cleverdialogue and the music is great. I did feel disgust at some of the scenes,particularly at the beginning and obviously at the end but was glad that Iwatched it. I think I will rewatch it again at some point.I thought the characters were great and displayed a whole realm of humanemotions. There were loads of hidden messages and symbolization in the film but the one of the rotting carcusses and fish outside the restaurant to symbolize the 'finding out' of the affair was very striking. I didn't want the lovers to be discovered!!!! Just one criticism - I didn't know what era this film was set in at all. "},{"Title":"allegory of fascism","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film seemed to be an obvious meditation on fascism, with the surreal setting of the restaurant set up by the SS dogs prowling around outside.  The restaurant is completely insulated from any outside influence, ruled with totalitarian brutality by the thief. The only thing that can stand up against such violent fear-mongering is passionate love that does not fear death, and ultimately makes all dictators choke on their own evil.  "},{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Of the 1000s of films I have seen in the last 20 years as an avid film-goer, this film stands out unequivocally as the worst ever.Less than 5mn into the film, the graphic nature of what was being portrayed made me wish I was somewhere else - I only didn't leave the cinema because out of respect for the people in the row.Throughout the film you will be exposed to gratuitous and vile unpleasantness - the sort of thing any normal, sane person would probably rather not consciously experience - this ranges from eating excrement to cannibalism.You could of course watch it out of some morbid intellectual curiosity, but you would then really have a number of better things to do with your life. "},{"Title":"Overrated junk","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Any positives (nice photography and acting) are far outweighed by the negatives of this reprehensible film I wish I had never watched.  This is like a film made by a 10 year old.  I can't believe how annoying and stupid some aspects of this film are -- particularly the choir boy subplot.  Whoever wants to watch pathetic one-dimensional sadists and lovers in sick and predictable situations, this is your thing.  The tone and style are all wrong, making the sadism seem too objective, almost like a comic book.  I will stay away from this director in the future if possible, because I also though Prospero's Books was dull and pretentious and pointless. "},{"Title":"same moral dilemma as feminist cause Do two wrongs make a right?","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Greenaway presented his audience with the same moral dilemma that faces the feminist cause today Do two wrongs make a right? This movie told the story of an brutally obnoxious restaurant owner named Albert Spica (Michael Gambon) who physically and verbally batters his wife Georgina, played by Helen Mirren, with seeming impunity. Cory the cook (Ciaran Hinds), himself a victim of Spica's verbal abuse, has passively stood by to witness Albert's atrocities day in and day out. His apathetic demeanor is finally jarred when Georgina meets a quiet patron named Michael (Alan Howard) and begins to have a torrid love affair directly under the nose of her husband. Cory takes subversive action against his tyrannical employer by assisting their new relationship. He provides them with a safe place for their lovemaking and warning them of Albert's approach. The plan meets with complete disaster as the two lovers are found out by Albert who, being a violent man, vows to kill and eat Michael when he finds him. He eventually did find Michael and did kill him at which point Georgina, once again, seeks the aid of Cory to help her rectify her situation. She asks him to cook Michael and put Albert in a position to eat him. Cory, the cooks, and waiters carry Michael's cooked corpse to Albert's table and subsequently subdue and disarm his henchmen, leaving him utterly defenseless. Georgina carries out her solution to his murderous and misogynous violence by putting a bullet in his skull at the end of the picture.Early in the film, both Mr. Spica and Georgina epitomize everything that feminism stands against. Albert is the man's man that is the king of all he sees. He rules with a testosterone fist and flaunts his powers at the slightest provocation. He is the prototypical Rush Limbaugh with a bad beard. His exploitation of women is obvious throughout the picture in his dealings with his wife and when he brings showgirls (a real-life exploitation) into the restaurant. During the entire movie he does not change and it is evident from the start that he is incapable of change.Cory, the other character mired in inertia, bears an uncanny resemblance to men (and women) of today who are indifferent to the blatant oppression of women. Albert's favorite place to carry out his beating crimes was right under the nose of Cory who sees the madness but takes no measures to stop it. He did demonstrate a good heart by cleaning up the person covered in dog droppings, but exhibited a faint heart when he failed to confront Albert regarding his treacherous behavior. Cory's apathetic disposition could be defined as outright cowardly. He has much to lose in a confrontation with his boss. His livelihood, reputation, and even his health are at stake with a person like Albert. Often times, people in reality see evils carried out against women and do virtually nothing to stop it, such as in the case of the United States' decision to expand trade relations with communist China despite their policy of forced abortion of girls. Another example is a male dominated Congress turning a blind eye to the senseless rape and mutilation of women currently taking place in Africa. Also, the numerous sexploitation films of Hollywood, sex clubs, and strip joints all aimed at demeaning and demoralizing women, are not only tolerated here at home but, much like Mr. Spica, we encourage them.As the movie progresses, Georgina begins to take part in a well-deserved rebellion against Albert when she meets with a stranger (Michael) in the bathroom of her husband's restaurant. She begins to explore and assert her womanhood by enjoying passionate encounters with the man of her choosing. Michael was the sort of character that the feminism cause desperately requires. He is an enabler and active participator willing to risk life and limb in order to provide an avenue of escape for a woman trapped in a loathsome, terrifying situation. He is fearless in the face of Albert's brutality and, though his actions are carried out underground, he remains firm in his conviction to help her even when called over to the Spica's table. Here, Georgina reveals that she has had two miscarriages and is in need of a good Gynecologist. It was an appropriate response for Michael to say he was a gynecologist (even though he really wasn't) because a gynecologist is a doctor whose specialization is specifically to heal women.The finale was the most troubling area of the film. It brought to light an ancient moral dilemma for the audience Do two wrongs make a right? It was clear that Georgina was acting on Cory's words hen she decided to have her liberator cooked. She simply wanted to say to death, I eat you. However, her barbaric method of revenge on her husband via forced cannibalism and, ultimately, murder by a bullet to the head was something that a Neandertholic Albert would do, not something we would expect or hope to expect from a newly liberated woman like Georgina. Do two wrongs make a right? Greenaway, and some quick-tempered sects of feminism might say yes but the peaceful, bloodless, and respectable victories won by women in the suffrage movement would emphatically answer no. "},{"Title":"disgusting and perverted waste of time","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS AHEAD A disgusting, perverted waste of two hours.I cannot think of ANY redeeming features for this film, not in any respect - from acting, scenery, to direction and script.Helen Mirren was her usual self, with her drooping bosom and pubic hair on display. The sex scenes were tawdry & uninspired. What a laugh that this woman ended up playing the queen! The film is pointless and annoying in the extreme, shot a few stops underexposed and/or without sufficient lighting.The high-pitched screeching singing of one character at several points in the film adds to the overall irritation to the viewer.The gangster character seems to be trying to imitate Michael Caine's cockney accent, with very limited success.It is rare for me to give a flat Don't Waste Your Time but this film has earned that 100%. "}]