[{"Title":"Underrated and Very Funny!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of several 80's comedies that are still fresh today, and one of my favorites.  Patrick Dempsey (as Randy) showed some amazing talent in this film and played the role perfectly.  I had forgotten the film was released in '89; it has the spirit of many of the films from earlier that decade but without much of the trashiness and better writing. "},{"Title":"The love doctor of Beverly Hills.","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of three romance comedies (along with In The Mood and Can't Buy Me Love) that Patrick Dempsey starred in around '87 and '88 about a young guy who knows who he wants to be with, he just can't seem to figure it out at first. Loverboy, actually, is a plot very similar to In The Mood because it deals with a young man wooing older women and eventually, they teach him something about love that he will help appreciate a young girlfriend, when he finds one. Loverboy concerns the story of hot shot Randy Bodek (Dempsey). Things aren't going well. His girlfriend, Jenny (Nancy Valen), thinks he's ashamed of her because he won't tell his parents that he's living with her. But Randy doesn't want to bring up live-in girlfriends to his folks yet because they're about to be baffled by a near flunking report card. So needless to say, Randy is on the brink with both his girlfriend and his parents. His dad refuses to pay Randy's tuition for the next semester, so, as Randy says, I'm going to start me real life, how hard can that be? But Randy is in for a rude awakening. What started out as a pizza delivery job at Senor Pizza turns into Randy's goal to earn enough cash to get back into school and patch things up with Jenny. Things aren't so simple once Randy meets Alex Barnett (Barbara Carerra) an elegant, but mysterious woman who Randy spends some time with. Randy Bodek suddenly becomes the love doctor of Beverly Hills (according to his goofy friend, Sal) because now he is being personally called on to deliver anchovi pizzas (the codeword) to the rich, lonely housewives. It seems quite shallow, but Randy's agenda hardly ever includes sleeping with the women. They just want a guy to spend time with them and get some affection from when their work-a-holic or cheating husbands have neglected them. Randy gets an unusual education in, pardon the cliche, what women want. It's a pretty funny movie because Randy has to hide his new reputation from his parents and nearly everyone else, so it leads to some hastily investigated conclusions as to what Randy might be up to. Plus, Randy, a pretty wimpy looking guy, must also hide from eager husbands looking to put the kid out of business, just as soon as they can figure out what it is that is making their wives all of sudden cheerful. It's good stuff, lazy Saturday afternoon type comedy with a good cast--Patrick Dempsey, Barbara Carerra, E.G. Daily, Kirstie Alley, Carie Fisher, and my favorite Bernie Coulson (he plays Sal). It is a funny movie about one guy's strange attempt to show his girlfriend that he cares about her. But in all honesty, I would recommend watching 'In the Mood' first, as that is the better of these two similar stories. "},{"Title":"Underrated comedy","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was unjustly dismissed when it came out.  It's no classic, but has many genuinely funny moments.  It has playful fun with sexual roles in our society, and its positive message seems to be that friendship and caring are more important than sex.  Patrick Dempsey showed a real flair for physical comedy that hasn't been utilized since, and the supporting cast, especially Kirstie Alley and Carrie Fisher, seem to be having lots of fun. Worth a look!  "},{"Title":"i wish i liked anchovies....","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Patrick Dempsey is a cutie pie, especially in this movie.  He plays the awkward, gangly every-guy with such aplomb it doesn't seem like an act. This movie is a lot of fun!  It's one amusing situation after another. Kate Jackson, Kirstie Alley and Barbara Carrera are all wonderful in their roles. It's too bad this movie didn't get the recognition it deserved.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies growing up","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember being eight years old and seeing Loverboy for the first time in the theater. The film is very funny and features the delightful Patrick Dempsey in one of his better roles. The film has sexy women and great one-liners. If you've never seen it check it out. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While not doing anything particularly well, Loverboy won me over by the sheer lunacy of the plot.  Guy breaks up with girl, needs money, delivers pizzas, becomes male hooker....  You get the point.  It's so dumb that I love it.  Patrick Dempsey is surprisingly good in this movie playing the naive, bumbling gigolo who stumbles into his new job.  It's worth watching on cable. "},{"Title":"Acting at its best.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I realize that this movie is not quite Oscar worthy, but it is definitely my favorite of all time.  It is great if you need cheering up or if you're just in the mood for a laugh.  I highly recommend purchasing this movie...it is a must for all movie collections.  Wow, the way I'm promoting it, you'd think I owned the rights or something! ) "},{"Title":"A very cute 80's movie","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  I thought it was very humorous and had a nice plot with many plot twists.  Many well known actresses with cameo roles.  I believe it's Lisa Kudrow playing Tony's girlfriend.  Am I wrong?  She is not credited.  It may be her first role.  Anyways, I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good 80's teenage sex movie in the vain of the Valley Girl, Better Off Dead and Fast Times.  "},{"Title":"Delivery Guy ... a his special service!","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Loverboy is so funny! This is a really good teen movie! I saw and buy the movie many years ago! Patrick Dempsey (Randy) was the Male-Molly Ringwald in teen movie for years! A lot of good actor work in this underrated movie Carrie Fisher (Ex Princess Leïa Ortega, Star Wars # IV,V,VI), Kirstie Alley (Look Who's Talking,...Too,...Now) she was so gorgeous in the blue leather dress, Kate Jackson (Charlie's AngelsThe Series/Scarecrow & Mrs. King), Barbara Carrera (Ex Angelica Nero, Dallas), Nancy Valen (A very beautiful actress who doesn't have her deserved career). Dempsey has chemistry with all the ladies... I like the finale of the movie at the Restaurant! With is father who discovered his son is not gay! Ladies goes to the police station for their Hubby. Honorable mention to Robert Picardo, Vic Trebak, Robert Ginty.A feel good movie! Éryck Bergeron "},{"Title":"Fun Excellent 80's Teen Movie","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of those fun silly teen 80's movies, that brings out a lot of memories. Funny when I see Dempsey creeping towards 50 now and how he still has his boyish looks.I am a huge fan of both Kate Jackson and Kirstie Alley, nice to see both women in this movie, Kate from 'Charlie's Angels' and Kirstie's career was really taking off between 'Cheers' and the 'Look Who's Talking' movies and, working with hunky Mark Harmon a second time in 'Summer School'.I just enjoy goofy comedies in general and 'Loverboy' fit the bill every time. It looked like all of the actors were having a good time filming.For someone growing up in the 80's as a teen this movie is a guilty pleasure and I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"a side order of loverboy","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Right now it feels like it would have been a high risk bet that Patrick Dempsey's career wouldn't survived the 1980s. It did. Carrie Fisher, Robert Picardo, Dylan Walsh and Kirstie Alley have done well for themselves too. Kate Jackson stars as Dempsey's mom, Diane Bodek. Randy Bodek (Dempsey) is the Loverboy in this doped up teen comedy which isn't bad for what it is. Randy works at Senor Pizza but wants to make more money to impress his girlfriend, Jenny (Nancy Halen). He scores older women to make extra cash on the side. Comically, he services women like Dr. Joyce Palmer (Alley), Monica (Fisher), and Kyoko (Kim Miyori). Randy's newfound popularity is the talk of the town, and people start to look into it with ensuing hilarity. Only in a comedy could a dude realistically justify whoring himself out for his girlfriend's benefit. "},{"Title":"An oldie and, mostly, goodie","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Randy (Patrick Dempsey) has fallen in love with a co-ed at this college. In fact, the two are living together. But, alas, Randy can't seem to tell his folks when they arrive to take him home for a break. His gal is not happy. She's not the only one. when his parents (mom is played by Kate Jackson) find out that his grades are just terrible, they pull him out of school altogether. Now, Randy will have to get a lucrative summer job, so that he can afford next year's tuition. But, his delivery job at Senor Pizza doesn't seem to be cutting it. Plus, Randy hates having to sport a fake mustache and zany outfit, as well as getting behind thee wheel of a sombrero-topped car! But, hold the phone! Sometimes Randy has to deliver to Beverly Hills. It is there that a lovely lady (Barbara Carrera) offers to give excellent tips for a bit of fun in the sack. She's not the only one. Soon, several frustrated wives of 90210 (Kristie Alley, Carrie Fisher, and others) are ordering pizzas with extra anchovies. That's the signal that they wish Randy to be the deliveryman. But, with all this action, aren't husbands bound to find out and be very upset? Also, with the money he is collecting, it looks like Randy will be headed back to college. What in the world will he tell his girlfriend, if she still loves him? As one of Dempsey's first big roles, this is a charmer with plenty of laughs. Yes, the subject matter is somewhat risqué, which will not please everyone. Even so, most viewers will appreciate the fine cast, the nice setting, the great costumes and the go-for-broke attitude. No, its not very sophisticated and has a good deal of crude humor. But, all in all, this is truly an oldie and, mostly, goodie. "},{"Title":"A funny late 80s romp","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Movies like this really put me in a good mood (if I'm not in one already) and are just effortlessly entertaining. Reminds me of other late 80s comedies of this sort like A Fine Mess and Skin Deep. The key is the cast makes it all look so easy. They are all very good comedic actors which helps. As the misunderstandings pile up, so do the awkward physical antics of Dempsey. This is in fact the only thing that I think took away from the abundant charm of this movie. He was in my opinion too over the top with his physical acting. I'm referring some of the scenes where his stunts were not necessary like the lawn chair scene by the pool???? Then he returns to the restaurant looking for Jen and he vaults off the counter. It was funny when the Japanese woman threw him but enough already! Its too cartoonish and forced. The director took too many liberties here and took away from what could of been much better comedy. "},{"Title":"Underrated 80's Classic","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very enjoyable movie from start to finish, starring Patrick Dempsey, an 80s icon. Great scenes, funny dialogue. Tony the Italian and his quest for Randy's mother are classic. I have many anchovies for you! A father's worst nightmare, And you always think its the other guy. Kirstie Alley pre weight gain. A must see for any guy, you might actually pick up a few pointers. Alex, is the sexy older lady who puts out the 411 on the Love Doctor of Beverly HIlls. $200 for a pizza delivery with extra anchovies. Intruder alert, violator, violator, run papa. The under-appreciated wives gets back at their husbands. The hotty mom with the swimming pool, just great storytelling. The dream or shall I say nightmare with Doctor Reed Palmer. Stands the test of time. "},{"Title":"An 80's Teen Masterpiece","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly the brightest star in the Patrick Dempsey firmament, Loverboy stands out as one of the more enjoyable teen comedies from the 80's. While the subject matter is a little more risque than most teen movies from the era, it is handled in a fun manner, and gets across a good message in the end. Well, okay, maybe it's not such a positive message, but it's still a lot of fun, and has a great supporting cast, including Carrie Fisher in her 6th best movie ever. "},{"Title":"Misunderstandings Galore A star-filled episode of Three's Company","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a surprise! (The cast, not the quality of this movie.) It was worth watching if only to see Vic Tabac, Kirstie Alley, Kate Jackson, Carrie Fisher, and yes, I think that was Lisa Kudrow. It's more than a coincidence many of the stars are famous for slapstick sitcom humor. All it needed was Susanne Sommers to nearly duplicate a PG-13 episode of Threes Company, with misunderstandings piling up like a string of accidents during rush hour on the Long Island Expressway. In short, a movie deserving a score of 4 brought up to a 6 by the star-filled cast.  "},{"Title":"For Anyone Who Ever Delivered Pizza","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For anyone who has ever read my previous reviews, you would know that my favorite movies aren't necessarily Oscar-worthy, but rather movies that take you to another time. Loverboy accomplishes this wonderfully. If you ever got to live the carefree life of coming and going as you please while mom and dad paid the bills then you know that it just doesn't last forever. Patrick Dempsey is Randy Bodek, a college student who flunks to the point that his dad won't foot the bill for college anymore. So...Randy works for Senor' Pizza as a delivery boy and, long story short, becomes the go-to guy for the lonely wives in town to get a little...attention from. As a former pizza jockey, I can say that although this never happened to me, it did happen to someone I used to work with and subsequently got her pregnant which got her husband out for his blood. This movie takes me back to the 80's where Saturdays were made for goofing off. "},{"Title":"One of the best teen comedies of the 80's.","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Loverboy (1989), is Patrick Dempseys best movie in my opinion, it's really good fun and slightly better than Cant buy me love which was also very good.Excellent teen comedy.The plot is about this young man who gets a job as a pizza delivery boy to earn extra cash after flunking college but ends up having extra fun with older women who order pizza, if they want extra fun they always ask for extra anchovies.This is a pretty rare movie, but well worth seeking out, also stars Kirstie Alley, i rate this movie 9/10. "},{"Title":"Give it a try","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is fairly good I will say. It's definately not a classic or a movie that I would watch in a prime time position but for a good laugh at 2 am or 2 pm in the day, its not bad at all. I would suggest watching it if you are the type to give movies a try that dont look too promising. It has a good cast with some well known people but definately it wasn't the first thing they wrote on their resumes. Give it a try though, you'll like it! "},{"Title":"This is absolutely worth watching.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is pretty old (1989) but it is still very nice and funny. Patrick Dempsey is fantastic, and the presence of actresses like Kristie Alley and Barbara Carreras make the movie even more interesting.The thing is, a young teenager (are there any old ones?) has to save money to be able to pay for his studies and be together with her girlfriend. But to save the money, he will have to have sex with several women, and each one of these will give him some money.The way he learns how to dance, the women whose husband is like the strongest man in the country, the women whose husband is a doctor, the women whose husband make little robots toys... very funny.Plus the boy's parents think he is homosexual. And his father wants to make love to his secretary. And his mother then calls to the Pizza company, because she has found out about this loverboy .. But the boy sends his friend instead of him going...It's hilarious.As a great comedy, I'll give it a 9 out of 10... And despite it's an old movie, if I'd have the chance to see it again, I would.  "}{"Title":"1989, quite a year.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some good movies were released in 1989, like Cousins, Batman, Young Einstein and Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, and lets not forget Loverboy, starring Patrick Dempsey has college student, who takes a job at a pizza parlor, but soon becomes a favorite delivery boy by a bunch of glamoures women. A funny movie, that seems to overdue it self a little. Patrick Dempsey has a cool awkward charm.  "},{"Title":"If he delivers, don't answer the door!","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Patrick Dempsey plays a young man who tries to raise money to rejoin his girlfriend in college by becoming a male prostitute while working as a pizza delivery boy.  Seeing this film again propelled me back to the eighties.  That is reason enough for me to heap condemnation upon it.  But seriously.  What's up with this whole Patrick Dempsey thing?  Is he cute in some way a guy can't fathom?  Do girls find him so cute that they can overlook that he was one of the least talented actors of his generation?  He makes Rob Lowe look like John Barrymore.  This sleazy and terribly unfunny should have ended his career, but no...  We still had to endure Run and Mobsters.  Surprisingly, he is still acting, though I must confess he is less offensive when he isn't the lead. "},{"Title":"Kiddie Adultery No Thanks","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am a big Patrick Dempsey fan, including his early nerd movies, but I'm not a fan of adultery or 40 year old women bedding 15 year old boys, which is what he looked like in this one.In reality he was early 20's and supposed to be maybe 19 or 20, but because of his build and baby face, it was creepy. It looked like these women were his mom.Of course in real life, that same year, he married a woman 26 years older than him.I loved the colorful 80's animated opening and the early music, but the rest was redundant. He was a charming funnyman, but this was the wrong vehicle.Enjoyed appearances of Dylan Walsh and the guitar player from Eddie and the Cruisers Part 2. "},{"Title":"Not good...","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Because I like Kim Miyori I actually tried to watch this comedy. The plot is razor-thin; a pizza boy who delivers more than food. (Wait, wasn't that also a plot on The Movie Channel Saturday night soft porn for the 80's?).No matter. This movie also has Rob Camiletti (Cher's discard), Vic Tayback, Carrie Fisher (Why, Carrie, why?) and Patrick Dempsey, who has been around for awhile now, and is a lot more popular now. This was made in 1989, which gives you an idea of what the quality of cable films was, at the time.If you like Patrick Dempsey, you may be able to watch this. Otherwise, skip it. 3.5/10. "},{"Title":"makes no sense","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this is the weirdest movie I've ever seen in my entire life. I was watching Family Guy and after it was over, this movie Loverboy came on. So, I sat down and watched it. And, boy, did I regret it! the story makes no sense what so ever, the cuts are unnecessary, there's no humor, and the acting sucks! It's stupid, weird and awful! Don't watch this abomination!!!!!!! Evvvvvvvvvvveeeeeeeeeeeerrrrrrrrrrr!!!!!!!!!!! I might have made the mistake of watching it, but you shouldn't! Avoid this piece of s*#t! -Zach "}]