[{"Title":"An X-rated Muppets movie!","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Basically Peter Jackson made a parody of The Muppets Show. It's about a bunch of animal puppets (or people in animal costumes) putting on a show where everything goes wrong. Half of the puppets are strung out on drugs; some are doing porno videos in the basement; the rabbit is basically getting it on with everybody (and gets a potentially fatal disease); a walrus is going at it with a cat (this is shown) and a psychotic hippo gets hold of a machine gun....As you can see this is NOT for the kiddies. What it is is an all out, no holds barred assault on good taste. Jackson and his crew show puppets vomiting, having sex, being graphically killed or sexually assaulted. If you have a weak stomach this is NOT for you. However if you have a REAL sick sense of humor and can take VERY graphic material (like me) you'll have a ball! I was actually laughing myself silly during this. The movie keeps topping itself with the humor getting more sick and graphic until the final massacre sequence at the end. Hard to believe this guy went on to do The Lord of the Rings trilogy. NOT FOR EVERYBODY but damn I had so much FUN watching it!!!! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully perverse","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This movie is crazy!. It's a puppet flick full of drugs, sex, guns and porn. As an early Peter Lord of the Rings Jackson flick it also features a bit of gore. The puppets don't just die, they get mushed.I really liked it however I imagine some people would be repelled by it. Jackson himself said in his Oscars speech that it was 'wisely overlooked' by the Academy. He's the first to admit that this type of movie simply aint going to be to everyones taste!However if your open minded and looking for something a little 'out there' then I would check it out.8/10 "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, yet headache inducing...","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Great puppetry and a whacked out plot make this New Zealand effort on par with some of the best cult films today. There are animals of all shapes, sizes, colors, and ethnicities(?); some are into money, others are into dancing, and then there are others who are into porn, coke, and feces. This film is rude, gross, demented, and hilarious. The end is really cool, and when Peter Jackson made this, he must've been on something. The voices and the lighting were probably the main producers of the major headache I received while watching this phenomenon of a movie. I mean, ordinary people just don't make this, and then wrap up one of the best trilogies off all time! This guy is a genius, pure and simple. I really hope Jackson goes back to his gory film making roots. Overall *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Bad Taste was just the beginning...","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I can understand all those people who gave bad reviews on Meet the Feebles, because this film is far beyond political correctness and not suited for highly sensitive! Obviously shot with a higher budget director Peter Jackson made all the things possible he was not able to do in his predecessor Bad Taste. The humor in this movie is insulting, gory and often repulsive, so Muppets-inventor Jim Henson would turn in his grave for this. Nevertheless Meet the Feebles is a real cult movie because of its unique character and his inimitable sense for dark humor. Many people hate this film, others love it. I belong to the last mentioned... Just don´t let your children watch this!!! "},{"Title":"Jim Henson stumbles into a bar, then into the X-rated shops and grind-house theaters, then goes to make a movie...it'd be this","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Sure, Meet the Feebles may not be director Peter Jackson (yes, Peter Jackson of Lord of the Rings and King Kong) at his finest hour of directorial standing, but as a fan of a certain kind of really deranged and off-kilter cult movie, a lot of this made my night. It's an ultra-perverse, ultra-absurd, and sometimes really ultra-stupid take on a variety show where puppets are preparing for the night's performance, only everything that could go wrong- or more precisely anything that could be unexpected to go wrong- does every which way to Sunday. It's actually the kind of movie when I was watching, for the most part early on, I almost couldn't really laugh. I just had a look on my face like 'what am I watching?' And, 'how can something like this actually exist?' It's not even so much a question of how well or how not well Jackson and his low-budget team pull it off, but how someone can take the time and energy to think this all up and put it all on paper.Let me try to sort through some of the varied story lines- there is Robert, a newcomer to the Feebles gang (and gang I mean in literal and figurative terms), who wants to impress a certain poodle-dog type of girl who really has him going to lengths to impress her. But meanwhile, a really nasty rodent- also a porno director as well as the boss's assistant- decides to use her in his next porno flick by drugging her. This rodent also has to deal with some other low-lifes in the group, like a junkie lizard who has one big story to tell Robert at one point about his crazy, violent trip to Vietnam (including a 'why not' homage to Deer Hunter). There's also a rabbit who may or may not be dying from an STD of some sort (I think it was an STD anyway), and has a pestering fly (always in the most uncomfortably close of close-ups) trying to get the scoop on his condition. There's even the overly-annoying stage manager who can't wait to put on his God-awful dance number of his own. But the main center of attention and star of the Feebles shows is Heidi, a hippo who loves to binge on junk food, and is also suspecting a femme-feline of stealing away her previous man- the boss. When she finds out what's really up, it leads to the unbelievable climax.And so on. I still keep thinking about my reactions to certain scenes, and the kind of sensibility about this whole project. Maybe in part its really lampooning something maybe more common in New Zealand, like with whatever kinds of variety shows or kid shows they have there. But it's also without a doubt that Jackson's also seen his share of Muppets, as the basic concept follows off from the Muppet Show. What's amazing about the film, and at times a little frustrating, is how a real mind-set of gonzo film-making is apparent. It doesn't seem original in parts, like it's taking things from other movies- or maybe other movies and shows that have come after this seem quite similar- but it really is in the bizarre, crude nature of everything. The climax probably holds the biggest laughs and surprises, even in its tight context of everything going to hell in a hand-basket. As its a world entire devoid of humans, all of its logic is based around how outrageous these puppets can be in their own whacked-out environment. With the exception of the naive, method-trained Robert, and maybe his love interest, every character in the picture is severely flawed in one way or another, or just really put to abstract lengths so mind-boggling they work only in conjunction with Jackson's unnerving, low-budget style. It has the same jarring, diabolically juvenile and in-your-face comedy of some of the South Park guys stuff (Team America and Cannibal sort of come to mind), but without necessarily the sharp edge of satire.And at the end of it all, with all the laughs I had and shocked 'huh' moments at what Jackson had done with all these weird characters (some of which are outright perverts, drug addicts, criminals, egoists, adulterers, and even father half elephant-half chicken offspring), I wasn't sure totally what the point of it all was. Maybe though there really isn't any; I have to think this is the kind of movie that a director makes with himself as the audience, and not really in a selfish manner either. It's not great art by any means, and doesn't pretend to be, which is part of the dark fun of it all Meet the Feebles, with its singing and dancing miscreants (quite a catchy theme song by the way), and numerous scenes of more-than-suggestive sexual moments and gory bouts of extreme violence, is a case of kamikaze independent film-making, where homage spreads out into the concept and becomes something very strange but, in its own world, sort of wonderful too. It might be far from my favorite of the director's, but it's got things in it that are really fantastic and uproarious. It's one of those fine guilty pleasures of the late 80s. "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson was always a genius","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Unlike most people, I saw this film long before The Fellowship Of The Ring.  In fact I saw it way back in 1992 and was simultaneously appalled, amused and impressed by it.  Maybe it is best described as Bad Taste with puppets or The Muppet Movie in bad taste but it is certainly a movie I would recomend to anyone of sufficient maturity (no children should EVER see this film).Like Bad Taste before it this movie features disgusting humour, lots of blood, and impressive low budget special effects, and the puppets in it have to be seen to be believed.  One of the best things about The Fellowship of the Ring (and I Love that movie as well) is that in the hype following it more people may see Meet The Feebles.  Maybe Meet The Feebles and Bad Taste will be released on DVD in Australia now (I have them both on VHS).I will say one thing tho, it is certainly a strange feeling to have been a Peter Jackson fan for 10 years before Lord Of The Rings was released and the whole world finally discovered him.   "},{"Title":"Puppetry Gone Haywire","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is a really odd film for people who have always wanted to see the Muppets covered in doo doo or at least seriously injured by being hit by a bus.  I like offensive, mean-spirited movies so this was right up my alley. Warning  do not show to children unless they are as warped as you are. "},{"Title":"Imagine The Muppet Show On Crack!!!","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" MEET THE FEEBLES is one of the most outrageously insane films I've ever seen, and I mean that in the BEST possible way...Another home-run from Peter Jackson (BRAINDEAD, BAD TASTE, and most recently LORD OF THE RINGS). FEEBLES is a gleefully perverse film where all the actors are Muppet-like puppets or people in full costume.The very basic story is that the FEEBLES is a variety show similar to the Muppets and that they are getting prepared for their first live telecast, when everything goes horribly wrong. So much happens in this film that I can't even begin to explain the story any more than that. Characters include (but are not limited to) a heroin-addicted frog, an over-sexed rabbit, a hippo with low self-esteem (and a short fuse...), a cow and insect porn film-making duo, a sleazy fly tabloid reporter...and a lovable and friendly porcupine.MEET THE FEEBLES is a gleefully twisted comedy that is often shocking and strangely endearing at the same time. Many will be offended so this film IS NOT FOR EVERYONE. But if you are a sick bastard like me and have a twisted sense of humor, this film is absolute genius!!! Very Highly Recommended 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great!  I'm going to show this to my kids!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Wow, what a fun-loving, brilliant, magical story for kids to enjoy, as well as adults.  (hehe, OK, maybe not kids!)  I liked this movie, since it took a typical kid show idea and morphed it into something straight outta hell. This difficult-at-times to watch movie will make the sick ones laugh, and I found myself laughing alot.It takes place in this weird freaking world where everyone is a puppet, and the feebles run this muppet-type show.  The concept is great.  Basically, instead of happy, fun-loving puppets, we have puppets who still have that crazy aspect that puppets usually do have, but with evil (and good) human traits attached.  What you get, mostly, is an odd Hell kind of world. (Kermit, you better have been good, or you'll end up here!)Somewhere in my demented mind I have a great desire to show this messed up movie to a kid, and see how they react.  But I won't, not yet... hehehehe! >)Great concept.  Difficult to watch.  Messed up movie.  Great for druggies. Not exactly for the kids...  "},{"Title":"Not just ordinary puppets","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Let me just say that this film is one of the most bizzare shocking and funny films I've ever seen. Where else can you see puppets doing cocane, having sex and singing about sodomy. The story is about a cast of bizzare puppets who are about to get a chance to perform live. There's the drug addicted veitnam veteran frog , a rabbit with vd a hippo whose husband is cheating on him with a siamese cat , a rat who makes porn flicks with cows and cockroaches, and then theres robbert who's trying to break into show biz. It all comes down to a hippo going on a rampage with a machine gun. Sure this movie looks like a kids movie but trust me this film will have anything to shock you. So sit back and enjoy peter jackson before he was working with hobbits and elves. Trust me you'll never be the same.  "}{"Title":"What Would've Jim Henson Said?","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Hollywood executives must have lobotomized Peter Jackson when he started the Lord of the Rings franchise, because his earlier New Zealand productions were so much better.Just look at this sickly cracking showbiz satire, complete with an array of mostly disgusting Muppets from hell, acting as a walking compendium of the seven deadly sins (and some more). The sheer audaciousness of this nightmare folly is to be applauded, but the astounding fact remains that behind all the cold misanthropic viewpoints on display there's still a beating heart pumping warm blood into this creatures.Certainly not to everyone's taste and riddled with too many drawn-out plot excesses, this one-of-a-kind pic still deserves a huge cult following.7 out of 10 panty-sniffing anteaters "},{"Title":"The Movie that Broke Me","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I made the mistake of watching this film back in 1997, when I was the tender age of seven years old. Back then, this was the most cruel, disgusting thing I had ever seen and it sent me into shock.Now, at the ripe old age of eighteen, I can proudly say, this is the movie that made me the twisted monkey I am today.The film itself was done by the same guy who directed the infamously long Lord of the Rings trilogy, Peter Jackson. You wouldn't guess it by the budget, but that doesn't remove any enjoyment. The film reeks of genius, taking something very fun and family friendly (The Muppets, and any other puppet-based kids show) and adding some not-so-family-safe elements (drugs, sex, killing, STDs, blackmail, date-rape, porn, swearing, toilet humour, homosexuality, eating disorders, emotional instability, smoking, suicide and excessive amounts of blood).But how does it add up? Well, quite honestly I think this movie is one of the best pieces of satire ever created. Having seen a fair few puppet shows, it never crossed my mind about what Kermit would be like as a drug addicted ex-Vietnam veteran, or if the rest of the crew went bad. And Peter Jackson brings out the depravity greatly, with most of the movie being filmed in a cramped back-stage area that is covered in filth.I would recommend this to anybody who has a very wicked sense of humour, since this has quite possibly destroyed more than a few childhoods. It definitely ruined mine, and I certainly would say adults only. Only show it to your children if you're sick in the head, or if you hate them. "},{"Title":"Fun, Fantastic, Frightening","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Right off the bat, I'd like to point out that I HATED the Lord of the Rings movies.Having said that, let's talk about Meet The Feebles. Don't expect to see any of that mastery film-making that won Peter Jackson X amount of Oscars in recent years. This is a full-blown assault on your morals and values. The scenes hold absolutely nothing back as you're bombarded with obscene images of funny-looking animals doing things they should not be.I think the overall feel of this film is great. The characters are extremely well-developed, and the voice work is excellent. The story is told very well, and by the end of the film, you feel like you know these creatures personally.You can see from this piece, in comparison to, say, Jackson's rendition of King Kong, that he has radically changed his style of films. I would highly recommend this film to anyone with a strong stomach. Again, this is NOT for Lord Of The Rings fans, and is also certainly not for children.I think the only problem is that, in some places, this film drags it's feet. It stretches a little bit and some scenes are not necessary. Also, the picture and audio quality on the DVD leave much to be desired, however I still highly recommend buying it. "},{"Title":"Kermit Crucified","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`The Muppet Movie' was an important film and is one my must watch list. That's because  it is remarkable in its self-reference. It is about the making of itself with many clever  observations along the way. It is possibly the most intelligent thing you can show your  kids that they will believe is made for them.This film is equally intelligent. It references the first by making a show and takes us  behind the scenes `Rosencrantz and Guildenstern' -like. And it has lots and lots of camp  references to genres, all genres as far as I can tell.Sure, it is full of ridiculous sex and violence, just as the genres it spoofs. This, `Heavenly  Creatures' and `Forgotten Silver' are worth watching. All else from him is portion  controlled restaurant food.Death to Smoochy could have stood some of this fearlessness.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Even better than the real thing.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Peter Jackson never seases to amaze me. You give him any tools, and he'll make a great movie with them. Independent of the fact, whether this is a cheap camera and 'actors' who have no idea about acting example Bad Taste or high budget and top technology example Lord of the Rings. Meet the Feebles is another example he made a masterpiece breaking all the barriers that one would think exist in a musical with puppets.Meet the Feebles seems to be the next step of Peter's development as a writer and director, with Bad Taste and Braindead being previous steps. The issues that are dealt with in Meet the Feebles, the kind and amount of gore in it, even though there are no actors and nothing looks real, make it an even more shocking production than the previous ones. And yet again you will notice Peter's amazing ability to build up action with a perfect culmination at the end of the movie.If you are a fan of Peter Jackson and haven't seen this one - do it immediately. You won't regret it.  "},{"Title":"How Dare You Insult Me...You Cheap Pussy!","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This is one of the most hysterically over-the-top and insane movies I have ever seen. It's the dysfunctional version of Jim Henson's Muppets created by the same man who brought us Lord of the Rings and King Kong, the inimitable Peter Jackson. Meet the Feebles goes just about as far as any film can possibly go with it's gross-out humor and effects but the fun thing about this movie is that it is all done with live-action Muppet like characters. It's an obvious rip-off of the Muppets with several twists. Instead of a Pig named Miss Piggie there is an obese over-eating Hippo named Heidi, instead of a Frog named Kermit there is a shy Hedge Hog named Wobert with a speech impediment and a cast of various other zany characters. The twist here is that all of the characters have some sort of mental deficiency...there's a bed-hopping bunny, a heroin-addicted alligator, a sleazy porn-producing rat and a philandering elephant. The entire show is run by a sodomizing fox and owned by a lecherous, drug dealing walrus. Yes it's all here in this one, graphically depicted and it is an absolute riot! "},{"Title":"An Adult Muppets on crack!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" OK. so I usually never use drug terms to describe a movie, but how else can you describe the Feebles. Long before Pete Jackson became well known for doing the Lord of the Rings trilogy. He made some hilarious gross out horror comedies like Bad Taste. His second feature Meet the Feebles is a raunchy crude film with all puppets. The fabulous Feebles variety hour is facing problems. The star Heidi Hippo (almost resembling Miss Piggie) is at a low point of her career and goes on an eating binge. Her lover and manager Bletch the Walrus is cheating on her with the trampy Samantha the pussy... cat that is. We also have Larry the Rabbit, a sexually active swinger who discovers he might have aids. Other deranged characters include a fly tabloid journalist, A drug addicted frog who's a knife thrower and the sweet and innocent porcupine Roger. (he longs to win the love of Lucille the poodle) Who can forget a film with a rat who's a porn director or a homosexual fox who sings a song called Sodomy. Meet the Feebles is hilarious, disgusting vulgar fun. It's sick and twisted with Puppet Sex, Drugs, Violence and Great Music too. I met the Feebles and had a great time. Maybe you should check out the Fabulous Feebles and their deranged variety show. It would make for a great double feature with Team America World Police. "},{"Title":"It's not a movie, it's a phenomenon which needs to be spread!!!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Growing up in the late 70's/ early 80's I fondly remember those wonderful creations of Jim Henson. It's was a disturbing, intriguing and most of all extremely amusing to see a very adult parody of them as a grown man whose taste have grown to include the disturbing and intriguing as well as the amusing. To see Peter Jackson once again take on society, morality and also cultural icons from the childhood of almost anyone born in the last 35 years in the West. This movie looks at such topics as homosexual puppets, drug deals gone bad, the tabloid press(the way most celebrities see it, I'm pretty sure, is just how he captures it) a sleazy producer who literally chews up some of his performers and spits them out. It may offend but if you value the strange and the fantasy that cinema can create please endeavor to see this film. "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson's twisted takedown of The Muppet Show","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  A friend of mine has something he calls the Shakes the Clown Test.. Once he or his wife gets to know a person fairly well, the two of them invite that person over to their house for a viewing of Shakes the Clown. If their guest is repulsed or just pleasantly amused, they don't hold out much hope for a long friendship, but if their guest thinks it's hilarious, they know they've got a keeper.I feel the same way about Meet the Feebles. It's a little film that relatively few people have seen, and it can send people out of a room with disgust at what they're watching, but I think it's one of the funniest things I've ever seen. It's as if someone had nightmares as a child after watching The Muppet Show and devised this as a form of artistic revenge. There's a knife-throwing character who's plagued by flashbacks to 'Nam. A Roger-Rabbit look-alike dying of a gruesome STD, always accompanied by an evil fly. There are muppet porn stars, drug lords, domestic abusers, and murderers. Every feel-good assumption we have about watching animated animal characters from years of children's television shows and visits to DisneyWorld is systematically blown up and thrown in the dumpster. Meet the Feebles is sick. It's trashy. It's perverted. And it's absolutely brilliant. "},{"Title":"One of Peter Jackson's best!","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is one hilarious sick movie that looks at puppets in a whole new way. This has everything from a chicken and an elephant involved in a paternity suit, a rabbit with STD, a drug addicted lizard, and a walrus cheating on his hippo girlfriend with a siamese cat. Well, watch out for Heidi!!! Excellent movie that will have you laughing so hard you won't know what hit you. If you have not seen this then see it!! Hopefully this will get the credit it highly deserves. Highly recommended!!! "}{"Title":"Fritz the Cat meets The Muppets...","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" There've been some show-stopping songs in the long (and sometimes sullied) history of the Movies Who can forget Judy Garland singing Over the Rainbow in THE WIZARD OF OZ, or Gene Kelly singing Singing in the Rain in SINGING IN THE RAIN, or Memories from CATS or Rufus Wainwright's stirring rendition of Leonard Cohen's Halleluja in SHREK, to mention but a few? Add to that list Sodomy from MEET THE FEEBLES. Who can forget the line People think it odda me, that I enjoy sodomy...? And who can forget the worm who looks like he crawled straight out of THE 7 FACES OF DR. LAO, or the heroin-addicted lizard who sounds exactly like Christopher Loyd (as Reverend Jim) on the teleseries TAXI? If you're in the mood for some murderous muppet mayhem, check out MEET THE FEEBLES. "},{"Title":"Before things as Wonder Showzen there was Meet the Feebles","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Peter Jackson's 1989 puppet extravaganza Meet The Feebles is a film which defies classification. Is it black comedy, or some kind of sick film created by sick men with 'bad taste'? I think I know what the film is going for watching it and I assure you, it works. It's unlike any movie I've ever seen before, but it does work. Let me alert you though, if your viewing history with Peter Jackson doesn't go past Lord Of The Rings and King Kong then you may want to think twice before watching Jackson's earlier films, because I'll say it loud it clear Meet The Feebles may very well be the most repulsing movie I've ever seen. It may not be as gory as Braindead, Jackson's own zombie gore-fest masterpiece, but it is more sickening. It's hard to describe it because it defies every convention ever created, but it is gross. However, if you can tolerate the gross and obscene and find humor in black comedies, then Meet The Feebles is sure to amaze you. The film follows a troupe of performing puppets called The Feebles who present a variety show of sorts. Throughout the film we experience a whole abundance of problems with the cast. I don't want to spoil anything about the movie because I feel it is the most effective if the viewer has no clue but they're getting into, but I recommend to go into the movie naively, making everything you see all the more shocking, and in effect, all the more hilarious. And yet again without spoiling, the film's final scene is a force to be reckoned with. It manages to be one of the most striking closing sequences in any movie, capping off the unique movie. Peter Jackson like few other filmmakers has a knack for creating films that are unique and original in their own respect every time. From the splatter fest of Braindead to the epic proportions of Lord Of The Rings to the haunting, sickening and hilarious tones of Meet The Feebles, Jackson is the real deal in film making. But take this as your final warning folks, Meet The Feebles is not for the weak of stomach. "},{"Title":"A comedy that is a special kind of sick","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Testing the premise that you can get away with anything as long as it's funny Meet the feebles gets by - just. The first time I saw this film I was a stoned 14yr old being pointed in the right direction by a smirking video clerk with an all knowing grin. Ten years later it is still the sickest movie I have enjoyed - I love the review provided by the listener magazine - whenever the reviewer is having a really bad day he imagines that somebody somewhere has rented this film by mistake to amuse a group of children thinking it is a Muppet's movie - only to walk in during the final sodomy sequence at the end, facing a room full of stony faced shocked children with more questions then he has answers.The film shocked and excited, leaving me in stitches whilst opening my eyes to a world of humor far sicker then I would ever find with Monty python Et Al. We (my friends and I) might have spent 4hrs watching this film -rewinding the best bits again and again. It is one of those films where the humor can't be repeated in a print format - you simply wouldn't believe me. I urge you to watch this film, especially in light of what PJ has accomplished since.If you are the type who has seen it all or who believes nothing will upset you I urge you to watch this film. If you are a film enthusiast who believes that Peter Jackson is a fantasy film director I urge you to see this film. How PJ became a Hollywood bigwig is as mysterious to me as how 2 brothers from Te Awamutu became the cutting edge of pop - seeing is believing (and watching this film is far cheaper then traveling to Waikato NZ, and less likely to involve GBH) Revealing the funniest (and best) parts of the plot would destroy the viewing experience, I can think of no equivalent to compare this film to - which is perhaps the the best review I can give it.If you need some big names to associate this with I can only give you references to 'Brain dead' and the organizer of the Toronto film festival, Noah Cowen I think at that screening there was Quentin, bringing Harvey Keitel or Steve Buscemi, and they're going, 'Quentin, this is really sick sh*t!' He's saying, 'Look at that! Isn't it cool? Meet the feeblest is always going to disgust more people then it excites but I invite you to at least try a movie out of your comfort zone.Later S "},{"Title":"porno muppets","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" i saw this film before Braindead, Bad Taste, Lord of the Rings or any other Peter Jackson film, and it grossed me out so much that i had to watch it 3 times! it's sickening, repulsive, offensive and completely lacking in any kind of moral values or taste. that said, it's fantastic! this is the film that led me to the realisation that i may be a tad bit warped. nobody should enjoy a film like this as much as i did without being immediately sedated and bundled into a straitjacket. i would give my left boob to see Heidi team up with Miss Piggy and do a Thelma and Louise-type drive-cum-killing spree all over the Muppet's set. this is a top shelf movie if ever there was one, i would rather show my kids (if i had any) The Evil Dead than this, they would be slightly less disturbed! if you want to see a cat perform oral sex on a walrus, or a hippo go nuts with a machine gun, or even if you ever wondered what would happen if you crossed an elephant with a chicken, this film will answer all your animal husbandry questions whilst raising many, many more. enjoy. "},{"Title":"Feebles","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Yes I originally saw Meet the feebles on the big screen and i was a fan before anybody knew who he was, like clarity claire. It's so memorable on the big screen. Also Auckland city used to play Bad Taste every Friday night for ages. Those who missed seeing it on the big screen have missed out. It's like the muppets with chainsaws and the song at the end i'll just say it's a very strange subject. Like he said - he saved the best act until the very last! I also did an acting course just around from Weta studios but Inever had the courage to visit them. That was back in 1994. It's amazing how much Peter Jackson looks like my older breathier but without the beard. "},{"Title":"Troubles in the theatre","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Meet the Feebles is a parody of the Muppets armed with South Park humor. That's the first thing which comes into mind after watching the movie. Second thing is, that visually MTF is probably the poorest movie by Peter Jackson, even his first film, Badtaste, had better camera work. But the difference might come from the fact, that the movie is puppet/people in animal suit film.The film starts with a quick Feebels opening musical act, then we meet Robert, a hedgehog who has just about to begun his career with the Feebels. Bletch, a manager of the Feebels, does his side business, drug smuggling, while trying to achieve syndicated TV series of Feebels. Trevor the rat does hardcore porno while dealing drugs to the cast members. The list goes on and on. MTF isn't Peter Jackson best, or funniest film. It's far away from his two other gore and black humor spreading movies, Brain Dead and Badtaste. It's not bad movie tough, if you can stand juvenile South Park humor, and it does have couple of rather good scenes cinematically. But other than that the plot is a bit too loose and the film reminds a lot a sketch type TV show than a real movie. "},{"Title":"Keep a barf bag ready... and enjoy!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is the most disgusting, sickening, vulgar, nasty movies EVER made. So is it any surprise I love it? Just the idea of a hippo going pyhcotic and going on a killing spree with an M-60 was enough to convince me to rent this movie. If there is any sliver of good taste in you, DO NOT EVEN LOOK AT THE COVER. But for the rest of us, dive right in. There are a few parts that should have been cut like all the lovey-dubby scenes with Wobert (ha, ha, he can't pronounce his own name!).  This movie made me a fan of Peter Jackson. Leave any taste you have at the door, and see one of the few reasons American culture isn't that bad after all. "},{"Title":"Use your imagination! It can make a great movie!","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This movie is so cool! I never seen anything like it before (or after) and maybe thats why I like it like I do. Who knows? GOOD WORK! ) Its a funny movie and I hope it will inspire more movies of this kind. I know it has inspired me to do movies my way (even tough not this kind). Fun! "},{"Title":"Couldn't of Been Better!!!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Puppets doing drugs, having sex, and killing each other. What could be better!!! I loved all the characters. All of them are funny as hell! Peter Jackson's directing couldn't have been better. Very Blood and offensive!The only problem is the darn DVD's picture quality. It's the worst I have seen. Its grainy and bad. I would get the VHS insted.TromaDude's Rating--- ***** outta 5 stars "},{"Title":"My favorite Movie","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Meet the Feebles is the best movie ever. the characters are so funny and evil, the best are Trevor The Rat and Barry the Bulldog. if you like films like Pulp Fiction and The Muppets Movie Watch the movie-you won't be disappointed  "}{"Title":"Puppets on The Wack.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is an outstanding piece of work from Peter Jackson.  it's definitely puppets on the wack.  The characters would be insane and unique if they were human, but the puppet (Muppet-like) aspect of them gives this masterpiece even more character.  I highly recommend! "},{"Title":"Alternately hilarious and frustrating","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  First of all, if you have never seen a Peter Jackson movie before, do NOT start with this one.Meet The Feebles is a movie that, whether you like or hate it, you won't forget it. How could you, when it deals with drugs, sex, vomit, AIDS, Vietnam, and bloody massacres? And when all of the above is done by MUPPETS? (Actually not official Muppets, but it's clear that some of the characters - especially the female hippo - got inspiration from some of the actual Muppets.)It's a sick movie, but actually it's also very funny. Peter Jackson is obviously one of the masters of cinematic sick humor. Though Meet The Feebles in now way compares to Dead-Alive, it's still worth checking out for any Jackson fans.Still, I had some complaints about the movie(1) The movie didn't have a high enough budget, making some sequences look TOO cheesy(2) An obnoxious music score(3) A musical score that doesn't know when to shut up(4) Too many characters(5) No characters get enough time to actually make them main charactersIt's possible that even if you are a Jackson fan, you might be disappointed with the movie. I admit the five problems I've listed above almost got to the point where I wouldn't recommend the movie. But in the end, I was glad to have seen it. If you prepare yourself for this movie having some major problems, and you are not expecting a masterpiece like Jackson's Dead-Alive, then by all means see Meet The Feebles. Though as I said before, you have to be used to this director's kind of humor first.  "},{"Title":"Bizarre!","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Heidi, the star of the Meet The Feebles Variety Hour discovers her lover Bletch, the Walrus, is cheating on her, and with all the world waiting for the show the assorted co-stars must contend with their own problems. These include drug addiction, extortion, robbery, disease, drug dealing, and even murder.I remember seeing this many years ago, before Jackson was given the Lord of the Rings movies. I knew him for Bad Taste and Dead Alive, so this was not a particularly shocking movie. Strange, yes, and probably offensive, but not really out of bounds from what he had done before. (This made his connection to the Rings films even more strange... he seemed an unlikely choice.) If you happen to be sensitive or easily offended, avoid this one. But if you like edgy, offbeat films, you really must check it out. What Jackson constructed here is on par with any cult film from John Waters. "},{"Title":"Don't mess with The Muppet Show, please.","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" It may be unfair to rate and review a movie of which I've seen no more than some twenty minutes, but what does it say about that movie when I wasn't able to watch anymore of it? Why wasn't I able? A total absence of (succesful) humour. Some terribly annoying voices and characters.I was surprised to read so many positive reviews (on another movie site - I only read one on IMDb), and even more so to read that people think is a very good parody on The Muppet Show. The Muppet Show is an unparalleled series that has spot on characters and humour - for children and for adults. No extra pus, blood or porn can change that. In fact, it makes it even worse.On the positive side, I can always appreciate the creative camera work in Peter Jackson films and the artwork on the puppets is pretty nice.I was going to give it 3 out of 10, but since I haven't watched the whole film, just to keep it fair 4. "},{"Title":"How to meet creepy randomness with Meet the feebles","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I watched this movie yesterday as a random chill plan of healthy and cool procrastination watching movies about little monsters. So after 'The Gate' (a good one) and Munchies (don't watch it), it was Meet the Feebles turn. And well, we still have like 5 more 80's little monsters movies to watch but I'm quite sure this may be the best. IT'S A MUST WATCH. Indeed. I mean, the idea is just pretty good making kinda of a drama/black comedy story about what happens behind a big, famous, theater musical... What, you thought I'm talking about Birdman now? No, this is totally different. This whole thing is made with puppets. And not Henson's puppets. They can be as cute as creepy, as funny as kinky, as wise as dirty. I don't know. Is far way more violent than Birdman (if we're going to continue with the comparison)... And it has some characters that are good, still trying to do the right thing, while in Birdman we have a big bunch of crazy selfish actors trying to do everything for anything.Of course, it is a MUST WATCH only if you are into B movies, 80's movies, cult classics or whatever... This is quite an accurate choice. Terribly disgusting sometimes, so be mindful with what you are eating while watching'... More than anything is just as mad as hilarious. I'd say go for it.- Diego Olivas Arana "},{"Title":"The Muppets of Nightmares","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" King Kong (2005), Heavenly Creatures (1994), The Lord of the Rings Trilogy (2001-2003); what do they all have in common? Well other than the fact that they are all high quality films, they all share a director with the little seen; little loved 1989 New Zealand film Meet the Feebles (1989). That's right; before Peter Jackson won critical acclaim for his magnificent spectacles and J.R.R. Tolkien adaptations he was the director of a twisted, tawdry parody of The Muppets (1976-1981), ranking up there with The Toxic Avenger (1984) in its level of vulgarity.The movie aptly juggles a multitude of stories surrounding the struggling variety show cast and crew. The main character of Meet the Feebles is an aging star, Heidi the Hippo (Danny Mulheron) who is struggling to keep her relationship with adulterous producer Bletch the Walrus (Peter Vere-Jones). That, in addition to a sugary sweet love story between a hedgehog and a poodle is about the tamest thing about Meet the Feebles. There are subplots involving drugs, STDs, Vietnam flashbacks, gun violence and plenty of puppet sex.The sheer ridiculousness of this nightmarish puppet show makes it too ghastly to look away. It appalls intrigues and impresses in equal measure. Everything from the camera-work to the puppeteering to the script are crude yet wildly effective. The size of each anamorphic puppet varies from elaborate sock puppet to a multi-crewed giant all requiring a certain level of skill which while not on par with Jim Henson, is fun to watch.This film, coupled with Peter Jackson's Dead Alive (1992) makes me wonder where the director would be if he had stayed on the path of grotesque horror and gallows humor. Give the man a humungous budget, award winning actors and the top technical talents of Hollywood, and he'll give you a triptych of timeless classics. Give him just $750,000 a hand-held camera and some felt and he'll give you a memorable marionette experience that won't be equaled until Team America World Police (2004). One thing's for certain if he had stayed on the path we wouldn't have had to endure The Frighteners (1996).The script written by Jackson and three other New Zealanders is fresh and funny giving the audience everything from silly muppet-like puns to ribald musical numbers including Sodomy sung by Sebastian the Fox (Stuart Devenie). Much of the gross out humor is provided by a character simply known as The Fly (Brian Sergent) who buzzes around for tabloid gossip and develops his photos in a toilet.The rest of the film is filled to the brim with knife throwing, machine gun toting; cocaine sniffing mayhem intermingled with rabbit-HIV and sadomasochism for good measure. I'd recommend this film to anyone with a warped sense of humor over a certain age. Those who were endeared by Kermit the Frog, Fozzie Bear and Gonzo the&#x85;whatever, should probably avoid Meet the Feebles. Not because of its cynical treatment of hand puppets might ruin fond memories but because those same fond memories might be replaced by rude hilarity that ensues in Peter Jackson's 8th best film.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Another fim in bad taste, but in this case, a good thing","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" What a bizarre flick this is. Borderline porn, reversely different from Jackson's Bad Taste, this almost seems appropriate, one factor I loved about this. Set around this t.v. show where some of the puppets are really bad and devious sorts, most of the characters in Showgirls should get together with them. Everything and anything shocking comes up in this, including gore, some puppet porn, plus a fly feeding on faecies. Certainly something different, this PJ flick only had a couple of special screenings back in 91 at the Academy, and really I guess it deserved more. Definitely an improvement on his horrible but undeniably lovable dreck, Bad Taste, this captivates the viewer by how far these puppets go. Like Ted, the puppets here were well manned, some of them actually cute and likable like Robert the slightly stuttering hedge hog, and his bitch on heat, this white female poodle, Lucille, oblivious to the fact, she's about to become a star in this scuzzy rat's underground sex flick. Heidi the hippo, the star of our show, goes nuts in the end, guns blazing, at the discovery of her husband, Harry the Walrus, having it off with a southern bell speaking floosy. If you liked to be really shocked, deeply humored, or after something different, where the coin could toss both ways, give this one a go. Besides Robert, I really did love Heidi, especially eating out a bakery. I wish Peter Jackson still made these offbeat kind of films. "},{"Title":"Juvenile, but undeniably funny and twisted","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" After his bad taste début, er, Bad Taste (1987), the young Peter Jackson made the decision to take his filth-laden sense of humour to a new level and direct Meet the Feebles, the kind of film you would expect Jim Henson to make if his life had gone in an entirely different direction and had formed a psychedelic drug habit. He still had little budget to work with, as well as the (understandable) concerns from his funders, but this was the first time he would work with his future wife Fran Walsh, who would work with him on every film after this. Maybe it is her influence that makes Feebles a noticeable step up from his début, or maybe it's not, but the film works thanks to a director seemingly more comfortable in his role, but still renegade enough to inject his guerilla sensibilities into it.The basic 'plot' revolves around The Feebles variety show, of which the main attraction is singer Heidi the Hippo (voiced by Mark Hadlow, Dori in The Hobbit (2012)), a former big star who has formed an uncontrollable attraction to cakes. Amongst the various characters is newcomer Robert, a softly-spoken and naive hedgehog who goes to great lengths to attract a seductive poodle he has fallen for. It is mainly through his eyes that we witness the mayhem of the show, which is ran by Bletch the Walrus (Peter Vere-Jones). Bletch is involved with Heidi, but is secretly having sex with a slutty feline, and is always making money on the side through Trevor the Rat's (Brian Sergent) pornography films. The show comes under threat when sex-addicted Harry the Rabbit contracts an STD and is given a few hours to live, but is busted by the Fly, a pesky journalist.What Meet the Feebles lacks in taste and any sense of actual purpose, it makes up for in sheer invention and entertainment. It moves along furiously, never stopping to consider something as unnecessary as plot, drifting from one scene of complete debauchery to the next. If you would be offended by the sight of animal ejaculating through his elongated snout onto the the pierced udders of a dominatrix cow, then I would recommending passing on this one. The humour is almost akin to that of South Park, but doesn't bogged down with satire or observational gags, and instead seems to seek to disgust. It is juvenile, certainly, but it's undeniably funny, and is simply too twisted and disturbing to go about unnoticed. It is the anti-Muppets, representing depravity where Henson's creations were driven by naive optimism (although the puppets here are quite wonderfully designed).After the proceeding Braindead (1992), which employed a lawnmower as the answer to a house overrun by horny zombies, Jackson seemed to grow up and film the astonishingly dream-like Beautiful Creatures (1994). It is simply mind-boggling how the director of this, a film that has a contortionist get his head stuck up his own a**e, would go on to be the biggest director in Hollywood and create one of the finest achievements of modern mainstream film-making, The Lord of the Rings (2001-2003). Although he never won any Oscars for them, there is plenty to enjoy in early Jackson. You could even say that some of the hideous creations in Feebles were a pretext to some of the monsters seen in Rings and The Hobbit. Although I don't remember seeing Gollum eating s**t out of a toilet with a spoon.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Delightfully depraved.","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" While it's nice to see the great mainstream success that filmmaker Peter Jackson has achieved, there are those such as this viewer that really would like to see him return to his roots in outrageous, over the top low budget class-sicks such as Dead Alive, Bad Taste, and this memorable bit of cinematic insanity, which takes Muppet like puppet characters straight into hard R territory. These characters are cast and crew of a variety show with more than its fair share of behind the scenes tumult. The star hippo is completely stressed out, the frog knife thrower (a Vietnam veteran) is a hopeless drug addict, and the rabbit MC believes himself to be dying of a venereal disease. In this wonderfully warped vision that co-writer / co-producer / director Jackson creates, puppets have sex, defecate, swear, vomit, and gruesomely slaughter each other. Yup, this is far from being appropriate for kids, but that's the whole point, and one is compelled to keep watching this deliciously dark comedy just to see what nastiness Jackson and company will come up with next. First rate puppeteering, truly fun puppet design, enthusiastic vocal performances, and genuinely catchy songs are part of the package in this priceless puppet perversion. The characters are entertaining, too, whether they're endearing (such as well intentioned nice guy Wobert the Hedgehog) or just plain despicable (Trevor the Rat, who indeed is every bit the walking and talking vermin). The movie is a marvel in terms of art direction and spectacle. One of the gut busting highlights has the flustered, in-over-his-head director fox staging his own production number where he pays tribute to sodomy. Jackson just dives headfirst into the mayhem, leaving all of the credits for the end, and does a fun job of skewering show business in general, with the appropriate casting of a fly as a stereotypically sleazy journalist set on exposing the hapless rabbit's secret. And the jokes keep coming when we get an update on the surviving characters before the end credits begin. If the prospective viewer really enjoyed Dead Alive and Bad Taste, they should find this adequately amusing as well. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"a fun film for the whole family to enjoy","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I remember at the ripe young age of six watching this film on thanksgiving with my two sisters, grandmother, aunt, mother and father, and ol' uncle Charlie, who brought it in from the mom & pop VHS rental store just down the street. we sat in a crowded living room and watched peter Jackson's family masterpiece illuminate the room on a 24 inch television set. everyone laughed, everyone cried, and at the end, we all hugged and parted ways, feeling bonded closer together. I grew up with this film always in my memory, flickers of soothing sounds of grandpa terry chuckling while his big belly shakes like a warm pot of jello, as a fox discusses the joy of his favorite activities with a crowd of hundreds in a musical sensation. I remember my sister Janet weeping during the breathtaking war scene, and i remember the hippo, oh how i remember the hippo. that was years ago, but i just recently got the exact VHS from my uncle for Christmas 2 years ago, and as if it were my own passing of the torch we both sat and watched it in my living room, as my wife and children played outside in the ever encompassing snow. now I show it every year to my children and friends during the holiday season. This film is not only art, its a journey, for young and old, and through this journey we are all connected. Go out and rent this immediately for your whole family to enjoy. 11/10. "}{"Title":"Grotesque Puppetry Fun","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Meet the Feebles is a spoof of children's television puppet shows with a decidedly adult slant. Peter Jackson injects the child-like world of puppets with every vice and debauchery that can be thought of, ranging from SM sex to drugs to shooting sprees.The basic concept of the film revolves around a new television show The Feebles Variety Hour and the struggle to mount a successful production. Jackson weaves numerous plot lines ranging from the sweet to the repulsive to achieve a decidedly grotesque brand of hilarity.Most of the film falls more into the realm of the surreal than the laugh out loud funny. However, the last fifteen minutes or so compensate by being truly hilarious. "},{"Title":"Very disjointed and often hit and miss.  Nonetheless, it has it's moments.","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Peter Jackson's early films are definitely cult flicks. Ultra violence and low budget, while still remaining watchable often times can lead to a cult, and this is no different. This is a bizarre film that shows the weakness in characters, such as drug addiction, sex addiction, STDs and more. The problem is, this movie focuses on over 10 different characters, each with their own sub-plot, so we never get a main plot. It's just a series of stories on puppets working on a show, and how they live their lives.Meet the Feebles is a popular show, starring an eclectic group of animals that sing and dance an perform amusing numbers. Backstage, things are completely different. Arguably, the main plot is that of Robert the Hedgehog, who is the newest Feeble. He is trying to woo Lucille, a chorus girl poodle. Other plots include Heidi the hippo whose lover and manager is cheating on her for Samantha the cat. This sends her in an eating rage, and later a violent rage. Sebastion the fox, the group's gay choreographer is trying to get a number in on the show, but it isn't until the stage goes into complete chaos that he gets it in. Trevor the rat, the manager of the manager, drugs and rapes Lucille. Harry the rabbit believes he's contracted a deadly STD. And many other sub-plots...This movie has no focus, and the constant switch of characters can grow tiring. There's a lot of gross out humor to appeal to those who enjoy puppet violence/sex, but it only comes in spurts, so don't expect a constant bloody puppet orgy. The Robert the hedgehog story brings a small bit of heart to the movie, but at the same time, it's just not very interesting. None of the plots are particularly interesting, except for Heidi's final performance backstage. It's the characters that make this watchable. There's so many and so many jokes being fired, and about a quarter of them are funny, and the rest you just shrug off.With all that said, this isn't a bad movie. It's just a very disjointed film. It is amusing mostly, and occasionally it's really funny, but you may find for some of the film you'll be closing your eyes thinking about pudding (or something other than the movie in front of you).My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 97 mins. R for strong violence, sexuality, language, drug use, all involving puppets. "},{"Title":"If You Look Past the Over-Abundance of Gory Violence, Graphic Sex, Drug Use, and Nasty Stuff, There is a Brilliant Storyline and a True Message","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" A variety show starring a large group of puppet animals called The Feebles sets the stage for backstage mayhem involving bad drug deals, drug addiction, STDs, murder, and desperation. A hippo named Heidi is the star of the show, and her husband Bletch, who's a walrus, is cheating on her. Heidi grows depressed when she discovers him with a cat named Samantha. Meanwhile, a sexually active rabbit named Harry discovers that he has a deadly sexually transmitted disease, let's just say that it's AIDS, and only has a matter of hours before he dies. He doesn't want to disappoint his fans, however, and doesn't tell anybody, but a fly reporter knows his secret and is going to tell the press and destroy poor Harry. Meanwhile, a new cast member hedgehog named Robert has joined the Feebles and has fallen in love with a beautiful poodle singer. He is joined with a worm who helps him impress her and fall in love with him, but Trevor the Rat wants a new actress for his porno films and has set his sights on Robert's new lover. Meanwhile, a gay fox named Sebastien is nerve racked by the fact that he wants the show to go perfect and is determined to entertain people, even if that means making a stoned Vietnam war veteran throw knives on stage, and do a musical number that he created himself that apparently is not family friendly enough according to Bletch, the Head Master of the show. Out of all of Peter Jackson's pre-Lord of the Rings films,(This, BAD TASTE, BRAINDEAD, HEAVENLY CREATURES, FORGOTTEN SILVER, and THE FRIGHTENERS) This would have to be my favorite of his. Not that I don't love the rest of them, but this film has something very special. It has scenes of true human anguish and frustration. It is honest in it's plot lines. It is very funny, witty, and intelligent. And it has characters that you love and care about, despite all the nastiness. If I were to compare this film to another, I'd probably compare it to Paul Thomas Anderson brilliant film, MAGNOLIA, for it's intersecting story lines and stressed out characters. And yet this film offers so much else. This film shows us characters that, to their audience are fun and talented, but backstage are deeply flawed and very disturbed characters. All of the characters turmoils build up to a gore fest finale in which a character goes on a killing spree. The mass murder is an event that shook the puppet world, and yet the viewer won't be surprised by it since one of the characters had to lose it at some point. This film also gives us character development and key plot points that go past being comic events and somehow become all part of a payoff. The film, in actuality, is an emotional roller coaster ride, much like a lot of serious films. There are some Vietnam war flashbacks of the drug addicted frog character that are actually quite terrifying and intense when it stops being funny. The scenes with Heidi growing depressed are quite sad and moving. The scenes of the rabbit dying of AIDS are difficult to watch and give a more honest representation of that reality than most, if not all, movies would feel comfortable giving. It's a vile film is some respects, but I adored it and am proud to own it, even if the DVD has no special features on it whatsoever(unless you count a chapter menu, which I don't). I highly recommend it. It's a great film. "},{"Title":"Puppetry gone bad","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This is what you get if The Muppets behaved like their live counterparts.Petey takes your usual kids puppet TV show and turns it on its ear. Every seedy showbiz cliché got added. The corrupt billionaire, the screaming diva, the hero with the past, even the gay character.The 'Nam flashbacks were a bit corny though. I liked how they were used, but still. That had become old in ANY film by then.The meeting on the golf course had a lot of little asides there that were worth a second watch for.But the rabbit with AIDS won't make too many laugh I hope. Especially when he begs for no one to tell anyone. The satire isn't lost, but it's still sad and/or anger inducing.A warped idea, but pretty cool. "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson's best early movie","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" many people find this movie inferior to Braindead, I don't Braindead is funny just because of all the excess, and it gets old kinda fast, after the third time it isn't very funny at all...this on the other hand relies less on bucket fulls of gore and more on witty dialog to make you laugh, and it does a great job, with some of the best lines in movie history (whaddya know boss, a left-wing reporter or I want that fudge-packer eliminated) of course Braindead is only part comedy officially, but as it isn't very scary, it wont get any scary points8/10 "},{"Title":"can't get much better","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" first realize that i'm quite demented. second realize that i'm a punk rocker that enjoys offensive materials and comedic situations. i've been telling people about this for a year now, and nobody can let me finish outlining the tale without laughing. it is a hilarious idea. muppet-like creatures in shakespearian love affairs, an ex-'nam vet on horse, and an ending reminiscent of Greek and roman (and later, Shakespeare's) drama. all of this as a mockery of the industry. brilliance, absolute brilliance. but if you can't think of mocking the great kermit, or if you just want a nice movie about flowers and happy things...well hey, it's rated r for a reason. "},{"Title":"Don't get em' much sicker, or better!","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Now, this is one sick movie... But it's damn great and funny as well!You'd never guess that this was the guy who made LOTR and King Kong, but it sure is his work... and some of his best! (In my opinion, Meet the Feebles and Braindead are probably his best.. although I like LOTR, King Kong, FS and Bad Taste as well)Meet The Feebles is basically a screwed-up version of Muppets... Adults Only! ;)Features a fox singing about Sodomy, a rat making porn, a bunny with aids, a drug-addict Nam-vet frog and a fly eating out of toilets... It's sick, disturbing, weird... and VERY funny!I just watched this recently with my buddies, and we were all laughing our heads off, at the same time we were fighting to keep our lunch in.. pI recommend it to everyone, especially if you like Jackson's other 'old' movies!This is top notch! 9 stars from me ;) "},{"Title":"Epic ending sequence","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This movie as a whole to me is one of the best movies ever made. It gives an excellent parody of the show business and the weird characters and events ongoing in it. In this way it is timeless. It may be disputed that some of the scenes are mere disgusting, but then again It's Peter Jackson in the old days. Whoever has seen Dead Alive or Bad Taste would know that this is part of the low-budget Peter Jackson movies. But The final sequence in which Heidi massacres the members of the variety show with the machine gun while Sebastian is singing his Sodomy-song - this sequence can only be described as epic. This could not have been made any better! While of course Peter Jackson himself welcomes his work on biggest-budget blockbusters (like LOTR and King Kong) I am sad that the audience has lost one of the greatest directors of independent cinema to the dull blockbusters he's busy with now. "},{"Title":"better than his latest lord o' ringing and monkey movies","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I was told about this great movie almost 10 years ago. After I watched it for the first time, Meet the Feebles stuck in my brain ever since-- and I've been craving to watch it again and again. Unlike his lord's trilogy or the King Kong, this Muppet show is full of life, with real human natures, interesting characters, and the reality that is unavoidable in our society. I looked at it as a meaningful, profoundly symbolic work of his. Excellent job. I would have my kids watch it when they turn 18. The acting is exquisite and amazingly done by a hippo with a machine gun, an untrustworthy walrus, a naive porcupine, sick bunnies, etc. I can totally see the connections between this movie and his later ones, even though they are done on different budget. "},{"Title":"Reality in Fake Form","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This movie is very true. He basically just took the real entertainment industry and put it in puppet form. Sex, Lies, and a hippo with a machine gun. Okay, maybe it wasn't an uncanny depiction of the basic industry. But it had its moments. It also had me wondering... Did he really mean this to make it a comedy. I mean if it wasn't with puppets it wouldn't be funny at all. But, It would be entertaining nonetheless. Unlike most Jackson movies, it was mostly raunchy over gory. My family was kind of cynical when I bought this movie. They have seen the new Jackson movies and just didn't know what to expect from this. But they were pleasantly surprised. Altogether I give this movie a 10 out of 10. I recommend it to anyone whole likes Gore, puppets, Peter Jackson, and Hippos. "}{"Title":"Simply Amazing","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This movie is a fantastic gem that has been completely destroyed by critics and overlooked even by most Peter Jackson fans. Unfortunately this film seems to be unfairly treated as a juvenile attempt at shock value or gross-out comedy, with most critics completely ignoring the satire. Kubrick made how many films prominently featuring satire and the grotesque? Easily we could look at just A Clockwork Orange and Full Metal Jacket and ask are those films juvenile gross out comedies? No, those films are classic statements about the direction that humanity is heading, and so is Meet the Feebles. Peter Jackson took a Muppets-ish satire and made an allegory about the ills of Hollywood and excess in the entertainment industry. Jackson tackles not only the ills of the entertainment industry, but also the ills in general of living in our modern society where people are used as commodities in every facet of life. That he accomplished such sharp criticism using a Muppets-esquire parody is an amazing accomplishment, and for that he deserves a place alongside other satiric luminaries like Kubrick and Vonnegut. My only complaint is that Jackson hasn't made more films in this tone, and instead went on to direct an epic stack of boredom after this.For an underground film fan, this one of the better (non-campy) things to come out of the 80's. Peter Jackson my hats off to you. I don't quite understand how someone can go from this movie and Bad Taste to the blockbuster Lord of the Rings trilogy, but the epic proportions of LOTR are somewhat foreshadowed here. Do yourself a favor, rent the Feebles on VHS so you get all the grimy gritty texture that the film's subjects deserve. If they ever re-release this film I just hope they do a promotional tie-in with stuffed animals of the characters, specifically Wubot (Robert). He has worked his way into my heart, the lovable lil fella. "},{"Title":"It ain't no teddy bear","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This movie , in my estimation, surely is a cult classic. How do you not like puppets shown in their true form not being the cuddly little stuffed animals they're portrayed to be? Is it insulting? Yes. Is it gory and hideous? Yes. But that's what makes it great. I'm sorry, but if you can't look at this movie and just laugh at the humor in it, then you're probably taking life to seriously. Peter Jackson has since shown that he is an elite filmmaker and his films like this one are where it began. Films such as Bad Taste and dead-alive are awesome films. What I like is, even though he's an Oscar winning filmmaker now, he's shown he has no hesitation of walking the other side of the tracks. Here's to Frighteners 2. "},{"Title":"A perverse, demented, disturbingly unique film","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Every once in a while you see a film that isn't necessarily the best film you'll ever see, but the passion and gusto used to make it makes it so distinctive that it will stick with you forever, whether you want it to or not. This is a perfect example of one those films. Near every cultural boundary is twisted or broken, but since it is done with muppet-like characters and so much zeal, the film has a desired train wreck effect. The creativity to come up with a film like this is astounding, and most viewers who have the courage to try a film out like this to start this will probably have to watch this film to its final chaotic live performance in the films climax, whether they want to or not. Meet the Feebles is definitely not a film for the tame of heart, but if you like you films rough, raw and raunchy, this film is probably perfect for your demented little fascination. "},{"Title":"We'll skip the whipping and go straight to the blow job.","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Ah yes, Peter Jackson's second flick (back when he was making movies that were twisted, sick and somehow subtly enjoyable). This film centers around a Muppets like variety hour that is going to go on live TV. Things really start going awry (where to begin) before their scheduled performance. Heidi the Hippo is slowly learning that her man, Bletch the Walrus (also the show's producer), is banging Samantha the Cat. To add to this, Wynnyard the Forg is hopelessly addicted to heroin after his tour in Vietnam (nice little Nam flashback scene) and can't perform his knife throwing routine without his fix. Harry the Hare thinks he got AIDS from sleeping with one or more of his bunny groupies. Trevor the Rat is just an all around asshole who makes porno tapes in the basement using a cow and cockroach. On top of all of this, there's Robert the Hedgehog who has a crush on Lucile (I think she's a poodle) and is trying to win her affections (they're some of the only nice people in the movie).The whole show is a disaster from beginning to end, culminating in Sebastian the Fox singing a song about anal sex and Heidi going crazy with an M-60.I highly recommend it for those with a very twisted sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Meet your new favourite movie!","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I'd say that Meet the Feebles is one of my favourite films of all time, up there with Dogville, City of God, El Topo, etc. It manages to take an over-the-top drug/sex/violence/any kind of taboo basically-filled puppet film and actually make a story out of it! Considering it's an hour and a half and there are so many characters/stories/situations, you still manage to get into it all! But here's a trick to watching the film, as most people will see the first 20 minutes and think Okay I've seen enough, another hour of just insanity and introductions to disgusting characters? No thank you! But if you push yourself to watch till after the Vietnam flashback, you will definitely be hooked onto the film. The songs are all great, the puppets all look great, and just a fabulous story. This was an early indication of Peter Jackson's talent as a director. If this man can take an all puppet cast and add drugs/sex/violence AND then make it a completely enjoyable film, give him a billion dollar career right away! I cannot stress enough how much fun this film is, and what a great story it is. Please do yourself a favour and go buy this movie! "},{"Title":"Brilliant idea.","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This movie was a brilliant idea to take adult humor, gore, sex, and muppets and put it all in one film, especially during that time period.  The movie wasn't laugh out loud humor but it was pretty funny.  I don't think people fully realize how much talent is behind this movie.  The film makers actually handmade the muppets themselves with almost no money.  The script was also very complex and doesn't sound like it was written by a bunch of kids.  (which it was)  This movie was made by open minded intellectuals. A lot of things in this movie give you a taste of the reality behind stage. This movie was not set out to please people so watch it with an open mind. I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yikes","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Before his seminal splatter picture DEAD ALIVE (and way before the brilliant LORD OF THE RINGS), director Peter Jackson crafted one of the most dead-on accurate parody of The Muppets with MEET THE FEEBLES.  But more than a skewering of the beloved children's puppets, this is the story of love, both blossoming and whithering, fame, madness and violence.The ensemble cast of puppets, called the Feebles, includes the star, Heidi the Hippo.  Heidi's best years are falling behind her.  Her boyfriend, the show's producer Bletch the Walrus, is cheating on her with a cat named Samantha.  She's depressed and stressed out on the eve of a major show the Feebles are performing, as is the director, Sebastion the Fox. And with good reason, just look at the rest of the cast  The rabbit MC has a venereal disease, the rat who's making porno films in the basement between a cow and a cockroach is also in charge of Bletch's shady drug deals, the knife-throwing frog is addicted to heroin and suffers from Nam flashbacks, the animal-trainer elephant is trapped in a paternity suit with a chicken, and to top it all off, Heidi's mental condition is rapidly deteriorating. Contrasting all these shady, unpleasant characters is the stalwart hedgehog Robert, the chain-smoking caterpillar Arthur and the beautiful poodle Lucille. I admired this film on an asthetic level.  For such an obviously low-budget film, the puppets are well crafted and well controlled.  The voice acting is stellar, there are some great songs, and when things start turning bad, the film has style to burn.  The script is sharp and observant, with some cutting satire perfectly balanced with some hilarious poo-poo humor.  But I can't say that I quite liked it, because that would imply that I had fun watching it.  I didn't.  It's very dark, very ugly, and very unpleasant. It's impact is a lasting one.  I do reccomend this film, but only to those who have strong stomachs.  "},{"Title":"**** out of 5","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  They may look cute and cuddly onstage but offstage they are some of the most profane and offensive puppets you will ever meet. They are the Feebles and if you are willing to give them a mere hour and a half of your time they will take you on a ride so wild and over-the-top you may never see something like this in any other film. Anyone who is offended by Peter Jackson's second in what I like to call his trilogy of gore, should have know better in the first place. Only Jackson could make a film this ridiculous and get away with it. For everyone who has not heard of this film before let me give you the low day. We are presented with an all star cast of a hippo, a rat, a worm, a hedgehog, a seal, a warthog and a bull dog to name a few. The thing about this film that makes Jackson such a genius is that even though there is not a human in sight he still manages to have a more diverse cast than any film could dream of having and even though there is not one thing that happens in this film that should be taken seriously I felt myself becoming more attached to these puppets than most human actors. The film opens with a song and dance number that sums everything up Meet the Feebles, Meet the Feebles, we're not your average people They may not be average but all exhibit very human like behaviour that most people would probably not associate with puppets. Just in case you have not figured it out yet this film is not your average Muppet spin-off and should, under no circumstances be viewed by children, or most adults for that matter, anyone who thought Death to Smoochy was offensive better watch out because this film makes that looks like a Sunday matinee. We see a Hippo with a machine gun, a rat who directs porno, a warthog who sells cocaine, a rabbit who came down with HIV. from not using protection while having a threesome and a seal who receives oral sex from a rat who dresses like she is straight off the nearest corner, and all of it is nothing short of hilarious. There are many funny scenes to be had but one of the more enjoyable are of a burnt out lizard remembering his days in Vietnam, there is even a parody of the Russian roulette scenes from the Deer Hunter. The story behind the film is simple, it is one day in which all the performers must practice for a live broadcast of The Fabulous Feebles Variety Hour, but everything seems to be going wrong. Even though there is basically no plot to be found it is still pretty darn fun watching these puppets up to no good, getting into all kinds or hilarious and disgusting situations. All you hardcore Jackson fans fear not there are still plenty of liquids flying around including blood, vomit, urine, semen and puss. Jackson could have taken a satirical approach to this film and in some ways he did, but overall anything smart is thrown out the window in the name of good fun, and good fun it is. So instead he made a film that would please the fans of his other sick and twisted efforts such as Bad Taste and Dead/Alive. It is sad that we will probably never see films like this again since Jackson has sold his soul for mainstream success with Lord of the Rings, but nevertheless this is an underrated classic and if you have a sick sense of humour like me be sure to check this out because it is indeed one of a kind.   "},{"Title":"a goofball warped comedy about muppets","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Peter Jackson must have done some serious drugs. This movie is a funnyfarce but also disturbing. Jackson is truly a unique filmmaker and itsamazing to see how cheapo early gross out movies led to Lord of theRings. Meet the Feeblees has some crude humor but its a fun movie towatch drunk with fellow film lovers. I think its much better than In BadT "},{"Title":"The Muppet Show was never like this","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Very, very funny. Those that enjoyed Peter Jackson's other early films will love this. Think Kermit on speed, Miss Piggy with a machine gun and Bert and Ernie consumating their relationship, and you are some way to imagining the plot of this movie. Please ignore its detractors, this film is bloody hilarious. If you think the Farrelly brothers can do bad taste, watch and learn. Far funnier than anything Hollywood has offered up for some time. "}{"Title":"One of the most exceptional movies ever","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I don't know where to start so i make this a shorty.This movie is really exceptional. Who would've expected a puppet movie combined with horror-movie appearance, drugs, sex and splatter? And it has all of that.So eccentric and packed that you should watch it several times to get all the details. And it's worth being watched multiple times.I really found myself lying on the floor laughing, it's great!If you like Nightmare before Christmas then you'll love this one. Believe me "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Yes, I openly admit it, I LOVE twisted humor. And you don't get much more twisted than Peter Jackson's Meet the Feebles.  I bought the DVD for two reasons (1) I have loved all his second wave work (Heavenly Creatures - TLOTR), and, (2) I caught the end of Dead Alive on IFC, and was fascinated and intrigued by it.  As such, I went along and ordered his entire gorefest catalog (Bad Taste, Meet The Feebles, and Dead Alive).  Meet the Feebles was possibly the funniest thing I have seen all year - at no stage does he story drag, and at no stage do you feel that it's degenerating into Disney.  At all times it is risque, innovative, refreshing and brilliant. A drug-dealing, porn-directing rat, a smack addicted ex-Vietnam Vet knife thrower (with the shakes), and an adulterous walrus ensure that this is a movie which every child should see )In my (fairly bizarre) rating system, this movie scores a perfect 10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny after an uncertain start","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  For the first five minutes I wondered why I was watching this film; a corny opening song coupled with over-active puppetry created a sort of don't blink or you'll miss something thought which didn't seem appealing.  However, I couldn't have been any more wrong.  Meet The Feebles was no mere puppet movie, the artistic and comedy stylings of director Peter Jackson coupled with fantastic dialogue and story-lines made for a nonstop ride of laughter, bewilderment and humorous shock; especially at the amount of profanity and puppet sex.With an overweight psychopathic hippo, a bumbling shy hedgehog, a porn directing Rat, a crack addict frog and a devious drug baron producer - how could this not be funny?  To be fair it's a rip-off of certain Muppets movies but that does not take away the cutting edge that there is actually a story to the film and not just a moronic rip-off or snipe at other films. It has no need for expensive SFX as it uses whit and style to portray a message that puppet movies don't have to be the bane of a movie-lover, just a part of a person which never grew up.To think Peter Jackson went on to direct the Lord of The Rings films is a testament to his abilities to sling together a slapstick comedy like this which keeps you laughing and giggling throughout to a sensible and downright amazing film such as LOTR.  Don't let the violence put you off this film (especially at the end) because this is a thoroughly entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Don't eat before seeing this movie! 8/10","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  What is Meet the Feebles? Well it's a hysterical/rotten little film that was spawned by film maker Peter Jackson (Lord of the Rings Fellowship of the Ring). It's quite simply one of the funniest, dirtiest, and most unique film ever made. It's Meet the Feebles. To imagine what Meet the Feebles is, simply take the world of the Muppets, with a spice of Fraggle Rock, and then add a good hard helping of pornography and death, and you'll have Meet the Feebles.I don't adore the film just for its shock value, I adore it because it's an absolute joy to watch from start to finish. So before I get into the icky stuff, let's talk about what else makes Meet the Feebles a wonderful piece of cinema. Few films adore their characters in the same fashion as Meet the Feebles. In that respect, the admiration for its characters could be compared to Robert Altman's Short Cuts and P.T. Anderson's Magnolia. Although the characters are adored, it doesn't give them Walt Disney like immortality. This film is for the adults, with adult consequences, and no matter how adorable the Feebles are, they are not immortal. I guess part of the charm of Meet the Feebles is how the film makers take a topic (talking puppets) that would usually be intended for small children,and they go out and make it as extreme as possible. I admire that.The story is simple enough -- as it should be. Robert the hedgehog wants nothing more than to join the wonderful cast that is the Feebles. The Feebles are a group of actors and performers who work for a walrus named Bletch. Bletch is the big bad boss who has a rat named Trevor working for him. Trevor smuggles drugs to the Feebles, and has a frog who is a Vietnam veteran eating out of his hands. Trevor is also trying to get Robert's love interest into porn films. There's a rabbit who has a sexually transmitted disease, a fly who works for the Enquirer, a anteater who ejaculates from his nose, and a slew of other odd-ball characters. It's the characters that make this film, not the plot. Stuff to watch for 3minutes13seconds A walrus and a cat have hot passionate sex together. The walrus is upset because he didn't get to pop his cookies.16minutes38seconds Strange little fluffy critters tear up an elephant's bathroom. The money shot is one of the little buggers urinates into the sink. After the elephant throws them out of the bathroom, a large barrel runs them over and squishes them, and Trevor the rat eats some of the squished innards. 25minutes27seconds Harry the Rabbit has a three-way with two other rabbits. As the bunnies copulate, a horny anteater watches, and it appears that he drools semen. 26minutes32seconds Robert the hedgehog walks in on a strange porn film that involves a Cow with unusual piercing on her udders, and a cockroach with a whip. 32minutes53seconds A sneaky fly has been having a cuisine in Harry the Rabbit's toilet. Need I say more? 34minutes23seconds A drug addicted frog tells young Robert what Vietnam war was like. This section is a wonderful little satire on The Deer Hunter.Those are just a few of the highlights to this very sick film. Meet the Feebles is not for everyone, but for a select few, I think it might tickle your funny bone.  "},{"Title":"Nasty!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I found this movie disturbing.  It was kind of funny for shock value but overall it's one of those that's depressing to watch. What did I learn from it?  The entertainment industry is full of bad evil things but they paint a pretty picture on the front and present it to us.  Aren't many things that way though?  I guess I didn't learn that so much as I had it reiterated through over an hour of Muppet-like characters shooting up, shooting down, and doing deviant things.Well, I'd recommend it but I'm not saying you'll enjoy it.  Make sense? "},{"Title":"The Muppets on acid!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This movie starts with a bang, and ends, literally, with an even louder one. One of Peter Jackson's earlier efforts, this film achieves a film's task by taking us into it's world. Though the characters are obviously puppets, through great voice-acting and puppeteering skills I found myself caring for (and in some cases, loathing) all of the cast of The Feebles.The Feebles are a group of animals who put on variety shows periodically. Their next show is to be enormous, but through various diversions such as drug deals, a rabbit-infected with AIDS, a giant sea monster, affairs, pornographic-movie-making, and a machine-gun killing-frenzy, the show is constantly looming closer and closer as all hell breaks loose for all involved.Whilst it does have cynical and dark sarcastic undertones to the movie, there are a few genuinely touching moments. My particular favourite is a racoon named Robert (but said with a 'w', ie; Wobert). Any scene involving him evokes such tender pity as he tries to serenade his crush with a flamenco guitar, and tries to find his way to the Stage Manager for the first time.Musically, this film is a delight;  I find myself humming 'Garden of Love,' quite regularly. And in music, the film contrasts just as heavy as it's characters.However, I am of Generation X and consequently, the goriness towards the end of the film is not as shocking to me as it would be to someone who has watched 'Snow White' all their lives. Same goes with the drugs, puppet-sex, and the language. But, it you can grit your teeth through some of these excessively offending parts, then you will see this movie for the true master-piece that it is. "},{"Title":"It's puppets... It's porn... It's puppets AND porn!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Sure, the lighting may suck, and the characters look like they've been pilfered from Jim Henson's Land of Reject Muppets, but it's still a damn good movie!  However, it's not for the weak; if you can't handle simulated gore, muppet porn (including a fetish scene and a panty-sniffer), and muppet drug use, then this movie probably isn't for you.  All I can say is it's a hilarious movie, even though I haven't quite decided if it's more or less disturbing than actual people doing the same things... "},{"Title":"Disturbing is not enough.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This film is totally not for those without a wicked sense of humor. You have to be able to stand watching the most demoralizing, degrading and senseless acts happen with puppets in order to see the beauty of it all. There's so many things wrong with the characters (drug abuse, STDs, mass murder, excrement-eating, nasal sex) that the great things about Meet the Feebles may not even come through. Like the fact this movie clearly has a beginning, climax and ending, and that each character is developed well and for something so ridiculous as the story, it all makes sense. There's so much technically right that the bad lighting, out-of-date puppets, and silly scenery only solidify that this movie is made to be a joke, but a well-written joke!It's strange and bizarre and not for the faint of heart, but damn is this movie so awesome. "},{"Title":"The most different film there is","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I originally saw this film when I was addicted to watching midnight movies without knowing what they were about. When it started I thought Oh no, it's a children's film. It is impossible for me to be more wrong!. It the story of a puppet repertory theatre company. Unlike its subject matter, the film is far from warm and cuddly. You will see a rat pornographer who's convinced the next big thing will be nasal sex and promptly gets a creature with a long nose and a cow (with her nipples pierced) to shoot his latest video, a ten foot walrus whose supposed to be dating a hippo but is 'intimate' with a siamese cat, a substance abusing frog who is haunted by his tour of duty in 'Nam, a sex-mad bunny who is incorrectly diagnosed as having the big 'M' (Myxamotosis) by a goose - who does the best Paul Lynde impersonation I have ever heard, a blue elephant that gets a chicken 'into trouble' and much much more. If you've ever heard the phrase 'has to be seen to be believed' then it might well have been coined just for this film; miss it and weep! "},{"Title":"Without Peter Jackson I would have never known that puppets can bleed too...","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  At the dawn of his career Peter Jackson directed three blood-soaked splatter-comedies. It was the sick, twisted and revolting cult-trilogy of bare guts, brain-pieces, cruel butchery, loose-limbs, flying gore, mutilated corpses and splashing vomit. It gave him the well-earned reputation as the king of all bad taste and absolutely nothing suggested that he would eventually change his warped visions and direct something that's actually sane. This is the middle one of these three shameless feasts of violence and morbid abnormities. Dubious topics like savage mass slaughter, obscene sexual perversions, drug-dealing, repulsive venereal disease and heroin addiction aren't very suitable elements for a cheerful comedy but Peter Jackson found a perfect way to create one that included all of 'em by using puppets as an actors. When a bunch of animals - different sorts and sizes - are practicing all of these objectionable acts it immediately turns out to be comical. Want it or not. Movie contains only two puppets that are actually quite cute and sympathetic - sweet little hedgehog known as Robert and an amusing worm called Arthur. Almost all the other ones are offensive in one way or another.There's a drug addict frog that suffers from serious withdrawal symptoms, chain-smoking sewer rat who shoots porn flicks and Indian contortionist who's head accidentally gets stuck in his rectum. The most grotesque character of Meet the Feebles is probably the obtrusive reporter fly who eats shit with a spoon - I guess sense of shame is something that Jackson just isn't able to feel. My favorite character is definitely the director of Meet the Feebles variety hour - bitter fox called Sebastian. This film has some pretty clever songs like One leg missing and I'm sure that I'm not the only one who's favorite scene of the whole movie is the part when Sebastian sings the hilariously indecent number called Sodomy. I have no recollection of how many times I've been rewinding that same stupid song but I can assure you over and over again. Another spectacular scene is flashback-sequence to Vietnam war. Bunch of frogs represents American soldiers and during only few minutes Jackson makes a cheap parody of Stanley Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket and Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter. If you love puppets, don't ever watch Meet the Feebles. If you possess a sick sense of humor and you think you're prepared for a movie that's full of insane animals that will do basically everything that's grotesque you can enjoy this disgusting and absurd classic as much as I did. 10/10. "}{"Title":"You won't know whether to laugh or cry!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Meet the Feebles is a satire about the private lives of celebrities--it uses the puppet approach to demonstrate the view that we all have of celebrities as loveable, upstanding citizens while behind the scenes they're just as amoral as the rest of us (if not moreso!)Be warned--this movie is amazingly politically incorrect.  (It makes fun of people with AIDS, just for example.)  It's also really gory and disgusting (cute little fuzzy things are tossed out of someone's dressing room into a hallway, flattened by a runaway barrel, and the remaining roadkill is eaten by a rat.)  But like I said, there are elements of Meet the Feebles which are more intelligent than you might expect.  Many parts of this movie will tear you in two directions, you won't know whether to laugh or cry.  While it may come across at first as just another stupid and exploitatively violent movie, if you look close you'll see that Meet the Feebles was conceived with intelligence, and maybe even some level of compassion for its amoral cast. "},{"Title":"avant garde, creative, one-of-a-kind, violent...","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  where to begin when talking about Meet the Feebles...  the muppets on acid... This is probably one of the most original movies i've ever seen and i've seen a lot of movies.  it's sick, twisted, violent, gorey, funny, and totally nutso!  i love it.  you've never seen anything like it before in your entire life, i promise. "},{"Title":"Sex, Drug, and... A Variety Show?","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  What can anyone say about this movie? The best way I can describe it is The Muppets on drugs. This movie is definitely not for everyone, but if you like demented movies, this one is for you. Meet the Feebles is demented, gross, disturbing, weird, and extremely funny. The most enjoyable way to watch this movie is to inflict it on your friends, especially if one of them claims to not be shocked by anything. You'll laugh. You'll cringe. You'll shake your head in disgust. But above all you'll love watching the faces of your unsuspecting friends. The general reaction after seeing this movie is a blank look of shock followed by, (insert name) HAS to see this movie. Of course renting this movie is a gamble. You will either love it, or you will hate it. But trust me if you like it, inflict it on your friends. Their expressions make the movie all the greater. One word of caution though, the theme song is EXTREMELY catchy.  "},{"Title":"They're not your average, ordinary people.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Peter Jackson has said that the only problem with the Meet The Feebles is the script. Well Mr.Jackson you're wrong, Meet the Feebles is a great masterpiece and I don't care who you are, there is something to enjoy here. It's like watching a cartoon when your a kid, no matter how bad it is there's something there you like. Well here it is, a puppet show for the 18 and over crowd. Meet the Feebles makes fun of everything under the sun. It's a puppet musical, with a horrorshow ending that tackles such culture-problems like Eating Problems, Date-Rape, Drugs (selling and using), the Media, Marriage problems, Golf, Aids, and a show stopping song about the joys of Sodomy, plus more. If one has yet to see Meet the Feebles, then one has no idea how a film should be made, a real movie that has no concept of culture, or has a good concept but is bored with it. Thank you Mr.Jackson for this film! ***1/2 (8) "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, THE most original approach to puppets on film ever made","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  What sort of sordid backstage showbiz dirt and skullduggery would go on behind the scenes of the Muppet Show if the Muppets were real beings?  This seems to be the central premise of Peter Jackson's completely unhinged Meet the Feebles.This was the second Jackson film I'd seen (Dead/Alive being the first).  I'd never heard of it, but a small, local theater (The Grand Illusion, for you Seattleites) was running a revival; I went in knowing nothing whatsoever.  Consequently, I spent the next hour-and-a-half repeating I can't believe he did that every ten minutes.  Barely a minute passes without something thoroughly shocking, grotesque, offensive or objectionable happening onscreen.There has never been, nor, I imagine, will there ever be, anything remotely like this movie.  The very idea of watching ersatz Muppets engage in kinky group sex, drug use, and mob violence is so shockingly original as to border on genius.  Yes, it goes over the top, it goes too far, and you will be just plain grossed out at times.  But even then, you'll be laughing, even if it's just in disbelief.This continues the Peter Jackson tradition that not only will none of his films be quite like anything you've seen, they won't even resemble one another very much.  No true fan of twisted cinema should miss this film; it belongs on the shelf with such rarefied works as Jackson's own Dead/Alive and Trey Parker's Cannibal! The Musical. "},{"Title":"wacky....","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  this was the oddest jumble of a movie i've ever seen. it was like the muppet show, only extremely bizarre. STDs, murder, infidelity, extortion, drug abuse run rampant, also a dark view of what vietnam was like for a certain alligator. it was funnier than anything i've seen in a while. see this movie. "},{"Title":"This film is sick, disgusting, vile and tasteless...I loved it!!!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Just reading through the comments left by other IMDb users, I must say I haven't seen any film discussed with similar diversity. You hate it, you love it, you love to hate it.I watched it a few days ago, along with films like Story Of Ricky and Toxic Avenger. And I must say I loved this one. The first minutes I was thinking What the hell have I gotten into here? What is this s**t? But then I just let it be and started enjoying it. And enjoy it I did! A lot! This movie is not for the faint hearted, nor for the real gore hounds out there, but if you like sick twisted stuff, this one is for you.You've got it all, mass murder, filthy sexual perversions, rape, drug abuse and sexually transmitted diseases (it's NOT AIDS, it's just THE BIG ONE okay??).I don't care if it has a message or anything (it does, it shows you the real filth going on in modern entertainment), I just like to watch stuff like this once in a while.I don't think this movie is trash. I really don't. It is to professional for that. I think it just wants to appear that way. Like an artist, who knowingly steps back from all he has learned and just lets loose for once. BUT you have to KNOW the rules to BREAK the rules! And boy does Peter Jackson break the rules with this one! "},{"Title":"Muppets from hell!","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  When this film starts out, it looks like an episode of The Muppets Show. However, since Peter Jackson is directing it, you know you're in for a (very) wild ride! I think Peter Jackson is one of the most original (if not thé most original) film-makers alive. BAD TASTE and especially BRAINDEAD (DEAD ALIVE) show his incredible ability to make something very very original out of almost nothing. He shot BAD TASTE for example with a couple of friends and with a budget about ten thousand times (or something close to that) smaller than that of TITANIC. The result is one of the most outrageous, goriest and funniest films ever made.  His Hollywood efforts (THE FRIGHTENERS, HEAVELY CREATURES) are not as good as these films, though the latter was widely praised. I think Peter Jackson is at his best when making films with a small budget, that go further than you'd expect. The gore genre seems to have his trademark. I really can't wait to see THE LORD OF THE RINGS-trilogy. I'm no fan of these fantasy/adventure, special effects laden movies, but I'm sure Peter Jackson will make something special out of it. The only thing I'm afraid of is the size of the budget. As I said, I really think that this wonderful director is at his best when working with nearly no budget at all. Oh, I almost forgot to say something about this film! Well, it's not the Muppet Show, but think about what you can do with those characters so that it's not a film for children anymore ... at all! Or just see it, if you're in for some crazed, gory, pornographic and totally f***** up muppets. Enjoy! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Oh...my...God...!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Words fail me to describe the utter tastelessness of this film. Yes, this is the same Peter Jackson who directed the lyrical Heavenly Creatures, which makes the film even more bizarre. There is no middle ground with this film. You will find it either hysterical or vile. If you can get past the first ten minutes, sit through the whole thing. There is violence, gore, sex, profanity, vomiting, drug use, even a song entitled Sodomy. Everything to get a film banned in a police state. And this is a PUPPET film, for pity's sake! If you are easily offended, avoid this film at all costs. But if you enjoy political incorrectness, crude humor and very, very sick material...this might just be your cup of tea! "},{"Title":"Hmmmm...","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  If you want an idea of the content of this film, scroll up the page and click on the the films plot keywords. The list just about covers it. Okay, done that? Long, isn't it?Peter Jacksons debut feature Bad taste was a masterpiece of low budget schlock. This nasty little follow up number was filmed on grant money from the New Zealand government (apparantly), and I don't for one moment imagine that anyone could consider it a sound investment. Essentially a sleazy version of the muppets, with perhaps a more satirical edge on the real showbiz industry, this film attempts to be more subversive than that well known kiddies programme by throwing taste and caution to the winds and assaulting the viewers senses with as much depravity as possible. Suffice it to say that this would NEVER have got by in live action form.I'm a big Peter Jackson fan, and have nothing but respect for his skill and ambition as a director, but try as I might I found this film to be thoroughly unlikeable in almost every conceivable way. I imagine that that was the point, but even black comedies (and this could not be blacker) have to have some kind of angle from which the viewer can see the film and come away satisfied. This simply repells in a deeply unpleasant fashion.Which is a pity really, seeing as the art direction, the puppets themselves (check out the homage to Rocksteady from the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in the Scottish Warthog/Boar) and especially the voices (the absolute highlights being Trevor the rats Peter Lorre type rasp and Sebastians sublime riffing on Basil Brush) all point to a film that should have been so much more. Maybe a better script could have helped. And more of the duck. (who does his voice resemble. Any ideas?)2 1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Unbelievably sick, but funny as hell!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  My first Pete Jackson movie made me think I was seeing things. What person in their right mind would direct such a cavalcade of perversions starring puppets? Pete Jackson, that's who! MEET THE FEEBLES is one of the sickest films I've ever seen, yet still made me laugh harder than I thought I ever could at scenes like this!The Feebles Variety Show is a Muppets-like variety show with singing, dancing, and other forms of entertainment performed on a stage and televised across the world. Wholesome family entertainment for all. Yet, behind the scenes, so much sloth is going on that it would take forever to highlight it all. Here are some samples A rabbit has sex with multiple partners and contracts AIDS. A rat with a Peter Lorre voice makes S&M and fetish porno movies starring a cow with big udders and an underwear-sniffing anteater. A walrus cheats on his hippo lover with a cat hooker. An alligator drug addict gets withdrawal shakes and has 'Nam flashbacks. A shit-eating fly reporter makes up lies about the cast members for tabloids. Need I say more? If this sounds funny to you, then see it! If it sounds like repulsive trash, avoid it!MEET THE FEEBLES is one of those films that you either love or hate. I loved it, but not every viewer will feel the same way. Some of the topics covered (suicide, AIDS, drug addiction) will seem tasteless to some and hilarious pokes at life to others. Even if you don't like it, you can't say that it's boring! This movie never lets up! There are likable, innocent characters, though. The hero is Robert, a shy hedgehog with a speech impediment, the heroine is Lucille, a dog, and the loyal sidekick is Al, a worm. It's all very well-done and believable, so even those who are offended can find some merit in the filmmaking. MEET THE FEEBLES is on DVD from Canada, so try to seek it out! "},{"Title":"Should have won an Oscar!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This was probably one of the most tasteless, trashy, disgusting, and politically incorrect movies I've ever seen.  That said, it was also one of the funniest and most memorable!   Forget all of that pretentious artsy c**p like Magnolia or American Beauty - we need more ultra-violent and twisted films like Meet The Feebles or South Park The Movie! "},{"Title":"Dear God","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I can't decide what was more disturbing about this film-- the sex, the violence, the bodily excretions, or the soap opera story line.  I think they are all one in the same and perhaps that is the point of this movie not to be profound, or wickedly funny, but to be disturbingly bad-- to fill the screen with a group of characters so vile that by the time they reach their inevitable conclusion, the viewer is gratified to see them taken out in a very gruesome and violent manner. I consider it a credit to Peter Jackson's twisted genius to say that I never want to see this movie ever again. I have seen puppets doing things that puppets should never be seen doing, and it is going to take great effort to suppress these images in my brain. Dear God! "},{"Title":"Surely one of the sickest movies ever made","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Meet The Feebles is a sick film.  The movie is about some dolls who do things you`ve never seen in a movie like this. They make pornographic films, they have sex, they are drugaddicts and they kill a lot of innocent people.  It is indeed a very sick and strange film, but at the same time it is original and very funny. If you`ve got the stomach for extremely gory films, I`d like to recommend this movie, Bad Taste, Braindead and also the classic Dawn Of The Dead.  Meet the feebles will definetely make you laugh or puke.  It made me laugh! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Thoroughly repulsive","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I purchased Meet the Feebles last week just to see what the fuss was about.  This week I popped it into my VCR and watched it when I was getting ready for work.I'd heard the comments............ ......it's EEEEEEEVILLLLL.... Muppets on CrackHow right those comments were....and more....Meet the Feebles is a dark, thoroughly repulsive opus with animal characters that are, by and large, extremely unlikable with no redeeming qualities at all.  For those not in the know, it's a movie telling of the backstage antics of the performers in the Meet The Feebles variety show For 92 minutes, you watch these characters bed, spit on and in general abuse each other for their own selfish means. The only character I found myself liking was Robert, a shy hedgehog who wants to be part of the cast....and this because he was able to retain his basic innocence while working with his unlikable fellow cast members. Not only are the characters unlikable, the script also leaves much to be desired.  There are several sequences that seem to be added by director John Waters (er...Peter Jackson) just to push the envelope of taste.  For example, did he really have to write into the script a subplot about the misery of a hare dying from the big one (aids) and a reporter fly who seems to gloat in said hare's misfortune?  I think not.Speaking of the script (and the characters) I found myself smiling with grim satisfaction at the end of the movie, when Heidi Hippo (the show's main star) finally becomes unhinged and mows practically the entire cast down with a machine gun.  Good riddance to bad rubbish I thought. I'm also happy that Robert (the hedgehog mentioned above) and Arthur (a worm and a halfway decent bloke himself) survive the bloodbath-both were innocents and didn't deserve to die. There you have my review.  For the record, I came into this with both eyes open.  As they used to say on the Superchicken cartoon show You knew this job was dangerous when you took it..  I got what I was expecting...and more. "},{"Title":"If John Waters and the Muppet Show had a baby it would be prettier than this, and probably more friendly","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Of all the Peter Jackson movies that qualify for the most X movie of all time, this one lays claim (by far) to the largest number of Xs.  Most tasteless, most disturbing, most revolting, most bizarre, etc.  In other words, this is a movie that should be seen by anyone with an investment in trash.  Made with leftover grant money from the New Zealand government (the bulk going into the uberclassic Bad Taste) this graphically biological puppet-fest probably induced an emergency session of Parliament.Certainly, one could couch a review in mod theory and call it a scathingly intelligent deconstruction of celebrity worship, audience gullibility, and the blurring of subjectivity as a constructible and discrete concept.  One could see it as a dystopian vision of escapism where the basic organic realities of life are insisted upon and brought to the forefront by their effects on formerly safe cartoon abstractions.  One could call it an indictment of anthropomorphism--dangerous in its tendency to obscure genuine causality.or, you could just sit back and watch a bunch of puppets throw up, pee on things, and have sex with each other.  which is what i recommend.  "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Masterpiece","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Meet The Feebles is one of the very few films that doesn't have a single flaw. Seeing Meet The Feebles for the first time was the most amazing movie experiences of my life. There's scenes that stay with you when the movies over, and you don't forget them. Everyone makes the mistake of calling this film a movie about crime. Its really a movie about family. The dialogue is just unbelievable. I've seen the movie at least 30, 40 times, and I'm still amazed at how perfect it is. The music, the acting, everything. People think that  Police Academy Mission to Moscow   is the greatest movie ever made...well, there's no way that ANYONE can think that  Police Academy Mission to Moscow  is more moving, and has a better storyline than Meet the Feebles. The thing I find so amazing about Meet the Feebles  is how Heidi the Hippo (Mark Hadlow) changes throughout the movie. Its my opinion that this is the greatest movie ever made, and I doubt that anyone can watch this movie, and think I'm crazy. "},{"Title":"Saw it, Got confused, Realized what was going on, and LOVED IT!!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Someone let me borrow this video about three months ago, and I never sat down to watch it. All he told me was, Picture the Muppets on crack...Well, it's been raining non-stop for two days now and I saw this one sitting on my shelf and so I popped it in.At first, I noticed the, um, Muppets but not the crack. After about 15 minutes, I was bored and ready to stop it. Then the Hippo burst in on the Walrus having sex with the Cat and it snowballed from there! True, it's hard to follow, but a must-see with a group of friends. If they haven't seen it, don't tell them what they're getting into because they might expect somthing right away like I did.I don't understand why some user-reviews stated they loved the movie, but are embarrased that they saw it. I guess some are frightened by tasteless comedy. NOT ME!!If you liked this movie, I recommend you see Orgazmo or any one of the Troma movies, BASEketball and the upcoming Dogma "},{"Title":"A movie-length critique of Jim Henson. Fun on its own terms.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Jim Henson, who some have called the last hippie, always portrayed his Muppets as having personality conflicts that eventually got resolved by the final number. Feebles takes a more harsh view of human nature. In fact, while it's close to real show business as reported in the National Enquirer, it does have its sentimental side; the innocent hedgehog Wobert finds happiness, as does the homicidal hippo Heidi.Some fans of Peter Jackson have called this film a betrayal of his promise as a filmmaker. It's terrible to judge someone against presumed intentions. Taken on its own terms, Feebles isn't a challenging work, but it's fun. I dunno...maybe Jackson had to get this out of his system, or maybe he wanted to make a film for his own amusement. (It's a suitable companion for The Rocky Horror Picture Show for a maturing kid just beginning to challenge parental authority.) "},{"Title":"A wonderful shocker","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Pull this one out on your friends when they are least expecting it.  Pop it in your VCR, eat some pot brownies, and prepare to get a little uncomfortable while laughing your pants off. I saw this once, unexpectedly, while at a friend's house, and a bunch of us were rolling off the couches.  The most memorable scene was of the fly in the toilet bowl.  Of course, the muppet sex is quite a trip.  There's a charmingly sweet love story between a stalwart muppet and, what was it, an innocent sheep?  Of course, she gets drugged by the rat and blackmailed into doing porn, but... "}{"Title":"The muppets as they should have been","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is one of the most disgusting, repulsive and revolting movies I've ever seen - so much so that I had to watch it three times because I'd laughed so hard that I didn't see all of it the first two times around.This is the muppets with sex, drugs and rock'n'roll. In fact, they couldn't have made this film with human actors as it would never have been released.If you have a very robust sense of humour, this is the film for you. If you're easily offended, are at all squeamish or even slightly queasy, you should avoid it like the plague. Superbly revolting! "},{"Title":"No words can describe it","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I read another reader's review, and in it they stated that it might be better to watch the movie while drunk.  Well, I did watch the movie while drunk, and it was a truly horrifying experience.  Meet The Feebles is too much craziness for an inebriated brain to handle.  I had to turn off the movie halfway through.  Watch the movie sober, trust me. "},{"Title":"The Feebles with have you longing for the wholesome nature of The Muppets","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is one of those rare experiences that you have to see for yourself to fully appreciate what it is about. I had missed my first opportunity to see this, uh, film, when it was running at a second run theater ages ago. One simple production still of a walrus mating with a cat in a garter belt spoke a thousand words. I was curious but unable to go. Some of my friends saw it and found later that words escaped them, replaced by nervous laughter.Now I know why.Meet The Feebles is now available on video and DVD, and if you ever wondered what it would be like if The Muppets left the old theater and moved into a crack house, well this is your kind of movie. My wife went away for the weekend and so I seized this opportunity to try something I pretty much knew she wouldn't care to see. It starts off reasonably tame but gets raunchier and seedier as each scene progresses. You can probably imagine a fair bit, maybe you've even wondered what it would be like if Miss Piggy and Kermit finally got it on. But even still, almost certainly this film will surprise you in the depths that they go to. I imagine there are loads of teenagers who'd love this. I imagine fans of Fritz the Cat should definitely get into this.I not quite sure what I'm feeling now that I've seen it. It's not regret, I've quelled my curiosity. It's truly not disgust; I'm not easily offended. No, I guess I'm glad my wife is away for the weekend, she would not have liked it and I probably would have sat through something I didn't want to watch in compensation. I'm thinking about the other films I left behind at the video store. I think I should've watched this with someone when I was really drunk. I think that might've helped.  "},{"Title":"I dig this movie, and I'll tell you why","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  When I first sat down to watch Meet The Feebles, I didn't quite know what I was getting myself into. My first mistake was the fact that me and my girlfriend got the brilliant idea to cook up some Chicken Chow Mein to eat during the film....BIG MISTAKE! This movie is absolutely tasteless, and sick...and that's what makes it so good. I could not stop laughing at the Heroine addicted frog's flashbacks to Nam...funny stuff! This is the kind of movie that you have to see, even if for nothing more than to be able to say that you have seen it. If you can find a copy of this movie, check it out. Although here in the states copies are hard to come by. Have fun searching "},{"Title":"The Muppets with a blunt edge","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  An overall disappointment.  The film tries hard to push the comedic envelope, but fails miserably since most of the scenes just aren't very funny.  Meet The Feebles relies on shocking and outrageous situations made absurd by the fact that they're being performed by puppets.  But once you get past this gimmick, the whole thing falls rather flat due to a mediocre script.  It all comes across as being a little too easy. "},{"Title":"a twisted, surreal puppet show","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Meet the Feebles is a fine example of director Peter Jackson's weird and unique sense of humour. Perhaps the most twisted movie ever to involve puppets. Think of The Muppet Show on bad acid. We get to peek into the backstage antics of a variety show put on by various animal puppets, some cute, some not so cute. Behind the scenes, snuff movies are being filmed, a horny bunny gets HIV, and a hippo (miss piggy stand-in) goes on a machine gun rampage in a violent finale. This is one strange film, but it's also damn funny. I'd only recommend this to those who enjoy off the wall humour.  "},{"Title":"The muppets on acid!","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Very strange and very uncomforting, this is typical Jackson, from the same bowl as Brain-Dead and Bad Taste. Some very shocking moments and a fowl sense of humour all add up to a rather enjoyable film, after at least 5 pints (or more!).  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Before I'd seen this movie, I'd heard and read a lot about it. People were saying how sick yet intelligent it was. Well, I had no reason to doubt them having seen Braindead, Bad Taste and Heavenly Creatures, so I went ahead and bought it. It took me completely by surprise. I hadn't expected anything this good. I mean, there were zillions of funny jokes, intelligent criticism against mass media, and the photography and the puppets were beautiful. The film even had great symbolics, each animal represented a certain type of character (for example, a gossip journal reporter was a crap-eating fly), and the ending song reflects ironically upon the entire movie. Meet the Feebles will certainly make you laugh, maybe puke. "},{"Title":"Oh No...What did they do to the Muppets???","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  There is something about Peter Jackson's movie Meet The Feebles that disturbs me...maybe it was because it was the first time I ever saw a movie that was originally classified as X in this country (what would be an NC-17 rating today) when it was released, now on video with no rating attached whatsoever.  Whatever the reason, I have only one thing to say about it Sick, sick, sick! Don't get me wrong, I didn't hate this movie, although I'm not sure I liked this movie, either.  A rabbit with VD?  An elephant in a paternity suit with a chicken?  A walrus having sex with a siamese cat who deals drugs on the side?  A Vietnam Vet frog with a heroin problem?  Who in the world thinks up this stuff?  Oh, now I remember -- Peter Jackson! All I can say about it is, it's different.  I had mixed reactions to watching it, and I like Peter Jackson movies.  At times I was just thoroughly disgusted, and others I was laughing my butt off (especially after seeing the half chicken-half elephant creature).  But I think you have to be in a bizarre enough mood to see this movie. "},{"Title":"If I were a video store clerk, I wouldn't know what to catalog this as!!!!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I, a long time Peter Jackson fan, find this flick nauseating, grotesque, and downright hilarious. Take the muppets, and look backstage, it might look a little bit like this, Drugs, sex, black comedy, and an overall directorial masterpiece. Yes, all of the above in New Zealand director Peter Jackson's Meet the Feebles.Oh yeah, and do try not to go around asking people Have you seen 'Meet the Feebles'? the common reseonse is, What that one with the surfer brothers? See it, love it, see it again.       "}{"Title":"Muppets on acid","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is probably Peter Jackson's most disappointing films... The New Zealand public expected a lot from him after the budget blockbuster 'Bad Taste', and many were let down by this. Not by lack of origninality, humour or story, but there was just too much happening at once... Still worth watching tho', especially if you're a Peter Jackson Fan.  "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson scores again!","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  In Peter Jackson's second film, Meet The Feebles, he takes us into the gritty underworld of a muppet like variety show. When you see this film I recommend you to see his first film Bad Taste, beforehand to see his style. It will also make you a little more prepared for what is about to come. The characters in this film have problems which range from Heroin addiction to sexually transmitted diaeses. The real funny thing about it is they are cute little puppets. It really screws with your mind. You'll never look at the muppets the same way again. "},{"Title":"highly recommended","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I've seen it a few times - it's fantastic.  If you always felt the Muppet Show was a bit squeaky clean then you'll love this. It's like an R-rated muppet show. And also, if you're a bit squeamish about watching real humans get hurt (ie horror) then you may be able to stomach watching puppets get their heads blown off, shoot up drugs and so on. This should get much more attention "},{"Title":"Sick but funny as hell","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  meet the feebles is yet another victory from Peter Jackson. the puppets are great (I like the heroin addicted frog the most.)From urine to vomit to blood, to every other bodily fluid imaginable this movie has it all. "},{"Title":"May offend. Who cares?","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Machine gun toting hippos? Puppets fighting the Vietnam war? The best song ever written (Sodomy)? And more? This is simply what the Muppets have been crying out for and once you've seen this festival of depravity you'll never be able watch Miss Piggy in quite the same light. Good taste is not an accusation you can level at this film and thank God for that for in this age of sanitised blandness we need films that are just plain sick and funny to keep us all in a sane frame of mind. Why this carnival of carnal deviation didn't win the Best Film gong is frankly beyond me. No, really, it is. "},{"Title":"NOT QUITE THE MUPPETS","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Meet the feebles is one of the most original films of the last decade. Director Jackson uses the puppets to get away with far more than he would with real actors, and although perhaps the rabbit with aids is a step too far , the majority of the film is so over the top and removed from reality that it is difficult to be offended despite the content.  Best scene a spoof of Deer Hunter with a crack addicted Kermit-a-like.  "},{"Title":"A difficult movie to watch, but it's worth it.","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I sat down to watch this unaware what I was in for. I thought to myself, OK , puppets. This should be highly amusing. As the movie got started I was sort of shocked but I was laughing my head off! This movie has IT ALL - a Walrus cheating on a Hippo with a cat; A heroin addicted frog; a rat that makes porn movies in the basement; a manic depressant elephant and a supposedly AIDS infected rabbit! How is THAT for variety? Well, its quite hard to watch all these things in one measly hour and half, but it pays off. "},{"Title":"Demented Muppet Movie in the Vein of Fritz The Cat","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Meet The Feebles is the very sick and twisted take on the Muppets by (now Oscar-winning) writer and director Peter Jackson. Filmed in New Zealand, it was released there in 1990 and, according to this website, didn't make it to the U.S. until 1995. It may explain why, upon my own research, there's no journalistic evidence of any kind to suggest Jim Henson saw the film. It would be very interesting to know what he thought about it; whether he would have laughed at it, be touched by the twisted tribute, or would have found it so incredibly offensive. Now it's hard to say.If you were to tell me (at any point in the '90's) that the director of this film would go on to not only create one of the greatest movie trilogies of all time, but win an Oscar for it, I would have laughed at you. That's not to say this movie is bad. It's not perfect, but what it lacks in budget it makes up for in ambition and having a sense of humor about itself.Meet The Feebles is a movie about puppets (both hand puppets and people in suits) who, like the Muppets, are not assumed to be puppets in their universe. Also like the Muppets, the Feebles host a weekly variety show whose audience is also comprised of puppets, and no humans whatsoever. The Feebles are all different animals who have all different personalities. Sounds like a kids movie? Keep reading.Among these characters, there is only one who could easily fit into the real Muppet Show. That character is a hedgehog (or a porcupine. It's hard to tell) named Robert, around whom the movie centers. Robert is the newest cast member on the Meet The Feebles Variety Hour. He is naive but good-natured, and develops an innocent crush on a poodle named Lucile (who actually looks like a bear, but that's just my opinion). Other than the worm stage manager Arthur, these are the only good-natured creatures in the movie. The rest are out of a parents' nightmare, which is why kids under the age of 15 should stay away from this movie.There's the host of the show, Harry the Rabbit, whose health is degenerating because of a supposed STD. The star of the show, Heidi The Hippo, has an overeating problem and is correctly concerned that her husband, Bletch the Walrus, is cheating on her. Meanwhile, Bletch is involved in a shady drug deal with Barry the Bulldog. A frog named Wynyard is a drug-addicted Vietnam veteran who has flashbacks. A gay stagehand fox named Sebastian has a penchant for sodomy, and performs a song about it despite warnings from the crew. And then there's a rat named Trevor who makes hardcore porn films in the studio basement, and is easily the creepiest, and ugliest, creature in the movie. These are just a few of the characters in, I repeat, a movie that's not for kids. The situations make for hilarity in the film, but this film could traumatize children. It really could.It's refreshing that Jackson created his own characters, rather than making parodies of each individual Muppet. While Heidi the Hippo is clearly influenced by Miss Piggy, the rest of the characters are original and therefore often funny the times you can tell what they're saying. The sound on this film is fuzzy, even on the independently-released DVD, and you have to turn your TV up to understand some of the dialogue in these characters.The lighting also could have been better. To the filmmaker's credit, the lack of lighting gave this film a dark and unfriendly ambiance which is well deserved. However, the light could have been brighter on the good characters (such as Robert and Lucille) and darker on the bad characters (like Bletch) to show obvious contrast between the characters. Instead, it looked as though the filmmakers used one light to film the entire production, and instead of making the film look intentionally creepy, it looks unintentionally crappy.Although Peter Jackson is now a major name in Hollywood, you're still hard-pressed to find this movie on DVD. It has been released on two different DVDs in the U.S., but both of them are a.) hard to find, b.) of low quality, and c.) released by an independent studio who included no special features of any kind. Now that it's 20 years since the movie has been made, it's high time they release a 20th Anniversary DVD of the film.Although Meet The Feebles is far from perfect, it's a great parody of not only the Muppets, but other puppet productions that contain wall-to-wall cuteness. What Ralph Bakshi did for family-friendly cartoons which would otherwise seem cute and cuddly in Fritz The Cat, Jackson does for these kids puppets who would otherwise have family appeal in Meet The Feebles. It's demented and funny, but hasn't gotten the release or restoration it deserves. Hopefully that will change in the near future. "},{"Title":"Muppets for adults.","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" For something so unique i was a bit disappointed at how this turned out. It looked really good from the trailers but trailers can be deceiving. Don't get me wrong, i liked it but i just thought Meet The Feebles would be awesome. It starts off OK and then just gets too chaotic and stupid. The structure really did fall apart (just because it's a crazy film doesn't mean it shouldn't have structure). Some of the characters get really annoying too. That frickin giant fly was annoying from the get go. Saying all that though, there are quite a few laughs here with a huge intense finale (ha that poor rabbit finds out he isn't gonna die then BLAM). Meet The Feebles must have took months to make. Worth a watch but definitely not for kids under 14. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Still Traumatized...","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I found this movie in a Wherehouse store one day, April of 2003.  Saw it labeled as, From the Director of Lord of the Rings.  Saw that it also had Fran and Phillippa on its credits as well.  Read the package and thought, well, yes, I am scared of puppets (who isn't?) but it's probably very clever...Needless to say, if my husband wants to traumatize me or give me nightmares, all he needs to do is hum a bit of the themesong and I'm done for.For those who liked Greg the Bunny, who thought this might be along that line, think again it's dark, it's visually and emotionally disturbing, and puppets shouldn't splat when they die.  They should have stuffing.  Not guts.It was an interesting concept and well done.  But Peter Jackson still owes me cash for the therapy bills. "}{"Title":"Twisted, so twisted...","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  From what I remember from the 1 time I saw this not my choice; man, I have to stop hanging out with friends who only want to see artsy-fartsy movies!...    This is one twisted mofo of a movie.  I remember being fairly disturbed by this one.  I did find it a bit funny at times, but I think it was more the shock value of the idea of puppets acting like sick and twisted... well, actors.  I know lots of theater people... this movie is not much of a stretch.  BUT, I would not recommend seeing it unless you never want to view any of your cherished Muppet Show memories in the same light ever again.  If you're up for something really weird and fairly disturbing, by all means... "},{"Title":"A maddened binge of debauchery and puppetry.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Most people who give this movies poor reviews do so because they completely miss the point of the movie. It is solely meant to be good for a laugh and a spoof. I agree that much of the plot wouldn't work if it was done with people and not puppets but that seems to be part of the joke. On the other hand don't expect to enjoy this movie if you have ever argued in favour in censorship. "},{"Title":"Dont believe the hype","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is really not as bad as some of the other comments make out.  It is certainly not as gory as his other films.What it does have is humour in leaps and bounds.  The puppetry is excellent and the characterisation of each is superb.  You really feel like you are watching a truly dark episode of the Muppets.Despite this, it is a little twisted (though not on par with Cronenberg). It is a film that you will remember and if you think you can stomach such a weird/funny/twisted treat as this, go for it, you wont be dissapointed. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A scary and traumatic experience","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I may be speaking out of turn here, as it has been nine or ten years since the first and only time that I watched Meet the Feebles but I feel my comments have to be displayed.This dark and brooding, sexually orientated comedy is both chilling and hilarious at the same time. I have a feeling that the only hilarious thing about it is that the characters are all animal puppets, obviously very similar to those that, only ten years previous to watching this film, I used to love and get taught by on Sesame Street. But these animals had a serious sting in their tale.The tagline to the film is 'Hell hath no fury like a hippo with a machine gun'. Is this a hilarious fantastical romp, or a dark arty movie designed to haunt your sleep for years? My answer - it could be both, but for me it was the latter.Admittedly I was only ten or eleven years old when I saw this movie and presumably a lot of the jokes went above my head. But for most of the movie, it was all too clear and all to disturbing what was going on. The concept of a puppet of a sewage rat is enough in itself, but when that sewage rat puppet then proceeds to make cheap underground porno films with some disturbingly graphic visual puppet sequences, it gets to be too much. Similarly an adorable rabbit puppet smitten with venereal disease is a bit too much to bear.Maybe I'm a bit too biased, I'm sure I could watch this movie again and laugh along despite the resurgence of unpleasant memories, but I can assure you that no matter how strong your composure, this film is no stroll in the tulips. Some arty comedies are fun, while others shake you to the bone. All I can do is marvel at how far Peter Jackson has come. 2 1/2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great fun for Gore-hounds...","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" ....but not for the faint of heart.  This movie contains a treendous amount of violence, pornography, and the copious ingestion of illegal drugs and, er, waste. It's also a movie starring puppets.  I think that summary tells you whether or not you're the type of person that would want to see this movie, but it's worth noting that Peter 'Lord of the Rings' Jackson's direction is more inventive and energetic than almost anyone else's, even at this early stage. Unfortunately the cinematography suffers noticeably due to the low budget, and Frank Oz is still the only person I've seen who's able to get a credible acting performance out of a puppet.  7/10. "},{"Title":"The dark seedy underworld of puppetry....","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I dont think Jim Henson would have had the gumption to reveal the private lives of a gang of puppets trying to get their show ready for live broadcast. But then again I dont think Kermit and Miss Piggy would lead as interesting a private life as the crazed and hilarious puppets in Peter Jackson's Meet the Feebles. Peter Jackson brings another healthy serving of depravity, gore and dark humor in the form of a puppet variety hour. No longer confined to the dream come true lives of most imaginary puppets, these animals participate in every manner of filthy act known to hollywood. Pornography, drugs, sexually transmitted diseases, brutal violence and sexual promiscuity are just a few of the adoring qualities the Feebles posess. I loved this movie mainly for the hilarious content and the joy of watching lovable cuddly puppets kill each other and employ every manner of detestable human trait to make succesful the Meet the Feebles Variety Hour. Peter Jackson is a true visionary and has created another masterpiece in this shocking expose of hollywood puppet life in the hellish fast lane of entertainment. LONG LIVE CULT CINEMA!!! "},{"Title":"funny, funny fun fun","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Another triumph for Jackson. This film is sick and funny. This isn't Jackson's best film but it's definitely worth watching if your a fan of bad taste, brain dead and/or the muppets. WARNING some people who watch this film have taken it too seriously. I recommend  taking with a pinch of salt, and with your tongue firmly in your cheek. Remember this is a film about puppets.  "},{"Title":"Muppets gone crazy go crazy","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  *Spoilers below!*If u like blood, puppets and Bad Taste, there's a good chance that you'll like Meet the Feebles too. It has everything one expects from an early Peter Jackson splatter movie blood, vomit, puppets who didn't quite make it to The Muppets, bunnies having diseases of questionable origin and the compulsory 10 minute-bloodbath where a hippo with M60 has a date with 1000 puppets and 1000 liters of fake blood.This film isn't perfect however. I'm a big fan of Peter's work, but his early movies tend to be a little bit too long. 20 minutes could have been cut without hurting the main plot...if there was any.Although violent and shameless, this film isn't disgusting. The humour is always there. Torturing puppets in many imaginable ways can actually be quite fun. I still wouldn't show this to minors or anybody who doesn't stand blood.In conclusion, if you have a strong stomach and a taste for humorous splatter flicks, you'll propably like this one too. Although a bit too long, enjoyable nevertheless and worth many good laughs. Definately worth watching, a solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"If you want to see the adult Muppets show, here it is!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  We all know that Peter Jackson is a man of genious after seeing Lord of the Rings.  Meet the Feebles is a good introduction to the beginning of his genius.  First of all, who would have the gall to do an adult version of the Muppet Show?  Second, Jackson takes all the slimy elements of show biz and puts it in the puppet world--you'll never see that on the Muppets!  Finally, He makes the puppets living beings--this is shown rather disgustingly via vomit,ejaculation, blood, defacation and urination.  These three elements in itself makes this worthwhile watching.  Yes, it can be considered disturbing, and yes, this is definitely not for kids.  But at the same time, it makes comedic, and groundbreaking, cinema. "},{"Title":"PERVERTED!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  And that's not a bad thing! =) Peter Jackson and his wife maked this movie unforgottable! It's similar to the Muppet Show, just add some gore, puke, Vietnam veterans, Fetish Sex and a lot of SICK humor! haaha this is one of the sickest movies EVER made! it's even sicker than Braindead and Bad Taste! A must see Comedy,Splatter movie! Peter Jackson at his best!  "}{"Title":"We're not your average, ordinary people!.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  The second feature directed by the great Peter Jackson, and the first of his early films I saw.  Yes, it's sick. Yes, it's gross. Yes, it's totally shameless.  And yes, it's great! This has often been described as 'the Muppets on acid' and I have to agree.  This is the sort of thing the Muppets would be in the REAL world of showbiz!There are very few sympathetic characters in this movie, but the bad guys, such as the corrupt producer Bletch the Walrus and his sidekick, a Peter Lorre-like rat named Trevor, are great characters.  The good guys, including gay fox director Sebastian and loveable stage manager Arthur the Worm are also fully-rounded characters. There are also the rather two-dimensional lovers, Robert the Hedgehog and Lucille the Poodle, but they are likeable compared with some of the other characters.SPOILER WARNING It is the day of the TV debut of THE FABULOUS FEEBLES VARIETY HOUR, a hit variety show, and basically, everything that can go wrong does go wrong.  Their MC, a bed-hopping rabbit catches a serious disease which may or may not be sexually transmitted, their star, the Miss Piggy-like hippo Heidi, is going through a stage of depression, the knife thrower (a drug-addicted Vietnam-vet frog) has accidentally killed his assistant and a sleazy fly reporter (aptly described by Arthur as 'a no-good muck raker from the gutter press') is doing his damdest to spread nasty behind-the-scenes rumours.  Not only this, but producer Bletch is involved in a lot of dirty stuff on the side, such as drug-dealing and making porn movies in the cellar.Ultimately, the film is enjoyable,and rather moralistic.  All the 'bad' people in the story like Bletch, Trevor and the Fly are punished, while all the 'good' people like Robert, Lucille, Arthur etc. live happily ever after.The songs are particularly good, the show-stopper being Heidi's touching ballad 'Garden of Love'.  Just give this film a chance and you'll see what a work of art it is. "},{"Title":"Easily the most offensive, twisted movie, EVER!!!!!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Have you ever wondered what went on back stage at the Muppets Show? Some would say that this movie is the muppets on acid, if so then this is a bad trip. I'm one who is not easily offended I actually take pride in offending others with my stupidity. But seeing this movie for the first time was a smack in the face telling me that in a world of sickos I'm not even at the bottom feed. Which is not to say I didn't like this movie. Any movie that can offend me is alright in my book. But I definitely would not watch this under the influence of any drugs. To anyone who's not seen this, you'll never look at the muppets the same way, that's for sure. To say the least. Within the 100 minutes of this film, you'll witness a knife throwing heroin addict, a machine gun toting over weight singer, a drug dealing TV producer, a musical about sodomy, the making of an underground porno movie, a promiscuous star with every STD known to man, a regurgitated singing fish, a panty sniffing borax O.D. victim, a fly that dines on fecal material, a cross breed elephant/chicken, veitnam flasbacks that spoof The Deer Hunter, Apocalypse Now, and Platoon, and fury little things that soil them selves for fun. All this is pretty outrageous by itself, but given that the entire movie is preformed by a cast of muppets it's too much to take. Great movie, if you have a nice twisted sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson's worst movie","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I have been a fan of Peter Jackson's work for a long time but when I saw Meet The Feebles i lost all my fate in him.First of all the movie feature no humans,just puppets. I didnt find the story funny at all,and it was nothing like I had expected. There is very little gore in this movie at it features a lot of animal puppets which I think not is funny at all.I guess Peter Jackson's Splatter period is over because now he has started to make the Lord of the Rings trilogy.And that is a big budget adventure movie.So I advice everyone to see Braindead and Bad Taste instead of this awful attempt at a shocking puppet comedy.Stay away from 'Meet The Feebles' "},{"Title":"hilarious, grotesque, trademark Jackson!","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  As is usually the case with Peter Jackson's films, Meet the Feebles is over-ambitious and excessive (the running time should have been trimmed down), but also highly entertaining.  Indeed, it possesses a certain warm-heartedness amid a lot of grotesque imagery, as cute-looking Muppets do some very nasty things (bunny porn, anyone?).  The characters themselves are well-developed and the action approaches levels of trademark Jackson absurdity.  Meet the Feebles is better than Bad Taste, but lacks the fluid balance of Dead Alive; still, it's one of the most ferociously tasteless (and hilarious) movies around, and makes South Park look tame by comparison.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good....puppets","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Got to be one of the most infantile, ridiculous films ever made. Good puppets and some amusing voice acting aside, I see no reason to recommend this film to anybody, for any reason; any intention Jackson had in mind is completely lost. It may be easy for some to assume that disliking this film is just an indication you only know him as the LOTR director, but in fact I am a fan of some of Jackson's work, both the big budget stuff and the small, and I appreciate that he pushed the boundaries of taste; I have no issue with the tone, I just wonder what made a talented film maker spend so much time on something so putrid, aimless and dull. "},{"Title":"Insane...","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" To sum it up, when someone says this film is perverse, do not take it with extreme caution, take it as a threat on your life. This film is so crazy it's actually kinda good.I did NOT like this film the first time I watched it, mainly because there's a lot of raunchy moments and some grotesque imagery, and had I not given it a second chance, I might have rated it much lower. I ADORE/ADMIRE/LOVE Peter Jackson, and believe him to be a remnant of classic Hollywood-style, but to say the least this is his weakest motion picture to date.The voice-work for the puppets is great, however, there's just so much perversity, I had to look away. The snuff film was okay, and the poor puppet that thought he had an STD provided for some laughs, but other than that, the acting cannot save the majority of comedy.The puppets themselves range from hideous to cutely-hideous, and the final 10-minutes of the movie are the funniest moments out of the entire film. The carnage resembles that of Bad Taste and Braindead, though not nearly as gory and above-the-bar in gross-out.All in all, this was an excellent idea, if not poorly executed. There's not a lot of flaws, but the flaws are so huge themselves that they warrant Meet the Feebles a 7-star review.This is Peter Jackson's weakest film to date, and I highly suggest his fans or fans of The Lord of the Rings (such as me) skip out on seeing this picture... unless you absolutely HAVE TO.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"C'mon you guys...","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Don't you guys know how to watch a clut movie with a twisted sense of humor.All of you gave bad reviews to this movie when it should of gotten a good 10 on 10.Of course the sense of humor is diffrent, but that's one of the best points of this flick.Go wrent it, and like it... ... it's an order!11 on 10 "},{"Title":"A Film you'll love or hate!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" ...and I LOOOOVVEEDD this film.There are many opinions about this movie, but one thing is definitely wrong that it is boring and unfunny(as mentioned below this comment). That can only someone say, who's addicted to gore, human gore. "},{"Title":"More realistic than the Muppets!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  When i read story line, i thought that it would be worth watching but when i watched it i found that i was glad that i did. Funny scenes throughout and captures more of the human emotions than the Muppets for example Happiness, Sadness, Anger/Rage, jealousy etc. Great film worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Cute and funny.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  What's wrong with these reviewers? I popped in Meet the Feebles expecting a freaky, disturbing bizarre film. Instead I got a highly entertaining, enjoyable, well made, and yes even cute movie. Sure, it's not for everyone, but give it a chance. You'll enjoy it more if you have a warped sense of humor though.  "}{"Title":"Still Peter  Jackson's best work","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Gawd I love this movie!!!!!!  Just hilarious all round.Wickedly funny spoof of the 'Muppets' show and dare I say...shrewdly hidden social commentary i.e.the quack celebrity doctor, the reporter fly who literally eats human excrement, the exploitative producer who traffics drugs and porn and makes a profit off of human misery/exploitation, the sex addicted 'rabbit' who catches The Big ONE etc. This movie is just great from top to bottom....gross out comedy yet there are some very sharp one-liners(usually uttered by the troupe director, the fox Sebastion...just brilliant!!!)  Now its not great cinema..but I found the melodrama to be very effective when portrayed by non humans...allowing people to see how vapid and shallow 'show biz' can be...and how flawed are the people who put it onscreen.  Yet, the movie was not without a heart...as the few caring souls in this company are spared 'the final curtain'  But..deep social commentary aside, its just a funny, thoroughly enjoyable movie. I watched it 3 times and one day and never got tired of it once. Just brilliant and way better than the bloated Fellowship of the Rings.Best Lines of the movie(they make sense if u have seen the film) Sebastion- OH MY GOD!...Next! Trevor- Alright you fat slag, move your a**! Daisy the cowOh god, not another panty sniffer, he's gonna want me to unrinate in his mouth  next!!Sigh..such a classic. "},{"Title":"Interestingly intriguing","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Meet the Feebles is quoted as being the muppets on acid.  It certainly is.  Just imagine that Kermit is a walrus and Ms. Piggy is a hippo. Simple, right?  Then imagine, with Ms. Piggy's temper, the hippo found out the walrus (Kermit) was cheating on her with a cat named Samantha.  And that's only the beginning of it.Two words describe this movie  SHOCK VALUE.  This movie shows puppets doing things that normal movies (with humans) wouldn't dream of showing.  Parts of the movie are just weird.  Wrong?  Yes.  Shocking? Absolutely.  Good? Well, I might not go as far as to say the movie is good.  It definitely had it's moments.  To enjoy this movie, you have take the 'sick' moments with a grain of salt.  (Unless a cow-spanking cockroach is your thing).The film quality is fuzzy, but what can you expect with a 1989 release? The puppets aren't exactly state of the art, either.  But that's part of the movie's appeal.  You actually feel that you're in the wrong part of town along with these characters.The movie is well-planned.  Several storylines are broken into pieces so you can have a break from the rat who makes pornos or the fly who takes his dinner in the toilet.  Some of these characters, crazy as it sounds, you begin to feel for.Overall, I wouldn't say that this movie is a good movie.  It's ok.  Some people will love it, and others will hate it.  It just depends on how you look at it (for gore-lovers, just watch it, for people who don't love twisted humor, watch it for the storylines, they are there.)5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Peter Jackson at His Best!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  It is hard to believe that this indie genius directed the Lord of the Rings (2001). You really should see what he was like before he made it big!The movie consists of a slew of puppets preparing for their variety show.There is a lot of slapstick humor in the film, but it gets so ridiculous that you can't stop howling at the self-mockery. Every problem known to man from AIDS to drug addiction features in the movie, and it makes for a hilarious time. "},{"Title":"One Of The Weirdest Movies I've Ever Seen (10/10)","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Meet The Feebles is one of the weirdest movies I've ever seen (and I mean that in a good sense).  You have to see this movie to believe it.  This movie has great scenes such as the rat making adult movies in the basement, Heidi and her machine gun, and even the rabbit and his sickness. Definitely a great movie for a bunch of drunks to sit around and enjoy late at night..... "},{"Title":"A Must See Film!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  What can I say, this is a must see film! You definitely won't forget this movie in a hurry.  Think of the movie this way, The Muppets on drugs with a lot of violence thrown in. This movie is a CLASSIC! "},{"Title":"ok but not peter jackson's best work","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  i saw this movie on the sundance channel and it was getting good but the theme song called meet the feebles is amusing the sfx need to be more better and the songs are a little dumb the best part is where the hippo starts shooting everybody up i whould like to see peter jackson's other movie the lord of the ring FELLOWSHIP OF THE RINGS it should be good. i even did saw the frightners and that one was good i never saw bad tase or dead alive but i will see them some day but i whould like to have a director's cut of the frightners on dvd hope it has lot of good stuff in it. "},{"Title":"good, bad and all round freaky","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I really did enjoy this movie, although I had nooooo idea what I was in for. After the first few minutes I wondered what I was in for, but I watched it fully and it was worth it! definetly not for the easily disgusted!! If you like strange/weird movies, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Utter filth. Drugs. Sodomy. Guns. Aids. Vicious Stereotyping. Bunnilingus...","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I LOVED it!Many of the people who p*** on this film because of the aforementioned description are obviously blinded by the social ills contained deep within or a sense of denial about all that is bad and non PC. Peter Jackson takes anti PC sentiment to epic proportions, and best of all it leaves a stain in your mind due to the puppets as opposed to human actors. By the time Lord of The Rings hits I suspect several newer fans will seek out Mr. Jackson's former body of work and I guarantee more than a few will be taken back by this harrowing masterpiece. A must see for anyone tired of forced political correctness...  "},{"Title":"Just Plain Lame","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I had heard of Meet the Feebles for a couple of years, and had always wanted to check it out.  When I finally did, I was disapointed.  I love low-budget cheesiness and bad taste as much as the next guy, but this film just seemed like such a waste.  The basic plotline is extremely weak, and it relies purely on shock value to save it, but it falls flat.   The first few minutes of it showed some promise-seeing the Feebles Variety Hour did make me laugh...but it was all downhill from there.  If it's low budget indie zaniness you want, go for a Troma film instead.  If it's bad taste, rent Pink Flamingos or Desperate Living.  But don't waste your time on this one.  "},{"Title":"A very Feeble film","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I reflect on why I saw this film and I think is was because of sheer boredom, in the end I was not even the slightest bit less bored, but then again, why whinge.Although this film has a transparent script, this film did not miss any opportunity for any sex, sex references, drugs and drug references and the possibility of an excretion of any sort, as well as bodily functions, voluntary or involuntary. A quite remarkable feat when you think about it.This is a leave your brain at the door type film, and that's a good thing every once in a while. "}{"Title":"Absolutely fabulous","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I saw this movie a while back, knowing nothing of it. And I loved it from the git go! The humor is totally adorable and its bizarre cast of puppet-characters will keep you laughing. Don't take this movie for anything else than it is, a complete pile of lovely trash not to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"Just sit past the first couple of minutes, and you'll love it!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"   I am a HUGE fan of Peter Jackson now that I have seen this movie. But, some of my other friends said it sucked after they only watched the first 8 minutes of it. But, I didn't have a problem with the first minutes of it! I loved the whole thing! A very depressing and good film. I can watch it over and over and over again and it will not get boring for me! Very gross, and very funny. "},{"Title":"The most messed-up movie ever!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I don't think that movie was as funny as it could have been.  Some times it goes too far, other times not far enough.  It MUST be seen by anyone who claims to have some knowledge of bizarre, off-beat cinema.  I can't be too hard on a movie that has a frog shooting up on heroin in it.  Worth seeing, if you have a sick sense of humor, if not, stay as far away as possible. Since this is so different from his other work, it is hard to compare this with the other films in Jackson's canon.  It is better than the edited version on Braindead, but thats all I can say.  See the film and you are officially cooler than your friends. "},{"Title":"EXTREMELY bizarre","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This UNBELIEVABLY weird puppet comedy may be worth seeing for the shock value, but when I compared it to other films (a tough comparison, to be sure), I found this to be a little weak to recommend.  This movie starts off terribly, and even though things improved considerably after the first ten minutes, it was still nothing great.  There's no question that the filmmakers would try anything for a laugh, and I certainly admire any film that is as warped as this, but there weren't enough funny moments for me to call this a truly enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Not your average, ordinary puppets...","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Meet the Feebles is a very funny fable with a critic to society as a  moral. And as every fable it is told by animals or in this case show business puppets.   This movie is about to become 15 years old but all kind conflicts portrayed are today´s matters as well, corruption, drugs,  STDs, violence, papparazzi stalking, you name it... After Peter Jackson success with the Lord of the Rings movies, and the curiosity about his previous works I hope Meet the Feebles to be discovered and enjoyed by a lot of people all over the world.    Very funny to watch with a group of friends, specially if some of them are watching it for the 1st time, the twisted humor (and songs) can cause all kind of reactions!.  "},{"Title":"Not very interesting if you've seen a lot of anime","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Made after the entertaining Bad Taste, and before the excellent Dead Alive/Braindead (and years before the horrible Hollywood dreck Lord of the Rings), Meet The Feebles is, in a sense, a one joke pony.  Take muppets and make them do the unthinkable.  This would be a great shock if you were in the medium = content frame of mind, where cartoons and puppets are always for children.  However, if you've seen a range of anime, you've probably overcome that mental barrier, so seeing puppets have sex and do drugs is probably no more shocking than seeing cartoons have sex and do drugs.  If that's the case, the shock value won't carry you, and what's left is the content of the movie itself.  Meet the Feebles is actually hampered by its use of puppets, as none of the violence, sex, or other disgustingness can be done very well.  Peter Jackson and crew did amazing work with the limited resources that they had, but it isn't quite enough.  The only scenes that really get a Braindead-like eww... are the fly eating feces scene and Harry's super-vomit scene.  The story itself is just an excuse for a collage of shock scenes, which is why the movie ultimately fails.  If a movie is made to showcase shock scenes which aren't shocking, there isn't much left.  Though not a bad movie, per se, it ends up being somewhat bland. "},{"Title":"early hints of a master to be","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  all one need to say about Meet the Feebles is that no puppets were hurt during the making of this film.If you think that's funny, you have found an excellent film to watch. If you don't get it, leave it, you won't like it anway.ThanksTitus "},{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  After I had seen the wonderful Heavenly Creatures I was very curious on other Peter Jackson films. So I saw Meet the Feebles. After the show I was terrible disappointed. The worst were not even the atrocities and the insipid jokes but everything seemed so far-fetched and demanding for some laugher. While the film was running, I got more and more tired because this flick bored me. Peter Jackson is in fact a very talented director and he can make better films. "},{"Title":"Puppets on dope --- Hilarious !!!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Peter Jackson is a great filmmaker. Duh! , that's what everyone says. But I'm talking about the films he made BEFORE the Lord of the Rings !! Like Braindead, Bad Taste and also this very funny and dared MEET THE FEEBLES ! I hope this doesn't mean there's something very wrong with my, but I laughed sick with this movie. It's brutal, satanic, cynic, gore but oh so funny...the way a cult movie like this ought to be !! And it has cult written all over it, I assure you. I think this would even have worked with normal persons to play the characters, can you imagine what extra effect it has with these muppets ?All characters in the variety show Meet the Feebles are memorable. We've got a depressed elephant, a pantie-sniffing ant eater, an oversensitive hedgehog, a frog who fought in Vietnam and now he's addicted to every possible drug, a rabbit who screws every female on the set, a hippo with an eating disorder and a giant cigar-smoking walrus who runs the crazy place. All these animals have their own problems which influence their work. None of them can actually stand another but they have to try and make a show together. Meanwhile, the boss of the whole thing, Bletch (the Walrus) is involved in all sorts of crime. Great!! But the most memorable character certainly is Trevor...He's a sarcastic chain-smoking rat who sells dope, makes snuff movies and rapes dogs. I'd say Give him an Oscar! He's brilliant. Maybe you shouldn't watch this film if you're easily offended or if you can't handle too much gore. Because, it's not because they're puppets they don't bleed. Au contrary, I would say. They die Braindead-style ! The film is filled with humor but it's from the darkest kind of humor that exists. So if you liked Sleepless in Seattle or Pretty Woman...maybe this isn't your cup of tea. For all movie-lovers who'd like to see something different and original  I recommend this movie. Make sure your children aren't around though ! "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Films Of All Time","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  A Great film from Peter Jackson. This film is about a group of puppets with their own weekly show and it happens on one day when the show must go on and it is the first show in their new series or whatever. You get to see what is happening the last hours before the show backstage and on. The star of the show is a hippo who has an eating disorder and is depressed she is overweight and her boyfriend Bletch who is the executive producer and the owner of the program is having an affair with a cat who hates the hippo. The stage manager is a rat who makes porno films with a cow and locusts. He then drugs one of the stars and uses her in one of the porno films. Then there is a fly who works for a tabloid magazine and tries so hard to get some stories of what is happening to the stars of the show. Then there is a rabbit who has orgies in his dressing room and finds out that he´s gotten Aids. This is just a part of what is going on.It is sick,gory, bloody and extremely funny. A Cult classic that people should check out but it is certainly not for young children. 9/10. "}{"Title":"Repulsive...but a classic","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Before Peter Jackson was beginning to get bigger and more famous over the world, this was the type of movie he made. Movies that are so disgusting, that they are funny. Forget the classiness of 'Lord of the Rings', or 'Heavenly Creatures', this film is gross!This was a film i had seen the cover to a thousand times, but never felt the interest to see. But when i finally rented it, boy was i suprised...Everything in this film works. The puppetry, well a little dated, is hilarious, and the script successfully 'takes the piss' out of family directed puppet shows such as The Muppets.This wont be for everyones tastes, like Jacksons previous movies 'Bad Taste' and 'Braindead', but for anyone who finds cats giving oral sex under the desk to a giant walrus, or a hippo going on a revenge rampage with a machine gun funny.. THIS IS THE MOVIE FOR YOU!!!!Well done to Jackson for having the balls to make a film that could have easily become lame and pathetic. I applaud him and the studio exec how gave this the green light...8/10..... YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!  "},{"Title":"DO NOT READ THIS REVIEW IF YOU DO NOT WANT THE PLOT REVEALED","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Before I begin I would like to warn you that I plan to reveal some of the story for MEET THE FEEBLES.I would like to start off by saying that this is one of those films that probably should have never been made.  I hate to reveal the story but, sorry, there isn't one in this film.  The characters, and I use that term loosely, seem to feed off of each other with absolutely no thread of decency or discretion.Despite all of this film's flaws, I can think of two characters that I could actually relate to.  The first was the chicken that wandered around with its head blown off.  It sounds cruel but I can't think of a better way to describe how I felt while watching this film.  The second character I could relate to was the hippo that massacred all of the other puppets.  I related with the hippo because at this point in the film all of the characters had become so annoying that I couldn't stand them anymore.  And, frankly, I couldn't think of another way that this film could have ended other than a bloodbath of severed fluffy puppet parts.Even though I have many bad things to say about MEET THE FEEBLES, I didn't give this film a one.  I think it takes a lot of bad movie making to create a movie that deserves the lowest score.  Another reason I did not rate this film with the lowest score is because I have seen worse films, if you can believe that.  So I gave this film a 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"I love the muppets, but this spoof of them is a must see","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This movie is just beyond description.  If you like REALLY bad movies I highly recommend it.  It's only an hour and a half, but it seemed more like three.  I don't know if that is bad or good, all I know is that no matter how God awful the beginning is, it is all worth it at the end to watch a rhino or some other puppet get taken out by a rampaging hippo with a heavy machine gun. "},{"Title":"Mostly boring","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This film is a collection of individual scenes, most of which are about as funny as a Scary Movie. Unlike there however, in Meet the Feebles we can find a few pearls, although not all are original at all (even stealing from Dr. Seuss, of all sources...). The rest is purely boring or annoying. Loads of excrement, sex and blood. Yawn - provocation without coolness has never convinced me much. It could have been a lot better, with less simply dirty jokes, less utterly annoying squeaky voices, more of a consistent story and so on. The puppets are okay for a while, but only a few characters have enough depth to be interesting. Maybe it was a mistake to make a film without any main character. For a far better attempt at a similar concept (provocative film with puppets), check out Team America. "},{"Title":"Meet the Feebles","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I had heard a little about this mock of puppet TV shows and movies, mainly the knowledge that Peter Jackson (Braindead, The Lord of the Rings Trilogy) was directing, so I tried it. Basically, in a world full of puppet characters, are the Feebles theatrical troupe of performers, with their Variety Hour drawing in the crowds. The star of the show is Heidi the Hippo (Mark Hadlow) is really upset when she catches boyfriend Bletch the Walrus (Peter Vere-Jones) having sex with Samantha the Cat (Donna Akersten), and she is doing her best to carry on with the show. New arrival Robert the Hedgehog (Hadlow) wants to become part of the stage act, with the permission of Arfur the Worm (Vere-Jones), who also introduces him to Robert's new love interest Lucille the Poddle. There is also Eyes in the Sky the Fly (Brian Sergent) is trying to scoop a big story involving Harry the Rabbit, and his sexual activities and illness could be the big one. Also, Trevor the Rat (Sergent) is trying to find the next big star for his porn movies, to join Madame Bovine aka Daisy the Cow (Devenie), and he is looking at Lucille. In front of the show audience, Sid the Elephant (Mark Wright) faces his baby responsibility, Robert can't face Lucille after finding out about her escapade with Trevor, and Harry is believes he is dying from a sexual transmitted disease, until Dr. Quack (Devenie) puts him straight. While all this happens at once, Heidi finally loses the plot and gets a M60 machine gun to shoot anyone and everyone in her way, killing Samantha, Harry, Sandy the Chicken (Devenie), Dorothy the Sheep (Akersten), Trevor, and of course Bletch. In the end the film reveals what all the living characters did after parting their ways from the Feebles fame. Also starring Hadlow as Barry the Bulldog, Sergent as Wynyard the Frog, Wright as The Cockroach and Louie the Fish, and Danny Mulheron as the singing voice of Heidi. If the Muppets were like us in a dark and screwed up world, this is what it would be like, full of swearing, sex, drugs, prostitution, rape, disease, Hippo's breasts and excrement. It is relatively amusing seeing cute and cuddly puppet characters behaving rude, sick and disgusting, Heidi is definitely the next Miss Piggy, but it one of those films that's maybe a little close to the mark in black comedy. Adequate! "},{"Title":"a toy of a project","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  How do you make a muppets movie rated R?  This is a prime example on how that can be accomplished - but that's all it is.  Few scenes are funny in retrospect as there are funny even to begin describing some of the oddball scenes.  Yeah, a rabbit with a venereal disease.. it's funny to talk about it let alone see it but is it worth having to see it in a 'movie'??? Perhaps the Monty Python followers will enjoy this movie as much as they love to cite those dialogues over and over again. "},{"Title":"Very very odd...","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This wasn't a bad movie, but it wasn't good either. It had some funny bits, but mostly it just made me uncomfortable. The puppets weren't very good, but they really are not supposed to be very good in a Peter Jackson film. They had good voices and had very interesting qualities to their personalities. I wouldn't want to know most of these characters, if they were humans. This wasn't a very funny movie, like Bad Taste was. It was over the top, but not in a good way like Braindead was. It wasn't scary, but very disturbing. A puppet show for the insane, perhaps? Not one of my all time favorites, for sure. "},{"Title":"What an overrated piece of crap this is!","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Okay, I love shock comedy. I have Orgasmo, Team America, and South Park in my DVD library. I usually buy the shows from Adult Swim as well. I'm sweet for the most vile and disgusting humor imaginable (including a horrid flick entitled Porn of the Dead given to me as a joke last year), but this movie was simply pathetic. The jokes were predictable and unfunny, the plot was threadbare and weak, and the only reason I think anybody likes this movie is simply because it's got an imitation Kermit the Frog on smack and a cat bl*wing a walrus. Why is this tripe a cult classic? Is this what constitutes groundbreaking originality? Ha-Freakin-Ha. That was sarcasm. The hero of this 97 minute long fecal log is an obnoxious, whining, self-pitying pink hippo who can't stop stuffing bakery cakes down her gullet long enough to figure out why nobody likes her anymore. Sure, her walrus boyfriend is cheating on her, but besides the degradation of both her stage career and her body (of which both things are certainly her own fault), there is nothing else wrong in her life. Somehow, this justifies the machine-gun slaughter of all the folks she knows. This mass murdering Hippo (whose character is a blatant ripoff of Hoppopotomus on that 80's cartoon The Wuzzles) serves only ten years in prison at the end, as if her inverted sadness excuses her heinous crimes. Sure, the bad guy of a Walrus and his hustling rat pal are dead, but so are a whole bunch of one-note characters that we barely heard from during the movie at all, and simply didn't deserve to die at the Hippo's hands. Usually, I giggle at mass-murder vengeance in movies (if the killer is righteous, ala Frank Castle), but this stupid, selfish, gluttonous hippo just makes the almost-cool end of this insufferable film all the more detestable. From the very boring musical number at the beginning to the brainlessly unsatisfying end, there is nothing worth writing about that happened in between. (Well, maybe the sodomy song, but other than that....) Peter Jackson King Kong, Frighteners, LOTR....all GREAT movies. The only redeeming quality to this stupid Feeble flick is the credits, 'cause that means the torture is finally over. Which walrus did you play the cat with to find work again after this? Avoid this unimaginative sewage at all costs. "},{"Title":"The Worst Film I Have Ever Seen(BOMB/0 Out Of ****)","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" *This is my last review on IMDb. You can now find my reviews on Cinemasickness.com/Teamsickness.I take it upon myself to re-watch movies to see if they are worse or better than I remember. I reviewed this film as my 200th review. Consider this a rewrite. Since then I saw reviews saying that this was a film to see and it was some peoples favorite film, which is weird but I am not one to judge people. I am here to judge this film. Is it better or worse than when I reviewed i?. Well believe it or not, it somehow manages to be worse than before. There is no other film that has made me more disgusted and has made me angrier than Meet The Feebles. This movie is so bad that I could analyze and nitpick every single thing wrong about this film but I'll spare you the time. When I revisited this film I saw at least 15 things that I left out of my original review. So let's get started.Heidi The Hippo is upset because, during rehearsal, Trevor The Rat insults her. Heidi Runs to her lover Bletch The Walrus (Which provokes interesting thoughts) and Bletch comforts her. Beltch is secretly having an affair with Samantha The Siamese Cat (and shows you all of their Interactions). We also have Harry The Hare who gets sick after Little Bunny Froo Froo went hopping through the forest. Also a hedgehog who is in love with a poodle, a chicken married to an elephant, a drug addicted frog and the walrus doing drug deals. This I can not make up.Well the story is a good place to start. The main story itself is buried under so many ridiculous subplots it's awful. Also the movie does not know which story to go to because the film keeps jumping around like I just opened a can of Jumping Beans. The stories are terrible, every single one of them. Now all of the plots I mentioned are only half of what is in the film. The rest are either not worth mentioning, or I can't put them in this review or else the wonderful folks over at IMDb Would kick me off forever. We wouldn't want that now would we? The characters... are the most disgusting and vile creatures I have ever seen. The Hippo is star hungry, The walrus is money hungry, The frog is a drug addicted wreck, The rabbit likes to go hopping without protection, The rat is an adult film director and plus there is an Indian running around with his head up his own Rectum! What the hell is going on here? I feel like someone was taking a ride on the LSD train while writing this. These Characters Are Mean-Spirited and soulless. You want investing characters? HA! Don't be ridiculous! There are no characters that you can invest in. Well there are 2 but to be honest they only have 4 minutes of screen time each. Thats not Good.This movie also tries to pass itself off as a musical. I find that hard to believe because there is not a single song in this worthless piece of trash that you can remember, and if you do remember the songs, they stick in your head until you want to put a gun to your head and pull the trigger. The soundtrack includes such classics like, I got one leg missing, The S***** Song and the always classic Garden Of Love. Meet The Feebles does not pass as a musical. A comedy that does pass as a musical is the 1999 film, South Park Bigger Longer & Uncut. That movie was also a satire, and it worked. This does not. Oh, and by the way, Just what the hell is this movie trying to be a satire of, because I'm not seeing it. Apparently, My intelligence is no match for this film.The Ending. This movie features, without a doubt, the worst ending in a feature-length motion picture I have ever seen. There will be spoilers but in all honesty you should stay away from this film. The ending starts with Heidi Trying to commit suicide by hanging herself but due to her being fat(Ha-Ha), she falls down to the basement. She then grabs a gun and decides to go on a shooting rampage. By this point in the film I wanted strangle myself, but I pushed on because there was less than 10 minutes left. She literally kills everybody but 6 people. The Hedgehog and the Poodle have kids(I'm Not sure how that would work), The Elephant and his son live a quiet life, And the worm retires. The next moment made me so mad I wanted to punch the screen I was watching. The Hippo gets only 10 years and then goes to work in a supermarket. Are you kidding me?!!? Have you had any criminal history. Oh nothing big, just that I went on a big shooting rampage and killed over 50 people. Your Hired!. This is the most Abysmal, Appalling, Asinine, Atrocious, Awful, Broken, Clumsy, Coarse, Cold-Hearted, Confused, Corrupt, Cruel, Despicable, Dirty, Disgusting, Disheveled, Dishonorable, Dreadful, Evil, Filthy, Foul, Ghastly, Gross, Grotesque, Harmful, Horrendous, Horrible, Immature, Inelegant, Insane, Junky, Lousy, Malicious, Mean, Misshapen, Monstorous, Nasty, Negative, Objectionable, Offensive, Painful, Questionable, Repulsive, Repugnant, Revolting, Rotten, Rude, Ruthless, Sad, Savage, Shocking, Sickening, Sinister, Slimy, Sorry, Spiteful, Stupid, Terrible, Ugly, Unapolegetic, Unfavorable, Unpleasant, Unsatisfactory, Unwanted, Unwelcome, Unholesome, Unwise, Vice, Vicious, Vile, Villainous, Vindictive, Wicked, Wortless movie I have ever seen. I have never seen a movie so shallow that people would actually say it's supposed to funny. This movie gets nothing right. The only thing that this movie succeeds at is pissing me off! This is without a doubt the worst film I have ever seen.Not Rated.1hr 33min/93min.BOMB/**** "},{"Title":"Not really sure what I was expecting....","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This movie was not nearly what I thought it was going to be. So many of the scenes seemed to be just tossed in there. Most of them without much comedic value, just tossed in to be controversial and different.I thought there would be some clever comedy within the dialogue. Some hilarious one liners, etc. It just did not deliver for me.I have to add, I did laugh(fairly hard) in some scenes, but these were far and few between... but these did assist in salvaging a 2 out of 10 from me. More often than not, I found myself very bored. If the movie is carried on holding nothing back, showing no fear as far as what can be shown, it has to be done in a unique way; otherwise, it simply shows it has the balls, but not the brains. A movie whose characters are puppets needs more than just this to keep my attention. "}{"Title":"The WORST film I have ever seen.","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  The premise was promising, but there were no laughs. Running at 93 minutes this film was 90 minutes too long. If you like irreverent comedies that are actually humorous, watch South Park, or Cannibal the Musical. However, if you want to see something disgusting and unfunny this movie may be for you. "},{"Title":"why???","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I'd really like to say this is the worst crime ever committed on celluloid, but I can't. See, for a movie to be truly bad it can't be made deliberately that way, and that's just what...(shudder) Meet The Feebles was. And somehow, that makes it worse. It's a snuff film with puppets. I can't put it any simpler than that.Sadly, I'm sure there are people out there who really like this movie. I can only say that they have medication for these people and they should avail themselves of it. There's nothing wrong with pushing the envelope of good taste...but at least have a reason. The only message I could discern from this film was bad guys finish last. And hey...THAT'S NOT TRUE!!! ...coughOJcough cough... South Park the Movie pushed the envelope, but it was funny with a good message. Canada is the source of all our problems.I wish I'd never seen this movie. Every once in a while, a scene will flash in my mind and I'll shudder. There is nothing redeemable about it. I want the people involved in it's creation to be punished...in Texas. Please, don't let my utter contempt for this movie pique your curiosity. It's not worth seeing it, you're young, you've got your whole life ahead of you! Consider yourself forewarned. Peace.p.s. Even after the three Lord of the Rings movies, I can't find it in my heart to forgive Peter Jackson for this. "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER MADE!!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This movie is terrible! This is the hardest movie to sit through. Don't get me wrong, I absolutlely love bad taste and sick jokes. But this tries way too hard and the novelty wears off REAL soon. Even though I like Jackson's Bad Taste and Dead Alive, they too are overlong and overblown. The same with The Frighteners. He either needs better scripting or a better editor. OK, hahahahah we get it- muppets doing pornos, shooting up, getting AIDS, hahahahahah! I can't think how anyone could possibly watch this a second time! The only films that I can think of that are harder to sit through are Herschell Gordon Lewis' Just For The Hell Of It, and This Stuff'll Kill Ya! I did funnier stuff and with more bad taste with MY puppets when I was a kid! Maybe I shoulda filmed it... "},{"Title":"What's going on?","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  What kind of world is this? What is the point for this sickness? Does anybody find it fun, or whatever? Could you admit in front of one child you see any good in this movie? I just can not find any quality in there, whether in the subject, nor in the way it is done! Please mister Jackson, your talent deserves much better than this!  "},{"Title":"Feebles...the guys who made this film","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This is the worst film I've ever seen. It is a useless piece of trash that manages to make muppets even more unbearable than the actual Jim Henson creatures. It is a self-indulgent venture into a deprave world of variety show freaks and the troubles they have preparing for and performing their awful show. Not since EL TOPO and PSYCHOS IN LOVE have I seen such a horrible cinematic suppository. I am truly sorry for all the sad souls who have seen this film, and I'm especially sorry for those who think it is a good film. I am truly surprised that Peter Jackson was allowed to ever direct another film after this travesty, especially since LORD OF THE RINGS was actually a wonderful motion picture. "},{"Title":"So why does Peter Jackson hate the Muppets so much?","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  I presume he hates them.  This is the most savage parody, of ANYTHING, I've ever seen.  The venom must have come from somewhere.Please believe me when I say it's not pretty to watch.  I could list the revolting images, but the list would itself be revolting; suffice it say that you can live happily without seeing them, but if you DO see them, you may find them uncomfortably hard to forget.  Choose wisely.  (Remember why it is that films like this manage to find an audience in the first place - it's because people who haven't seen them don't know what they're missing, and so aren't as grateful as they ought to be.)  The fact that these are muppets, rather than live actors, vomiting, shooting up, dying in pools of their own blood, and so forth, only makes matters worse it's that much harder to disengage.  I, for one, was involved to the end.  So it's not, as some people have been unable to resist calling it, a feeble film on the contrary, it has been crafted with skill, so as to be positively and pungently bad. "},{"Title":"God Awful","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  This movie was bad.  It wasn't funny, shocking, or interesting.  It was just god awful.  I like weird and unusual movies and this was neither, just plain stupid. Sorry if I'm repeating myself I just want to get the point across. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly disappointed.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":"  Based on the reviews and my listening to 'sodomy' this was MY kind of movie. No area rental joint had it, so I bought it on Amazon.It was terrible.  The sound was bad - reminds you of trying to understand everything in Snatch, but they weren't in England!This is the kind of movie that is a brilliant brilliant brilliant idea - done terribly wrong.  Not overly gross to top it off.  The funniest part still is my mp3 of 'sodomy'!Save your cash - rent Airplane or Pandemonium (1982) instead. "},{"Title":"Parody of a parody on Muppet Show with something like music","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Reading the comments, I was a expecting a rude version of The Muppets or the Fragles. Indeed it was gross, rude an disturbing at some points. Black twisted humor and not a single character I really liked.Don't get me wrong, South Park jokes and Wayne's World are favorites of mine, but this simply is either outdated sick humor or art-house comedy. Either way, it's not that funny as other comments have said.All clichés like good guys, bad guys, addicts and the showbiz way of doing business can be found here. BUT HEY, WHERE'S THE MUSICAL PART?! A few notes, the Feebles tune that comes around a few times... It's not like Annie or the Sound of the Music? Heck, even South Park The Movie had multiples times more of a soundtrack. Just skip this one. "}]