[{"Title":"Ridiculous, cute, and fun family entertainment","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a fun movie for the entire family. Well, of course, it's ridiculous but the kids will love it and you can laugh right along with them.The absurd tale revolves around around a nutty scientist & dad named Wayne Szalinski who is working on a machine to miniaturize objects. When his two kids plus their two neighbouring friends (the Thompsons) wander into his lab, Wayne inadvertently shrinks the four of them. Then he accidentally tosses them out in the garbage, so the poor kids have to brave the dangers of the lawn to get back to the house. And can the well intended but crazy scientist figure out how to bring the youngsters back to full size again? (Personally, my favourite aspect of the movie is the nutty father.)The story has plenty of adventure and danger as the teensy weensy younguns brave the perils of the jungle (actually their lawn). They face thunderstorm like risks of potentially drowning in the lawn sprinkler or being attacked by giant ants, bees, & other bugs. Not to mention the lawn mower!Avoid the TV series of the same name, but this movie has some good family messages involving the two sets of parents (the Szalinskis & the Thompsons) as well as the kids. And of course there's lots of hilarity and adventure. It should be rated higher than it is and fully deserved its popularity at the time. This film put the phrase 'Honey, I shrunk (or whatever) the kids' into people's everyday vocabulary! "},{"Title":"Something Tells Me We're Not Going Fishing This Weekend","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In the 'grammar' of western cinema, a continuum situation is established in the first reel, and an event intrudes upon that situation, thus launching the story.  In this film the intervening event is a baseball crashing through a neighbourhood window.  This being Disney, the context is an idealised suburban America, a world of neat lawns and plaid shirts, baseball mits and tall refrigerators, skateboards and electric toasters.The Disney Corporation is revisiting the territory of The Absent-Minded Professor (1961).  An eccentric scientist, working on experiments in his own home, is on the verge of a major research breakthrough.  His discovery surprises him when it happens, and it disrupts the laws of the physical universe, causing havoc in the micro-universe of New England clapboard houses where he lives.  In an overt reference to the earlier movie, there is even a character called Brainard in this one.Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis) is a misunderstood genius.  Scoffed at by academics and despised by his next-door neighbour Russ Thompson, Wayne perseveres with his research into a raygun which can shrink physical objects in size.  After a disheartening morning's work, Wayne leaves the house and forgets to switch off his shrinking-machine, which continues idling in the attic.The Szalinski kids, Amy and Nick, are helping with the household chores.  Amy is an attractive teenage girl and Nick is a chip off the old block - a geeky egghead with thick glasses, just like his dad.Next door, the Thompsons are the archetype of American domesticity. Russ Senior is a baseball-capped lover of fishing trips and his wife Mae is a pleasant if unremarkable mom.  Russ Junior has just been cut from the school football team, much to dad's chagrin, and is an uneasy teenager trying to work out what he wants.  His kid brother Ronnie is an unself-conscious all-American rascal.  In contrast to the Szalinskis, the Thompsons are resoundingly non-intellectual.It is Ronnie's baseball which smashes through the Szalinskis' attic window and activates the shrinking-ray.  The rest of the film is the tale of the four shrunken kids' odyssey from the garbage bag to safety, across the wild continental heartland of the Szalinskis' back yard.There are plenty of good visual jokes in the film, as when Amy realises that she has 'spun' herself into a knot with the phone flex, or the giant-size dead fly that the kids pass as they cross the attic floor, or Wayne's colossal face looming over the kids in the garden.  Moranis, expert farceur that he is, plays Wayne with consummate skill, enlivening a routine movie with nice acrobatic clownage.The one central gag of the film, the oversize world in which the kids find themselves, is pulled off with aplomb.  Giant insects, cigarette butts, screws and wormholes create the film's own internal logic which actually works, in spite of the ludicrous premiss of the story.  The animation (as one would expect of Disney) is superb.  The bee flight sequence is masterly, and the fight between the ant and the scorpion very effective.Because this is a children's film, the animals have to be given endearing anthropomorphic traits.  Quark, the Szalinskis' dog, is as much a character in the story as the humans are.  Anty, the baby ant who befriends the shrunken kids, behaves far more like a pet mammal than an insect, capable of exhibiting emotions such as sadness and loyalty.And the human interactions are certainly not neglected.  While the younger brothers Nick and Ronnie are out-and-out children, the teenagers have a different vantage point, and this is handled sensitively.  The Szalinskis and the Thompsons each grow stronger as a family as a result of this ordeal, and the awkwardness between the two households is replaced by closeness and affection.  Everyone is a better person by the end.  Shrinking has helped them to grow.Some interesting dualities are woven into the texture of the story. The Szalinski lawn, that ultimate symbol of suburban tameness, becomes a frightening jungle to the children.  The scorpion is Creation's aggressive, predatory pole, the ant is the co-operative, altruistic side of our nature.Nobody makes comedy-adventure nonsense better than Disney, and this is one of the corporation's triumphs.   "},{"Title":"An imaginative Disney comedy with a welcome old-fashioned feel.","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My Take A fine family entertainment with some neat special effects. I grew up watching and enjoying this funny, fast-paced fantasy adventure. But when I watched it back then, I always seemed to start it on the part with the scorpion and the ant, so I only watch a few parts. But I finally found it on DVD and watched it from the beginning. And I really enjoyed it. It's really a fantastic fantasy, with elaborate special-effects and lavish enlarged sets.The film is quite like the fantasy films filmmaker Steven Spielberg produced, like Back to the Future and Innerspace for instance. It depicts the adventures of average people, thrust into an adventure of a lifetime, and then must find away to get back safely. That's kinda like the premise of Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, a group of neighborhood kids get shrunk to size by a weird machine crazy inventor Rick Moranis invented. Disney triumphs in creating an enjoyable fantasy that's sure to be a charm. The stop-motion effects are still impressive, even if special effects in the 80's have certainly moved on. It's one of the best live-action Disney efforts and a fine fun for the entire family.This film is followed by a sequel Honey, I Blew up the Kid, which is not quite as zany and imaginative as its predecessor. Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"A very strange adventure/comedy motion picture","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Honey, I Shrunk the Kids is a quite unusual adventure/comedy film, one of the most eccentric movies of all time. It's one of those live-actions films produced by Disney's studios.The movie's title refers to Wayne Szalinski, a stereotypical nutty/mad scientist. He invents a machine with the ability of shrinking objects to a size even smaller than ants. This character is portrayed by Rick Moranis, the perfect actor for a role like this (with his intellectual looks).Rick Moranis is funny as Wayne Szalinski, Matt Frewer is hilarious as the impatient and temperamental Big Russell Thompson. The kids also do a good job Thomas Wilson Brown as the clever Little Russell Thompson, Jared Rushton as the paranoid Ron Thompson and Robert Oliveri as the nerd Nick Szalinski. One of the funniest parts for me is when little Russell forces his brother Ron to confess that he broke Szalinski's window with his baseball.The Szalinski kids (Nick and Amy) and the Thompson kids (Little Russell and Ron, the Szalinski's neighbors) are accidentally shrunk by the machine and thrown into the garbage by accident. Because they are so tiny, they live a big adventure full of dangers and nightmares (from insects to a remote-controlled lawn mower) until reaching their house, something which would only take seconds on their normal size.The story becomes a bit odd and of a somehow discussable taste, but it also makes the difference... for good and for bad. However, I must be fair at least this is a thousand times better than those stupid Problem Child movies. Not that they have anything in common, but... Overall, nothing extraordinary, but amusing, hilarious, great fun, entertaining, original, bizarre and with some funny lines («French class» is just one among many others). There's also a certain 80's charm on it.The success of this movie inspired a very imaginative 3D film created as an amusement for Disneyland parks around the world called Honey, I Shrunk the Audience. "},{"Title":"Fond memories of those summer days when it was too hot to go outside","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Leave it to Disney to give us a friendly mad scientist in the form of Rick Moranis, who plays an affable, amiable absent minded professor family man by name of Wayne who's latest invention, kept in the attic, is designed to shrink things down. Alas, he's not having much luck with it, as his initial test subject, an apple, gets blown up. Later, one of his neighbor's sons, Ron, hits a baseball through Wayne's window while he's out at giving a science presentation and when Ron's older brother Russ sends him to fetch it with Wayne's son Nick they get shrunk thanks to the baseball whacking the machine. When Russ goes up with Nick's older sister Amy they get shrunk too, along with a chair and Wayne's thinking couch. Unfortunately, a frustrated Wayne, unaware of what's happened, comes home and demolishes his machine and accidentally throws out his kids and his neighbor's (Matt Frewer of TV's Max Headrome fame) with the garbage. It is not until Wayne starts cleaning up the attic that he discovers the shrunken couch and chair (which he steps on) and realizes that his missing kids were shrunk by it and that he threw them out with the trash. So while Wayne embarks on a series of unsuccessful attempts to find his kids without stepping on them, the kids must make a dangerous trek through the uncut back yard, encountering giant toys, food, bees, ants, lawnmowers and, strangely enough, a scorpion (someone's escaped pet?).Good fun, and a lot less cynical than a lot of today's youth oriented adventure films. And of course, the message of family values and how it's important for dads to understand their kids in addition to spending time with them, is also present, but never overly preachy. "},{"Title":"Honey, I Enjoyed this Movie","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Absent-minded genius Moranis accidentally shrinks his kids to microscopic size and they end up in the yard. At their size, they must fight dangerous creatures like ants and bees and menacing household items like a lawnmower and a garden hose before they can traverse back to the house and hope to be restored to normal size. Amusing Disney comedy is fun for the whole family. The special effects are pretty good as simple household objects are shown as humongous from the perspective of the kids. Moranis is likable as the mad inventor and Strassman is cute as his wife. The young actors don't try to be too cute and Frewer is funny as the neighbor whose son has also been shrunk. "},{"Title":"Really good!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Being a somewhat big fan of Rick Moranis, I had high expectations when I first saw this movie. I must say, I was not disappointed. The acting was terrific.***Spoilers*** Wayne Szalinski (Moranis) is a nutty scientist who invents strange things. One invention, a shrinking machine, just makes things blow up. At first. Then, a next door neighbor, Ron Thomson, (Jared Rushton) hits a baseball in Wayne Szalinski's lab- in the attic.Soon, four kids are the size of a grain of sand. Only a quarter inch tall, they make their way home. They have many adventures in the backyard, which is a jungle to them. The adventures include encounters with swarming bees, an ant, a lawn mower, and much more.After a near misadventure with a bowl of cereal, the kids are found. Wayne fixes his machine, and the kids are enlarged back to normal size.Later, both the Thomson's and Szalinski's are in the kitchen. On the table is a turkey the size of a piano.This is a well-made movie. It may be a little scary for some younger kids, but it is well worth watching more than once.My Score 8/10 "},{"Title":"A small adventure of grand proportions.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Basically this one great and fun adventure movie, for kids especially. It's a Disney movie, so it's most definitely kid orientated, which means that it doesn't have the most complicated script, drawn out characters, or other mind boggling elements but it more than serves its purpose.What is the most appealing aspect of Honey, I Shrunk the Kids are its adventures elements. It was a great move to let the movie for most part be set in the backyard of an ordinary house, of a not so ordinary family. The shrunken kids have to overcome all sorts of dangers in the backyard, such as 'giant' insects, water drops, muddy rivers, lawnmowers and of course avoid being squashed by humans. A new adventure and obstacle awaits at every corner, which makes sure that there is always something happening in the movie and makes things flow well.The movie is perhaps more adventurous and fun than really funny. The most comical aspects of the movie mostly come from the adult cast, from actors such as Rick Moranis and Marcia Strassman as the parents and Matt Frewer and Kristine Sutherland as the neighbors. They mostly make sure that the movie is a perfectly enough watchable and entertaining one for adults. Rick Moranis of course suits the role very well as a nutty scientist. He is perhaps also known best for his roles in the Honey, I Shrunk the Kids-movies than any other one.The movie is well made and Joe Johnston shows himself again a capable director. I have always liked him as a director. He never made any really great movies but his movies are always entertaining, which always make a Joe Johnston movie a pleasant one to watch. This movie was his directorial debut and he could had done a lot worse.The movie has some good effects, also especially considering the time it got made. The movie uses all kinds of effects. Mostly of course consisting out of over-sized sets and objects but also stop-motion effects, mechanical effects and some early special effects. Especially the over-sized objects aren't really convincing looking and are obviously made out of light and non-nature materials but I don't know, this seemed sort of right and a suiting style for a kids movie such as this one. The musical score by James Horner is also a perfectly fine one.About as good and entertaining as a kid's movie can get, though there is also plenty left to enjoy for adults.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great Disney fun!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I rememeber seeing this film in summer 1989 in the movie theater when I was still in elementary school. On the big screen the FX are so cool! They don't translate as well on the small screen, though. It's also funny to see the Matt Frewer character making pot shots at Rick Moranis's character. The shrunken kids' adventure to cross the yard is also cool. The Roger Rabbit short Tummy Trouble before the start of the film is an added bonus! Great Disney fun!  "},{"Title":"A wonderfully entertaining Disney film.","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When it comes to Disney films, I normally find them trite and mawkish. There are only a handful of them I can watch. Honey, I Shrunk the Kids is one of them. Its a film of tremendous assurance and confidence. And a terrific directorial debut from Joe Johnston.Inventor Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis), is one of those inventors you would find in a Rube Goldberg cartoon. In other words, he makes inventions that are supposed to run like clockwork, and half the time they usually don't.His latest invention is a machine that shrinks things down. But he hasn't figured out how to get it to work properly. When the Szalinski's neighbours, the Thompsons, accidentally break their attic window with a baseball, it activates the machine, and absorbs some of its power. Suddenly, the machine starts shrinking things, including the Szalinski's kids Amy and Nick, and the Thompson kids, Russ and Ron.Wayne unwittingly sweeps up the kids and puts the rubbish bag in the back garden. So begins the kids odyssey of trying to get back home through the jungle of their own garden. It is an uphill struggle to say the least, with the kids having to contend with dive-bombing bumblebees, killer scorpions, and runaway lawn mowers.I love the way Joe Johnston applies the connotation of a jungle to the Szalinski's overgrown garden. The blades of grass now resemble a rainforest, water sprinklers are like a thunderstorm to the kids, and the ants, bees and scorpions they encounter are like the local wildlife. This film is a great deal more clever and inventive than most Disney films.Its just one adventure after another, with our four heroes just trying to survive, and the adults trying to find a way to restore them to normal. Rick Moranis is likable enough as the befuddled scientist trying to straighten out the mess he's made. Marcia Strassman is great too as his wife, who has a nice chemistry with Rick Moranis.Matt Frewer and Kristine Sutherland add good support as the Thompsons. Matt Frewer gives one of his more endearing performances, and he's quite comical when he seems more interested in the state of the Szalinski's lawn then his own children. He is like one of those fathers out of a Jean Shepard novel, i.e. frequent camping trips, sticking to schedules, no understanding of his children at all, etc. Kristine Sutherland would eventually go on to find fame as Joyce Summers in Buffy the Vampire Slayer.The film is refreshingly clear of the over-sentimentality common with most Disney films. The only time when it does feel trite is when the kids befriend a baby ant, and it ends up being killed by a scorpion. I did think that was a bit unlikely that a scorpion would be in their garden, but that's only a minor fault. The fight between the scorpion and the ant is well done, and is fairly reminiscent of classic sci-fi creature films.There are many memorable scenes such as Nick and Russ riding a bee, the aforementioned ant-scorpion fight, and the kids caught in the middle of a storm caused by sprinklers. And who could forget the blackly humorous moment when Wayne almost devours Nick inside of his own breakfast cereal. Bit sadistic that for a Disney film!There's a nice sense of camaraderie and teamwork from the kids and the adults. I never get tired of this film. Its far superior to the sequels, consistently entertaining, fun, and quite lively too. Roger Ebert thought it had no fun, which just isn't true. Fortunately, he was proved wrong. Honey, I Shrunk the Kids was a huge success, grossing over 150 million dollars at the box office.A hugely enjoyable film, and one that both kids and adults can get a kick out of. "}{"Title":"A Box Office Blast!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Honey I Shrunk the Kids is by far, one of the best movies Disney has produced. The special effects are incredible, the screeenplay is wild, and the directing is fabulous!When scientist Wayne Szalenski (Rick Moranis) fails to get his shrinking machine to work, he decides to retire from it. But, when the kid next door known as Ron Thompson (Jared Rushton) accidently hits his baseball into the Szalenskis attic window, it ends up giving the machine power to work that it ends up shrinking Waynes furniture up there. So, when Ron goes to the house to get his ball back, he and Wayne's son Nick (Robert Oliveri) end up going up there not knowing the machine is one and ready for fire, but, they end up getting shrunk to the size of ants.When Nick's sister Amy (Amy O' Neil) and Ron's brother Russel (Thomas Brown) go upstairs looking for them, they end up getting shrunk too! So when Wayne comes home, he destroys his machine, and cleans up the parts which ends up getting the kids put in the garbage! So now, the kids escape the garbage bag and end up falling in the backyard. They find out, that the only way they can get home is by going through the backyard!The Thompsons (Kristine Sutherland & Matt Frewer) become suspicious along with the Szalenskis. Because now, the kids are faced into incredible suspense with yard being like a jungle. The face lawn sprinklers, a giant lawn mower, a big bee, a gigantic scorpian, and Cherrios cereal.I don't want to spoil the rest.Directed by the Academy Award-winning Joe Johnston (Jumanji, Jurassic Park III) and starring Rick Moranis (Ghostbusters I & II), Marcia Strassman (Another Stakeout), Jared Rushton (House Arrest, Big, Pet Semetary II), Thomas Brown (Pearl Harbor), Robert Oliveri (Edward Scissorhands), Kristine Sutherland (Buffy the Vampire Slayer), Matt Frewer (Supergirl).Honey I Shrunk the Kids is absolutley fun and awsome and is a definitley a movie for kids and parents. "},{"Title":"welcome to the jungle","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The subject of the man who's shrinking isn't new because Jack Arnold had broached it (with brio) in the incredible shrinking man thirty-two years ago. Here, in this new variation of the man who's shrinking it's not one man but four teenagers who shrunk. Moreover, the philosophical and pessimistic sides have disappeared. Instead, Joe Johnston made a familial comedy and a vibrating movie, often funny with some quite successful special effects. He also succedded in changing a familiar place (the garden) that you think you know like the back of your hand into an unfriendly jungle where the insects are as huge as elephants and the humans become unwittingly monsters Wayne Szalinski, in spite of him, will put to the test several times the teenagers and he'll nearly eat his son for his breakfast. This doesn't stop the movie from being quite conventional. It's not surprising as the screenplay was written by Tom Schulman, the one who wrote the screenplay of this overrated and conventional movie that is Dead Poet Society (the two movies were launched at the same time). Here, for example, Ross' father attempts to lay down to his elder son, his likings and passions but then, he'll find out that it's not the right way to gain his son's affection. The movie doesn't also avoid certain clichés Rick Moranis epitomizes the model crazy learned he's wearing glasses, he invented a machine supposed to be revolutionary and his odd habits make the neighbours (the Thompsons) mistrustful and distant. But they'll show gratitude to him because he'll know how to come back their children to their human height. Nevertheless, Johnston and Schulman reach their goal entertain the spectator without any ulterior motives. So honey I shrunk the kids remains a pleasant comedy that was designed to please to a large public "},{"Title":"Comfy as a pair  of old slippers...","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What the other reviews do not mention is one salient point. The film works. It starts up like an old reliable VW Bug and just keeps going. If you think that is easy, try to remember how many films you have seen where you were looking at your watch by the 30 minute mark. The key is the chemistry between Rick Moranis and Marcia Strassman, both under-used actors, both used to perfection in this vehicle. The child actors were great, but what fun would this be without Moranis, cool in the face of difficulty, methodically searching every inch of grass on his lawn trying to find his kids...? And selling it -- you could actually believe that this guy felt he had everything under control. And Strassman, of WELCOME BACK KOTTER fame, is just under-used, period. The film is sit-back-and-enjoy it fun. No special awards. No special buzz (except for the spinoffs, which were never as good). Just entertainment. What more do you want? "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I hear grown adults dog on this film, you gotta wonder about them. It is a kids film, yes, and clearly meant to be so. However, this goes far beyond the pale of normality within that genre. This was a first of its kind and well thought-out.The kids all did such a fine job with their respective roles, better than the adults, really. All in all, I remember this film tapping my imagination the way no other film did of that era. Of course, I was nine years old, and it did what it was supposed to do.When watching it now, I can still attest to its magic.Recommended for the family. "},{"Title":"A nutty scientist's kids and their friends get caught under a shrinking ray, and have to get back home.","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a great film. I mean, yes, I would rather watch The Searchers, or Rear Window, or National Treasure, than this, but that's O.K. All three of these films are kind of silly, but that is their purpose. Johnston likes directing movies with action, adventure, and also daily people in totally different environments, such as Jumanji(Robin Williams, Bonnie Hunt, Kirsten Dunst, and Bradley Pierce in a jungle) or Hidalgo(A cowboy in for the ride of his life in a horse race in the Arabian desert). This one is my favorite out of all three of the Honey, I... movies. For all of you out there who did not get the whole French class thing, just think about it- it will come to you. "},{"Title":"Honey, I found a great family film!!!!!","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" One of Disney's very last of the 80s (and this screams 80s, too), the 1989 live action feature Honey, I Shrunk the Kids stars Rick Moranis as that 1980s film geek who was working on a shrinking machine. Some kid next door hit a baseball on the window, letting the laser pass through the ball, causing the children to shrink!!!!! They were accidentally thrown out, so they must go through the jungle that is the yard from an ant's view! There are many things like riding bees, swimming in mud, making friends with ants, a battle ANT vs. SCORPION, sleeping in a Lego brick, and avoiding a lawnmower!!!!! We wrap it up with trying not to be eaten with the Cheerios!!!!!Man, does this sound great or what????? The Honey movies are all wonderful and original and make great family viewing.10 stars "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!!!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Or as my mom would say cute. This is by far one of the finest family films I have ever seen. I consider Toy Story and Babe Pig In The City as its only rivals for my favorite family film. Anyway, it's by far a very enjoyable movie, with nice special effects (the giant insects) and a real play-fun spirit like the part where they eat a giant oreo cookie or slept in the lego block. The kids are indeed very likeable, and the movie even has a sense of adventure. I'll never forget the giant (well, giant to them anyway) water drops that were terrorizing them and Amy slowly falling into a pool of mud and grime(and the grimy pool with the dead ant floating in it they found earlier). I'll always remember the funny way the dad said Russel! and the overviewed music they had at the beginning where they first saw the large outside or Wayne's shouting of Get off the grass!!. I really can think of very few things I didn't like about this film. I now wonder exactly how many times they had a shrinking story (from an episode of a show or a video game etc.) that had the words Honey, I Shrunk The ...... I recommend it to your kids. They won't be disappointed. A 10/10. Nice sequel too.Could it possibly be that in the movie Dinosaur when he was dodging the fireballs that was a reference to this movie with how they were dodging the water drops? "},{"Title":"Backyard safari fun (but no David Bellamy).","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Whilst watching Honey I Shrunk The Kids on DVD, it occurred to me how much things have changed in the last twenty years records and typewriters, which feature in the film's opening animated credits, no longer exist ('what are they?', asked my bemused 7-year-old daughter); spectacles have got a lot smaller (the one's sported by the youngest kid in this film are enormous!); computers are now everyday household appliances&#151;not just the play-things of crazy inventors; telephones are a lot easier to use now they don't have cords; Rick Moranis is no longer a box-office draw; and special effects look a whole lot different now we have CGI (not necessarily better, just different).One thing that hasn't changed, though, is this film's ability to entertain Joe Johnston's directorial debut is just as enjoyable today as it was when I first saw it two decades ago.Rick Moranis stars as crazy inventor Wayne Szalinski, whose latest creation, a miniaturisation ray, has one major teething problem it tends to make things explode. After the machine is whacked by a stray baseball, it finally begins to function correctly, but accidentally shrinks Wayne's children, pretty blonde teen Amy (Amy O'Neill) and chip-off-the-old-block younger son Nick (Robert Oliveri), plus Russ and Ron, the neighbours' sons, to microscopic size. Oblivious to the fact that his machine is now working, and that it has miniaturised his kids, Wayne destroys his machine, sweeps up the pieces (scooping up the four tiny children in the process) and takes the trash to the bottom of the yard.Now, if they are to have any chance of being returned to normal size, Amy, Nick, Russ and Ron must make a dangerous trek through their yard, facing a variety of dangers on the way.Utilising detailed oversize props and sets, plus an impressive (for the time) combination of blue screen technology, matte paintings, and stop-motion animation effects, director Johnston creates a string of spectacular set-pieces that sees the children being bombarded by giant water droplets from the garden sprinkler, taking a flight on the back of a bee, being attacked by a scorpion, and befriending a baby ant. Johnston's younger cast members all give credible performances, whilst Moranis does what he does best acts nerdy and looks worried a lot.Of course, this being a Disney movie, there is the obligatory happy ending, which sees Wayne finally perfecting his invention and returning the kids to full size. And this being a Disney film, everyone involved learns a valuable lesson in how to get along with others, despite their differences. Which is nice. "},{"Title":"A Memorable and Spectacular Family Film (Spoilers)","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Every year sees a TON of films, and 1989 was no exception; but the one film that sticks in my mind is Honey, I Shrunk the Kids.Rick Moranis (Spaceballs, the Ghostbusters movies) stars as crazy scientist Wayne Szalinkski, who for the last 5 years has been working on his latest invention, a shrink ray. Unfortunately, all of his gizmos thus far have bombed, sometimes literally. But when the neighbor's baseball crashes through the attic window and activates the machine, both of the Szalinkski kids (as well as those of their neighbors) are rendered 3/4 tall! Now, while Wayne searches for them, the kids must fight to survive in a dangerous world concealed by the grass of their backyard. 50-foot tall grass blades, giant ants, a killer scorpion, and bees the size of trucks are just a few of the trials the children must face on their journey home.This is a must-see film for any comedy or family-film nut, and I would also recommend Beetlejuice and My Best Friend is a Vampire. =)  "},{"Title":"Not bad!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, this not a great movie, but it was slightly entertaining, and had some pretty interesting stop-motion sequences by David Allen (famous for his special effects in the field of stop-motion) and a fairly creative plot. This would be good for a family get-together, but don't expect any thing great. 3 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Two Times A Charm","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In my previous IMDB review on Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, I don't feel that I gave my strong opinion on how I really felt about it. I'm going to say, that this movie was absolutley incredible. I loved the way it was photographed, the way it was directed by Joe Johnston, the way the special effects were created, and the producing by Jon Landau (Dick Tracy, Titanic) was abslutley top notch. Any critic that disrespects this movie is out of their mind, because the whole time that you are watching this movie, you will be 100% entertained and not bored at all. I recently heard this movie will be released on DVD without any special features! If you ask me, this movie deserves to have a special edition with a ton of features. I would for sure love to see how the special effects came to life. So if any of the producers or financers at Disney read this, please post pone the October release to a later one so that you can work on a freakin special edition. Please I beg you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film for kids","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 'Honey, I Shrunk the Kids' plays like a typical Disney film with children as the heroes and a wacky inventor. In this film, the children accidentally become as tiny as ants from the inventor's machine, and they travel their way through their front yard in attempt to get the inventor to see them to make them a normal size again. Along the way, they meet up with giant insects and learn how to stick together to help each other out of the situation. The scale of the sets were amazing. (They meet a large ant, fly on the backs of bees, eat from a giant cookie, and see giant Lego toys lost in their front yard.) It's an innocent film made just for children, and it does capture the essence of the typical Disney film. I'm not sure how it's dated, but I did enjoy it when I was younger, and my brothers liked it too. (We would have been between eight and ten, and I probably last saw the film when I was thirteen.) "},{"Title":"Absolutely wild and wacky adventure that you will surely enjoy","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" HONEY, I SHRUNK THE KIDS, in my opinion, is an absolutely wild and wacky adventure that you will surely enjoy. If you ask me, the scorpion was the scariest of all the dangers in the backyard. Also, Wayne (Rick Moranis) really was an absent-minded scientist. Don't get me wrong, but I thought that it was funny when he told Diane (Marcia Strassman) that he shrunk their kids (Amy O'Neill and Robert Oliveri) and the Thompson kids (Thomas Brown and Jared Rushton). In conclusion, if you like Rick Moranis or hilarious sci-fi adventures, I highly recommend this absolutely wild and wacky adventure that you will surely enjoy. You're in for a wild ride if you haven't seen it, so hold on tight! "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Honey, I Shrunk The Kids'","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" BAD - In the first half of the film, the kids were annoying at times, picking on each other; the teen romance was slightly sappy, and all three fathers in the film were pictured as stupid nerds. That's PC bigotry. They never picture mothers like that, only the fathers.GOOD - At least those nerdy parents were loving parents who cared about their kids. And, at least they were together, unlike most Hollywood films in the past 35 years. The little kid with the glasses was neat. Some of the special effects were good. The sight of parents trying to find their kids in the backyard while suspended in the air was funny. Matt Frewer had a great line, while observing Rick Moranis What a waste of skin! The film had a nice ending.OVERALL - Nothing super, but overall was an enjoyable, lighthearted, non- offensive movie. "},{"Title":"Size Does Matter. I like this intense little movie. It's a lot of fun!","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is a great family-friendly adventure film that deserves another big look. Directed by Joe Johnston, this live-action Disney film tells the story of four kids, Nick Szalinski (Robert Oliveri), Amy Szalinski (Amy O'Neill), Russ Thompson (Thomas Wilson Brown) & Ron Thompson (Jared Rushton) whom, are accidentally shrunk to the size of bugs by Nick's father, Walter Szalinski (Rick Moranis)'s inventions. Being mistaken for trash, they must journey from the trash can on the curb of the street, through the backyard of Nick's house to reach their parents, so that they can bring them back to normal. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I know, a lot of critics back in the day, has criticize, this movie for being too violence and intense, but as a kid of the 1990s, I found this film to be, very entertaining. After all, I found films with children fighting for survival, realistic, and ballsy. This movie doesn't sugar-coated the action at all. I'm still mourning the death of the Ant from this film. The backyard of your house is indeed a jungle full of danger. I love all the little action set pieces, ranging from animal attacks like vicious-looking scorpion, loud-buzzing honey bee to man-made items like nearly drown by a Water Sprinkler, or getting nearly slice in half by a lawnmower. While, this movie was originally written to appeal to more child demographic called 'Teeny Weenies' by screenwriters, Stuart Gordon, Ed Naha, Tom Schulman & Brian Yuzna, the film tone was change, to appeal to a more mature audience, after kids films like 1984's 'Gremlins' & 1988's 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit' became a big hit, due to its amazing visual effects. Due to this, Joe Johnston was brought in to replace the original director, due to his design and special effects background. In my opinion, this movie wouldn't had work, without him. The great set pieces and practical effects really made this movie, wonderful to see. Heavily influenced by 1957's 'The Incredible Shrinking Man'. The use of rear projection, forced perspective, split screen and model effects all help convey the children's dwindling size. It was all very remarkable at the time, even if some of the visuals look a bit dated now. Even the cartoon opening sequence was pretty cool. The title coming down on the cartoon characters with some simple 3D effects was impressive at the time. The music that went along with the film is outstanding. Inspired by the music work by composer, Raymond Scott, composer James Horner added some really needed speed to the original music, 'Powerhouse' to make a new genius and genuinely special brand of intensive. However, since Horner didn't pay royalties or providing attribution to the original song, Scott's estate threatened to sue Disney after the movie was released. After prolonged negotiation, they settled. While the on-screen credits were not changed, cue sheets for the movie do note the use of Scott's piece. Another fun fact about this film, is the fact that the animated short 1989's 'Tummy Trouble' was released theatrically with this movie. Many credit the success of this film towards audiences wanting to see more of Roger Rabbit. Although, for me, personally, I came to want to see this movie for Rick Moranis. I really hope, that he returns back to acting, one day. He's greatly missed. His acting in this film was amazing. He really capture that nerdy, misunderstood inventor father feel. Even the supporting actors that played the other parents, weren't that bad. Matt Frewler as Walter's redneck neighbor, Russ Thompson Sr. was lot of fun. Much of the humor of the film, comes with the relationship between Russ and Walter. I like watching two polar opposites trying to work together for a common ground. The child actors that played the children in the film, were alright for the most part, too. I kinda like, that each character had a part to play in the kids surviving their own ordeal. Still, there is one thing that particularly bugs me about the shrinking effects. The kids' sizes are portrayed inconsistently. They are sometimes bigger than ant, and other times, smaller than them. It's a bit jarring, to watch, as there seem to be no sense of scale. Another thing that got me puzzle is how the machine honestly works. Let's say, that it works by sucking empty space out of a given object, but leaving its mass unchanged, as the main character says. If you were to shrink, down, wouldn't you end up with weight that you have in normal size, similar to 2015's 'Ant Man'? So, how are they able to be sweep up, in the beginning of the film? Similarly, how are they able to breath or digest food? The air would be too thin. I know, the movie isn't supposed to be science accuracy, but it's somewhat noticeable, but I'm willing to look past that. This movie is indeed a bit nostalgia for me, so I might be a littles bias. However, I do see some of the film's faults, but it's nowhere near as bad as other critics make it out to be. The several follow-ups are much, much worst. 1992's 'Honey, I Blew up the Kid' was mediocre at best. 1994's 'Honey, I Shrunk the Audience' was a surprise hit 3D video ride when it opened at Walt Disney World's Epcot Park in 1994, running until 2010 there. However, it did get somewhat dated toward the late 1990s, with the kids actors outgrowing their kid couther parts. Last, but not least, 1997's live-action direct-to-video 'Honey, We Shrunk Ourselves' was very forgettable. Another thing, the whole running gag with Diane Szalinski (Marcia Strassman) fainting in each movie is a little harder to watch now, since the actress death in 2014. Despite that; overall the first movie was pretty good, but it was a little short for great. Still, it's worth checking out if you got the time. So go see it! "},{"Title":"fantastic movie","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In Honey I Shrunk the Kids, a scientist named Wayne Szalinski has made a machine that has the ability to shrink things, and is activated by a baseball hitting it that is accidentally hit through a window and Wayne's two kids and two kids that are neighbors are accidentally shrunk by the machine and swept up and put in a trash bag and taken outside to the back yard. They escape from the bag and have an adventure going through the yard and get back to the house on two of the kid's dog. They are able to be turned back to normal size by the machine. This is a wonderful movie. It has a great mix of scares and humor. One of the best scenes is where one of the shrunken kids has fallen into his dad's cereal bowl. His dad is eating cereal out of it and almost eats him. This is a legendary scene. "},{"Title":"Wholehearted family fun...","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was initially settling on a rating of six stars out of ten, but upped it to seven because this movie is one of those movies that truly withstands the test of time. It was great family entertainment back in 1989, and it is still equally good today.The story in Honey, I Shrunk the Kids has something for everyone in the family. It is about an inventor who has invented a shrinking ray device. And when his son and daughter along with the two neighbor boys are accidentally shrunk, they are on an adventure of big proportions in an attempt to cross their own backyard and get back to the lab.Taken into consideration that the movie is from 1989, then the effects are still okay for today. Of course not able to match the incredible CGI that we have in movies today. But back then it was fabulous, and it is still sufficient by today for what it was supposed to do.The cast in the movie was good, as it usually is in Walt Disney movies. Rick Moranis is, as always, great on the screen, as were Matt Frewer. But actually the whole cast were doing good jobs with their roles and characters.As mentioned earlier, this is a wholesome family movie. And if you haven't already seen it, you should take the time to sit down and watch it, especially if you have a younger child in the family. "},{"Title":"Good children movie","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you ask me is this a good movie?. No, not at all. But its a movie for kids so i guess it is meant to be ridiculous. In fact it's ridiculous in a good way.I've seen this movie a few times when i was a kid and i enjoyed it a lot. I mean, who doesn't want to ride an ant, sleep in a lego, or swimming in a bowl of cereal while trying to save ourselves from being eaten by our own dad? Though i prefer its sequel (or prequel i forgot) where the baby became big (forgot the name)With that being said, its a fun kids movie that probably can be enjoyed by parents too. (But i doubt it) "},{"Title":"sincere charming Disney family fun","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis) is a hopeless inventor working on a new shrink ray. It's getting into the way of his marriage to Diane (Marcia Strassman). She's taking a break. His next door neighbor Big Russ Thompson (Matt Frewer) is annoyed. While all the adults are away, Ron Thompson hits a baseball knocking off the shrink ray. Little Russ Thompson forces Ron next door to apologize. Russ actually likes Amy Szalinski. The shrink ray miniaturizes all four kids. Then Wayne returns and sweeps everybody up. He throws the kids out into the yards before he realizes too late.The silly title hides a fun little family movie. It is a cheerful, joyful adventure. It's sincere. It's old fashion Disney and that's the charm of it. The special effects is charming and never gets too scary. It has a few thrills. There's even a giant cookie. The kids are not the greatest actors but that also has a charm of its own. Rick Moranis hones in his dorkiness. This is simple family fun. "},{"Title":"Cute Disney Movie","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I just watched this movie with my 8 year old son on TV.Honey I Shrunk The Kids is Good old fashioned 80's family fun. As (and I don't think this is too much of a spoiler) inventor Rick Mirranis inadvertently shrinks his kids. The likable cast is headed by Rick Morranis as the inventor Dad, Marcia Strassman as the Real Estate Mom and Amy O'Neill as the popular teenage daughter. Matt Frewer and Kristine Sutherland are the neighbours whose kids are shrunk along with Morranis's kids.The story is filled with the standard elements, the feuding neighbours, the next door neighbour boy who has a crush on the daughter, the intelligent son who is bullied by the neighbours kid, the workaholic parents who learn the error of their ways and of course the happy ending but the movie is anything but standard.Some of the special effects are a bit dated, but that does not stop your enjoyment of it!! My 8 year old said that looked so fake but he was still entertained for 90 mins. It's silly, but I enjoyed a lot of it. "}{"Title":"A Disney Blockbuster","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The scientist father (Rick Moranis) of a teenage girl and boy accidentally shrinks his and two other neighborhood teens to the size of insects. Now the teens must fight diminutive dangers as the father searches for them.The project was originally brought to Disney Studios by Stuart Gordon and Brian Yuzna. Gordon was hired to direct the film and Yuzna to produce. The film was written as Teeny Weenies by Stuart Gordon, Ed Naha, and Brian Yuzna. Tom Schulman was later added as a screenwriter. Gordon originally prepped the film but had to drop out as director shortly before filming began due to illness. Joe Johnston, who was formerly known as the art director for George Lucas, was brought in to replace him for his directorial debut.One has to wonder what would happen if Gordon had been given the job and was able to follow through. His previous work was Re-Animator and From Beyond, so it is not unusual he would write a science-gone-wrong story... but was he someone who could make it for kids? (Maybe. Or maybe it would have been nice to see a more mature view, as there are obviously scary elements.) Roger Ebert is rarely flat-out wrong, but this is one of those times, as he wrote, The special effects are all there, nicely in place, and the production values are sound, but the movie is dead in the water. Other critics and the audience disagreed, making this one of Disney's biggest successes and most memorable films.Besides the film itself, the score from James Horner is quite remarkable. He came into some issues later on for borrowing elements from other music, but this remains among his most distinctive scores. "},{"Title":"An adorable kid adventure for the entire audience.","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is an adorable kid adventure that is fit for the entire audience; a story about absent-minded scientist Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis) accidentally shrinking his kids and his neighbors' kids to microscopic sizes with his shrinking machine. What results is a wild adventure as the kids must navigate through the now humongous everyday items like household objects, toys, garden tools and insects to get Szalinski's attention to restore them back to size.It is an amusing plot device to see the usual everyday stuff like a lawnmower, tools, Lego toys and cereal bowls become huge obstacles and used for new purposes for the shrunken kids (i.e., using a Lego toy as a couch). All these epic proportion objects are highlighted in some great and believable special effects, especially the kids befriending an ant and one of the kids hitching a ride on a bee. The kids trying to escape a lawnmower in the yard is also an exciting scene.Moranis is likable as Szalinski and Marcia Strassman is zany as his wife, Diane. The young actors who portrayed the shrunken kids did a decent job and don't try to be too childish, though, the filmmakers should have left out ***spoiler ahead*** the sappy little romantic fling between the two teenagers, which I didn't think was necessary. In addition, the filmmakers should have left out the Scorpian vs. Ant scene, which I thought was too intense and depressing for a children's movie as it really brought down the mood of the film. ***spoiler ends*** Overall, it is a mostly entertaining film from start to finish, but the story does drag a little towards the middle and does lack some action. I've seen family films with more adventures and fun, but this is a typical, innocent and feel-food Disney movie that people should see at least once.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Questions and Ideas...","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" How realistic is the bee sequence?So, I don't know about all you fine people, but I for one bought into the whole idea of the shrink ray. So we're going to put that to the side and call it&#x85;. Realistic.Now, on to the bee. At some point during the film, our crazy group of youngsters find themselves at odds with a bee. The bee is very big, and drags two of the party away for a trip around the yard. It is subsequently hit with a baseball bat, while the kids are on board, and crashes. But it doesn't just crash anywhere in the three mile yard, it crashes right next to where they left. Let me re-iterate. Two 1/4 inch kids, were hit with a baseball bat, survived. Then plummeted toward the earth, landing in dense jungle (equivalent), survived. Then, as though lighting struck the same place twice, they return to their friends completely unscathed.It seems to me they could have simply had Wayne run away, and had the bee return to the flower that it abandoned. That would have been waaaay more believable&#x85;. you know, given that this movie is already unbelievable. Why push it.Why are the parents so calm?Big Russ seems to be the only one who is emotionally invested in the outcome of his children. Yes, he's a douche, but all the other parents seem to have some kinda nonchalance. Wayne and Diane find time to repair their failing marriage. Diane only seems to be worried that her daughter behaves with the neighbour boy. Mae spends all her time trying to rein in her husband, and his exuberance. But that night, everyone sleeps&#x85;Sleep?Call me crazy, but this might be an extreme situation. How could anyone sleep one day after the fact? I know, Wayne stays up to complete the repairs, but he does fall asleep&#x85;. Idiot. And really? Who would take a club to years of hard work? He trashed that machine without much provocation. Even if it never worked, he could have sold it as a death ray&#x85;..Alternate plans.Build a signal fire. Stay with the garbage. Travel on pavement, or along the fence. The parents could have instructed them. (Guided them, given them options, done something other then look through a spyglass) Call the authorities, (I'm sure they could have gotten the attention of someone with real clout. It's a shrink ray for gods sake, anyone would pay to see that work) ConclusionIt was a spectacle piece, and the only reason I wanted it to make more sense, was because I liked it. It was fun.http//www.primarilycritical.com "},{"Title":"He's still a better dad than most!","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" You must have watched this movie by now. Honey I Shrunk the Kids is a highly entertaining family movie. Wayne is a bit of an eccentric inventor and invents a machine, that blows objects up, as well as shrinks them. The machine is still in the works when his children and the children of neighbour Russ Thompson Sr accidentally shrink themselves. Wayne leaves to go to a meeting to see if he can attain funding for his project and by the time he gets back, the kids have been accidentally shrunk. Russ Sr and his wife leave ahead to go on an extended trip they had planned and Russ Sr lies about his children missing, insisting they were going to be grounded. After the kids have been accidentally shrunk to less than half an inch, Wayne returns home and doesn't realize what has happened right away. He goes to sit down on his couch, which is no longer there, and not cluing in he starts destroying the machine because he is frustrated from the meeting he had earlier which didn't go anywhere and everyone walked out on him. He sweeps up the mess and sends the kids out to the trash. They then embark on the mission of trying to get back to the house, which is miles away to children of their size, and the journey they take is full of mishaps. Nick is picked up by a bumble bee, and Russ Jr jumps onto the bee to try and save his friend, where they become divided from the other two. While battling sprinklers, and Amy nearly drowning in mud, battling a scorpion and being thrown by a lawn mower they eventually return home. Honey I Shrunk the Kids was produced by Walt Disney Pictures. It was Joe Johnston's Directorial Debut and was produced in 1989. This action comedy will keep you on the edge of your seat. I still remember Moranis saying Honey I Shrunk the Kids. The way he said it was so original and it instilled a sense of panic with 'oh no' what happens now? Honey I Shrunk the Kids was one of my favourite movies as a child. Okay, so the dad shrunk the kids, but at least he's active in their life. "},{"Title":"By far the best one","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A bouncy adventure with impressive large-scale sets and props that give it an old school charm; there's more life in this movie than in the kind of CG fest this would undoubtedly be if it were made today. Inventor Rick Moranis's kids and the boys next door are accidentally zapped by his shrinking machine and put out with the rubbish; they then have to make their way back to the house while overcoming all the dangers of a jungle-like back yard. The effects and shrunken set pieces - a ride on a bee, a battle between an ant and a scorpion, a Lego brick hideout, peril in a cereal bowl - are all terrific, but what makes you care about it all is believable banter amongst the adult cast, and kids who act like kids rather than kid actors. It's a movie with real personality, a deft sense of humour, and a really likable performance from Moranis. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"No matter how many times i seen, i love it even more!","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this movie, when I kid and Still love today, I have on 2 copy of this DVD. Now matter how many times I seen this movie, I love, The more of see this movie the more I love it, never ever gets old. The is great for the whole family to enjoy and I Really enjoyed how the movie all mix motion. The some very great funny moment for both Kids and adults to laugh at and I love the effect in this were a lot fun. There also some really great dram and action scenes in this, some kids may find some scene little sad at times. This movie of everything and it's worked so well thought out the whole movie. The acting was outstanding from the whole cast, Only one down side, I didn't just came home and Kids are not home,so there missing cause not home, that is only think that bugs me in this movie 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Oh French class..... Tee hee.....","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Wayne Szalinski is a scientist who invents a miniaturising machine so powerful it only blows things up. When the kid next door hits a baseball through the window and it lands in the path of the machine's laser, it begins working. Wayne's two kids plus the two kids next door end up becoming tiny. Wayne accidentally sweeps them up and puts them out with the garbage, so the kids then have to travel through the thick grass back to the house, while braving giant bugs, sprinklers and a lawn mower......This film is basically Jason and the Argonauts for little kiddies, and its a complete sell out that Moranis gets top billing, because he is nothing more than a special guest star in this event movie.And it really hasn't stood the test of time. The idea is sound, and some of the practical effects and sets are really amazing, but its so full of troupes, it just begs to be mocked.The competitive dad, Moranis being laughed out of a meeting, boy fancies girl next door, crazy comedy dog, and wise cracking youngster are all here and present.But it's bright and breezy and really doesn't bother the grey matter. I guess I'm not thirteen anymore, as it was perfunctory stuff then.It's ripe or a remake. "},{"Title":"Harmless Family Entertainment,","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Honey,I Shrunk The Kids is a decent movie with a enjoyable story line and a good cast.The movie is nothing fantastic,buts its a really fun and for some reason very memorable family entertainment.Rick Moranis keeps the movie alive,as his characters are always funny and lively,and hes an actor I really miss,but I don't expect to see him acting again anytime soon.Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis),a scientist with two children,accidentally shrinks them and his neighbors children with his new experiment.They run off to their back garden,so its up to him to save them. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I remember","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Watched for first time in over 20 years. Not as good as I remembered - I certainly didn't recall it as being almost entirely about a trek from one side of the back garden to the other.It drags a lot in the middle but rushes the end, from when they are found it's all done in 10 minutes.You could also be quite pedantic on their sizes which didn't always correlate.Still good fun though and one of the better 80s or 90s family films and some amusing moments.About 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic family favourite","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" An amiable family adventure yarn from Disney. I usually make a point of avoiding anything and everything remotely associated with the studio, but I'll make an exception for this childhood favourite.The story is a simple, child-friendly spin on THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN, although the production it most readily brings to mind is that cult '60s TV show, LAND OF THE GIANTS, with its adventures involving giant-sized threats. Rick Moranis, a crazy inventor, accidentally shrinks his kids, who then have to try to make him realise what he's done.This movie adopts a straightforward action-adventure format in which a gang of children tackle a series of threats, mostly involving the family garden which turns into a gigantic, perilous jungle. The calibre of the special effects is strong and adds to the immersive experience. Huge bees, ants and scorpions are brought to splendid life with plenty of thrills and spills along the way.I've always been a fan of Rick Moranis, and his manic presence here is a solid plus. Kudos, too, to Matt Frewer as the put-upon neighbour. The kids fare less well, coming across as rather bratty rather than brave and intrepid, but nonetheless the film works well as a whole and serves as a fitting slice of '80s nostalgia. "}{"Title":"harmless Disney throwback","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The title alone spells out everything you need to know about this squeaky clean Disney fantasy nutty professor Rick Moranis accidentally shrinks his children and throws them out with the trash, forcing them on an epic journey across the backyard, battling insects, lawn mowers, and other giant perils. While the kids are having their miniature adventures the film can be a lot of fun, but it spends too much time in the full-sized world and takes too many breaks from the action to peddle its message about parental neglect. Some ingenious effects (director Joe Johnston is a former ILM technician) and a young cast pulled straight from the Sherman Oaks Galleria make the film a perfect summer diversion for idle kids with short attention spans. And, as an added attraction, it was preceded by an all new Roger Rabbit/Baby Herman cartoon, 'Tummy Trouble' seven minutes of nonstop mayhem which, for fans of old Warner Bros. classics, will only reinforce the sad truth that nostalgia isn't what it used to be. "},{"Title":"Daft admittedly, but great fun besides","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you are looking for a daft but entertaining film, Honey, I Shrunk the Kids fits that criteria like a glove. True, some parts are a little slow and sappy, and there are a lot of daft moments. Nonetheless, it is great fun, thanks to the in general fast pace, and the breeziness of the film. The camera work is well done, the soundtrack is pleasurable to the ears, I loved the clever animated opening credits sequence and there is a cheerful spirit here that have been absent in films like this(ie. Problem Child 2, Home Alone 4, Beethoven's 4th). The acting is not bad at all either, Rick Moranis especially is wonderfully nutty and likable as Wayne while Matt Frewer is hilarious as Big Russell Thompson. The kids do give appealing performances too, and the special effects are well above average. Overall this is a fun film, nothing groundbreaking or anything like that, but it did something right; it entertained me. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Wayne Szalinski(Rick Moranis)has done it again. Only this time he has shrunk the children. His and his neighbors. As he and his wife Diane(Marcia Strassman) look for the kids, Ronald Thompson(Jared Rushton) and Mae Thompson(Kristine Sutherland) are planning a camping trip only to find that their kids have disappeared.As the adults look for the kids, Amy, Nick, and the Thompson boys have to find their way back to the house. Will they make it? Maybe with the help of giant ants, stinging scorpions, and dog tails they will. But at a horrible Price to pay.This is another classic laugh fest and another classic to add to your collection. "},{"Title":"Nice family adventure for the kids.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I was younger this was my favorite movie. Mainly because of the unusual adventure the children take riding mud slides exploring mysterious tunnels riding through the air aboard strange flying creatures and running away from a giant forest hungry machine..... in their own back yard! It starts out with a talented but tortured inventor trying to piece together his new invention, an electromagnetic shrinking machine which is refusing to work. But after a mishap involving his children and the neighbor's kids taking a trip up to the attic the machine goes haywire shrinking the four of them to microscopic size. Thats where the adventure begins.After watching it again recently I didn't enjoy it much being older but it is still alive for kids to enjoy and stimulate their imagination.I recommend adults to rent this movie for their children. Trust me they might be better with it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Class!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" How class is this film! Luckily I saw this film when I was growing up - so it appealed to me at the right time, if I saw it now for the first time Id be like, what? Rick Moranis (who is one funny guy) invents a machine that scales down objects in its path. Unfortunately things go wrong, and the kids get shrunk (hence the title). Basically most of the film is spent focusing on the kids as they battle through the garden (which, viewed from their eyes is like a forest) trying to find their way back home. Classic moments include the water sprinkler being turned on - you see the kids running away from the huge water drops - and the kids riding on the back of an ant. I cant say for sure if kids films are as good today, it seems that animated films capture the imagination more than anything. But this was a great film! "},{"Title":"Possibly the best disney movie i've seen.","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I must say I fell in love with this movie once I saw it. Much better than 'Honey, I blew up the kids' because of the acting, a fair bit of action, and the special effects impress - well for 1989 anyway.8/10 "},{"Title":"......differant.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" to be honest, I saw Honey, I blew up the kid first, so I Decided to see this one, and the first half wasn't all that bad, but after the sprinkler scene, it just became too mushy. plus, the continualty isn't all that good, but that fault goes to the subsequent movies. in the first one, nick looks like he is about 9 years old, and he is basically a nerd. In the second movie, he looks about 16 or 17 and he's a teenager persuing girls, and in the third one (honey, we shrunk ourselves) he's referanced as a nerd again! quark the dog was the second half's saving grace (him chewing on the BIG doggy biscuit at the end, and choosing THAT point in the movie to overcome the thompson's cat. (it's that stupid cat of theirs! that cat is NOT stupid!) there were a few funny parts in the second half, but the mushy stuff just didn't work for me.  *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Fun Family Fantasy Adventure","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Rick Moranis is a nerd who...guess what....yes thats right shrinks the kids!Great special effects as the kids try and work there way through the jungle (the back garden) and must somehow find a way of returning to there normal size.Well worth a watch, especially if you have young children. "},{"Title":"Moranis' invention shrinks the family","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Rick Moranis plays an inventor whose inventions never quite make it 100% until now. His invention of a shrinking machine does its job when it shrinks his son and daughter unbeknownst to Moranis and hsi wife, played by Strassman. How the kids adjust to this sudden change in size leads to adventures in a new world to them - evading lawn mowers, giant ants and other thrills. Followed by two sequels on a scale of one to ten..6 "},{"Title":"Disney.","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is what you would expect from Disney away from animation, though it is better than its usual offerings in this area.Rick Moranis has been trying to escape this role ever since, with two inferior sequels and a Disney attraction short, he has found it almost impossible to show his undoubted talent as a comedic actor away from this franchise.The rest of the cast is largely made up of Disney house actors who crop up in attraction shorts and other Disney movies best left forgotten while their contract runs and so do nothing more than say the lines.Moranis' neighbour is the only other comic highlight in this movie and so this is children's fluff and, apart from the special effects, not much more. "}{"Title":"A Family Classic","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you have kids, this movie is probably sitting next to your VCR right now - along with its many sequels.  But this was the first (and best) of the series, and while I wouldn't say this is a must see for everyone, it is one of the good family-oriented films out there.   After all, it is Disney. "},{"Title":"Not to sound cliché, but&#x85;meh","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" At the time of this movie's release, I was just under three years old, so I didn't hear of it until a few years later. In the early primary grades, I remember seeing it at an assembly in the gym. That was when I was introduced to it. I guess I saw the entire film, even though I could only remember little bits of it. I wasn't familiar with anyone in the cast at the time, but in recent years, I've become familiar with Rick Moranis, a comedian who played various roles in the Canadian sketch comedy series, SCTV, as well as roles in several movies, including this one. Finally renting Honey, I Shrunk the Kids the other day, I wasn't expecting a masterpiece, but was hoping for a mildly amusing film (at least mildly amusing thanks to Moranis in the starring role). Sadly, I didn't even get that.Wayne Szalinski is an eccentric scientist with a wife named Diane and two kids, Amy and Nick. Russ Thompson, Sr. and his wife, Mae, live next door with their sons, Russ Jr. and Ron. Wayne has invented a machine which is supposed to be able to shrink objects (or living beings) significantly, but it doesn't work. Instead of shrinking things, it blows them up! However, one day, while the scientist isn't home, Ron Thompson accidentally knocks a baseball through the attic window of the Szalinski house and it lands on Wayne's machine up there! When the two Thompson brothers are sent up there to get the ball, they are zapped by the machine, which has been activated by the baseball, and now actually works. Both the Szalinski and Thompson siblings are shrunk, and when Wayne comes back up there, he accidentally sweeps them up and puts them out in the garbage! They manage to escape from the bag, and find themselves in the grass. With the kids missing, Wayne eventually realizes what has happened, and goes to look for them on the lawn. While he does so, the four find themselves in various types of danger, including insects, which are now giant to them! When it comes to humour, I've seen much worse than what I saw in this movie, but I still kept a perfectly straight face for the most part. I barely laughed or smiled at all. (I'm not sure if I ever actually laughed, and if so, it was very slight.) Wayne Szalinski, played by Moranis, did tickle my funny bone a little around the beginning, and so did the Szalinski son, Nick, played by Robert Oliveri. I was hoping it would improve along the way and get funnier, but it didn't. The scenes with Wayne and eventually Diane searching for the kids on the lawn while suspended in harnesses are supposed to be funny, but they failed to amuse me, just like most of the other gags. The lack of humour isn't this movie's only problem. None of the characters really stood out for me, and I was also indifferent to the plot. A film like this is obviously going to have a rather simple plot, but to me, it seemed even simpler than usual here. If the film were actually funny, it would be able to make up for that, but I'm afraid that's not the case.Honey, I Shrunk the Kids was a commercial success. It spawned more than one sequel, and even a TV show. Less popular family movies have been made, but despite this one's success, there are definitely more appealing ones out there. Clearly, some people like this film, but I personally didn't find anything in it to keep me overly entertained. For that reason, I obviously don't intend to watch the sequels or TV show, none of which are as popular as this original movie. However, I'm not saying this 1989 family flick should be avoided by everyone. I'm sure it can be very entertaining for kids, even though I couldn't remember much of it from my childhood. I would suggest adults skip it, but I guess many would disagree with that, so I don't know. Maybe it's also good for parents to watch with their kids. It is lighthearted, innocent family fare, so I can at least give it credit for that, but compared to The AbsentMinded Professor, an earlier Disney film about an eccentric scientist, it's fairly weak. "},{"Title":"fun ride","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Inventor Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis) has been experimenting with an electromagnetic shrinking machine. He leaves the device unattended in his attic; shortly afterward, it is accidentally activated. Alas, the demon machine is aimed at Wayne's children, as well as the sons of neighbor Russ Thompson (Matt Frewer). The kids, shrunk to 1/4-inch height, are tossed into the trash bin by the unwitting Wayne. For the rest of the film, our teeny tiny protagonists attempt to gain their parents' attention and to survive the wilds of the backyard, where all sorts of dangers, from bumblebees to lawnmowers, threaten their well-being. Honey, I Shrunk the Kids was an entertaining fantasy, not to be missed if you never have seen it. "},{"Title":"Wildly entertaining Disney picture","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Honey, I Shrunk the Kids opened in theaters back on June 23, 1989. This was exactly the same day the first Batman movie opened. While Batman exploded to an opening weekend record (at that time), Honey, I Shrunk the Kids opened in the #2 spot and it held its ground very well through the rest of the summer finishing as the surprise sleeper hit of the summer of 1989. And what a surprise this film turned out to be. Honey, I Shrunk the Kids is a very funny, wildly entertaining comedy/fantasy about a nutty professor who's working on a device to make objects shrink. In the beginning, all this machine does is blow things into little pieces. But thanks to a little fate, the machine starts operating the way its supposed to, and four kids find themselves in the path of the machine. They are shrunk to the tiniest of sizes, end up being swept into garbage, and have to find their way back home by going through the backyard which to their point of view looks like a large jungle. Honey, I Shrunk the Kids has alot of special effects. Some of the effects look good, other effects look really fake. If this movie had been made today the effects would have been more elaborate. But who cares if the effects look fake when the movie is so much fun. Honey, I Shrunk the Kids is lots of fun. The performances are terrific. Rick Moranis is perfect as the nutty professor who has to find his two kids (as well as the two kids from next door) and fix up this mess. Marcia Strassman shines as Moranis's wife, and Matt Frewer is hysterical as Moranis's next door neighbor who's big plans for a weekend fishing trip go down the drain when his kids suddenly disappear (of course his two kids are two of the four kids that are shrunk). The four young actors playing the shrunk kids are all terrific, and the movie really belongs to them. Those kids are played by Amy O'Neill, Thomas Brown, Jared Rushton, and Robert Oliveri. Haven't seen much of them today, but they're all excellent in Honey, I Shrunk the Kids. This is a Disney film that I could watch over and over again because it's so much fun. And I'm not a child. Kids should like it too. I don't think it's too scary even though there are a couple of scenes with the kids in perilous situations. Nevertheless, Honey, I Shrunk the Kids is a movie for the whole family. Skip the two sequels Honey, I Blew Up the Kid and Honey, We Shrunk Ourselves as well as the TV series of the same name. They don't come close to matching this one for all out fun.***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Great movie......well, for kids anyway.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"    This was another one of my favorite movies from my junior high years.  In fact, this was the only Disney movie I have ever really liked.  In this Rick Moranis plays a madcap misunderstood scientist who invents a 'top secret' project.  Which is a machine that could shrink people and objects.  And the machine eventually ends up zapping the kids into miniature size and they spend the their weekend getting through their own back yard instead of going fishing or to the mall.  I would suggest this movie for kids and the entire family to enjoy.  I even showed this movie to my niece and nephew and there were some good results there.  Now that I'm an adult, I can see this movie is entirely fits into the kids/family genre.  The plot, characters, dailogue, and storyline were all rather well written. But I wouldn't recommend this movie for a bunch of college dormitory students.  ;)    Rick Moranis is a very accomplished actor.  He can play anything from a nerdy inventor to a buffoonish villain.  Other than that, this movie is just plain kid's stuff and the humor is totally lowbrow.  After reading my review you should know why I believe that.  I give this movie and A+ for kids, and a C- for adults.   "},{"Title":"one way to remember kindergarten","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember how during summer school between kindergarten and first grade, we would often watch Honey, I Shrunk the Kids on video. It's the sort of thing that can easily appeal to kids, as family man/inventor Rick Moranis creates a machine that's supposed to make inanimate objects tiny, but a snafu makes the machine turn his kids and the neighbor's (Matt Frewer) kids tiny. So, most of the movie has the kids traveling through the now giant front yard trying to get back to the house and having many adventures, ranging from fun to weird to scary.Yeah, I guess that it's hokey family stuff. But it's still fairly fun to watch. Now that I think about it, the sprinkler rain scene was actually sort of sexy. When I watched Ghostbusters, I was surprised that Sigourney Weaver's neighbor was the guy from this movie. Speaking of which, what ever became of Rick Moranis? All in all, pretty entertaining. Still, I can't believe that in summer, 1989, this movie out-grossed UHF. "},{"Title":"Honey, I Shrunk the Kids","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" From director Joe Johnston (Jumanji, Jurassic Park III), this used to be one of my favourite family films, and whenever I watch again it is still fun. Basically slightly mad, but completely lovable and clever father, Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis) is trying to invent a shrinking machine, and so far he has failed in making it work right. That is until next door's Ronald 'Ron' Thomson (Big's Jared Rushton) shot a baseball through the attic window, activating the machine, and when they go up there to get the ball, they (along with a chair and couch) are victim to the shrinking machine. The kids, Ron, his brother Russel (Thomas Wilson Brown), and of course the Szalinski kids, Amy (Amy O'Neill) and Nick (Robert Oliveri) are now a quarter of an inch tall, and thrown out in the trash to the end of the yard, they now have to find their way back to the house through the jungle of the long grass of the yard. Soon enough, Wayne, and wife Diane (Marcia Strassman), as well as the Thomson parents, Russell (Matt Frewer, aka Max Headroom) and Mae (Kristine Sutherland) are all getting worried where they are. The kids journey sees them facing everything now big for them, including dog pee rivers, bees, water drops from the grass sprayer, scorpions, a lawn mower, and much more. Eventually they make it to the house, and are back to normal size when the machine is fixed, so a good film with some good early development into what special effects can do, and Moranis is a lot of fun. It won the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects. It was number 55 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"I thought it was cute","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I mean, it's nothing spectacular. But just a light hearted little comedy about a crazy scientist who is inventing a machine to shrink things. When he just about gives up on it, his kids and the next door neighbor's kids accidentally step into it's path, it works! They are shrunk. When Wayne, the scientist, thinks it's completely broken without knowing what it did the kids, he trashes the machine. When he cleans up the mess he made and accidentally throws the kids in the trash. They end up making a big journey through their back yard to get back home and be big again.Over all, it's a good movie. Definatly worth a watch. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Charming Late-Eighties Comedy...","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"   Needless to say, the sequels were not.Rick Moranis plays another wacky nerd, this time named Wayne Scalynsky. (probably spelled that wrong-sorry.) Wayne is an bumbling inventor, whose latest invention, a shrink-machine, proves a misfortune as the device accidentedly shrinks Wayne's poor kids, along with some neighbor's kids as well. You could accuse this film of being manipulative, but I found it charming and amusing, because it isn't often a shrink machine is based in a film, and when it is, that particular film is often a horrible example of filmmaking (The Incredible Shrinking Woman).So if you feel like a good escapism comedy, watch Honey I Shrunk the Kids-the title alone causes you to emit a giggle. 3/5 stars-JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 1989 science-fiction family film about inventor Moranis accidentally shrinking his and his neighbors' kids to the size of a quarter-inch. Strong in delivering memorable sequences even if everything is skin-deep and dated; however, for a 1989 film, the reality sets and effects are top-notch. Moranis is perfect as the goofy struggling inventor&#x97;a role originally offered to Chevy Chase and John Candy, the latter of which recommended Moranis&#x97;while Frewer and Sutherland are quite likable in their supporting roles as the neighbors. The four shrunken kids all deliver well enough, but never seem to get fully fleshed out; and Strassman, unfortunately, has very little to do at all. Mostly filmed at the backlot of Churubusco Studios. Joe Johnston's directorial debut. Spawned two follow-ups HONEY, I BLEW UP THE KID and HONEY, WE SHRUNK OURSELVES, as well as a TV show that ran from 1997 to 2000; if you didn't like this one, then don't proceed to the sequels!**½ (out of four) "}{"Title":"One of the best films ever made!","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Honey, I Shrunk The Kids was my favorite movie of all time. I used to sit down and watch every single day, from beginning to end. As 4 kids accidentally get shrunk by their fathers' shrinking machine, get lifted out and thrown into the garbage bag, they must now try and make it back home by going through a terrifying route in their backyard. Unsuspecting laborers await these kids as they must fight to survive to get back to their normal size. They must battle against hurricane sprinklers, dive-bombing bees, a run-away lawnmower and much, much more! It's great Disney fun in this mind-blowing, eye-popping epic that'll leave you hanging on the edge of your seat! Get ready to be shrunk to only a quarter of an inch tall! 8/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best shows EVER on TV in any category","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" this show was a kids show and as such a lot of people overlooked it or made fun it but if you actually sat down and watched it, you would have seen (if you had any brains or taste) that it was one of the best written shows ever to air on TV. The best episode as far as I am concerned was the Morpheus episode where the daughter is afraid to take a test and the boy is afraid of dissecting frogs. I don't want to be accused of including too much plot so I won't say anything more but this particular episode was one of the best written shows ever to appear on TV. You could analyze it in film class or English class on any level and it would hold up. It was funny, clever and intricately plotted. I hope this show is released on DVD soon. It deserves to be. "},{"Title":"Family Fun","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Originality and family fun are two characteristics of this movie.  I personally think Honey, I Shrunk the Kids is better than the sequels, and its fun.  You have adventure, drama, comedy, and even a little bit of romance.  All the kids I know love this movie, because in what other movies can you see bucking ants, giant oatmeal creme pies, bunking legos, and your worst nightmare- a lawnmower.  Lots of fun.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Fun for all.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is probably one of the first film I have ever seen  on a big screen,I remember when it came out in 1989 (I was 8)their was so much fuzz about it,every station on T.V were talking about it and they were talking a lot about the special effects because for the time they were amazing.So I really pushed my mom and dad to go and see it .It was a fantastic film to see for a child I was thinking about it days after I saw it.And now even if the special effect look old now  and I'm 20 I still think it's a great film. It's a very original film and the character are all interesting and you care a lot for them. A classic that I'm  proud to have on video(I only hope it come out on DVD soon) "},{"Title":"Silly, but  good.","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is impossible, but I like the atmosphere. I thought it was kind of funny, and dramatic. It's kind of cool.   Rick Moranis plays like a corny inventor who invents a shrinking machine. This movie can really make you laugh. I like movies like this. The title Honey, I Shunk the Kids had a lot of character in it, though, it's very unique.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, fun adventure","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I hadn't seen this film for about 10 years, and on a whim my younger brother and I watched it last night (we are now 18 and 19), and I have to say it's still an absolutely fantastic movie.There is comedy, adventure, and some fantasy close calls. Just what a family needs. Albeit the Nick character can get a little annoying with his 'over-nerdiness' but that's forgivable. This is most definitely a must see movie for all. At least to have seen it once.Looking through the other reviews I must say I'm rather confused as to why people are voting 'on a child basis' and also on 'an adult basis.' Films are written, produced and targeted at a specific target, and this is clearly for kids, family and any adult who is in a sort of relaxed and childish mood. Let me put it another way..... you wouldn't say 'well I thought 'the Hill have Eyes' was a brilliant film, so 8 out of 10 for me, but to be honest I don't think my 5 year old daughter would like it so from a kid's perspective I'd give it a 3/10.' Make sense? Seriously, have a laugh, and watch a film that is so memorable I guarantee you will recollect and remember it even 5 or 10 years down the line. "},{"Title":"Becareful Where You Hit a Baseball!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Meet the Szalinskis! A pretty normal family, except that husband and father Wayne Szalinski has invented a shrink machine. He's a mad scientist who likes to invent things. Most of them fail to function or misfire rather than work properly. The kids are Nick and Amy. Nick wants to be an inventor like his old man. Amy is an average teenage girl who loves boys and the mall. It can get noisy when Wayne works on his inventions so it irkes off neighbor Big Russ Thompson, played by good old Matt Frewer. He's got a wife and two kids. The kids include his eldest boy Little Russ Thompson who is somewhat shy and doesn't like sports, or fishing, which is unfortunate because the Thompsons are going fishing for the weekend. Big Russ wants so much for Little Russ to succeed in life, but he pushes him too hard. Other son Ron is the complete opposite of Russ.            One morning while Wayne went to give a presentation but ended up making a fool out of himself, careless Ron hit a baseball into the Szaliski's attic window, activating the shrink machine! When going upstairs to retrieve the ball, the kids were shrunk! Which was amazing because until now the machine just dissentigrated apples. Wayne thinks the machine is a bust, beats it up and scoops up the pieces- and the kids-into the trash and placed the bag in the backyard.The kids escape and realize what used to be the backyard is now a jungle! A ten foot long jungle from there to the house. Big Russ takes charge, closely followed by motor-mouthed Amy. The trek is somewhat difficult.           When Wayne and wife Diane realize the kids are missing, Wayne comes up with the notion-- Maybe they were shrunk. So he searched the backyard with stilts and a magnifying glass attached to a helmet.The kids soon meet a giant ant. A regular sized one to us, and are almost attacked by a scorpion. Diane believes Wayne's story, despite the fact she fainted after first hearing it, so they tell the Thompsons. Big Russ thinks Wayne is nuts. Next day, the kids climb aboard their dog, Cork, and go into the house. Wayne was sitting down to a lovely breakfast of a bowl of Cheerios. Nick fell in and was almost eaten.Wayne rigs the machine and tests it on Big Russ. Then he blows the kids up (you know what I mean) and they live happily ever after. Big Russ and Wayne are friends. Also, Nick finally realizes the joke he heard from Little Russ on where he learned mouth to mouth resolutionFrench class.         This movie is pretty good! It even has the perfect titleHoney, I Shrunk the Kids. It's the truth, after all. It was followed by shallow sequels and a shotty TV show.  - "},{"Title":"Fun the first time, but not worth a second viewing.","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Rick Moranis has done some interesting roles during the path of his career, and this was another of those, but unfortunately, it's one of those feel-good kid's movies that fail to make you feel good after the first viewing.It was fine at first, and actually entertaining, but once the story has played itself through to the end, there is really no need to watch it again. This is unusual for me to say, as I watch movies over and over, but for me, this one loses its charm after the initial viewing.Otherwise, the child stars were competent; not talented, but competent, in their roles. This is not an example of talented child actors, beautiful sets, great story, etc. Basically, this is a modernized remake of the absent-minded professor, without Flubber, enigmatic characters, great writing, ingenious story, compelling dialog, or even benefit of talented thespians. The one great thing about this work was Rick Moranis, but you got too little of him and too much of the stiff, cardboard-cut-out kids.I was disappointed. It rates a 4.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"shrinking movies","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Sorry but, i speak for many people in my school, and we all agree that there should be a shrinking movie that is scary, and people do get killed. For example, a team of friends go unto an island get shrunk to the size of an ant, get killed differently while trying to find a cure, i.e one person gets killed by being stepped on, another being eaten by a human by accident, being eaten by an animal, toyed with by a child and killed!!! i mean really adventurous, it doesn't even have to be on an island, it could be in the city, and one shrunk man suddenly finds himself in a box filled with ants to be dissected in a secondary school!!!! Or something like that, and i don't mind a giant human (not a giant monkey or bird or snake), a giant human suddenly killing people, I'm not really that much into killing films, but that will be a striking movie!!!Anyway, i may be wrong, if there is a movie like that, please let me know. "},{"Title":"Little Victories.","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Scientist Rick Moranis invents a machine that is supposed to shrink objects. Unfortunately the product does not work until it inadvertently shrinks his two kids (Amy O'Neill and Robert Oliveri) and two of the neighbors' kids (Thomas Wilson Brown and Jared Rushton). Totally outlandish live-action Disney production that almost plays like a whacked cartoon. The kids are all hit and miss. Moranis and neighbor Matt Frewer do about as well as they can with the material and ultimately they are worth checking out. Appropriate for all audiences, Honey, I Shrunk the Kids is little more than a light weight marshmallow of a picture that delivers what it promises. 3.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"I didn't like it, but I can't really say stay away from it.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In 1989 you knew Rick Moranis was going to be in one of the top movies of the summer, but most would probably have said that it was going to be Ghostbusters 2.  Well they were wrong it was this rather bad adventure movie for the kids.  That isn't entirely fair for me to say, it just did not work for me, but other kids may like it.  I was also 14 or 15 when I saw it so I just did not enjoy this family film.  First of all it came with a really bad Roger Rabbit short.  This was when they were still trying to make him into something, but that ended thankfully.  After that we are treated to a rather unfunny comedy adventure about an inventor who develops the most useless of inventions...the shrink ray.  Well I guess it does have some uses.  Well suffice to say Rick Moranis is the only person in the movie that got off a few lines I chuckled too, but other than that this movie is a pretty standard shrink movie.  Reminded me of the old TV show Land of the Giants I think it was called.  The kids end up outside thanks to some house cleaning and there is where some stupid things occur such as befriending of an ant and the deadly scorpion...an insect that isn't all that common in the back yard of most homes unless this movie took place in Arizona or somewhere else west.  There is also a bee ride and this makes up all the insects in the entire yard.  Just not very realistic and I am pretty sure you can't befriend an ant.  Like I said, I really did not care for this one, but it might be good for younger children so don't totally dismiss it. "}]