[{"Title":"What the hell!","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is undoubtedly one of the worst film in the Friday the 13th series. It lacks horror, story and qualities of any kind. The fact that the film was released makes me sick. The film drags on a ferry with a bundle of bad acting characters which are all slaughtered off in terrible ways. Then when they finally reach Manhattan which is towards the end may I add, the plot barley even involves Jason and is another half an hour dragging on to complete the film. The film becomes even more cheesy and is not scary what so ever and completely ruins the film when Jason is seen by half of Manhattan chasing the two helpless victims because nobody seems to be doing anything to help them. If you think it could only get better, well you're wrong, as Jason goes to Hell is just as bad! "},{"Title":"Awesome.","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"38 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think Jason fans boil down into two categories - the ones that watch for actual horror and the ones that watch for unintentional humor and shock value.For the former group - this movie is worthless. The change of scenery from the dark, foreboding woods of Camp Crystal Lake to a luxury cruise liner completely ruins Jason's mystique. Jason is a killer made for stalking around the ominous woods, not sauntering through hallways and crosswalks. The kills are numerous and bloody... but don't compare to some of the other installments. Overall, this movie is simply not very scary.For the latter group however, this movie is a gem. Packed full of stereotypes and inexplicably idiotic characters, you can't help but laugh as each one is picked off, Jason-style. With Asian valedictorians, black athletes, and white party girls, the lack of effort that the writers put into the film is clearly evident. It's almost as if the writers got together and tried to figure out how to fit the maximum amount of gratuitous violence and nudity into an hour and a half movie... sheer brilliance.For me? 8/10, one of the best comedies I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"And I thought Jason X was going to the worst.... (Spoilers)","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My friend and I rented two movies, knowing that they were going to be bad; Jason X, and this, Friday the 13th 8. We watched Jason X first, and both agreed that it was pretty bad. And then we watched this..... Oh god this was horrible. To start, the concept is stupid, Jason going to Manhattan. Cities in New York are really over used in movies, no matter how good the movie may be. In the flashback at the beginning, of young Jason drowning, they COMPLETELY screwed up what his appearance is supposed to be. Jason was supposed to look like a bald, deformed child. In this, he has plenty of hair, and he looks like a normal little boy. Another thing, I do believe Jason SWIMS to that cruise thats headed towards Manhattan (feel free to correct me if I'm wrong). Everyone who knows enough about Jason Voorhees and the Friday series should know that he can't swim, and that he's afraid of water. And even if I am wrong about that, why would they make him be on a boat, surrounded by water? And one incredibly stupid is when Jason is chasing those two people IN FRONT OF HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE, Jason scares those kids by lifting up his mask. And finally, the final scene in the sewer, Jason's hockey mask comes off, and you get to see his face. AND THEY SCREW THAT UP TOO. Again, Jason is supposed to look deformed. In this, they make him look like a zombie in those cliché' zombie movies. I could go on all day about how bad this movie is. Don't rent it. I seriously regret renting it, even if you want to rent a bad movie to get a laugh about it. This is a horrible movie, and I'm never watching it again. The end. "},{"Title":"The 2nd Worse Friday the 13th Ever Made","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've seen my share of bad movies in my life, mostly from being such a big fan of MST3K for so long. But this movie really takes the cake. It is without a doubt the worst Friday the 13th, second only to Part V A New Beginning. Not even the presence of the (somewhat) well-known Peter Mark Richman and the now-famous Jason himself, Kane Hodder, could make this film make any sense.The movie is flawed in many ways, one of the biggest of which involves Rennie Wickham's constant visions of Jason Voorhees as a young child. Often times she is touched by these visions and yet Jason is either with her at the time or is near her, which makes someone want to ask What is going on in this girl's head?. The visions may have been caused by deep psychological trauma suffered from the events of the flashback seen towards the end where she almost drowns and encounters Jason as a young child. But that flashback is a primary example of how flawed this movie is in terms of the continuity of the series. It is determined in Part 2 that Jason did, in fact, not drown as a child but survived and spent the rest of his childhood in the woods, which eventually leads to him being the fully grown undead serial killer the fans have grown to love.Another major flaw is the ending, in which Jason is drowned in toxic waste. However, seconds before being doused with said chemicals, water shoots out of his mouth almost for no apparent reason. It may have been the intention of the writers to do this to remind the viewers that it would be the second time Jason has drowned in his life, but I highly doubt it. And then the end after Jason is killed, the audience is shown the body of a young boy, which is no doubt Jason Voorhees. This ending would indicate that Jason was always a boy but . . . something, maybe being reborn with a body of swamp algae and barnacles that the toxic waste disintegrated? Highly unlikely once again.And of course, there is the flaw of Jason's apparent ability to change places at the blink of an eye, in which he is seen in one place for one moment and then seems to move with lightning fast stealth in front of the characters almost like Freddy Krueger. How is it that someone in reality who walks slower than Michael Myers can move so quickly off camera, especially if he never seemed to be this quick in the previous movies? The only time we see Jason take a shortcut to get to his destination faster is towards the end when he's chasing Sean Robertson and Rennie Wickham through the tunnels.All of these flaws are the faults of the writers, all of whom may need to reconsider their paths and/or hire their own editors. "},{"Title":"The Last True Friday","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Renowned film critic Leonard Maltin calls Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan the highlight of the series. Of course Maltin rated virtually every other Friday film a dud, so that's not saying much. In any event, he's wrong. But while this eighth installment is comparatively inferior to most that preceded it, it's not as bad as reputed outside Maltin circles.Jason Takes Manhattan is one of those movies that's impossible to love unconditionally. There are simply too many flaws, from ridiculous plot elements (Jason can teleport???) and an uneven pace to a lack of chills and incompatible attempts at humor. Indeed this entry represents a bitter come-down after the absolutely stellar parts VI and VII.In many ways, Jason Takes Manhattan doesn't feel like part of the franchise. The Jason here isn't scary like we know he can be. His deadly moves, be it the electric guitar impaler or decapitatingly powerful right hook, seem contrived. Kane Hodder looks like a guy in a Jason suit rather than the real deal. Director Rob Hedden fell into the trap of gore for the sake of gore, but that's never been what Friday the 13th is all about. It's all in the build-up, and sometimes, even in low-budget '80s horror, less is more.With all of that said, Jason Takes Manhattan isn't a total loss. The mere sight of the rapidly decaying villain storming through the mean streets of the Big Apple is worth at least four stars. Aside from the change of scenery, the film offers a semi-compelling storyline or two. And the masked one does have his frightening moments, smashing through portholes and firing harpoons at horny teens. As usual, the climax -- this time a chase through the city and sewer -- is the highlight.For better or for worse, Jason Takes Manhattan marks the last true Friday the 13th. This was Paramount's last stab (pun intended) at things before selling the rights to New Line Cinema, which basically destroyed the series with absurd ideas like Jason switching bodies and rampaging through spaceships. Not great, but not godawful, this film carries limited appeal outside of fanboy circles. "},{"Title":"Great Jason adventure!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Some fans dis this sequel, but it's awesome. It has no pre-credits sequence like all of the other installments, but it's awesome. Very entertaining. It takes Jason awhile to get to Manhattan, but alot of the movie deals with Jason's trip to Manhattan, and when he gets there, the entertainment does not let up at all. The MPAA has done alot to these movies, but they're still grand entertainment at the very least. Jason is taken down several times in the big apple, by Sean and Renny, but he keeps on tickin'. Near the film's finale we see Jason's face, once again and then he is splashed with toxic waste and turns into a little boy again. There has been so much talk about what happens between Part 8 and 9. Because The Final Friday, does not concern Jason at the beginning, leaving the big apple and returning to Camp Crystal Lake. But Jason does return. Even though the filmmakers don't explain anything. "},{"Title":"Jason at his best!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason is back yet again in this 8th outing. With the exception of Jason X and Freddy Vs Jason this is Jason's best killing spree. He is brought back to life (as usual)and it isn't long before he's on board a teenage filled cruise ship with one thing in mind....MURDER!The body-count and gore is completely satisfying, there are some of the best deaths by normal means here from Jason punching an annoying character's head off to the old wrench in the head demise. So if you like gore this is for you.A lot of people will tell you that the Friday 13th series has gone downhill since the first but i disagree, the older films took quite a while to get to the death scenes and Jason had limited screen time but this is perfect, Jason's presence is forced upon you regularly which will please other Jason fans.It's the best slasher from its time.(ki-ki-ki-ha-ha-ha) "},{"Title":"Wow, now here's a situation *POSSIBLE SPOILER*","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (Before seeing this movie)Uh oh, looks like mean IL' Jason Voorhees is off to slaughter more naughty teenagers. Wow this one's going to be predictable, but wait...He's in New York this time? Sweet! Voorhees is going to be running around hacking the fine citizens of this metropolis into something resembling a fine pate in no time.(After seeing the movie)...This thing should have been called Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Sits on a Boat For the First 80 Minutes and Spends the Last 20 in New York or simply Jason on a Boat! or perhaps maybe even Avoid This Movie as if it Were Liquid Death with a Plague Chaser. I love bad movies, I don't know why, I just do. However, I cannot bring myself to enjoy such a worthless movie as this. I hated it, the first forty minutes of the movie I just wanted the damn boat to sink and kill everybody on board. Then Jason could walk on the bottom of the ocean, get to New York and give its loud-mouth citizens a taste of swamp justice. But no, instead they hand me, Jason Sits on a Boat with his Thumb up his Anus Praying Something Cool will happen Part I.Possibly the most misleading title ever. Don't see it unless you plan to get really, really wasted and cry like a wuss right after. This movie will eat your soul and laugh as you fade into oblivion. Spare yourselves and do not fall prey to my fate.  "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Every movie series has its ups and downs. This was definitely Friday the 13th's down For some reason, this movie just wasn't that great. Don't get me wrong, I liked it and all...just didn't have that thrill that the others had. It shouldn't be called Jason Takes Manhattan. Should be something like Jason takes a cruise or something. Although Kane Hodder played a great Jason, the character of Jason in this movie was disproportional. His abilities and whatnot. Some of the characters were the worst in this movie, the acting was pretty bad. I do like some scenes however. But they didn't fully redeem this movie from the horrific outcome. I give this a 5/10, this is probably my least favorite of the series. "},{"Title":"Better than Titanic!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"36 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What's up with all these high schools in the movies having these insane senior trips? The kids in Final Destination flew to Europe, and these kids go on a freaking cruise? I went to Magic Mountain for my senior trip! Oh, well, I guess the payback is that in the movies they all get killed. Magic Mountain sounds a lot better in that sense. By this point in the lengthy Friday the 13th saga, it's clear that even the writers of these movies (generally the last people to catch on when they come up with idiotic ideas) have noticed that a lot of teenagers going up to Camp Crystal Lake to be rebellious and get slashed all up is getting a little bit old, so in this installment they decided it would be a good idea to have the movie take place on a whole ship full of high school students. Moving someone like Jason Voorhees from his home on Camp Crystal Lake to an unfamiliar setting is actually a really good idea for generating more interest in the series, because although it's a given in a series like this, I think audiences always like to see familiar characters come back from other stories. So while you already know Jason is going to be in the movie because it's a Friday the 13th, you at least see him in an unfamiliar atmosphere, which removes a lot of the automatic cynicism that is now being generated toward the teenagers who are still stupid enough to go out to the lake. Now we see Jason killing all kinds of kids unsuspectingly on their school trip and then more people on the streets of New York. Amazing the things we find entertaining these days, isn't it?There are a lot of fairly innovative deaths aboard the ship in the first half of the film, such as a guy relaxing in the sauna getting one of the hot rocks shoved through his stomach, a guy getting impaled on the communication antenna on the boat, and throat slit by a machete, an amazingly botched scene. You would think that since it was so obvious the knife didn't even touch that poor guy, they would at least not have done it in such a close-up.Ironically enough, the part that I was anticipating to be the most interesting was the least creatively done. After realizing what is going on on the boat (meaning, after just about all of them had been killed), the surviving students on board get the life raft and escape, rowing out into the dark ocean in hopes of hitting land. Eventually, they see the New York City skyline and jump for joy. I was anticipating a creative and fun romp through the streets of New York, maybe with Jason confused at his surroundings and therefore going even more nuts, which would create havoc among the population. I mean, LOOK at the guy. He spent the time between the last movie and this one rotting on the bottom of the lake, and he certainly looks like it through this entire movie.Unfortunately, the filmmakers not only revealed the modesty of their budget through the lack of anything really interesting happening, they also displayed a massive lack of understanding of the geography of the city of New York. I've never even been there myself, but it seems like pretty much basic logic that they would not design the city so that the dirtiest slums had the finest waterfront property. Meaning, I doubt you could row up to New York from the ocean, right alongside the Statue of Liberty, and climb up onto land, finding yourself surrounded by endless alleyways full of things like gun-toting rapists and standing barrels of toxic waste. New York is a big city, and all cities throughout the world pretty much have to have things like this somewhere, but generally not right on the water and right next to major monuments. I happen to know, for example, that if you go to San Francisco, you won't find the crime-ridden slums right under the Golden Gate Bridge, and I doubt that you would find open barrels of toxic waste ANYWHERE.But anyway, they certainly find some room for effective comic relief (although notably less than other films in the series), my favorite example of which is the scene where Jason looks curiously at a picture of a hockey player on a billboard wearing exactly the same mask that he has on, a sort of self-realization that has since been overshadowed by the T-1000 pausing to look at a metallic mannequin in Terminator 2. I love that stuff, it gives even the most two-dimensional bad guys a sort of self-consciousness, so that they're not just mindless killing machines but have some semblance of actual thought in their heads, seeing and analyzing their surroundings and pausing when they see something that they don't understand. Makes the inhuman killers more human, you know?Speaking of which, there was also a scene that was really funny for much the same reason, and feel free to make fun of me for seeing it this way. There's a scene pretty near the end of the film where Jason is pursuing the few remaining kids through the streets of Manhattan, and he passes by some street punks hanging out and smoking on the sidewalk and listening to some ridiculous 80s music ('Livin' inna city ain't no big deal, livin' inna city ain't no big deal. If the drugs don't getcha then the hooka's will&#133;.' And so forth&#133;), and as Jason walks by, he kicks their boom-box across the sidewalk. Being tough gutterpunks, of course, they stand up and pull out their switchblades, informing Jason that he just dug his own grave. Jason's response is to turn and face them and lift up his mask so they can see his face. I liked that scene, because like the one above, it shows a self-consciousness. Jason KNOWS that he looks terrifying. He always has, and rotting on the bottom of the lake made it even worse. It also shows that he can deal with people in a way other than cutting them all up and still have it be pretty satisfying to the audience. The climax of the film is bogged down pretty badly by some heavily botched logic and another massive lack of understanding of the underbelly operations of a major city. First of all, none of the passersby up on the streets take a second look at this gigantic, wet, rotting man walking down the street with a hockey mask. I know New Yorkers can be cold and indifferent, but even THEY would not take something like THAT as normal. But even worse, as the kids escape into the underground sewage system (which does not run through wide walkways beneath the sidewalks in ANY city that doesn't want to smell like it's own waste), they run into a sewage worker who informs them that the sewers (in which they are currently standing) fill with toxic waste every night at midnight ('Exactly ten minutes from now!'), and is then killed by Jason before being able to show them how to get out.I won't get into the fact that there is no imaginable reason for any underground pipe system to fill with toxic waste every night at a certain time other than to create false suspense for a movie like this, although that is most of the reason that this climax falls so completely flat. We do get something for the kids to run away from and a time-limit for them to get out of the sewer, and we do get a glimpse of Jason's hideous face as he melts into the waste, but it is a completely contrived setting that has no basis in reality, which is the one thing that always makes horror films (or films of almost any genre, for that matter) more effective. Friday the 13th VIII, obviously, is not very concerned with that, which makes it one of the less interesting installments in the saga, although at least it takes place in a different setting so we have a reason to slap our foreheads other than because there is yet ANOTHER group of morons going up to Camp Crystal Lake to taunt the legend of Jason Voorhees. "}{"Title":"Great Addition To A Great Series","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of my favorite of the series, Jason is awesome he walks around Manhattan like he's Donald Trump. Kickin' boom boxes out of his way, and busting through glass doors. Don't believe all the negative comments about this movie, watch it and judge it for yourself. These movies are not to be taken seriously, just sit back and have fun. Life's hard enough. Jason Takes Manhattan tops my list of great horror movies! "},{"Title":"The Darkest Side Of The Night","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film doesn't have a very good reputation. It's the lowest ranking Friday on the IMDb and Entertainment Weekly called it the 8th worst sequel ever made. It's definitely not the best Friday but I quite enjoyed it for its silliness. For the uninitiated, the first three quarters of the film are set on a f**king cruise ship while only the opening credits and last quarter are set in good old NY. It also has easy to spot continuity errors (when Jason shoves a rock in a dude's chest the shot after shows the wound by his heart). The film has its ups, such as the catchy 80's theme song and a camp sense of humour. And Kane Hodder is always fun to watch as the axe wielding killer. Despite being one of the most tame in the francise, it has 2 cool kills. One is where a chick gets smashed in the head with HER OWN F**KING GUITAR!!!!! Another is where a dude gets his head PUNCHED THE F**K OFF in a fistfight with Jason. Overall the film is silly yet enjoyable "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I Liked This One. Not only do we see A Higher Body Count than Usual, We Find Jason Hitting the Big City. I Don't See Why People Hate This Movie because it Doesn't take place in Camp Crystal Lake. C'Mon. We Couldn't Stay there forever, But then again, They could have stopped making them. Good to Rent "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Before I started to watch horror movies last week I always used to read about them. Jason Takes Manhattan was always the most interesting one to me. Finally I watched it yesterday without seeing the other ones because I really wanted to see this one. I must say it wasn't bad. While the title is semi misleading given the fact that most of the film is on a boat I didn't mind that. One thing in this movie...it's so 80s it hurts. Not that that's bad but the music and hairstyles are extremely dated. But the 80s are cool so there isn't an issue there. When they finally get to Manhattan there are some cool parts like when Jason smashes through glass. For some reason the Manhattan bits reminded me of the first Ninja Turtles movie. Also(SEMI SPOILER)thank God the movie has the heart not to kill the dog. When you kill a person in the movie it's whatever but when you kill an animal it's much worse. So anyways I liked the movie but whatever you do...don't go into it expecting to have in all in Manhattan or you'll be let down. "},{"Title":"He Is Back Again!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"31 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Man, let me tell you, after seeing Friday The 13th Part 7, I was very skeptical about seeing Friday The 13th Part 8. I was thinking that after part 7, the series was going to fall apart. But I was wrong! Friday The 13th Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan gave a brand new twist onto the Friday The 13th Series, while at the same time keeping the feel of all the originals.One year after Friday The 13th Part 7, Jason is still floating around under water, waiting to be brought back to life. Once Jason is killed, the only thing that can bring him back is an electrical shock. (We learned this in part six) But of course as long as he is deep down under water, he isn't going to be getting any electric voltage any time soon, right? WRONG! Jason is back! And now, he is on a boat to the big apple... New York!This film was very cool. A huge improvement over the 7th film. All the acting skills are great, the gore is pretty good, (not as good as the gore in some of the previous films, but still pretty good) and we finally get something new into the mix! A new location! If you like the Friday The 13th series, you will LOVE Friday The 13th Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan. "},{"Title":"Disappointment...","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is ridiculous. Even die-hard fans of the series would have to admit this is one of the worst. It is the second lowest grossing Friday film. Somehow Jason is revived again and hitches a ride on a boat to New York City. Now maybe I missed something but how can a boat floating around Crystal Lake provide Jason a lift to New York City where he can board another boat full of high school students all destined to meet a grisly end? From what I've seen of the lake in previous films, it was surrounded on all sides by land. There was no channel a vessel could travel to lead it elsewhere, yet in this film it apparently provides a way to enter the Atlantic Ocean and travel to the city that never sleeps.The movie is quite boring, which it really shouldn't have been since it actually took place in a location other than Camp Crystal Lake, it should have been much better than this. Surprisingly the change of scenery is only marginally interesting. The latter half of the film is better than the first, but that isn't saying much.Overall, I'd say watch it on television if you must, but it is definitely not worth the rental. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film totally blew me away! After watching the rather dull and boring Part 7, and having read that this was worse, my hopes weren't too high. I couldn't have been more wrong! This film is, in my opinion, one of the best in the series. The acting is good, Jason looks great, it has some funny moments, likable characters, and the story also introduced a much-needed change Jason leaving Crystal Lake - although this can be seen as both good and bad, I think it was a good idea just for this one movie. I hope he returns of course.The film's duration is also unusually long, I think it lasts for over one and a half hour.The only let-downs in this installment is an INCREDIBLY lame throat-slashing scene (minor), and a weak ending (major). This is why I give it 8 out of 10 and not the top-score.Anyway, I hope you enjoy the movie as much as I did! "},{"Title":"my favorite","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i dont know why nobody likes this movie. I think it is great. it has a good plot finally it gets jason away from crystal lake i think the movie is excellent and is my favorite of the f13 series besides part 7 i think they saved the best f13th films for last besides jason x i dont know why this movie is so underrated i mean it finally has some decent acting jason looks good (the best in part 7) the plot is pretty good besides critics rated f13th part8 jason takes manhatten one of the best of the series besides part 1. the f13th series started to look good and be good after part 5 which was ok. Ill even except this movie even with the ending which wasnt understandble  but still didnt make the movie bad. I dont know why diehard jason fans dont like this film. I'm a Diehard jason fan and i love this movie. Overall the second best in the series in my opinon. Friday the 13th part 7 The New Blood And Friday the 13th part 8 Jason takes manhatten are the best in the series both are excellent **** to me. See part 7 and part 8 i strongly recommend them there not a waste. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked this one more than previous ones simply because he's away from the stupid camp, that got boring after the first thousand movies there. At least on this one he gets on a huge cruise boat and then into the city which is pretty cool. And at least a dozen people get killed too, all horror movies should have a ton of killings and at least this movie does. And the part where we see Jason's face is pretty cool too. The blonde girl is really hot ashame she can't act well. Anyways this is one of the better Friday the 13th's despite what these picky people are saying.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Friday films!","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is my favourite horror movie of all times! It is not very scary but fun and interesting. Unlike most of the other Friday films, this one will never let you fall asleep. Even if the scares had ended, it is still interesting, like the funny scene where a girl rapes her principal. The make-up is of top notch and the deaths are cool. There is sufficient gore although incomparable to the final chapter or Jason lives but definitely better than the new blood. Although this film does not took place much in new york, who cares? So long it is nice. Moreover, the change of location does not mean that it will affect the atmosphere of the classic Friday the 13th feel. Also, this movie have my favourite Friday the 13th theme! "}{"Title":"Misleading title, but an okay Friday flick.","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is a better one out of the second half of the series. In this movie, Jason finds himself a stowaway on a cruise ship full of high schoolers bound for New York City. He slaughters his way around the ship, and when it ends up docking, he chases the final few survivors around New York. This as as good as you're going to get in the fatally flawed Friday series, so I suggest anyone that watches this movie just watch and enjoy without worrying about how unrealistic and hokey it is.Kane Hodder, who played the best Jason, really took hold of the role in this movie. I'd give him credit for Part 7, but that movie sucked the big one. The other actors are okay for this movie, though naturally, it's not great. The plot and dialogue are also alright for this kind of movie. Like I say, this isn't the best movie in the series, but it's the only later one that I can say I was entertained by. Jason enters the realm of comic relief in this entry in two very funny scenes. One where he smashes through a box holding up some thug's boom box. The thug stands up to fight, and Jason turns and lifts his mask, scaring the thug off. The second where a guy is punching Jason in the face to no avail, and then Jason punches his head clear off his shoulders.The one thing that bothered me about this entry is that the title is the most misleading title you'll ever see. When I first rented this, I was expecting the whole movie to be in New York. No, instead we have to sit through a long boring boat ride until the last 10 minutes of the movie when Jason finally sets foot on Manhattan Island. All in all an okay entry, but it's not great.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the better parts of the series","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One thing all Jason films have common is that they all have different aspects for the killer's background. In the course of several bloody events they always try to built up some sort of deep, emotional story over the Chrystal Lake legend. This one actually tries to milk desperately some tears out of audience. No success in that, but lets look at this peace of art as a standard slasher entertainment The story is quite pathetic but thats no problem, it always is. Good thing about it is that the movie actually is very fast-paced without the usual one-hour-nonsense in the beginning. The killing spree starts off right away as the body-count keeps increasing into massive rates towards the ending. Even though not much of gore is shown, but it's always nice to see stupid, I mean STUPID teenagers die. Overall we see few hilarious scenes with the new more humorous and laid-back Jason. For example a decapitation with a punch of a fist! The movie should be titled instead Jason Goes Sailing as most of it happens on a ship on it's way to New York. Anyway, an entertaining above the average Jason-movie. Please don't take it seriously. "},{"Title":"It's like this...Jason's heading to the big apple.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film isn't too bad, the plot sees Jason being bought to life from an electric wire while chained under water again (See Part VII) and taking a trip on a high school boat going to New York. The gore seems limited in this film but at least Jason is still killing people, they could of shown a bit more of New York but I guess the budget was limited since Reb's first draft had Jason chasing those two teenagers through various parts of New York.An alright sequel to Friday the 13th franchise that tries to add something new by showing a new location, check this one out if you want. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie but obviously flawed!","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I like most the Friday The 13th movies and this is no exception. Jason kicks ass doing his thing but this movie is full of plot holes big time. Jason was never at the bottom of the lake in child form like Rennie imagined (she's nuts if you can't tell) and has that cruise liner got the fewest ever crew you've ever seen? Sure has! I counted four! Jason should have stayed at home instead of going for a cruise but the film makers chose otherwise. I could write a million word essay on this movie with or without the pen Stephen King supposedly used in high school but i can't be bothered right now. A movie full of mistakes but still good. If you notice, the cook in the café that gets chucked in to the mirror by Jason near the end is actually Ken Kerzinger who actually gets to play Jason in Freddy Vs Jason. Not the best Friday but not the weakest either. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not a total disaster in the series","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Taking a class field-trip to New York, a group of students find their trip crashed by Jason Voorhees who chases them through the ship and eventually forces them to escape the boat and seek shelter in Manhattan from the deranged killer.While there are some problems here with this one, it's still a reasonably enjoyable entry. One of the biggest pluses here is that there's plenty of fun slasher moments throughout here which gives this one some absolutely fun scenes here. The repeated nature of the kills here gives this one an incredibly frantic pace here that this one basically runs so constantly that there's plenty of action here, from the opening assault on the couples' boat and the stalking through the ship here that piles up a lot of great kills here spread all throughout the ship in getting in plenty of fun here in the finale where there's the rather fun encounters within the city here which gives this some really fun moments here where this one fully delivers as a slasher film. The chases in the ship here are truly a lot of fun as the frequent confrontations along the way provide the kind of enjoyable kills here in requiring this one with plenty of exciting action down in the boiler room, throughout the cabins and different start rooms and then finally out on to the deck of the ship here as the survivors attempt to flee the damaged, sinking ship with plenty of fun deaths in these confrontations. Even more impressive here is the scenes of them being chased through the city which are incredibly fun as well as the early chases through the dockyard with the junkies, into a crowded diner and through the subway are just some of the fun here that takes place within here, as there's even more fun with the chases through the streets in the police car, the absolutely brilliant boxing match taking place on-top of the building where it ends on one of the series' best kills and finishes up down in the sewers for some tense stalking in this section which makes for an overall fun time. Along with the great Jason look here, these make this quite enjoyable to hold off the few flaws here. The biggest issue here is the film's really tame and near-bloodless kills here that are about as far removed from what should've been seen here as this one cuts out nearly everything to the point of barely containing anything. There really should've been some more to this one's kills where they've really become edited-down badly. Another minor issue is the rather weird inclusion here of the mini-Jason tormenting her whenever she's near water which isn't really that integral to the story since it doesn't give her anything to use against Jason or give him motivation to track her down, as instead it's more of a plot-thread about her guardian so this makes no sense other than stretching out the running time. The only other problematic part here is the single lamest kill here in the whole series of a single strangulation where it could've gone through several other attempts instead of what actually happened. These here are the film's only real flaws.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, a mild sex scene, drug use, and Attempted Rape. "},{"Title":"Jason takes a boat trip to Vancouver","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well done prologue and title sequence begins what is ultimately a lesser entry in this series.Ridiculous electroshock charge at the bottom of Crystal Lake brings Jason (now clad in different clothing than he was at the end of part VII) back to life to gut a guy on board a yacht, then stab his girl, who just sits back and waits for Jason to come and get her.Apparently bored by lack of victims currently at Camp Crystal Lake, Jason somehow gets to a cruise ship headed for New York during a torrential rainstorm.Yet another attempt by the filmmakers to copy Crazy Ralph, the rambling nut from parts I and II, as present and accounted for here is a rambling deck hand, whose warnings of a death curse on the ship go unheeded. When Jason begins hacking up the repulsive cyphers on board, several believe it to be the deck hand, until he shows up with a butcher knife in his spine. A handful of these obnoxious nitwits are skewered, and a handful of less obnoxious characters survive and escape this now sinking ship on a small lifeboat and head for land, unknowingly followed by Jason. For someone who supposedly drown when he was a small boy, he now swims quite well.But wait, do they land in New York, or Vancouver? I see Times Square for only about ten minutes of the overlong run time.Decent writing, some of the camera-work is surprisingly inspired, and it's always a bit of fun to watch Jason go after annoying teenagers, but this film is really stretching it too thin. After the incredible makeup John Carl Buechler did in part VII, the biggest letdown for this installment is the gooey, slimy, subpar makeup effects. Jason looks like he's been slimed by that little green glob from Ghostbusters, or doused with a tub full of cottage cheese. Another major problem is that there are absolutely no shocks or scares at all. Unforgivable, considering this is a horror movie; those two offenses nearly sink this movie faster than the Lazarus sinks in it.The silly climax reveals that apparently all it takes to turn Jason into a small boy again is to drown him in toxic waste. (*shakes head in confusion*)I enjoyed this movie a bit more when I was younger, but it really hasn't aged well at all. "},{"Title":"jason takes a boat","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i was very disappointed with this.as a kid i sat in barbers next door to our local video shop reading those free upcoming releases magazines.when i looked and saw jason takes manhattan and its video cover i was so thrilled at the idea of jason running around manhattan.then years later i have an inspired idea to buy every single one of the Friday the 13th movies one day.i get to part 8 and what the hell was this?!.for 3/4's of the movie it was set on a boat!and the scenes in manhattan are are set in darkly lit alleyways which could be anywhere. as a basic slasher i guess it was competent enough,and it has an unmistakable late 80's feel to it,especially the new york scenes.it was a bit of fresh air after parts 6 and 7,but the cover and tagline are deceiving.a passable effort. "},{"Title":"Should've been called Jason takes a cruise boat","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While this one may not be the best in the series (or the most popular), I found Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan to be a very entertaining and enjoyable Jason flick. It gets the job done, and then some. The movie delivers everything we'd expect to see in a Jason movie; a gruesome body-count, cool and unusual ways of dying, and only having one or two survivors at the end of the ordeal. Plus, the movie has a cool and different setting that gives Jason some new tricks up his sleeves.Jason was thrown back into the lake and chained by the end of Part 7. However, his body has been disturbed once again and causes him to rise up from the lake and start his killing spree all over again. This time, things are a bit different as he sneaks onto a cruise boat full of students on their way to a field trip. Even though it is not his usual territory, Jason proves to be a unmerciful killer wherever he is. And the last 20 minutes or so Jason is in New York; a whole new playground for him to spread his terror and bloodshed.I thought this was a pretty neat movie. They went for something different and it worked (unlike Jason Goes to Hell). While it offers a different setting, it's still the good old Jason formula we've all come to love. I wished that Jason could've been in New York more, though. It would've been cool to see him get a chance to increase the body-count rather than just go after the ones who got off the boat (I know, he mainly only goes after those who return to Crystal Lake, but you have to admit it's a cool idea. I mean, he's there already. Why not give him a chance to take out more people?). Besides that little complaint, I thought it was a cool Jason flick.All in all, I found that Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan to be a successful addition to the Jason series. While it's not the best one in the series, it is still very entertaining and gets the job done. A very neat effort to make the Jason story a little more different and interesting. "},{"Title":"Well, this is dumb","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Currently working my way backwards through the Friday The 13th films and this nearly out does Jason Goes To Hell for worst in the series but it just barely misses that coveted title.Jason Takes Manhattan is true for about 25 or so minutes out of the 100 or so minutes this film runs, most of it actually takes place on a cruise ship that I don't even remember it going to New York, in fact was New York just a mistake?, after they escape the boat do they just go to New York because its the closest populated place, what a pile of crap that is.The characters are bland, really bland, the only ones I remember are the ones that got killed on the boat. There was camera guy, punk rock chick and hot naked girl with tattoos of body parts on her body - oh don't even try and have me remember any of their names.The deaths are all pretty bland although some stand out. The death in the hot girls bathroom was pretty nice, although I have to say I was rooting for Jason to just kill her anyway he wanted because she got annoying fast. The dance floor killing was pretty subdued but the use of the dance floor made it a little interesting. Oh and near the end where he drowns the teacher in a vat of waste, that was awesome.Jason looks pretty cool as well although I still think his look in Jason X was the best. I don't really know if I can recommend this installment, its pretty much worthless as nothing of interest is revealed about Jason himself and as a film itself its down right terrible. For hardcore Friday fans only I think. "},{"Title":"Cheesy script, but good atmosphere","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A lot of people dislike this movie because of its various plot holes and bad dialog. I partially agree with them, but I don't agree with them that it automatically makes this a bad movie. For one thing, I love the atmosphere. Right from the opening credits, it has a very dark tone that it maintains throughout the movie. I also love the soundtrack. The theme by Metropolis perfectly captures the feel of the movie, and the jazz piece in the final scene is beautiful.Like I said before, I still think that this movie has its weaknesses. The dialog is painfully bad at some points, and the continuity is almost nonexistent. Then again, this is a slasher film, so those flaws are to be expected. Overall, it's a fun watch. "}{"Title":"Jason takes Manhattan ...really?","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Today I finished watching ftt8. A truly awful movie but it did have some redeeming features. The Story A bunch of campers are out at Crystal lake. You would think by this time they would have fenced it off and stuck in pirhanas. So some of these kids are in a boat and there is a brief bit of female nudity, yeah baby yeah. The guy takes his top off but so what, after seeing that I thought I hope he dies and I got my wish a couple of minutes later. He resurrects Jason, Jason goes on a killing spree, is this starting to sound familiar? Next up the school kids get on a boat and they are joined by Jason. Who gets the body count up quite nicely by the time they hit Manhattan. Then there is an attempted rape foiled by Jason, well as a plot piece he does have his uses. Lastly he attacks them in Manhattan. There is a great scene where he breaks through this diner door, that was cool. Then he... well i DO not want to give away the whole thing. Good Points There is a brief bit of female nudity in it. Also the women are really cute. He breaks through the door of a diner, that was cool. The soft rock soundtrack was quite good. Bad points The same lame story line. No gore, just the suggestion of it. People die in predicable ways. There is no tension, the lead character does not get naked. She is hot. Sum up. Only watch this is you have never seen a horror movie. "},{"Title":"Where'd they all go?","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this movie directly after watching the others before it. It tries to combine several teen exploitation genres together in one movie and fails quite dramatically. Others have reviewed the movie's myriad flaws much better than I can here, but I want to point out something that none I've read seem to have noticed.Where the heck did most of the characters go? There are several points in the film where people simply vanish from the movie. The kids on the boat are gathered in the dance room by the teacher. Then the teachers and the main characters flee the boat without going to check on them. The only thing said about it is there is no restaurant when the teacher asks about the other kids. Also, the female teacher dies in a car explosion for no apparent reason. They just leave her in the car when everyone gets out. I guess she just didn't feel like being in the rest of the movie. Can't blame her.Another simple thing. The makers of this movie must really hate New York people. The people are possibly the coldest and most non-reactive people to ever witness a murder. I lived in NY. This kinda stuff in times square would not stand. One last flaw. Since when can Jason teleport? There were more than a few times when someone was running away only to find him already at the other end of a flight of stairs or on top of a ladder or inside a room when he was right behind them a second ago. There's even one scene where a teen looks up and sees Jason at the top of some stairs, then looks at the bottom and he's there too. He's supernatural, but not that supernatural. It takes away from the running as fast as I can but he keeps gaining on me suspense of a thriller.Overall, this movie had some OK death scenes but no discernible plot or intelligence. The boat was a dumb idea for a location. NY was even worse. The subplot about the girl and her visions and the jerk teacher was dumb and never bore any fruit. Don't even get me started on the stupid attempt to portray a high school graduation party. The ending...what?So 3 stars. Watch for laughs, otherwise don't bother. "},{"Title":"Overcomes the series' shortcomings with knowing humour and impressive set pieces","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" By Jason Takes Manhattan, the producers and writers involved were well aware that people were watching Friday the 13th for Jason Voorhees and his inventive take on making hamburger out of the horny, unpleasant or just plain brutally stupid, and not the plots or the storyline. Let's face it, the storyline goes like this '£@%£! Jason's back! Everybody scarper!' in all the movies. Part 8 is unafraid to have a self-deprecating laugh at itself, and uses some interesting settings to liven things up a bit.As such, it stands head and shoulders above the frustrating Jason Goes To Hell and the later but equally annoying Freddy vs Jason, as instead of trying to reinvent the slasher genre (an unwise move at best, never aided if you're a pretentious jerk with it, which is what killed both of them for me) JTM just builds on it and sets it some off-kilter places.The title is a tad misleading, but I find it unlikely anybody truly expected Friday to make it somewhere as upmarket as NY for a WHOLE film. Jason does indeed reach Manhattan eventually, but he doesn't so much take all of it as the docks, a train and a few run-down buildings. All the same, the settings, also involving a boat full of grad students which takes up the lion's share of the film, give the movie a much needed injection of energy.It really helps it, too. This movie is damned infectious. After an initially creaky opening, Jason kicks into high gear, and the movie flies out of the stalls at full whack. There really isn't much time to catch your breath once the movie's going, and only the most miserable of misery-guts could help getting swept along with it. Yeah there's a few cliché characters, yeah I still really don't know how Jason managed to get up that staircase that fast given he was BEHIND the guy earlier, but this is a horror movie, not a heavy duty drama. As such it excels, and it feels good to be able to say that this is a rad movie, well worth your time. "},{"Title":"As dumb as you would expect but surprisingly fun all the same","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It would be very easy to give Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan a kicking. I mean it's the eighth instalment in a series where even the original film wasn't very good. I first saw this myself several years ago and thought it was appalling but I have now given it the benefit of the doubt and revisited it for a bit of mindless mayhem before I went to bed. And I have to admit, I now see it in a more positive light. Sure, it's derivative and formulaic as hell but it at least attempts to do something different with this franchise. Not only that but it's paced pretty well with a steady stream of Jason antics and ridiculous moments.The story in a nutshell has the supernatural lunatic Jason Voorhees reanimated by an underwater electric cable. Pretty soon he stows aboard a cruise ship of teenagers on their way to New York and you can more or less guess what happens next.The principal differentiating factor with this entry in the series is the move from Camp Crystal to a cruise ship and then Manhattan itself. This change of scenery does the film some favours, ensuring that the usual Voorhees slasher violence has a new setting at least. To be fair, despite this change this is strictly business as usual, with a plethora of killings all carried out in a slightly different way. A couple of standouts being a heavy metal chick killed by a pink flying-v guitar and a boxer sparring with Jason on a New York rooftop only to have his head literally punched off. The cast of characters is your usual bunch of teenage stereotypes and we also have veteran actor Peter Mark Richman put in an amusing performance as a spectacularly unreasonable teacher; at one point in a flashback he even shoves a little girl who can't swim into Crystal Lake &#x96; Boo! Hiss! Overall, despite the fact its derivative nonsense, this is actually quite fun nonsense. I've only seen another couple of films in this franchise so I am hardly an expert on it but this one may very well be the most entertaining I have seen. "},{"Title":"Jason Takes Manhattan...Eventually","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A boat anchored in Crystal Lake accidentally resurrects Jason (don't ask how -- it's pretty stupid). He immediately kills the two people on board then later, when the boat has somehow drifted into the same harbor as a boat bound for New York, Jason jumps ship and climbs aboard the other. Pretty flimsy start but at least we're on our way to New York, right? Well, sort of. Jason doesn't actually get there for a long time. The majority of the film is spent on the ship and this is pretty routine slasher stuff with Jason dispatching several annoying young people. When the movie does get to New York, things get interesting and a lot more fun. Apparently budgetary reasons are what kept them on the ship so long. That's unfortunate because if the majority of the movie was like the last half-hour it would probably be more well-liked. Still, it's an enjoyable enough entry in the series and the last one before Freddy vs Jason that's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan (1989) **1/2","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For this Friday fan it was a much welcome change of pace to finally get the character of Jason out of the woods and into a different location. Unfortunately, the results were much less than anticipated, for PART 8 emerged as a renowned disappointment; Jason only arrives in New York for the end portion of this movie, and even then most of the action was filmed in some dirty back alleys of Canada which substituted for Manhattan (though what little footage actually occurs in The Big Apple is welcome). The first hour takes place on a cruise ship where the resurrected masked zombie terrorizes a group of students and their adult teachers en route to New York for a graduation celebration. Kane Hodder returns to the part of Jason for his second of four appearances. His patented methods of murdering his victims are occasionally effective, though they still come off as compromised under the watchful cutting eyes of the MPAA. Young actors Jensen Daggett and Scott Reeves don't show much personality as the ho-hum leads, and even old veteran Peter Mark Richman doesn't act very convincingly. Still, there is something to be said for taking the action away from Jason's same old stomping grounds. Would the movie have worked better in reducing expectations by using a different title (maybe JASON TAKES A CRUISE? VOYAGE OF TERROR?). I think possibly so, but we'll never know for sure. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"One of my favourites in the series.  Starting to hit their stride believe it or not","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason Takes Manhattan is a funny title. The reason is that the time spent in Manhattan is virtually nil. The last half hour is actually in New York considering how much time is spent hyping it up like its Jason lose in the big city (which is an interesting concept I think.) But this is about Jason lose on a boat of High School graduates on their way to New York. It takes the typical Crystal Lake location and mixes it up by putting him on a boat and then truly mixes it up by dropping him into the biggest city in North America. Such intense change in setting is welcomed and interesting and makes the kills that much more fun. This is also the first time I felt like they added a hint of humour to the series with Jason showing his face to some gang bangers to get them to back off. It also has my hands down favourite Friday the 13th kill ever and perhaps the most ridiculous with the boxer on the roof when Jason takes his head clear off with a hook after being punched multiple times. The characters haven't changed much over the course of eight Friday the 13th films but the setting is what makes this one more fun than the average instalment.Jensen Daggett is our latest scream queen and this was her premier role. She is good as Rennie, the emotionally distraught Graduate whose parents were killed, and who was traumatized as a child by nearly drowning. She has that typical deer in the headlights scared of everything performance we have come to know of the lead female in the Friday the 13th series. Barbara Bingham plays Rennie's teacher and one of the only adults in the film and she is a great character but they don't give her enough screen time. A legendary television actor, Peter Mark Richman plays Principal Charles McCulloch. His character is one of the best and he does a great job in the role. Scott Reeves is the young love interest and hero. I think he is actually one of the best actors that played this type of role in the series. He actually has personality and a strong charisma on screen. And its only right that I mention Vincent Craig Dupree who plays the previous mentioned Boxer who doesn't get a lot of screen time but he is good when he's on screen. Kane Hodder picks up the hockey mask again and proves why he is the best at being Jason. His movements are just so defined and perfect for Jason.Another man from the Friday the 13th TV Series takes the helm, Rob Hedden. He also co-write Jason Takes Manhattan and I think these directors that truly care about this series want nothing more than to try and really give it a story because Jason Takes Manhattan tries very hard to actually have a solid plot amongst the insane deaths and kills. The one thing I could have done without entirely was the constant flashbacks to Jason as a child and the ending which for some twisted reason as Jason melting down back to being a child again. IMDb writers pass this off as visions by Rennie but even still it comes across as ridiculous. Regardless this is one of the best stories and the most fun seeing Jason Voorhees run around a populated city...a fish out of water (no pun intended.) This film brings Jason into the 90's and is one of the most fun of the while series. 8/10 "},{"Title":"My favourite in the series","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The 8th Installment in the Friday the 13th see's Jason Making his way to Manhattan via Boat,The boat is filled with young college students who on a vacation as a part of school take a trip there. Despite all the bad reviews This one's Quite good. Kane Hodder is superb as Jason Voorhees my Favourite in the Friday the 13th series were Jason Goes to Hell, Jason X,and part 4. If you see one I recommend you buy it. My only criticism was not enough Manhattan but this is made up by the appearance of Jason killing those stupid teenagers and the grumpy old teacher who thankfully dies at the end. My friends seem to agree this is a very good film I give it 10/10 great stuff! "},{"Title":"A great film for slasher fans.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason Takes Manhattan is one of my personal favorites in the Friday the 13th franchise. It has a long victim list and very memorable deaths. If you like slasher films, it's hard to fathom you not liking this movie.Pros Creative and graphic deaths. Jason has never been angrier. Jenson Daggett's Rennie is the most beautiful and charismatic female lead in the entire Friday the 13th franchise. The humorous elements added to the New York scenes are great. The change in setting from boring old Crystal Lake was long overdue.Cons The stupidest and laziest explanation for Jason coming back to life in the entire franchise. They don't bother to explain how Jason gets from land locked Crystal Lake to the ocean cruise liner Lazarus. The killing off of Jason is very weird and not well explained.Favorite kill (spoiler) Jason stalks Eva to the dance floor of the ship and strangles her to death. Then tosses her to the floor with a sick thud. "},{"Title":"The man behind the mask goes to New York...Hey, wait, what the &%*?","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  --- SPOILER WARNING! ---Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan. Hmph. What can I say? It's...Well, it has, um...Err,...Well, people get stabbed, pummelled, beaten, strangled, drowned and burned to death by a guy wearin' a rotting hockey mask, so... I guess it's still fun. But something's definately missing from this installment...Jason Takes Manhattan classifies as one of the biggest dissapointments in the Friday the 13th series, and that means a lot, because I usually don't get too involved or too dissapointed when a Friday the 13th turns out to be crap, 'cause most of them really are, and that's either a bad or a good thing, depending on wether you want quality filmmaking or just some good, old-fashioned gore. But Part VIII just reaks of wasted potential. More time should have been spent on the streets of the big, bad city, rather than on the crummy ocean liner. And while Jason Voorhees on an ocean liner may seem like a good idea, it turns out to be less than a great plot...This time around, Jason seems to have super powers, since he's everywhere, all the time. That guy who climbs the pole and looks down at Jason, who's fifty feet below, only to continue to climb and then be pulled down by the hockey mask-wearing zombie just seconds later? I mean, what is up with that? And that scene on the streets of NYC when their teacher goes into the run-down building, running from Jason --- only to be thrown of the window by...JASON!?! Trust me, folks, it may not sound like a huge deal right now, but it seriously detracts from the enjoyment of the film because it's just plain ridiculous...Also, the ending is very badly scripted, acted and executed. So, Jason and the two survivors find themselves in the NYC sewer system, and apparantly, every night at midnight the sewers fill up with toxic waste...Yeah, right... So, anyway, the girl throws a can of toxic waste into Jason's face and the mask is burned away, revealing an embarassing, goofy, muppet-like face that screams like the cookie monster on crack. What the &%*@?Then, when the toxic waste actually floods through the sewer, Jason yells --- get this --- Mommy, don't let me drown! in a child's high-pitched voice. What the &%*@ is up with that!? And then, after the toxic soup washes away, we are treated to the site of the indestructible Jason Voorhees transformed into a chubby little kid in a bathing suit. Now it's just getting re-goddamn-diculous...If you like Friday the 13th movies, you may want to view this film, just out of curiosity. Everyone else should probably stay away from this 1989 disaster... No matter how many times Jason takes Manhattan! "}{"Title":"Best in the series","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Most fans of the series prefer the Crystal Lake setting, but riding a cruise ship to The Big Appel is fun to see.Once in NY, Jason contends with drug dealers, cafe bouncers, and a street gang.  So get ready for nonstop fun in this 8th installment. "},{"Title":"The Last Real Friday the 13th movie.","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a fanatic F13 fan for 25 years now and i can say for sure that paramount's last entry in the series was the real last F13 flick which ended jason once and for all but unfortunately a dude named adam marcus came in 1993 and destroyed the great F13 plot continuity which existed from part 1 to part 8 undisputed and i'm explainingWhat we know about jason ?His body was never recovered from the lake after he drowned in Friday the 13th of june in 1957 in his 11nth birthday but somehow he returned to avenge his mother's death in F13 part 2. In part 4 tommy jarvis killed him but in part 6 lightning resurrected him and we were presented with the zombie-jason thing for the first time in 1986.Jason became invincible but the director rob hedden decided to end jason once and for all in part 8 by melting his body in to the toxic waste and jason symbolically transformed to the innocent little boy he was before he was drowned 30 years earlier in the lake.Hedden wanted to show that somehow toxic removed jason's evil being and we were witnessed to Jason's Redemption but unfortunately 4 years later adam marcus ignored JTM and we were presented with a new adult jason in JGTH but with no explaining as how the F13 hell he returned as a little boy.That's why i believe that F13 part 8 IS THE REAL LAST F13 FLICK WHICH KEPT CONNECTIONS WITH THE EARLIER FRIDAYS. "},{"Title":"Easily The Best Friday The 13th Movie","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Easily the best in the Friday the 13th series.The movie starts off with two kids in a boat, having sex. (like in every Friday the 13th ever) The boy in it tells his girlfriend about the legend of Jason Voorhees, and she is worried. However, he isn't bothered by it. They throw an anchor down in Crystal Lake which catches Jason underwater tied up in loads of chains. The anchor is then hit with lightning, bringing Jason back to life. He kills the two teenagers and then the movie really starts.The next day we see high school grads on a boat on a trip to Manhattan. All of a sudden, the killing start up. Everybody suspects it is Jason, but the trip organiser is not convinced. They round up weapons and try and chase Jason down, but nearly everyone gets killed. Some of the grads and parents manage to get away on a dinghy, but Jason follows them to Manhattan without the people knowing.They arrive at Manhattan, where Rennie (the main character behind Jason) is kidnapped. The rest of the gang try to find here, but along the way 3 of the gang are killed, along with a police officer. The two survivors (Rennie and Scott) manager to avoid Jason for a while, before finally killing him with a bucket of acid to the face then finally being finished off with thousands of litres of water wiping him, turning Jason back to the deformed child he was.All in all, this movie rocked. Great deaths, (such as Julius getting his block knocked off by Jason), great story, great acting, and great setting! This movie definitely deserves ten stars. "},{"Title":"Jason goes to Manhattan...eventually","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Jason hops aboard a pleasure cruise. A bunch of high school dullards are celebrating their graduation. Jason has got to crash this party. Soon the ship has taken enough damage and must heal its wounds in New York City. Jason wants to go check out the sights and grind up a few more teens along the way.Friday the 13th Part VIII is easily the worst one in the series. What makes a good Jason movie versus a bad one? Three things BLOOD, BLOOD and BLOOOOOOD! The blood spray was lacking in this one. Jason was a very tired mass murderer. He looked like he'd rather hang by the pool than have to kill these dang teens. Work, work, work. Also, this entry promises you Manhattan but most of the movie is spent running around the ship. NYC only figures into the last twenty minutes or so. The ending in the sewer is also completely ridiculous.In a nutshell, it stinks. "},{"Title":"S.S. Jason","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan takes a brave step in a new direction, with pretty unintentionally hilarious results. Part VIII is the instalment which most people seem to enjoy slating, however I think that it is one of the better sequels. From the overly stereotypical teenagers, to the fantastically inventive locations and death scenes, Part VIII offers much more than just Jason's gruesome slayings, and is therefore better for it. The plot is very basic; Jason boards a luxury cruiser full of teenage college graduates on their way to New York. As sexual activities and drug abuse ensues aboard the boat, Jason slashes his way through the entire load of passengers, leaving just a handful of characters to roam around the Big Apple as he continues his stalk. The characters in this movie are fantastic; J.J. the weirdly sexy punk guitarist, Tamara the hot bitch, Evie the naive girl-friend, etc. Once again the Friday the 13th series doesn't fail to bring to our attention a wonderful array of weird and hilarious people to watch be killed off. The death scenes are brutal and inventive in this movie, however for a later sequel the gore and blood seems very trimmed, so you are left feeling cheated, as the gore is much more toned down and very tame. We're talking about the annoying way the camera cuts away as somebody is about to be killed, so all we see is a blood splatter, or a shadow, or a pained face, etc., so the gore is a great letdown. The script in this movie is also very painful, and the characters all seem to be spouting a load of unwitty nonsense at times. In this instalment we also get to see Jason as a young child as well, as background and past stories are weaved into the main plot, both between Jason Voorhees and Rennie, the main heroine of this sequel. The soundtrack to this instalment is upgraded to punk-rock, and gives it a less creepy, tense feel, but is actually blended well with the dank back alleys of New York. There are plenty of plot holes in this movie. The way New York is over-exaggerated as being a shithole is quite unrealistic, but it does go well with the whole gruesome, dark Jason theme. Overall Part VIII is rather loose and could have been much better if we'd have seen more of Jason actually in New York. "},{"Title":"It is the worst one.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Part 8 is worst then 9/11 it sucked and was awful and goes down as one of the worst films I have seen because it makes zero sense. So the film involves Jason going to Manhattan like in the title but they spend the whole run time and the boat and the last 14 minutes are in Manhattan it should have been called Jason takes a boat oh and Manhattan is at the end. Plus it's one of the most boring films I have seen and no tension is built for the kills and why does Jason teleport is he Night crawler. The characters are stupid and just horrible people and some of the worst characters I have seen in a horror movie and that's saying something about how bad this film is it sucks.So the film has Jason get awoken by some boat and he kills some people the end nope there is more oh god why. Then we see some girl board a ship and Jason just like a bad ass climb up the side fair enough then the killings begin and that's the whole film until the end when Jason arrives in Manhattan and at that point you just want to die why doesn't Jason just kill all the other people in Manhattan instead he wants the main characters who were on the boat. Why there some of the most fake people I have seen in any film and yes the acting is bad in horror films but boy this was dreadful and the ending what happened so Jason is turned into a little boy with toxic goo am done.The film is unwatchable don't put your self though that torture unless you get of to it then sure why not go watch the film but you won't get that 1 hour and 40 minutes of your life back. "},{"Title":"Okay, but disappointing entry in the popular slasher series","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Seemingly unstoppable and indestructible killing machine Jason Voorhees (hulking Kane Hodder in his second go round as the hockey-masked fiend) stows away on aboard a cruise ship full of teenagers that's bound for New York City.Writer/director Rob Hedden alas fails to take full advantage of the promising premise (for example, an altercation between Jason and the Guardian Angels on the subway would have seriously smoked), too much of the movie takes place on the boat, squeaky clean Vancouver qualifies as a pretty lousy and unconvincing substitute for the Big Apple (fortunately, there's a simply glorious sequence that was actually shot in Times Square which compensates a bit for this), and the ending registers as all kinds of stupid and dissatisfying. Worse yet, Jason just doesn't seem that scary or menacing either walking through the corridors of a cruise ship or stomping around urban back alleys. On the plus side, the fetching Jensen Daggett contributes an appealing portrayal as troubled aspiring writer Rennie, tasty blonde Sharlene Martin has a deliciously snarky ball as stuck-up conniving bitch Tamara, Peter Mark Richman likewise excels as slimy and pompous jerk Charles McCulloch, and the boffo big rooftop confrontation between Jason and cocky boxer Julius (played with swaggering brio by V.C. Dupree) climaxes with a choice juicy decapitation. Passable, but it could (and should) have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"Like a fish out of water...","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The turn of events that put Jason in New York might not have been the best of ideas and choices for directions in which to progress with the Friday the 13th franchise. Sure, the movie is still entertaining and it is a Friday the 13th movie after all, but Jason belongs at Crystal Lake, and is not really suited for going globe-trotting.Being brought back to life at the resting place at the bottom of Crystal Lake, once again by electricity as in part 6, Jason does what he does best, but ends up catching a ride aboard a ship headed for Manhattan, New York.What keeps part VIII afloat, no pun intended, is the kills throughout the movie, Kane Hodder as Jason Voorhees and the subplot between the Rennie and Charles characters.There are many deaths throughout part VIII, staying true to the franchise. And many of these kills are very memorable to say the least.Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan has some good talents on the cast list, which includes Kane Hodder, Kelly Hu, Peter Mark Richman and Jensen Daggett.While this is somewhat of a fish out of water, it is still a memorable part in the Friday the 13th legacy. And it is one of those movies that you can watch again and again (as all Friday the 13th movies are). "},{"Title":"Enough to cry for Jason","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was trying to find this part of the saga on DVD for months, after see the scene in the roofs of NY, where Jason uses his amazing power to decapitate one black boxer with only one punch. It made me think, this film could be another brilliant chapter for Friday's fans...but not, and when I finally found it, I can only say it's the worse Friday's the 13th film. Very poor in death scenes, the most of the characters are boring, the FX are the worst. It's difficult to understand how the producers and director could make this film after a good previous films on the saga. I love Friday the 13th, and the character of Jason, and it's painful to say it, but the only interest to watch the film is to see the complete saga, even in that case and being Jason fan, I consider not useful to have it or watch it the film. "},{"Title":"Out of the forest, into the city","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A bunch of college kids makes a boat trip to New York City, accompanied by an evil creature that spreads terror among them, hated, despised and the reason for sleepless nights - of course I'm talking about their biology teacher. But Jason Voorhees is on the ship, too, after he was revived by an electric shock, Frankenstein style. After Jason kills the captain, the ship is drifting across the Atlantic, set on fire, and only a few survivors make it in a lifeboat to New York where the chase continues...On one hand, part 8 is the best looking sequel so far. Cinematographer Bryan England achieves a great look, obviously influenced by 80s rock music videos. Even if the surroundings are different, a ship and Manhattan instead of the familiar forest, Jason continues his usual line of work and kills in interesting ways. My favorite is the boxing scene on a roof his opponent hits Jason about 30 times, until he is totally exhausted, and then Jason only hits once! On the other hand, poor characters and unlikely story. After part 7 attempted to present a different type of heroine, part 8 goes back to the nice girl in distress who gets good marks at school, opposed to the bad kids who take drugs. And then there are lacks of credibility. The kids are rowing a boat across the foggy Atlantic for many miles, the waters are as calm as in a swimming-pool, and they arrive straight at the feet of Lady Liberty - come on... "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first seven films of the horror franchise were all made in the 1980s, this was the last of the decade, and this eighth instalment sees the iconic hockey masked, machete wielding psycho killer getting away from the usual location (bar one of the previous sequels) to go to a bigger place. Basically a year has passed since previous events, two graduating high school students are on a houseboat on Crystal Lake getting frisky, then the anchor is weighed and causes an underwater cable to snap, and the electric charge causes the corpse of killer Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) to resurrect, he finds a new hockey mask and quickly kills the two occupants. The next morning a senior class of graduating students from Lakeview High School, chaperoned by biology teacher Charles McCulloch (The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear's Peter Mark Richman) and English teacher Colleen Van Deusen (Barbara Bingham), are setting sail on the SS Lazarus, bound for New York City. McCulloch's niece Rennie Wickham (Jensen Daggett) has aquaphobia, and has heard all the legends of killer Jason when he was drowned as a child, every now and then she has been seeing visions of the young disfigured child Jason. Slowly strange and nasty things start happening to the people on the ship, both students and crew, McCulloch does not want to hear that Jason Voorhees is to blame, but of course once he sees the violence for himself and the actual maniac in the flesh, he thinks different. After many killings, the surviving passengers aboard, McCulloch, Van Deusen, Rennie, Sean Robertson (Scott Reeves), Toby the dog (Ace) and Julius Gaw (Vincent Craig Dupree) abandon ship and escape in a lifeboat, leaving Jason behind presumably dead, they are relieved when they finally reach the dock and outskirts of New York City. Of course they are unaware that Jason is still alive and followed them all the way and is stalking them, Rennie ends up getting kidnapped by two punks and the group are split up, the punks are killed when Jason comes along. As the others are killed by Jason, it is revealed that Rennie's fear of water was caused by McCullough, he pushed her into the water of Crystal Lake as a child, hence her visions of Jason as a child, the killer chases his victims through Times Square and the subways. Jason's kills include stabbing with a harpoon barb, impaling, killing with an electric guitar, slamming a sauna rock into an abdomen, an axe in the back, decapitation in a single punch, incinerated in an exploding car, drowning in a barrel of waste and much more. In the end Jason chases the last survivors through the sewers, where toxic waste surrounds them, he is finally defeated by a splash of acidic waste, then the whole place is flooded as Rennie and Sean escape up the ladder, but Jason will return. Also starring Sharlene Martin as Tamara Mason, Martin Cummins as Wayne Webber, Tim Burr Mirkovich as Young Jason, Amber Pawlick as Young Rennie, Gordon Currie as Miles Wolfe, X-Men 2's Kelly Hu as Eva Watanabe, Saffron Henderson as J.J. Jarrett, Warren Munson as Admiral Robertson, Tiffany Paulsen as Suzi Donaldson and Todd Caldecott/Shaffer as Jim Miller. Jason is still sinister, but the moment just after his defeat - seeing him as a child, and a few times throughout in visions, is ridiculous, there are a few good bloody deaths, but not enough, also the Big Apple is only seen a little with the lights in the dark, it is more so set down the dark alleys and beneath, to be honest I didn't find this sequel as good as I hoped it would be, but it's not a bad horror. Okay! "},{"Title":"8TH Time is a kill","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday THE 13th 8 is titled Jason Takes Manhattan, but it is the eighth picture in the Friday the 13th franchise In the film, Jason Voorhees gets resurrected again (by lightning or electricity) and continues his murderous rampage, but instead of being in the lake, he is in New York City and he's with a group of graduating teenagers and he follows them in the ship they are in.Most of the characters are awful people, and as a viewer, you can either care more or less whether they live or die (half of them dies), but eventually, a small portion of the teenagers live and this leads into a decent ending in this film.Jason Voorhees is superbad in this one and he's not just a horror icon in this film and he is mad as hell. He is now played by Kane Hodder, who played him in the last film, and would play him for the next two films with Ken Kirzinger, taking his place as Jason in the crossover between this franchise and the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise, released in 2003, FREDDY vs. JASON.The story is amazing and in fact, if this movie was badly received by critics, I would not have watched this film at all. But I won't hate on it like the critics did, but I will say what is my main criticism is The Friday THE 13th theme by Harry Manfredini is missing from this movie and it is just sad. I will admit the new music by the new composer is simply fantastic and amazing.The costume design and production design is just fantastic in this film, so as the Jason mask for this film. The visuals are fantastic and a lot of people hates this film, but it is really amazing. The fans and critics hate this film, but this movie has it's share of fans and I happen to be a fan of this one.Kane Hodder plays Jason Voorhees again and he does an amazing job with the screen time he has. The rest of the actors are amazing as well, but their acting skills are not as bad, it's just that some of the dialogue written for them could have been better.Overall, Jason Takes Manhattan is my second favorite of the Friday the 13th films and this is one of six films that I think that are really cool and are on my list of JASON films that I like.Here they are &#x95; Friday the 13th (2009) reboot, directed by Marcus Nispel &#x95; Freddy vs. Jason (2003), directed by Ronny Yu &#x95; Friday the 13th (1980), directed by Sean S. Cunnigham &#x95; Friday the 13th - Part III (1982) &#x95; Friday the 13th - Part II, directed by Steve Miner &#x95; Jason X (2002), directed by James Isaac "},{"Title":"The most convenient movie ever made?","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Usually suspension of disbelief is one of my strong points, in the past it has helped me through plenty of cinematic stinkers. Jason Takes Manhattan however pushed me to the limit, because this one really doesn't make a lick of sense. I know that's a common go-to criticism for a horror movie, but I'm aware unstoppable zombie serial killers who get revived by electric jolts probably don't really exist. I'm talking about the inherent logic of this movie.For one thing I know the filmmakers have been playing around with Jason's pace ever since the beginning, making him appear wherever they want him to. We've accepted that Jason is clearly a lot quicker once he's off-camera, but this one doesn't play fair. The worst offender is probably the scene where the stepfather is running from a strolling Jason, then enters a house only to find Jason waiting for him there. He can teleport now? If you're going to make him teleport, what's the point of all the chase sequences? There's no suspense if Jason catches you whenever he wants to.Little things that don't make sense, but just happen because the movie says so are a real plague here. The very premise is flawed. Jason boards a ship that's supposed to bring a high school class to New York, but why would he do that? Why leave Crystal Lake now, after all these years/movies? And how on earth can you reach New York via a lake? Writer/Director Rob Hedden makes absolutely no effort in providing some kind of explanation to cover all this up, because he's going to put Jason on Times Square by any means necessary.Any means necessary also includes Jason simply swimming to New York once the ship sinks, the remaining characters splitting up in New York's worst neighbourhood because...Lord knows, vats op toxic waste that just stand around on the street, and Jason suddenly being able to walk past herds of people without trying to kill any of them. Killing everything that moves is just about Jason's only character trait, and they couldn't even get that right.All this would be somewhat forgivable if the movie was at least entertaining, but the kill scenes are just boring. We've seen this dude ripping people's hearts out, so seeing him sorta kinda strangle a girl makes him look like he's lost his touch. There's one holy grail is this pile of dung though at one point the token black kid engages into a long boxing match with Jason, with a predictable winner. This movie blows, but that is one of the highlights of the entire franchise. "},{"Title":"Wasted premise","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After sitting through seven rather torturous experiences with the Friday the 13th franchise - with perhaps one or two exceptions - part 8's title promises a break from the formula, finally removing everyone's favourite hockey mask-wearing serial killer from his favourite stomping ground Camp Crystal Lake and plonking him in an unfamiliar setting. However, this series made its fortune from repeating the same formula over and over again, so we get the same dull hack-and-slash hokum that came before. A more apt title would be Jason Takes a Boat Ride then Walks Around Manhattan for a Bit at the End. The film begins with a young couple frolicking on a boat, where the young boy tells the girl the story of Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder), the deformed mass murderer responsible for the death's of many a teenage archetype. Jason, having been left chained to the bottom of the lake at the end of the previous film, is freed when the boat sails over some underwater cables, resurrecting Jason with electricity. Naturally, the young couple are butchered and Jason is on the loose again. Meanwhile, the SS Lazarus is bound for New York City and young aquaphobe Rennie (Jensen Daggett) is boarded, much to the annoyance of her uncle and stick-in-the-mud biology teacher Charles McCulloch (Peter Mark Richman). Rennie is plagued by visions of a young deformed boy, and soon enough the mutilated corpses of teenagers start to appear.Notice how Manhattan is not mentioned once in the synopsis. Whether it was for budgetary reasons or plain bad writing, Jason's feet don't touch land until the final act. So the opportunity for Jason to be let loose in a city that may just be as deranged as he is - leaving a trail of guts in his wake - is wasted, choosing instead to have Jason chase the leads around smoky back-alleys. When Jason finally stumbles through Times Square barely noticed by passers-by, it's an amusing moment and proves what a wasted opportunity this was. The rest of the movie consists of the same slasher routine as every entry that came before, only less inventive and featuring characters even more grating than usual. Possibly the worst in the series, yet the franchise would somehow prevail. "},{"Title":"Not That Bad!","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jensen Daggett, Scott Reeves and Kane Hodder star in this 1989 horror sequel. This starts off with hockey mask killer, Jason (Hodder) coming back again and slaughtering 2 teens on a boat. Rennie (Daggett) and her classmates are heading to New York on a cruise ship. Rennie is terrified of the water and tries to overcome her fear by going on the trip. She meets up with a boy she likes, Sean (Reeves) and Jason hops aboard beginning his reign of terror. Soon, Rennie and Sean become the only survivors who face Jason. I've always enjoyed this entry and don't think it's that bad. I think one of the problems is it's called, Jason Takes Manhattan and he's not there long because most of the film was shot in Vancouver. Kane is great as Jason and I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"I blinked and missed Manhatten...","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You'd think that a movie based entirely on a character going to New York would have of a... New York Feeling to it. Despite the fact that Jason spends about twenty minutes in New York and most of this is spent in an alleyway, This movie was actually a passable movie, but just barely. Racked with empty plot holes and cheesy lines this should not surprise watchers AT ALL. It's the same fun you're used to with the rest of the damn movies, so don't expect it to be an award winning movie. Jason looks just as Stupid as ever. Donning a changed mask (Maybe he found ANOTHER Hockeymask underwater?) And his eye has magically healed! You'd think the director would actually watch the other movies before jumping head first into another movie. Jason's face is also just as bad as before, this time donning a frankenstein sort of mug. He bumbles around like a big dummy again... killing stupid teenagers... again.So really, if You want to just pick up the movie for old times sake. Or if you want something to occupy your time. This movie is perfect. if not... Steer clear. "},{"Title":"New York, New York!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This time Jason stalks the usual bunch of teens aboard a cruise to which he is finally transported to New York where he is indeed just another psychopath. I was really disappointed with this entry, by then though the slasher thing had been played out and the idea of Jason in New York does have potential. Unfortunately the idea to have all the carnage take place on the boat make this for a gigantic letdown to say the least. When Jason finally hits the streets of New York (the last 15 minutes) Friday VIII becomes an enjoyable treat however along the way the action before the NY action just drags forever. Although I did like the line where the kids run into a New York restaurant yelling There is a psychopath after me! to which the non-chalant reply is Welcome to New York! *1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"Terror Cruise","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another dismal entry in the long running Friday the 13th films. This entry however is no worse than some others, particularly part 5. One aspect of this film that keeps it true to the Jason formula is that is retains the functions of most of the films - Jason going around killing a bunch of teens. The difference is however that it isn't set a Camp Crystal Lake, but aboard a cruise ship and for a short while Manhattan (yes, despite it being called Jason Takes Manhattan there isn't a lot of screen time in New York). The usual rules of Jason are broken in parts 5 and 9 most notably.Heralded Jason performer Kane Hodder returns for his second voyage (excuse the pun), and does his job well. Interestingly, like part 7, this entry also has a demanding male authority figure in that of Charles McCulloch, played well by Peter Mark Richman, and a kind yet uncommanding female authority figure in teacher Collen van Deusen, played by the lovely Barbara Bingham. The heroine and hero in this film are pretty good, particularly hottie Scott Reeves as hero Sean. Jensen Daggett plays heroine Rennie, and while she is not as bad as certain heroines, there have been more interesting ones. Also look out for a pre-fame Kelly Hu as Eva, one of the more interesting teens. Aside from the ill-fated two who accidentally resurrect Jason at the start of the film, the rest of the teens are utterly forgettable.A reason this film doesn't work so well would be the connection Rennie has to Jason, that she saw him drowning when she was just a child. But this is of course illogical, as it would make her over 50 years old. Part 8 even has a crazy deckhand, who takes the role of Crazy Ralph from parts 1 and 2. At times, it is very painful to watch the early 90's outfits and hairstyles, particularly Rennies was awful. There is also a lot of drug use in the film which makes it seem more 80's like (despite the clothing and hairstyles). Like some of the earlier films, there is also a dog in this one too, a rather nice one at that.At times it feels like you are watching a music video especially the opening/closing song (which is quite good), but at other moments in the film as well. This was also the last film by Paramount Studios, which may be why the ending in which Jason is reduced to a child after being covered in toxic waste is ignored for film number 9. I should also point out that there is a lot less sex and nudity in this film than the previous and future. I would seriously advise that if you wanted to watch a Friday the 13th film for the first time, you avoid this and check out parts 1, 2 or 7. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason without Crystal Lake is like a day without sunshine. Why take the wolf out of the hen house? Although it is clever on a movie poster with Jason's hockey mask head ripping through the heart in the I heart NY logo, but for a movie, this is just another attempt to keep the Friday the 13th legacy alive. With some nice gore and kill scenes the movie has nothing else to offer. Part 7 destroys Part 8 with a better cast, storyline and special effects. Part 8 is almost as bad as Part 5 but with a more 80's theme. Some funny moments, but for a horror movie, it's hard to have a scary movie make you laugh and still try to be a scary movie. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The multiple sequels.","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 8 (1989) is the seventh sequel to the highly successful Friday the 13th franchise. This time we find our hero (Jason Vorhees) is about to crash a boat party. The stupid teens don't know what they're in for when everyone's favorite hockey mask wearing psycho climbs aboard and decides to mingle with the party and crew. The usual fare. Jason racks up an impressive body count whilst his prey try to do everything in there power to top this nearly indestructible killing machine. Sadly the M.P.A.A. and budget restraints stop this movie on dry dock. The closets Jason gets to Manhattan is in a long matte shot. He winds up in Vancouver and despite the promise in the trailer and t.v. spots he doesn't get to mingle all that much with the locals. If you're into this stuff however you'll not be disappointed.Recommended for genre fans.C+ "}{"Title":"Plumbing a whole new depth...","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The second FT13 episode to situate most of the action somewhere other than Crystal Lake is also the second-worst of the franchise. The setting of a cruise ship and a fairly reasonable attempt to replicate New York was a good start, but once again, the lack of a good story or credible actors dooms the overall effect.This was also the last FT13 film that Paramount paid for. One wonders if it was because they were tired of being punished at the box office for their inability to fight with the MPAA, or simply because they were tired of trying to publicise the results. Either way, the dramatic improvement, quality wise, that the series took after it was out of Paramount's hands is quite amusing to note.Either way, this marks Kane Hodder's second outing as the hockey-masked wildman, and it is certainly one of his more credible offerings. Unlike every other Jason, Kane actually looks the part of someone who spent his entire childhood living in the woods, as the canon would have us believe. The problem here is that thanks to the MPAA and Paramount, he is given sadly little to do that sticks in the mind of the audience as memorable.The support cast are once again as convincing as Peter Jackson promising to respect the integrity of a story. Even the stereotypes they follow seem so hopelessly out of date that one wonders if the FT13 writing staff weren't given a chance to take a peek at some Days Of Our Lives plot lines. However, by far the most irritating support character would be McCulloch. One would think that the writers would have watched a few of the Nightmare On Elm Street films and learned how to write unidimensional adult characters. Sadly, it is a trademark of the FT13 series to plaigarise from everyone for every reason, except when they actually should. The deckhand is a good example of this. Did they really think that borrowing from parts one and two would erase the general suck factor of this installment?Another big problem with this film is how little credit it gives the audience for its intelligence. Sewers filling with toxic waste every evening at a certain time is bad enough, but if this really did take place, one has to wonder at how easily accessible our cast find the tunnels. One also has to wonder exactly where the police force would have been whilst this man is wandering from store to store, smashing everything as he goes. I was under the impression that the NYPD was quite substantially armed, and had enough hardware to separate Jason's molecules if so desired.In the end, I gave FT13 part eight a one out of ten. The suitable for everyone plays at gore really wear thin here. It's like watching porn without a money shot. Save your money and see an Evil Dead film instead.  "},{"Title":"Fresh air to the series came too late. Only for die hard fans.","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In 1989 the Slasher genre was living extra time and the Friday the 13th franchise (once the most popular Horror movies) needed a complete re - structure in order to survived. It was decided that the Jason character should have a decent ending so Paramount ended with the franchise with a big budget movie Jason Takes Manhattan. Jason wasn't required in the 90's by the executives so he found his death in Manhattan. Everybody knows that five years later New Line bought the rights of the Friday the 13th movies in order to create the epic battle between Jason and their biggest money creator Freddy Krueger, but that's another story.*SPOILERS* Jason sneaks into a s*** filled with high school graduates and kills them one by one until only three of them and two teachers are left and escape the ship's explosion. Jason survives the explosion and follows the survivors to Manhattan. Once there Jason kills anyone that stands on his way and finds his death in the Big Apple sewers. There's not much to say about this entry. The new thing is that Jason changes his killing location from Camp Crystal Lake to Manhattan. The killings are the same, the teens are the same, and he's even the same.There are some good moments though (may only be appreciated by fans of the series). The storms looked cool and the creepy atmosphere inside the ship was good. Jason looked very mean and his costume rocked. Julius' death is something we've never seen in the series. Jason's morphing at the end is weird and disturbing. How would he turn out into a child again?! Insane and unnecessary. Weird but I don't like it. Kane Hodder reprises his role as Jason Voorhees and I must say that he kicks ass. He gave Jason an attitude and in this movie he shows a powerful display of anger. Jensen Dagget (Renny) is very beautiful and delivers a good performance. The other cast members are just regular. The death scenes aren't very creative but at least tried. There's stabbing, burning, impalement, decapitations, head smashings, choking, etc. There's a lot of job for Jason this time. There's a decent amount of gore, a good score, a good direction, and a nice welcomed atmosphere in the series. The new locations gave fresh air to the tired franchise. Good decision, Jason couldn't stay forever in Camp Crystal Lake and it's nears.JASON TAKES MANHATTAN tries too hard but doesn't manages to stay a solid entry in the series. The late 80's standard for making Slasher movies was high and sadly this movie couldn't top it. JTM is an entertaining Slasher movie that stands out from the rest only for having Jason in Manhattan and being Jason's last movie in Paramount. That's it. Watch it only if you're a die hard fan of the series.7/10 in the Friday the 13th scale. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Unintentional tribute","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I originally saw this movie last Halloween on Spike TV and enjoyed it's over all cheesiness enough to go rent it.I think this movie is an unintentional tribute to the B horror flicks of the 1940s and 50s in that there is cheesy dialog and unintentionally funny scenes.I don't know whether this is what was intended,but that was what the finished product turned out to be.Another that really surprised me was that this movie was surprisingly bloodless for a Friday The 13th flick,which was disappointing,although I did think the killing of Eva and Tamara was rather cool.I think this movie had potential,especially being on a ship,but with a bad script and bad acting it was never realized.Now for a little twisted humor on my part.I read the original script for this movie on the Friday The 13th website and there was a touching scene between Eva Watanabe(Kelly Hu)and her mother on the dock which was not included in the movie.Imagine if you will the rather difficult time the school and the authorities had explain to the parents,and Eva's Mom in particular, what happened to the entire Lakeview Senior Class.Mrs Watanabe,we're sorry to inform that your daughter,Eva was killed on the cruise.She was strangled/drowned(remember she was still choking when she hit the floor) in the disco by Jason Voorhees.She should have never stopped running.We have had problems with him in the past,he's a half human,half demonic killer,and every time we think we have killed him he comes back like a bad case of indigestion.Yes we know we're incompetent cops,they're the only kind you find in cheesy horror flicks.  "},{"Title":"On the prowl..","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was recently hit by a big nostalgia trip and having bought the first films of this series on VHS cassette, these had to be seen aswell. They've mostly just been collecting dust in a box but watching them again have me lots of thrills... Normally I'm a bit harsh in my reviews but I really have a soft spot for this series along with the Nightmare on Elm Street series.. These films were important in the task of introducing the horror genre as we know it - wannabe followups like Scream and all the other BS cannot follow this, trust me...if you love horror but for some reason missed these films you are in for a treat!I remember this, part 8, vidly alone over going nuts of the thought of Jason taking on a major city *LOL*It is not movie art, granted, but it is great entertainment, especially if you saw them as a kid.....  "},{"Title":"Dull and uninspired","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Boats make great spots for horror -- as they're enclosed (same goes for planes 'n trains, of course)  The people on board can't get away (except, perhaps, by life boat or somesuch -- and that never works out).What's more, boats have significant advantages over trains and planes. For one thing, a boat is much larger than a plane, and often larger than a train.  You also have multiple paralell means of travel within the boat, so you don't have to spend half your time trying to come up with silly, novel ways for characters to get from one part of the conveyance to another.This movie doesn't make much use of those advantages, however.  Instead, it seems to take place in 3 or 4 spots on the boat, only briefly visiting any of the rest.  When you consider that the ship offers literally hundreds of places for teens to run screaming, Jason to stand menacingly, and general mayhem to take place, it seems absurd that all the characters involved would spend so much of their time concentrated in such a small region.You'd also sort of think, given the title, that Manhattan would play a more prominent role in the film.On the whole, it's just a mediocre film.  Nobody involved seems to be trying, and that leaves you as a member of the audience feeling just a wee bit neglected. "},{"Title":"Here we go again... ~Spoilers~","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After seven other sequels to the same kind of enviorment, what is the worst that could possibly happen, enter the Titanic.Lets see, we start off with two kids on Crystal Lake trying to get it on, whenever the boy decides its a good idea to put down the anchor. Big mistake on his behalf since he electrocutes Jason back to life (how much more cheese would you like on that pizza?). So Jason kills those two for just plain stupidity on their behalf. He then takes the boat (which is supposed to be in a lake, but we later find out that it is on an ocean or something much much much much bigger than a lake) and plows it into another oceanliner and starts making hell on that ship. One by one that kids die on their senior vacation to the Big Apple. A few students, the teacher and the principle make it off the boat into a lifeboat (which shouldn't be lowered if the boat is still moving and since they didn't stop the engines, that would have caused the lifeboat to be sucked underneath the ship). The somehow pull off making it to New York City where Jason, being the Olympic swimmer he is, meets them there. Now comes my favoriate part of the movie with the hockey mask sign. Tell me that wasn't the funniest part of the movie? It was great. Anyways, as they kids and the adults are trying to find the police, they run into the druggys, which eventually get killed, and finally run into one another and a cop. The cop, which only lasts a couple seconds before being killed as well, was useless. They start taking off down the sewer system which gets flooded by toxic waste every night at midnight (there goes our oceans). What luck these kids have!!! Jason gets 'killed' and transformed into a little kid again by this magic toxic slug. Terrible terrible terrible.I didn't understand how Jason picked up his teleportation thing. I was only under the awareness that Freddy could do such a thing. Lets leave Freddy doing his nightmare thing and Jason can just walk really slow, and yet still meet up with the person where ever he/she runs to huh? I didn't enjoy this movie at all I will tell you that much, and Jason Goes To Hell wasn't anything to look forward to either.2.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Suspenseless drivel.","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 8 - JASON TAKES MANHATTAN (1989)THE GOOD--One thing I appreciated about Jason Takes Manhattan is that it at least tries to go somewhere different with the Friday series. Unfortunately it ended up taking it to a new degree of badness, but they at least tried to stay away from the formula and I have respect for people who try new things.--Jason seeing the poster of the hockey mask was TOO COOL for words!THE BAD--This movie is, simply put, wasted potential. Who else would've preferred to see Jason really take on Manhattan instead of wasting time killing people on a boat and then ending up in Manhattan and not killing hardly anyone? Also, I think the lead character had potential to be a more developed character as her past with Jason was kinda interesting, but it was a hardly used plot device.--The acting and characters were AWFUL. I can put it no other way - I wanted everyone in this movie to DIE. I even wanted JASON to die! His schtick is tired!--Why would the boat even go ahead with the sailing if they knew there was a storm coming? This would be acceptable if the captain and crew only found out there was a storm coming during the sailing, but this captain knew beforehand therefore the sailing should've never even gone ahead.--The kills in this movie are bloodless, unimaginative and boring. Usually I can expect from good kills from a crap Friday movie, but not Jason Takes Manhattan.--I would love to know how on EARTH Jason gets from place to place in this movie. One minute he's in an alleyway, the next at the top of a two-story building. And he's frickin' EVERYWHERE during the scene where he kills Kelly Hu. Also, how the goddamn hell did he get to bloody Manhattan by swimming so fast? Ridiculous! Jason can't teleport; he's still a human/monster/zombie/unkillable thing.--This movie is so boring and slow, it drags on even with a short running time. Did they really need that useless story with the muggers/rapists? What purpose did that stupid, overlong scene with the African-American dude keeping on punching Jason (I felt like that scene went on for two YEARS)? Just kill the bastard already.RATING2/10 - There are hardly any redeeming qualities about this film. I would rather got to a paint-drying contest than have to sit through this suspenseless drivel again.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDFriday the 13th (3/10) Friday the 13th Part 5 - A New Beginning (5/10) Friday the 13th Part 7 - The New Blood (7/10) Halloween 3 Season of the Witch (0/10) Jason X (5/10) "},{"Title":"Talented writers wanted","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Probably the most asinine script out of all the Friday's (Okay, Jason goes to Hell takes the cake), but you half to admit, this movie has one heck of a body count. Maybe not as gory as previous or later efforts, but there some clever kills in this one (the rooftop boxing match is my fav). And these are probably the most expendable batch of teens I've ever seen in a horror movie.  "},{"Title":"This voyage is doomed.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ Is anyone beginning to notice a pattern here?  Jason is resurrected, finds new and inventive ways to kill teenagers, and is dispatched in a questionable manner so that he may be brought back for another sequel.  Friday the 13th Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan is...well, it's Part 8!  Jason doesn't quite take Manhattan.  In fact, he hardly spends any time there.  They did get him out of the woods though.  Jason sets sail aboard the cruise ship Lazarus (appropriately named) with the Crystal Lake graduating class, which gives him a lot of victims.  I do like the fact that it takes place on a boat.  It presents certain claustrophobic elements.  You simply can't run away from Jason so you have to face and attempt to kill him.  But, that element is never used properly.  Sadly, this is the only Friday the 13th movie I owned when I was younger so I watched it over and over again.  It's only now that I realize how terrible it is.  The how's of Jason's resurrection, his magical ability to appear and disappear at will (in the Kelly Hu death scene), and Jason's own death are pathetically explained.  Part 7 may be my least favorite, but this one is the worst film (Jason Goes to Hell doesn't even qualify as a Friday the 13th movie).  Kane Hodder is just as menacing in this, but the make-up guys can't match the look of the last film.  Any semblance of continuity ends here.  In the next installment, Jason is stalking the woods again with no explanation and no tie-ins to this entry. Best kill Julius losing his head. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly satisfying for a sequel anyway","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part VIII- Jason Takes Manhattan (1989) Jensen Daggett, Kane Hodder, Todd Shaffer, Barbara Bingham, Peter Mark Richman, Martin Cummins, V.C. Dupree, Sharlene Martin, Kelly Hu, D Rob Hedden.The best of the series has Jason shocked from the lake bottom, where he boards a cruise ship of teens and torments them on their way to the Big Apple. For once, this sequel takes a break from gore and has more story and character depth, but the anti-climactic chase is full of loopholes. Seven sequels! Followed by JASON GOES TO HELL THE FINAL FRIDAY.Running Time 96 minutes and rated R for some language, brief nudity, brief drug-use and gore/violence. RATING ** (out of ****) "}{"Title":"Somewhat Tolerable","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Compared to the rest of the films in the series, this movie isn't too bad for what it is supposed to be. The storyline is foolish, the acting is terrible, but if you are in the mood for a comedy/horror film, Friday the 13th, part VIII isn't too bad. The comical killings that take place make the film somewhat tolerable. The attempts at trying to instill fear into the viewers is laughable, but you will have a decent time watching this film if you want to burn an hour and a half. Definitely not a classic, but surely (and sadly) one of the best Friday the 13th films around. "},{"Title":"two stars","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Two Stars out of 4 I like the Friday the 13th movies, with their bad acting, hokey special effects and ridiculous plots, for sentimental reasons. I was just a kid when they first came out and I can remember them being a big deal and everything. I liked to watch them back then as I do now. The Friday the 13th movies are alot of fun if you don't take them too seriously. They were never meant to be masterpieces of cinema...but movies to see with your friends and laugh and scream at. This movie is no exception. It's actually not that bad...the girls are hot, the killing scenes are grisly (the most nasty one involves Jason stabbing a girl with a piece of a broken mirror ouch!), and the film has it's own share of humorous one liners like most Friday the 13th films have. Since it was made in 1989, it has that retro 80's look. Once the 80's were over, it was the end of an era and the Friday the 13th movies were part of that. So basically, it's an average Friday the 13th film. It's an okay film, but one thing is for sure, this movie is a hell of alot better than Jason X.  "},{"Title":"Worst of the series!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  JTM is another chapter in the FT13th saga. Jason is yet again resurrected to murder teenagers. Except this time the killing ground has changed. He is on a boat on it's way to Manhattan. Don't let the title fool you,there is only about a 20 minute Manhattan scene. The movie is boring,and foolish. A lot of dumb acting,and scenes are put in this. I love FT13th,but this movie sucks! Kane Hodder is the only thing that makes this worth seeing.1.5/4 "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 8 Jason Takes The Love Boat!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I consider myself a major fan of Friday the 13th and her sequels. Let me tell you, I'm not a fan of this one. Jason spends most of his time on a boat chasing a girl he attacked as a child. The ending is terrible. Jason turns into a child? WTF? I hear a lot of people complain that Jason Goes To Hell ignores this contrived and horrible ending, but it was bound to have happened anyway! Despite being a Friday the 13th film, this has very few gore. Kane Hodder is once again superb as Jason Damn New Line for taking him off of the Freddy vs. Jason project!, but he's really the only thing going for this film, and even then his make up sucks.Recommended only for serious fans of the series, and even they might want to skip this one.*/****I await Freddy vs. Jason eagerly. "},{"Title":"3rd best film in the series i think","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed Friday the 13th Jason Takes Manhatten and its the 3rd best in the series follow by jason X in 2nd and friday the 13th in number one slot. The film is about jason on a cruise ship starts killing just about everyone on borad really its just the same old thing northing much to say about any of the friday the 13th films but the same old story.There are some funny scene like that black man who starts punching jason till he trieds out and jason with one punch his head comes off and into a rubbish bin that was so funny but i did not like the ending much.You only see about 20% of the film in new york but well worth watching on friday or saturday night. Giving this film 7/10 "},{"Title":"Lets see...","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, ok jason takes Manhattan....or does he? Or does he spend 90% of the movie on a cruise ship and then swim his knife wielding carcas to Manhattan? This is like a fricken Tootsie pop, the world may never know..... but I do, He did indeed spend almost the entire film on the cruise ship...now...if 10% percent of it was on the cruise ship and the other 90 in manhattan this would have been a better title. Other than that though the movie doesnt have too many flaws....ok, i lied it has many flaws but what do you expect? Its a friday the 13th flick?! but for the series I do have to say that I HATED the music it was awful and there needed to be more blood and whatever anybody else thinks but over all its not the worst but this one isnt cutting it in the series too much.** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Horrible,Disgusting ,Vile","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is just a non entity of an excuse for horror its got that cheapo made for tv look, with a bunch of stupid model turned actors ( i say actors but that would be an insult to real ones) who are in real need of work.I cant say anything nice about this its got absolutley no gore,story I urge you dont waste your life by watching this filth u couldnt get anything from it unless you were studying on how to make one of the worst movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Not half bad!","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Come on, give it a break! This isn't the worst installment (The worst installment would have to be part 4 or 5 or 6, which basically were the same boring movie). Of course like every other Friday the 13th it's a got cheap story, bad dialogue, horrible actors and thousands of bloopers. Plus the title is a complete lie. Only the last ten minutes take place in Manhattan (these ten minutes however really rock!). Anyways, I think this is a breath of fresh air for the series and the last true Friday film (what the hell was Jason Goes To Hell meant to be? I really liked Jason X but just like JGTH it ignores too much of the previous installments). Jason walking through New York... wow! That was cool! The make-up at the end is pretty cheap but I still love it. It's trash and it's 80ies trash and I love it. I'd say this is among the three best Friday the 13th movies. "},{"Title":"Jason, why won't you just die?","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Oh my God! This movie was horrible! First of it's mostly on a boat and they're only in Manhattan for 30 min. Even the murders were corny. I mean when he punched that guy's head of, I mean, is that realistic? The dog even found them at the end. All I want to know is why they won't just let Jason rest in piece. Trust me don't see it. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This one is a lot different than the other Friday the 13th movies.  Once again Jason comes back to life by being electructed (ok so that wasn't different) and he jumps on a ship and kills two horney teens.  He then gets on the s*** Lazurus filled with a whole bunch of kids celebrating their high school graduation.  One by one they get slaughtered till what remains get on a little boat and paddle their way to New York.  I really thought it was filmed in New York but it was actually filmed in Canada.  Imagine that. I like when Jason first gets out of the water in New York and he sees a billboard advertising Hockey.  I also liked the way he scared those punks by taking off his mask.  I don't remember him looking that bad.  I guess it's from being in the water so long.  I give it a 9.  Had to take off a point for the ending.  Not like the other movies.  "}{"Title":"Mr Peter Mark Richman Returns!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I hate the Friday The 13th series, I only like this one for the old Hollywood star Mr Peter Mark Richman. It is not often he gets a large role in a mainstream feature film beyond 1970 (or 1960?) but here he is. Richman is known to me for his nice polite 1960s guest roles in TV like QM's The Invaders, The Outer Limits and Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea ... often acting with monsters and sci-fi hardware. The world has changed in 1989 (but oddly enough Richman has not aged that much?) and he has a scene with a woman and once he finally gets to New York some young thug calls Richman Dad, a rude remark about his age. Scenes of Richman running around 1989 New York, still after all these years being chased by fantastic evil ... that is something I remember with joy.When being viewed today, young people should be aware of what other fantasy material was being put out in the 1980s...well next to nothing was coming out, 1980s TV was the land of Dynasty and Dallas, so any cinema release that contained just some sci-fic, like Friday The 13th, was seen as special because TV had so little good fantasy material. This film would not be so special today.Other 1989 cinema released films such as Batman, Edge Of Sanity and Star Trek 5 The Final Frontier put 1989 in the position of being the best movie year of the 1980s. But the year seemed to drain the life out of movies as 1990 was perhaps one of the worst years of modern cinema. "},{"Title":"jason takes a break from crystal lake","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In the 8th installment in the friday the 13th saga, two teens on a small house boat are making out, when it's time to drop the anchor. It takes off from the 7th, where jason lies dead at the bottom of the lake, but as the anchor trails across the bottom of the lake, it gets caught on an electrical cord, leading up to jason's body, which oddly enough, brings him back to life. Jason's straps on a new hockey mask and is ready. Again. The next day Jason jumps on to a teen filled cruise boat bound for New York. hmmmmm, sounds like trouble. As half the group is slashed that night, the remaining group flee in a life boat for Manhatten. turns out They had an unexpected guest underneath the boat... As They run through the mugged alleys, subways, and streets of New York, Jason also has plans for the gangsters and muggers of the city. I believe this was a good twist to the series, following what SHOULD have been the final friday, Jason goes to hell. I reccomend this to anyone who likes comic horror, but the problem with this movie is, Jason dosen't use any weapons except a harpoon in the beggining, and a piece of glass. this is the kinda Jason klick that says, let the hands do the talking "},{"Title":"Overrated, boring series entry","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This waste of time should be titled Jason Takes a Boat on the Way to Manhattan, since we don't arrive in the Big Apple until the last fifteen minutes. A shy young horror writer takes a cruise to Manhattan with a group of fellow artists and filmmakers. Little do they know, Jason has been revived with a jolt of electricity and has boarded the boat, dispatching the passengers one at a time. When the boat finally docks in New York, Jason pursues the last few survivors through Times Square, finally drowning in a pool of toxic waste in the sewer. Next to no gore and no nudity (other than one barely glimpsed female butt), this has a couple of amusing moments during its Manhattan finale and is competently made from a technical standpoint. Otherwise it's one of the dullest in the series, though for some reason it fared best with critics (probably BECAUSE of its lack of gore and T&A). Originally titled Friday THE 13TH PART VIII TERROR IN TIMES SQUARE. "},{"Title":"The Fun ends here","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason Voorhees has become a pop culture icon over the years. The Friday series has brought great fun to me. But in Jason takes Manhattan that fun seemed to end. Sure I thought this movie was the greatest thing when I was little. Jason movies are always great. But here YUCK! Jason takes a break from finding victims at Crystal Lake,and goes to New York. Sounds great,but no! This movie sucks big time!1/5Come on give us better than this! "},{"Title":"I absolutely love it!...For all the wrong reasons!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Can anyone honestly say that they find the Friday the 13th series to be scary? The fact of the matter is, once you've seen one, you've seen them all. Do not get me wrong, I love this series. They cure boredom in the best way and provide a nice, healthy, guilty pleasure. Jason Takes Manhattan was the first Friday the 13th flick I had ever seen and at the time I actually found it to be scary. But now that I am grown up and have seen more horror movies than any normal person will ever see in their life, I watch this film and giggle like a little school-girl. This movie, while being at least an attempt at taking the series in a new direction, ends up being way over-the-top and FAKE. The acting is horrible, the writing is laughable (Toxic waste fills New York's sewer system every night at midnight! HAHA!) and the plot holes are wider than Star Jones (There were at least three dozen kids on that boat when they first boarded...where did they all go?). But I just LOVE to watch this movie. It is so much fun. It contains all of the corny F13 cliches (nudity, gore, bad acting and a lame Jason revival to boot). There are so many goofs in this film (look it up in the sidebar) that are extremely obvious and even I found in the first viewing. It's just an overall hilarious movie. I could go on and on all day about all of the bad things I love about this movie, but I think you get the idea. Watch this for fun. If you want to be scared, look elsewhere. This movie is pure CHEESE! Definetly one of the top 5 funniest films of all-time. If critics had looked at this as a comedy, it would have gotten rave reviews! "},{"Title":"A film to see If you are A fan of the Friday the 13th series","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One great thing about this film Is that the Director decided To change The location of the movie.Instead of Jason Voorhees returning To Camp Crystal Lake he travels to New York City.But I think by the time this movie was released In theaters People had grown tired of The Friday the 13th series. "},{"Title":"It's a F13 . . .","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you were to bury all the Friday the 13th films in a 600 foot grave, and proportion their distance from the surface in relation to its quality 0 ft > Excellent 600 ft = Terrible.  All ten films would be between the 600 and 599 mark.  So who cares which is the worst in the series?  Even my favorite in the series (#7) I would not watch again unless really, really, *really* bored.  No force on earth could make me watch the one that annoyed me the most (#6).  Is 7 any better than 6?  Not significantly, no.  So with that said, #8 is a F13.  It's crap.  Maybe it's some of the better crap the series has produced, maybe it's some of the worst--who knows, who cares? I have no intention of becoming a manuer expert.#8 recieved a couple chuckles, but didn't provide the same number of laughs that #7 had, nor did it make me cringe with its annoying music and comic relief like #6 did.From the title it becomes obvious that Jason takes a vacation away from Crystal Lake.  From the fans and common knowledge it's common knowledge that most of the actiondoes not take place in New York.  From the other 7 movies it's obvious that this film is going to suck.  So, head into this Friday the 13th expecting what all the others deliver--subpar sex, subpar murder, subpar gore, subpar cheesy acting, nothing believable, nothing scary, nothing worth watching really.A few lines from the film are funny, but you might as well get them from someone who's already scene the film and spare yourself the whole experience.  Or better yet, if you're reading this click on the memorable quotes option to the left.  If you're lucky IMDB will give you mercy and list them for you.Anyway, people who will see this film--A. People who catch it on TV.  B. People who have heard of F13 but haven't seen any (or very many) others. C. F13 / horror Purists.  People who will like this film--either A. F13 purists or B. Simple minded folk (see A).          "},{"Title":"Nice change of scenery, but still nothing great.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought it was somewhat odd that it took about an hour of screen time to actually get Jason into New York, and even then he didn't really do much there.  In any case, it was kind of nice to have something different then the same old camp ground setting.The cast was nothing to get excited about, they did a pretty good job, given the subject matter.  I did really like Jensen Daggett as Rennie Wickham though, she is quite the looker!  Also, it was cool to see a young Kelly Hu in the film, best known perhaps for her role in The Scorpion King and the upcoming X-Men 2.  I've noticed that a lot of people seem to praise Kane Hodder's performances as Jason Vorhees.  I've got to ask What is there to praise him for?  All he does is walk around and kill people.  What kind of acting talent does that take?  I personally can't tell when Kane Hodder plays him or when it is someone else, I have to look at the credits to tell.I'm not really sure where I would put this one in comparison to the others.  I can't really say it was better, but I can't really say it was worse either.  There's some cool stuff to see in this film, but if you didn't like any of the previous films, I doubt you are going to find this one to be any different.  If you are a fan of the previous Friday the 13th films, the go right ahead and give this one a look.  I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"It's NOT the worst!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Everyone is screwing this one over saying it was terrible. It isn't terrible at all! It has Kane Hodder playing Jason superbly, a great change of atmosphere and setting and a high body count. People also say it's virtually goreless. I can assure you that it's not. It's gorier than part 6 and part 7! The story has an electric cable bringing jason back to life and Jason boarding a ship on course for New York. He starts killing right from the start with some good deaths including a sauna rock shoved in the stomach, a head punched off and a head smashed into a pipe! Jason has super speed and is more brutal than ever as his body count reaches 18 by the end! The acting is terrible by the leads but in the 'Friday the 13th' tradition of starting off careers it introduced a young Kelly Hu who went on to star with Sammo Hung in 'Martial Law'. Great scenes include the fight between Jason and Julius, and future Jason, Ken Kirzinger, being thrown across a New York cafe into a mirror. Overall, it will keep you entertained throughout no matter how dodgy you might find it.   "},{"Title":"If you are at a movie rental store and spot thins, please do me a favor and grab it and breeak it!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you are at a movie rental store and spot thins, please do me a favor and grab it and breeak it! This movie is to dumb too even exist! First of all, Jason needs a new mask. He also needs a facial! Lol!THE FOLLOWING THINGY CONTAINS SPOILERS!At the beginning we see a guy and a girl at crystal lake in a boatish house thingy. They (OF COURSE) are having sex. Jason kills their butts and then starts what is supposed to be but is so not terror!He finds a boat and gets on it. It is supposedly a trip to The Big (and very unlucky to have Jason <M'yeah right he never does anything in The BigApple anyway>) Apple. He kills like 5 people on the boat and i think only 4 make it outta the boat. They take a lifeboat (how elegant, eh?) to NYC only to know that they have been followed by the serial killer (he ain't a serial killer he's lame!).There, 2 of them die in a dark alley. One guy and the girl main character run into a sewer. There Jason chases them. They are trapped. Here's the dialouge if you are interestedGirl- He coming! Boy- I'm trying ~! Girl- Hurry! Boy- I can't!Right there, Jason is like half a feet to kill them. But of course something happens. The girl makes a crack in the sewer wall and water spills out. It takes Jason. The water runs out and you see Jason without the mask! MAN HE REALLY DOES NEED A FACIAL! PLASTIC SURGERY WOULD BE GOOD!So the guy and gal go out, have sex, and get married.NAMED THE DUMBEST MOVIE IN AMERICA! "}{"Title":"Full of improbabilities, and utter nonsense.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday The 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan was Paramount's last entry in the series before they let New Line Cinema take over. The movie's plot concerns Jason being reanimated from electricity, and again killing several people. This time the main setting is a cruise ship. Those who survive to make it to New York City are then stalked by Jason. The movie is overloaded with situations of corniness. The music video-like opening was just the beginning of scenes that might make one roll their eyes up into their head. Several of the characters are plainly annoying. The acting is not too good on a general level. No suspense or level of excitement can be achieved with this movie, and it is just too full of improbabilities. Friday The 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is utter nonsense. "},{"Title":"Oh my god!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What the hell is this?!? Who directed this? I dont even wanna know.People say that hardcore fans of Friday the 13th movies dont like this movie because it has a change of venue (a boat and about 8 minutes in Manhattan,pay no attention to the title of the movie) But i beg to differ, now i am a hardcore fan of the Friday movies and of course Camp Crystal Lake will alway be the best! But it isnt the change of venue that kills this film, most people dont care where its shot as long as they get to see Jason hacking up some teenagers, but what is there to say when you dont even get to see that?!? Now the version i saw was the DVD release from paramount, and believe me, they`ve done more slashing than Jason ever has. Theres not any gore in this movie, not thats worth mentioning anyway, and the death scenes are hacked to pieces. It`s probably not that hard to get a hold of an uncut version of this film and if you do please watch it! But do not, NOT! Waste your money on the dvd, just rent this movie or buy it uncut if you can. This movie probably has the worst and most stupid old guy that tells everybody that theyre gonna die actor i`ve ever seen in a horror movie and that says a whole lot ;) And what the hell is with the morphing?!? Has Jason entered a secret pact with the star trek enterprise or something? One second he`s right in front of you the next second he`s 20 feet above you! So, this movie is ok renting if you love Friday the 13th movies and if you can get a hold of the uncut version, but i`d rather blow my head off than watching the dvd release again. "},{"Title":"Absurdly misrepresentive title, all Jason takes is a cruise!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Totally personal thing I admit, but I found this to be the most boring and unsatisfying of the series....by far!Having said that, I still congratulate the makers for at least trying to shift Jason to a new locale. His shocking resuscitation in Camp Crystal Lake and his cruise-ship meanderings were fun of a sort. Good and confronting as Kane Hodder's Jason was, why did they have to stick him in a K-mart toy suit? It wrecked the whole movie right at that point. It didn't help either filling the screen with such dislikable people Jason was by far the most pleasant - and in fact becomes the anti-hero of the piece.Then we have the 20 minutes or so in Manhattan till he cops the mother of all acid sprays (that appears to not injure anyone else???..huh?)Sorry, can live without this one! "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason jumps aboard a luxury liner and kills a bunch of partying teenagers. The few remaining survivors jump ship and try to escape from Jason's clutches in Manhattan. Terrific premise with some originality,  clever & inventive camera angels, and a bit more character development then usual, but a bit overlong and not for fans of the series. Probably the the best of the series in my opinion.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Uhhhhhhh . . .","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday The 13th Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan was an okay movie, but nothing too good. Of course they make another sequel!? The original Friday the 13th (the best one of the series) wasn't meant for a sequel anyhow. Although, some of the sequels are really good movies, just like it is with the Halloween series. This movie seemed a little more supernatural than the others because Jason is shown as a little boy in many scenes. All in all, it was OK. I give Friday The 13th Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part VIII was pretty good (not the acting and plot) but overall Jason kicks a$$ and takes names in this entry into the series. Although the title is kind of a rip off because Jason does not wind up in New York until the final segment. Most of the film takes place on a boat where students are celebrating their graduation with a trip to the big apple. Too bad Jason ruins it for them. Pretty good kills and lots of laughs. Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"Really bad but that's what makes it good","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th pt 8 Jason takes Manhattan was so bad, but at the same time it's fun.I found the movie funny, and i don't think that was the plan by writer/director Rob Hedden.No plot what so ever, not even a hint of a plot.Jason(Kane Hodder) just walks around killing everyonePlenty of kills make it fun, and the guy who got his head punched off by Jason was classic.And the way New York City is made too look was funny.I give Friday The 13th Pt. 8 Jason Takes Manhattan 4/10Worth a check nothing great at all though "},{"Title":"Finally, Jason Leaves Crystal Lake","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After the average Friday the 13th Part VII, Jason Voorhees obviously decided to have a bit of a vacation and in this film we find him on a ship heading for the Big Apple.This was a very good entry in the Friday the 13th series. When I watched this film in the early 90's I was quite pleased that Jason had gone on a voyage. I don't think I could have watched another film set in Crystal Lake.The killings in this film are quite gruesome at times particularly one scene where a man in a sauna is killed.All in all, Friday the 13th Part VIII is a good entry in the series. Check it out. "},{"Title":"What sounded silly on paper looks even sillier on film!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well well well...it appears ol' Jason is bored of Camp Crystal Lake and has taken to the high seas to attack the Love Boat! What sounded silly on paper looks even sillier on film! There are some saving graces, like Kane Hodder's performence as Jason, which is excellent as always. However, there are many mistakes, like Jason's appearance which is totally different altogether from when we last seen him a year before in Part VII. Jason was NOT wearing gloves at the end of the previous film, also the flashbacks of Jason as a boy contrast with the appearence given him in Part I. Plus, sorry to ruin things for first time viewers...Jason spends all of about hmmm 5 minutes in the Big Apple, that's it! This was the last of the Paramount Friday's and by watching this it is easy to see why. "},{"Title":"pretty good!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *warningcontains spoilers*Now, I would like to start by saying that you don't actually get what the title and box promise as jason does not arrive in manhatten until the last 35 minutes of the film. However, what you do get is one of the better sequels in the series set on a cruise ship for the most part and alot of screen time given to jason always a good thing. Kane Hodder is back as jason and gives his most menacing perfomance to date from the three films he had starred in up to that point. Despite some negative reviews and complaints about a low body and gore count, the film stands out for being the only film to take jason away from crystal lake, and is all the better for it. Anyway, the body count is high enough clocking in at 20 kills, the second highest of the series if i'm not mistakenand some kills quite inventive, one of the best being the boxing match on a new york rooftop. True the gore is low compared to previous films but there is enough to satisfy. The film also moves at a fast pace jumping straight into the action, after a small flashback sequence jason is re-animated by an electrical shock from an underwater power cable and begins his killing spree. There are some complaints about the film to be made though,1 like the fact that on a number of occasions jason seems to be able to appear in different places at the same time, ExampleJason appears at one end of a hall to scare a soon to be dead teen, said teen turns around and runs down a set of stairs to another floor, turns a corner and there jason is ready to kill. 2 The part of the bitter uncle was also annoying and deserved a much more gruesome death than he got. 3not enough nuditycome on, this is a jason film and I expect major boobage. 4I missed Harry Manfradini's classic music score. On the plus side, Jennson Dagett is REALLY hot the hottest heroine of the seriesand gives a good performance. Jason is in this movie alot a mistake made by jason goes to hell was to not not have him in it for most of the movie So to sum up I would have to say that this is on par with part 6 for being the best of the sequels have not seen jason x yet but i can't waitand most certainly not as bad as some people would have you think. 7.5/10  "}{"Title":"Help","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"               Jason returns to kill love struck diapered teens again.This film is one of the weaker of the ten films.The orginal camp is full of shadows,woods,etc.The fear of Jason behind every tree or brush made parts 2-4 the best of the series.The film has a few scares but not enough.The uncle is horrible to watch.  "},{"Title":"this one bites","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  the only reason i got this on tape is because i'm collecting all jason movies.  this movie sucked.  The only thing I like about this movie is Kane Hodder, he is so great as Jason.  You can't help but to be scared whenever he's out to kill someone.Jason takes manhattan has alot of holes in it.who cares why rennie is scared of the water.  Is it me or is she just some pathetic little girl who runs to her crazy uncle fall the time.  )Though if I were her i would have kicked the girl who purposely pushed me in the water a**.i give this movie 0. "},{"Title":"My comments","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Some thoughts on this, the eighth Friday the 13th movie1- Jason seems to become more and more inhuman with each passing movie. In this movie alone he survives being shot 5 times, being stabbed in the eye with a pen, being hit with a car(!), being electrocuted and being punched repeatedly in the face and body.2- For a boxer, Julius has remarkably low stamina. He should have been able to go on for a least a little longer with Jason. Maybe he was tired3- Nobody seems to notice Jason (or care) as he walks througha) a (somewhat) crowded subway trainb) Times Square How could you not notice a very slimy, probably quite smelly, creepy looking guy with a hockey mask.4- Has Jason suddenly become Darth Vaders long lost cousin? His breathing throughout the movie seems to indicate this.With the above comments aside I found this to be a most entertaining and watchable movie with some hidden humour. The body count may be low and the gore, nudity and sex somewhat minimal, but its fun neverthless. Especially memorable is the scene were Jason goes one on one with Julius, the boxer and literally knocks his block off. A most fun way to spend and evening. Also keep an eye out for future Scorpion King starlet Kelly Hu as the ill-fated Eve Watanabe. I give this a c+ (7/10)  "},{"Title":"An unwanted visitor roams in the Big Apple.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th PART VIII  Jason Takes Manhattan.Jason (finally!) leaves Camp Crystal Lake. After the ending of part VII a sequel was obvious. Jason is resurrected (again!) by lightining, this time under the water... Not much to say about that.-Minor Spoilers- After an hour or so of the movie, Jason (finally!) arrives to New York. That's when hope and excitement grow but quickly disappear. In N.Y. Jason kills 2 junkies, a policeman, a sewer cleaner, and the teens that survived the boat explosion, and others that I can't remember now. Jason is very dumb in this movie, it seemed he is no match for Jensen Dagget (Reni)  and her boyfriend. By the way, Dagget is very hot!. At the end of the N.Y. trip, Jason finds himself drowned -and melted- by a river of acid and toxic wastes in the sewer. That's how they stopped Jason this time.-NO MORE SPOILERS- Part VIII tried to be different from the others, but failed in being a great horror moviel. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this movie but I think that it could be a lot better.P.S. One hilarious scene  Jason takes off his mask scarying a gang of junkies. Of course, we don't get to see his face. "},{"Title":"A MAJOR DISAPPOINTMENT","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason takes the first two-thirds of the film to get to Manhattan. Need we say more? One of my kids loves the boxing match and the final showdown in the sewer. I say the series has worn out its welcome, regardless of Mr. Hodder's participation. "},{"Title":"Lesser one in the series","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan  is my least favorite one in the series. Not because there's a lack of gore(the deicapation of the boxer on the roof is hilarous), not because we don't see any boobies( Jensen Dagget is very hot) but because the film is barely set in New York. I think the film should have stayed on the cruise ship the entire time because we only spend maybe 20 min in NY which in acutal fact is Canada. "},{"Title":"Jason slices the Big Apple for 15 minutes","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) is back from the dead (again!) so he can go on his killing spree in New York but has to wait an hour and fifteen minutes before getting there.  Meanwhile, he boards a cruise ship and kills off a group of not-so-bright teens on their senior trip.  Like most Friday the 13th films this one has an occasion to drag, but the sequel offers some novelty.  There are some silly moments, like when Jason stops to admire a billboard displaying a hockey player and when he scares off some punks by removing his mask because they want to kill him for destroying their boombox.  If you're expecting some serious gore, check out Friday the 13th The Final Chapter or Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning because you won't find it here.  Understandably the last installment from Paramount before New Line bought the copyrights.  My evaluation ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"this was just bad","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was so bad. The acting was really rally bad. when I watch a scare movie I want to get scared. This wasnt even scary. Maybe if your a real die hard Friday Fan you'll like this movie but it was a waste of my time to watch. I hope the new Jason X turns out good. I dont recommend this movie unless you rally like the Friday the 13th movies. "},{"Title":"One of the Best...","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the best of the 'Friday' movies, and the second best of them that can stand by itself, as opposed to Parts 2-6, which are largely dependent on each other. It is wonderfully filmed, and evokes old Manhattan well, the Manhattan before Disney moved into Times Square, and Giuliani cleaned up the streets. A grittier, dirtier Manhattan, but one that is also much more fun. The entire cruise ship sequence should have been skipped entirely in favour of Jason just going to Manhattan. Not one of the better deaths of Jason though, and was it really necessary to have the stupid dog in the film. 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"one of the funniest movies of the 80's","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Something that I've noticed about 80's movies is that the teen slasher movies are often far more funny than the teen comedies of that time period. Well I'm generally assuming that not on purpose. Anyway this is the very bottom of 80's slashers or really close to the bottom at least.  I don't even know where to start. Is it the concept of taking Jason out of Crystal Lake in the first place? Is it the moronic(yet entertaining) ways he kills people such as the girl with the guitar? Is it a zombie walking around New York and nobody seems to notice? Is it the logic of New York having toxic waste in it's sewers? The plot holes are so mind boggling one has to fall off the couch laughing. It's almost amazing that Paramount gave money for this script. I put this with A View to a Kill in the Where they trying to mutilate a movie franchise or did the studio really think people would enjoy this? catagory of 80's films. Of course not being a huge horror fan I can look at this movie and laugh my butt off. I think this movie is a great example how 80's slasher movies when they failed in the horror department can make wonderful comedies. "}{"Title":"One Of The Best Horror Films....","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best horror movies,better yet in my opinion one of the best movies period,this movie is great...i have watched it about 10 times total and never get bored of it,nonstop chills and fun and watchable numerous amounts of time,great music espicially the darkest side of the night,great soundtrack with great acting performances and cool scenery is all in all one of the best films!10/10!!! "},{"Title":"Jason on the Love Boat","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  How I would have loved to have been a fly on the wall when Paramount laid this egg!Let's see...we need to have another Friday film, but what will we do with Jason this time?Well, won't he kill kids?Yes, but he always does that.  We need a new angle.Why don't we move him someplace else?What do you mean?Like a vacation.  It might work.Yes, I like that.  But where would he go?New York might work.YES!Okay, the concept was dumb, and the movie turned out to be much dumber.  As a horror movie, it sank quicker than the Titanic, because a lot of things just don't hold water for Jason fans.  To begin with, Jason leaves Crystal Lake.  WHY? The whole point of the series is that he kills anyone in his territory at the lake, because of the wrongs against him and his mom.  If he leaves his territory, what right does he have to kill on New Yorkers' territory, hmm?Plus Jason is on a boat with teens, whom he is stalking.  Does this sound like the antithesis of Die Hard, or even remotely like Under Siege to anyone?  Hey if Segal and Willis can do it, why not Jason?The make up job on Jason stinks as well.  When do eyes migrate?  Any Friday fan will tell you that Tommy Jarvis hit Jason on the left side of his head with a machete, resulting in the loss of Jason's LEFT eye.  In parts six and seven, the continuity showed us that Jason has one working eye, and it's the RIGHT one,  BUT in part eight, it shows the scar left by the machete that took his left eye, but when h pulls off his mask, we find that he still HAS the left eye, and his RIGHT one is gone.  The Mystery of the Moving EyeI could go on and on about how bad this film is as a horror, but I must say that as a comedy, it's funnier than most things on the shelves!  Which, I might add, is the one redeeming feature.  Notice how no one notices a lunatic in a hockey mask running around, or that fact that Jason has clever ways of dealing with non-victims (the punks come to mind). Overall, worth a watch or two, just for laughs.  If you're looking for horror look elsewhere.  But as a comedy, this one's a real cut-up. "},{"Title":"If you have nothing to rent at the video store well this is it.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Searching the video store for a movie that is watchable, I came across this.  After seeing parts 1 to 3, I decided to rent this one; the rest of the series appears to be a repeat of the older movies.  Jason takes Manhattan, this sound different, I wondered what changes where in store.  This film started out not to bad and has Jason on a ship, but the film turns very redundant in the second half.  The New York part of the film is not exploited well, and this makes the title misleading.  The ending is disappointing, but this film is better then the made for tv films I have been watching, after fishing out the video store. "},{"Title":"A different look and change of scenery doesn't stop a killer.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This time we find masked killer Jason in Manhattan killing a high school group of kids. It was nice to see this series and Jason away from Camp Crystal Lake the city sure doesn't slow a killer down it only increases the terror, this was another good entry in the Friday movie series. "},{"Title":"Great Music/Acting-Just VERY Misleading Title!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason is basically taking a cruise the whole time, but when he does get to Manhattan.  Basically, to sum it up filmed mostly in Vancouver, and in New York for the finale, Part 8 has more than its share of goofs.  What high school class goes on a cruise to Manhattan for Graduation?  Look for the obvious goof when Rennie falls off the boat, you see it's not moving.  More laughs then thrills, Jason a Rangers fan?, and not too many chills.  Great late 80's music and fine teenage performances make this film pretty enjoyable, though.  Well, this film was almost as good as Parts I, IV, and VI except that Peter Mark Richman was there.  Peter Mark Richman is truly an awful actor, who has pretty much ruined every film he has been in.  He is perfect for an annoying character that should never have been put in.  However, it'll still get **1/2out of**** A good film that is enjoyable.   "},{"Title":"Jason takes manhattan . give me a break","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Who the hell could possibly like this garbage it's the same as every other mediocre friday the 13th film , only this one has somewhat of a plot . Jason gets on a boat kills a bunch of stupid teenagers . The few that survive escape in a life boat and go to manhattan and they are followed by Jason to spend the 20 minutes of the movie .They're in one of the biggest cities in the country yet they manage to run into Jason every five minutes . Jason who in this movie looks more like albino hokey player than a pschotic zombie suffers the most homolicious and unrealistic death ever . Yet still manages to make it back to crystal lake for  Jason goes to hell  "},{"Title":"Jason takes Manhattan.............for 10 minutes!!!!!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Okay first of all let me start off by saying that  I enjoy the Friday films for there cheesiness,bad acting and scary 80's fashion and hair.when I was young I used to be scared to death of Jason but now I see him as a comical character,unlike Michael myers whom i still find creepy.This film is the same as the other friday films,with the only things changing being the location.I think they should have taken my subtitle for the film instead of the original as it could then not be classed as false advetisment.lets hope Jason X makes mr Vorhees scary again,if not,long live the HALLOWEEN movies better bad guy,better movies and better acting!!!!! "},{"Title":"Underrated sequel with a misleading subtitle","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This may well be the most underrated Friday the 13th film.  It's interesting to see Jason on a cruise ship, but so much of the movie takes place there that it might as well have been subtitled Jason Takes A Cruise.  He doesn't arrive at New York City until the movie is half-over.  And it wasn't even filmed there (they filmed the movie in Canada).Despite the flaws (including the misleading title), Jason Takes Manhattan is an okay sequel.  But if you're not big on the F13 series, this probably won't change your mind.  However, after watching this movie, you'll probably want to seriously consider planning your guest lists carefully and to always keep alert for any potential party crashers.  Otherwise, it could be the last party you'll ever throw! "},{"Title":"More plot than usual...","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Like Part VII, this one contains more storyline than the average slasher pic.  Quite imaginative at times, actually.  Jason stows away on a cruise trip filled with happy high-school graduates and spoils their trip to the big apple.This one was had lesser editing than usual to avoid the X rating, but the MPAA still insisted on trims; check IMDB's alternate version listing.  And as long as Paramount has the rights to these films, a director's cut is virtually impossible, due to the stubbornness of Paramount to please the wants of their fans.** out of ****. "},{"Title":"basically JASON TAKES THE ATLANTIC","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason, revived by lightning, stalks teens on their way to NYC. Most of this mess is on a boat, not NY, which disappointed me. It would have been fun if J spent more time in the big city - oh well. While not a complete loss - this isn't as good as the series can get.** out of **** "}{"Title":"One of the best sequels.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is probably the best Friday the 13th movie I've seen, if not part 6.  It changes the storyline a bit, but Jason's still in this one so it's cool!  We see that he is risen from the dead after a powerline underwater is snapped by an anchor and Jason kills the two teens on the boat where the anchor came from and then catches a ride on another boat only this one full of a senior class who's heading to New York for their senior trip.  It has some laughs to it, like when Jason notices the hockey mask on a sign and when he's ready to be bumped off by a gang but instead he lifts up his mask and scares the daylights out of them (I wonder why he didn't do that with some of the others if he just killed them all).  The only thing I don't like is the hottest chick I've seen in all the Friday the 13th films (Tamara) had to die in this one.  Doesn't Jason have any love interests?  Guess not!  Overall, this is the best Friday the 13th film.   "},{"Title":"Would you like it better if it had a different title? (Plus some mysteries explained)","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **  out of  ****I'm not saying this is a good movie, but it's absolutely acceptable as a FRIDAY THE 13th seventh sequel. I think the biggest problem is that a prospective viewer might expect a lot more Manhattan action because of the title. If it had been called, say, JASON TAKES A CRUISE, your reaction after seeing it might have been wow, that's a neat change of pace...and I think it was really cool seeing Jason in Manhattan at the end! I didn't expect that! If a good movie like GONE WITH THE WIND had been called something like ADVENTURES IN HAWAII (I know I'm exaggerating) would that change what was actually in the film itself?Jason continues doing what he does best dispatching teens in inventive new ways for no reason other than that's what he likes to do. This is all I expect from a FRIDAY film, and it is what I got from this one. I also like the ways Jason gets revived in the later films. It reminds me of the old classic Frankenstein films.The acting is weak in this one, that is for certain. There are some goings-on which don't seem to make sense, like the boy image of Jason which keeps popping up. To my mind, I think that this is the way the lead girl views Jason. Whenever she thinks of him, she sees a boy version of him. If you look at it this way, the ending makes more sense because it's only in the girl's troubled mind that she sees the image of a boy. To anybody else that would view the body, it's just our favorite hockey-masked thug. When Jason meets his end, for our leading lady it also ends her hallucinations.It's true that the movie doesn't deliver when expecting more from its title. But as a person living close to the city, I'm glad they filmmakers tried a different approach in the Big Apple.  "},{"Title":"The biggest waste of film I've ever witnessed","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The only good thing about this dreck was the hilariously bad acting of that girl in the opening sequence, especially when Jason slowly poked her in the stomach as she proceeded to sing a high note...I thought I was listening to a bad opera!!! Anyway, a lesson in bad -- bad writing, bad acting, bad directing, bad set design, bad cinematography, bad editing, bad everything. Skip this movie at all costs unless your in the mood to laugh at it with some friends like I did. Otherwise, YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!!!! "},{"Title":"The return of Jason Voorhees, the long distance swimmer!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Odd turn in the series finds a group of teens (always TEENS... why not have Jason attack a retirement home sometime???) on a class trip to New York City. The class boards a ship to head to NYC, and so does Mr. Hockey Mask. The teens that had the greatest potential to be well developed characters, get killed early on, and this film quickly turns into a huge time waster.Oh yeah, 90% of the movie takes place on the ship, only the last 15 minutes take place in Manhattan. There are two funny scenes to watch for where Jason sees an image of himself on a billboard, and when he politely asks some punks to turn their radio down. The finale involving nuclear waste is intriguing, but forgotten by the next movie. Really a let down. "},{"Title":"Jason's Back!","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Resurrected by a jolt of electricity, Jason boards a ship taking Crystal Lake's graduating seniors to New York and proceeds to slaughter the teens aboard.  After the ship sinks he trails the few survivors to New York.  Okay series entry, but not up to par with part 7.Friday the 13TH Part VIII  Jason Takes Manhattan is Rated R for graphic violence and some gore, brief nudity and drug use, and for profanity. "},{"Title":"Definitely the best in the series","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a huge Friday fan and this one is definitely the best. Kane Hodder proves he is Jason Voorhies and his performance is so menacingly real. The fact that it takes place in Manhattan gives the series a real needed boost.Definitely worth a look if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok the first couple of films had their good and bad parts however this film has no good or interesting parts to it at all. The headlines say Jason takes Manhattan yet the whol movie is practically on a boat and we don't get to New York till the last 15 minutes or so. Of course the usual Jason killing teens takes place in the middle, the characters in this installment are probably the worst actors I have ever seen in a movie. I would say the Friday the 13th series should have been WELL on its way out after this movie. "},{"Title":"not THAT bad","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went to the video store today and I was about to rent Universal soldier 2 on DVD but it was already rented by someone else (there was only one copy) so I couldn't leave without renting something. The first movie I saw in front of me was this one and I decided to watch it. Before I watch it I saw some comments and the rating and I was disappointed. The movie started as silly as all the other sequels of the series but not as bad as part 5 for example. But when they got to Manhattan the movie became pretty cool and it was a surprise to me cause I didn't expect it. The scenes underground and at the subway were scary and original in some way. Well, there were some bad things about it too the nightmares (or whatever it was) the heroine had about Jason when he was a kid and the scene in which Jason becomes child again. Jason' s face also sucks and the special effects are not good. It wasn't too gory (as the other parts) but some gore does exist of course. After all it wasn't a very bad movie, characters were interesting and deaths weren't disgusting and silly as they used to be. I can't compare it to Halloween or Scream of course but I don't think that this movie sucks. 6/10  "},{"Title":"An OK sequel","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is an OK sequel for the Friday The 13th movies. The only thing is more than 2/3rds of the movie takes place on a ship and not Manhattan. But when Jason does get to Manhattan it becomes a very good movie. My advice, fast forward everything up until Jason gets to New York. Don't worry your not missing much in the middle. Jason just kills a few teens in stupid ways.  "},{"Title":"2nd best","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Many will dissagree with me, but in my opinion this is the 2nd best of the F13 flicks(Jason Goes to Hell is the best.). I agree that maybe it could have taken place in New York for the majority of the movie, but I liked it anyway. The reason it didn't take place in NY for a big part of the film was due to budget problems. Anyway, a group of graduating High School teens are terrorized by infamous serial killer Jason Voorhess during their boat trip to the Big Apple. Great story, acting, effects, and music. **** out of *****. An underrated horror film indeed. "}{"Title":"The title promises so much...alas, film delivers nothing! SPOILERS","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let's file this one under W.....W for WUSSY productions! This film could have been a instant classic, but was not! The majority of the story takes place on a cruise ship and Jason is only in Manhattan for about 5-10 minutes. The trailers built the film up like he was going to be running around NEW YORK CITY for the whole movie....that would have been interesting!!!! Imagine the possibilities for satire on this one! New York is already filled with every make and model of weirdo one could possibly imagine, the police would have a hard time finding him. Jason could have gone after cops, drug dealers, pimps etc. If a writer was clever enough, one could have had jason becoming a BERNIE GOETZ style media sensation for cleaning up the streets...without the media realizing what Jason truly was. Think of the satire in that.....obviously, the hollywood types who made this piece of drek did not, and as usual botched it!!!!!!! You can't tell me stuff like this didn't cross their minds! So the question is why didn't they do this film right and make a really great B grade horror film?????? Inquiring minds and angry audience members want to know!!!!! "},{"Title":"Jason lightens up a little","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a great entry into this series, and thankfully it came along after dreadful part 5 and even more lousy part 6, and the mediocre part 7.What made this one great is that it actually delivered some REAL laughs instead of the laughter one usually gets from the lousy scripts and terrible acting. The scene where he removes his mask to scare off some gang is great, and when the kids burst into a diner and shout, Some guy out there is trying to kill us!, a waitress looks at them without blinking and says, Welcome to New York.My only gripe is that the actualy scenes in NY take place in the last 15-20 minutes of the movie. The first 1/2 hour takes place on a boat and then in between that, it takes place in 'New York' but it is obvious that it is being filmed on sound stages. They could have done more in Manhattan and that would have made things a little better.Overall a good movie. Not as high a body count as the other movies, but this one goes a little lighter and it was fun to see. "},{"Title":"is this a joke","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie is so bad.and that's all there is really to say about this film. there are no scares at all, all you will do is laugh cause you can't believe how bad it is. and the movie makes no sense. 1. the girl in the movie claims she was attacked by Jason in the lake when she was a kid, how is that so when Jason's body was never found. 2. when everyone gets off the boat to get away from Jason, they take a small boat to nyc, while Jason swims there, but he died cause he could not swim, what the hell did somebody give him lessons? 3. what the hell is the deal with Jason getting hit with toxic waste then turning into a little kid? only see it for a good laugh and just to see the whole series. i give it 3/10. only cause of the guy who tried to box Jason and got his head punched off "},{"Title":"Tell me, this isn't a movie","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My brother is a horror fanatic, he saw this movie on TV, and I had to suffer. A couple of these films I like,parts 6, and 9 but this one, was, STUPID!!!! I mean he is killed, or is he at this end of this movie, Spoiler Ahead, by radioactive waste, and he turns into a little boy. What was up with that? This is the dumbest, most stupidest, piece of #^&@ I have ever seen. Buy a copy, then burn it. "},{"Title":"so awful","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  7 was dull but at least it had the lake and some interesting kills.  This, oh man, pure crap.  I have nothing against changing the setting (the ship sounded intriguing to me) or putting Jason just a few clicks away from his longtime Jersey home.  What I am against is how cruel they've made him, as he ditches his usual pop outta the darkness and bang your dead for long, lingering, tortuous deaths.  Thats what made this Friday seem disconnected, having Jason so mean.  Ok, so he wasnt nice to begin with, but at least he sent his victims to a quick grave which is what made the filmsfun. Here he's more heartless than usual, a big mis-step by writer/director Hedden.  People slowwwwly drowned in toxic waste, or slowwwly choked, or the girl who has her head slammed into a mirror and then has Jason hover over her with a glass shard raised in the air as she screams forever until finally killed.  Or when he holds the harpoon gun over the other girl for like 30 seconds as she screams no no no no endlessly.  Tons of stuff way outta place.  In the old days his victims didnt have the chance to scream let alone say no.  Only two kills remotely resemble the old Jason, the head-punch-off and the sauna rock to the gut.  Everything else, like the subplot concerning Daggetts association with Jason, is awful.  And the ending, complete junk.  Jason gets hit by toxic waste in a sewer and when it all washes away...we see the body of a little boy!  What the hells that sposed to mean?!!  And no Harry Manfredini score!  Even if he didnt wanna come back, still another glaring disappointment.  Jason make-up sux too, he looks dorky with those big eyes.  A few smiles, like the Jason billboard, or the raised mask to the gang members, and theres a maniac trying to kill us!...Welcome to New Yawk.  I do recommend you see this, just to find out how bad it was.  I mean, just the words Jason gets on the subway would conjure up cool images, right?  But they blow it as all he does is push some girl outta the way.  Bad. "},{"Title":"Acid bath for Jason","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Friday series reclaims lost glories with this mediocre but watchable entry. After the abysmal part seven I feared the worst (like that Carrie-rip off woman returning for a second pop), but this is a competentely handled little horror film - up to a point.The majority of the film is set aboard a cruise ship and works well enough, although the gore level is lower than usual (which put a lot of the hardcore fans off from the word go). Once things hit the big apple, however, things go spectacularly wrong. Jason lumbers around the streets and nobody seems to notice, and then it's into the sewers for the final chase.Cursory note the sewers in New York flood with acid every day at midnight. Hmmmm... I'm probably going to end up watching this again on one of those nights when I have too little time and too much popcorn, but I'm going to switch it off the second the heroes get in the boat. A word to the wise guys.RATING ** (Out of four) "},{"Title":"Jason takes Manhattan","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason Voorhees is back once again in this lame movie, and this time he can morph, while chasing two teens through the sewers he appears in front of them.... magic. Kane Hodder is back as Jason and is great, cool deaths but the most stupid scene in this movie is the boxing between the champion teen guy and Jason Voorhees, without trying he punches his head off, clean cut!!!! I give this crazy movie a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Tourists....","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You can take the maniacal undead killer out of Crystal Lake, but you can't take Crystal Lake out of the maniacal undead killer.  Nowhere moreso than in Part VIII of this unending series.For real fans of Jason, though, let me ask youCan you stand the thought of your hero being treated like a true hero at times; terrorizing the bad guys, killing drug dealers, making gangs scatter, seeing his likeness immortalized on a billboard?No?Then steer clear of New York.  Part VII's not really the best of this kind of thing, there aren't a whole lot of kills and no gore count whatsoever.And what do you say about a movie like Jason Takes Manhattan where most of the action takes place on a boat?As little as possible, trust me.Two and a half stars.  And welcome to Noo Yawk.  "},{"Title":"Is Jason a muppet now?","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  DO NOT UNDER ANY CICUMSTANCES RENT, OR BUY THIS MOVIE! This movie is absolutely ridiculous. Jason Takes Manhattan? Is our beloved psychopath now a muppet? To end this movie in the sewer was very accurate; because this movie stunk!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the last movie.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This sucks. It has a bad plot and doesn't come close to the last movie. Jason leaves the camp to catch a boat. He kills teens for reasons unknown but he always does that. The beginning makes no sense and most of the movie is dumb. There are some good parts but not much else. Just watch the last movie, Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood. It's a lot better and it has better characters. The script is badly written and the acting still dumb. Just one more, people. One more to go in this nightmare. Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan F "}{"Title":"not that good","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie is second only to jason goes to hell for being the worst in the series. this movie is almost never scary,and almost never entertaining. they should've stoped after part VI. part VIII was pretty good,but jason takes manhattan needed a little more work. the biggest problem with this movie is that they took jason out of the woods. not a good idea to say the least in my opinion. the characters in this movie are almost all 1 dimensional. that's another problem. i liked a lot of the characters in other friday movies. all in all this movie was ok,but could've been better if jason was in the woods. i give this movie ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Ha Ha Ha!!","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Spectacularly funny! This movie was soooooo funny!!! I was crackin' up so much when I saw this movie! Jason gets splashed with toxic waste and starts screaming-Hilarious! "},{"Title":"Eighth one the worst","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  He keeps going and going and going and going. Why do we continue watching these movies? The series is no longer scary. Jason seems to be indestructible. This one is just the same as the others, only this time, Jason gets to kill teenagers in a different place. It gets old. I thought Part IV was called The Final Chapter. "},{"Title":"The Best 7th sequel ever made.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of those films where director  Rob Hedden wanted to be different. In most  of the killings scenes there is no  possible way Jason could get to the victim  unless he was a magician. Like the  character J.J., she sees Jason on the top  of the stairs, she drops her guitar, runs  down a flight of stairs and there is Jason  waiting for her, guitar in hand. If you  look at it from that stand point then the  movie is going to be dumb. But I believe  that Hedden wanted this 7th sequel to not  be a typical slasher film like the ones  before it. This is why I think it is the  best of the series and a decent horror  movie. In my opinion this movie has tons  of irony and symbolism. If you notice,  each character Jason hacks off has  something they want to become. This is more of a  film about dreams, Jason seems to be  everywhere in this movie and he, more or  less, represents fate. It is there anytime  any place, you can run from it and it will  always find you. The dreams of these young  people will not happen and that is what  Hedden wants you to see. All  of this could be coincidence, but  let's look at the ending. Jason turns into  a child again. That has to be some kind of  symbolism otherwise it wouldn't make any  sense. Just like all the rest of the  people who parished on the Lazurus, this  shows Jason as being young and the fate  that led him up to that point. Where the  other movies have a more serious tone,  this movie doesn't really take itself  seriously in that way.    "},{"Title":"Best Friday Yet!!!!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This Friday the 13th has to be the best of them all. It does not have as much blood and gore as the other Jason Movies. In this movie the people stand up to Jason and show no fear, unlike the others when Jason catches them by suprise. They give him their best shot but the power of Jason is far more than their strength. This movie shows Jasons Face unlike all of the other movies except 3 and 5.  The funny part is when Jason turns into a child. This movie is the best of the series but the stupidest "},{"Title":"Skip this one","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What was the reason for this filmThe beginning was really weird on how he came back. Then he gets onto a ship and goes to New York. How come he only went after the teens from Camp Crystal Lake.They had some weirdo telling them they were doomed. Kind of reminds you of Crazy Ralph from the first 2 films.I thought that Kane Hodder made a great Jason. But some of it was really hard to believe.The killings weren't bad. But the story wasn't that great "},{"Title":"One of the better later sequels","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friday the 13th 8 is a huge improvement on the previous three sequels. It still does not match the scares and tone of the first 4 films.This film really could have ended the series but this was followed by one of the worst films ever made - Jason Goes To Hell The Final Friday.This one sort of ignores the plot of the previous sequels in that Jason killed people who went to the camp - this time he just got bored and decided to go on a nice boat ride as there was no other reason for Jason to stalk the boat.Apparently New York was just too scary for Jason because in the next sequel he is back in Crystal Lake - despite the fact that he turned back into a child at the end of this one which didn't make much sense either.Surely even the producers of the awful '80's horror films realised that horror films need to be scary. As the censors wouldn't let them get away with the gore of the early films it would make sense to make them more scary as it is the series by part 6 was just a pale shadow of its former self.Part 8 is not a bad film - it's just not a very good one either. "},{"Title":"You've got your rip-off in my bad sequel! You've got your bad sequel in my rip-off!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is horrible as well as being a rip-off, as it promises Jason terrorizing New York City when it delivers anything but.Jason is re-animated by a jolt of electricity (Uncreative! That was done in part 6 in a much better way). Then he boards a ship full of students (Boring! The students are dull and the killings unimaginative). One girl has flashbacks to when a young Jason grabbed her in Crystal Lake (Dumb! Unless this high schooler is in her late 30s Jason would have been in his twenties when she was younger. In fairness, though, the series has been foggy on Jason's development). Jason and a couple students wind up in Manhatten (Lame! It doesn't even look like NYC most of the time. There is a nice segment with Jason in Times Square, though). Jason is killed by toxic waste (REALLY LAME! Jason winds up looking like a little boy. Really insulting. Plus, when Jason takes his mask off in this one he looks really stupid. He looked much cooler at the end of part 7).And instead of just being unentertaining, the film ventures into just plain unpleasant territory with an attempted rape scene (in which our heroine is injected with some sort of drug that has absolutely no effect on her except mild bluriness in one scene).This should not be recommended to anyone! I cannot imagine one person who would enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Limp","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hated it from the word go. Those opening credits really did my head in. There's no cool F13th logo exploding across the screen. It probubly doesn't matter to most, but I consider myself a die hard Friday fan & I'm afraid having naff red credits come on & off while the cameraman does a waltz around some street in NY just doesn't follow Friday formula. Add crap rock music to that too.Oh look there's no gore. Still, those pesky UK censors managed to cut out a whole second before allowing it to be released on video. Should've cut an extra 80 odd minutes if you ask me.  "},{"Title":"Avoid At All Costs!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In order to enjoy horror movies, you must suspend reality. In other words, you must let yourself be immersed in what's going on and truly believe that a thing like that could happen. Unfortunatley, Jason Takes Manhattan makes this very hard to accompolish. It shouldn't be that way. I watced this movie the first time when I was 12, and while I was watching I was searching for something to be scared at, but to no avail. This movie is more amusing than terrifying. That's not a good thing.This is the first Jason movie since the third to ever attempt character development. It fails to say the least. This movie is soooo bad. Avoid it at all costs. The only Friday The 13th movie you should ever waste your time with is the original, and if you enjoyed that, try Part 2, or 3, and see how you like them. Anything beyond that is a waste of time. "}{"Title":"Goodie, goodie?","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason is on the ship Lazarus for 4/5 of the film, this film should be called; Jason takes some dumb kids and Lazarus. This film have its moments f ex when Jason playes the guitar (on a girls head=). Pretty lame when Jason dont kill whole MANHATTAN! 5 of 10 is my vote. "},{"Title":"Look out Fans, were gonna make another gratuitous sequel, that is both dumb and entertaining.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yep this movie is stupidly entertaining, with Jason on a cruise ship.Is it good? No Is it Bad? No Is It watchable Sorta Was It Needed? No Why did they make another one? $$$ Money, this one made 20 million, hey it's the 8th sequel, that's pretty good. Would I watch it again? Maybe Rating 5 outta 10  "},{"Title":"Jason Doesn't Live Up To His Potential","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason Takes Manhattan could've been so much better than what we are given here.  Even though this is the best of the Friday the 13ths, with the worst ending, it has potential.  If only director Rob Hedden had envisioned his film exclusively in New York City then this film would've been terrific. Jason is awoken from his watery grave and continues on another splatter spree.Jumping aboard a ship called Lazarus, Mr. Voorhees slices his way through another bevy of teens, this time a graduating high school class.  He kills the majority of the cast...but some stragglers manage to escape in a life-boat.  But alas, the hockey-masked psycho follows them right along to N.Y., and coincidentally fits right in with the every day psychotics that roam the very streets of the big city (Travis Bickle ring a bell??).  He decimates a few more of the cast before being brought down in the end...once and for all.  (At least until the next sequel) "},{"Title":"Bites the Big Apple","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jason Voorhees is raised from his watery grave and sets about mutilating whichever nearby teenagers he can get his hands on.  Sound familiar?  It is.But Rob Hedden has directed what is perhaps the best of the Friday the 13th films with more style and imagination than earlier outings.  The Jason character is cast as a sort of anti-hero in this update of the series, and the result is a campy good time.Crystal Lake's graduating class are shipping off to New York for their class trip, and when Jason is accidentally revived from the bottom of Crystal Lake by an anchor which snags a power line, he climbs on board for the ride.  What ensues is a cruise to mayhem as many of the teens are slain en-route to the Big Apple, and the boat eventually sunk.  There's a lot of energy and kinetic camera work in this piece, nearly enough to revive the series to presentable level, and many of the killings almost come off as gags.Kane Hodder, affirming that he is, in fact, the *real* Jason Voorhees, resumes the role he took over in the previous film, and hams it up a bit on the streets of New York while remaining a menacing figure.  He frightens the dickens out of a street gang, proves that you should never touch the third rail of a subway, even marvels at his likeness on a New York Rangers billboard.The ending in the sewers is questionable at best, with Jason dissolved in acid while the spray never harms his cowering quarry, but Hodder is fantastic lurching around the subterranean corridors while clutching his steaming, monsterous face and wailing in pain.  Do zombies feel pain?Jason Takes Manhattan gives a fresh perspective on the old formula, with good, solid performances and a core cast of believable characters.  The fact that it *is* an old formula weighs greatly on this otherwise acceptable film, and the result is a middle of the road thriller that can finally stand almost eye-to-eye with other suspensers not cursed with a VIII in the title.On a side note  hardcore F13 fans typically despise this film, perhaps for its change of venue or relatively low body count.  Regardless, this is a film that delivers its share of frights and laughs, and of course, a measure of oh, yeah, rights. "},{"Title":"8TH Time is a kill","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday THE 13th 8 is titled Jason Takes Manhattan, but it is the eighth picture in the Friday the 13th franchiseIn the film, Jason Voorhees gets resurrected again (by lightning or electricity) and continues his murderous rampage, but instead of being in the lake, he is in New York City and he's with a group of graduating teenagers and he follows them in the ship they are in. Most of the characters are awful people, and as a viewer, you can either care more or less whether they live or die (half of them dies), but eventually, a small portion of the teenagers live and this leads into a decent ending in this film.Jason Voorhees is superbad in this one and he's not just a horror icon in this film and he is mad as hell. He is now played by Kane Hodder, who played him in the last film, and would play him for the next two films with Ken Kirzinger, taking his place as Jason in the crossover between this franchise and the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise, released in 2003, FREDDY vs. JASON.The story is amazing and in fact, if this movie was badly received by critics, I would not have watched this film at all. But I won't hate on it like the critics did, but I will say what is my main criticism is The Friday THE 13th theme by Harry Manfredini is missing from this movie and it is just sad. I will admit the new music by the new composer is simply fantastic and amazing. The costume design and production design is just fantastic in this film, so as the Jason mask for this film. The visuals are fantastic and a lot of people hates this film, but it is really amazing. The fans and critics hate this film, but this movie has it's share of fans and I happen to be a fan of this one.Kane Hodder plays Jason Voorhees again and he does an amazing job with the screen time he has. The rest of the actors are amazing as well, but their acting skills are not as bad, it's just that some of the dialogue written for them could have been better.Overall, Jason Takes Manhattan is my second favorite of the Friday the 13th films and this is one of six films that I think that are really cool and are on my list of JASON films that I like.Here they are &#x95; Friday the 13th (2009) reboot, directed by Marcus Nispel &#x95; Freddy vs. Jason (2003), directed by Ronny Yu &#x95; Friday the 13th (1980), directed by Sean S. Cunnigham &#x95; Friday the 13th - Part III (1982) &#x95; Friday the 13th - Part II, directed by Steve Miner &#x95; Jason X (2002), directed by James Isaac "},{"Title":"More Like Jason Takes A Cruise!!!","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Jason series must've been running out of ideas. How's this for a novel idea? Jason gets (yet again) resurrected and hops aboard a ship. Which just happens to be filled with high school seniors on a cruise to New York. And yeah, it's just the usual cadre of drug-taking, booze-swilling, sex-starved teens we've come to expect. So one by one, the man in the hockey mask goes about doing his best at decreasing the surplus population. Of the entire series, this one is the most polished and professional-looking. Some of the deaths are really elaborate. There's also quite a few hallucinatory dream sequences involving Jason as a boy. (As a side note Why hasn't anyone ever questioned how Jason could drown as a boy, but come back as a hockey-masked adult?) Eventually, Jason and the survivors DO reach the Big Apple. But we only get to see Time Square once. The rest of the time, the cast stumbles around the seediest wharfs, the grimiest sewers, and generally just runs away helplessly from Jason. One teen actually tries boxing the crap out of him. But to no avail. Though I'm griping, this film is likable and entertaining. And it does bring things to a satisfying conclusion. If the studios hadn't made another sequel, this would've been a good place to leave the Jason series. "},{"Title":"The one where Jason doesn't really 'take' Manhattan at all","Date":"3 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 'Part 8' of the infamous horror franchise wasn't a success. No surprise really as it's a classic case of a film with a completely misleading title. Having the undead masked serial killer, Jason Voorhees, slashing his way through New York sounds like a good idea for a film, right? Yes, you're right. However, the 'money men' behind the film didn't agree.For budgetary reasons they couldn't afford to shoot in the Big Apple until the final twenty minutes, leaving pretty much the whole film set on a boat heading to the city in question. Here we have the typical 'slasher' film, only on a boat instead of the traditional camp in the woods.So, fans were more than a little annoyed at the misleading nature of the film. Also &#x96; for no reason at all &#x96; Jason can now 'teleport.' One minute he's a hundred yards behind you, then next he's standing in front of you. Yes, he's a supernatural being, but no explanation is given for this new talent. Plus it does tend to spoil the 'chase' between killer and victim when no matter where and how fast you run, he just appears in front of you every time.So, Part 8 is a bit of a let-down in general. Yes, there are a few nice touches here and there and if you're a die hard fan of the series you'll probably appreciate it. However, although it's definitely watchable (if you're into this sort of film) it's not one of the better films in the franchise. Even the writer agrees that not enough time is spent in Manhattan and agrees with fans. Apparently, it was all down to the film's producers that they weren't allowed to spend enough time there. "},{"Title":"Just the same with a different setup","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" FTT 8may be notable for the few differences it presents over FTT 1 to 7.A batch of graduating youngsters are attacked one by one on the ship by ruthless Jason, who is still not dead and wants to kill all such partying guys. Only this time, he has gone beyond the boundaries of his camp crystal lake.FTT 8 also follows the basic outline of its predecessors with the only difference being that this time, the partying victims do the same things on a cruise boat, and Jason manages to reach NY in this film.Music? Bogus. Thrills? Bogus. Nudity? Yeah. Costumes and make up? Not at all scary. Best actor? Maybe Jason himself.Now you decide whether to watch or not. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 8 is titled Jason takes Manhattan, but in reality Jason takes nothing but a large ship filled with graduating teenagers. Jason Voorhees gets resurrected again (I think by electricity or lightning), and continues his murderous rampage. This time he makes his way onto a ship which is hosting a graduation trip to New York for a local high school. Many of the characters are awful people, and as a viewer, you really care less whether they live or die (most of them die). Eventually, a small portion of the group latch onto a raft and float to New York City. Jason somehow gets to NYC (I think he must've walked there underwater or something). He kills a few more leading to up a decent ending in the sewers of the city.Jason Voorhees is super human in this one folks. He manages to move from one place to the next in the blink of an eye. One minute he's on the deck of the ship, the next he's standing in New York City. He like many other horror icons at this time, is no longer scary. He's a complete joke, a cartoon. There are some good parts to it though, like a guy getting his head punched off by the masked madman. And the scenes in Times Square and the New York subway were fun to watch. But getting through over an hour of Jason stalking the corridors of a cruise ship gets tedious after twenty minutes.The back story of Renny being pulled underwater by a young Jason when she was a kid makes little to no sense. Jason's age would have had to have been altered drastically for that to have been real. The finale in the sewer was the best thing in the film. Jason's face was very grotesque in this one. Friday the 13th fans, like myself, will slightly appreciate this for being a fun cheesy mess. But others will discard it as trash.5/10 "},{"Title":"The weakest Friday the 13th movie, even for a fan..","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I just saw it again, with the extra's from the DeLuxe version. Finally you get to see the slashed scenes and that what was cut in order to get an R-rating. (from the 'evil empire' MPAA- I hate censorship !). But Part VIII wasn't trimmed as heavily as Part VII. The effects weren't so good to begin with. I LOVE the Friday The 13th franchise, especially the first four movies are awesome. (Part 1 and 4 had fantastic make-up effects by master Tom Savini). Part VII could have been better received but it was for many viewers a little bit of a disappointment due to the lack of bloody killings/special effects. A few minutes of gore was cut due to the MPAA. When you see those deleted scenes, it becomes an entire different (and way better) movie !! That cannot be said when it comes to Part VIII. It isn't a good movie to begin with, especially for the Friday fans there's a lot out of place here; - Young (and old unmasked) Jason looks nothing like the previous and especially first movie. - Jason can't swim, but here he seems to be in form. - Jason seem to move faster than lightning in this movie. - 4 people in danger decide to split up (?? really) - A black guy hits Jason's mask numerous times (?? how dumb is that) - Jason Takes Manhattan (only in the last 20 minutes..)So a couple of things were removed to get the R-rating, but it's nothing shocking. Even the scene of the darts-in-the-eyes can be seen which was eventually replaced by another scene. But it's just a couple of seconds of gore you get to see, like a close-up shot of the first murder. Or the girl in the shower lying with pieces of glass in her back. Friday VIII has annoying characters and little tension. Most things in the lame story make no sense at all. Thank God for Kane Hodder who plays Jason once again very well. But he can't save this movie for being below average. A lot of people don't like Part V, but I do, I thought that one was an excellent slasher movie. And really, Part V was way better than this one. But again, it's A Friday The 13th Movie so I own it. But every series has to have a bad sequel. And this is it, unfortunately "}{"Title":"Jason goes on a cruise","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" We are now at the end of the eighties and the slashers are really over, so does the Friday franchise they thought, well, especially the director. He wanted to kill Jason for good but fans told him that Jason always would come back. Again Kane Hodder appears as Jason and again he's a brutal Jason but less then in part 7. But things really go wrong here. Bringing back the Jason as a kid wasn't a good idea. And the title does mislead you too, it's just 15 minutes in Manhattan, all the rest is aboard a ship. The killings are really lame. As you can watch on the deluxe version the director told us that MPAA wasn't happy with this flick and had cut it roughly. You can see the slashed scene's on the disc but there wasn't that much gore in it as part 7. But for me the biggest mistake was as I told before bringing back young Jason. He appears as a ghost and at the ending of the film Jason so-called dies and his body returns into young Jason. This wasn't bloody or suspenseful, it was just another part with some bad mistakes about Jason...to be continued, sigh "},{"Title":"You're all gonna die... you're the last ones... he's come back for you.","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A senior class trip to New York aboard the love boat turns into the Titanic with Jason aboard.This guy has more lives that a cat! Here he is in number 8. There really is zero story here. It is Jason killing everybody on the ship - well, five do escape and arrive in New York. Jason must have been holding onto the lifeboat, because he's right behind them.I have not really wanted to see anyone get it in all the Jason movies. The exception is here. Peter Mark Richman gets it in a way that was poetic.I guess after living in the woods, the Big Apple is too much for even Jason. "},{"Title":"To bad Jason isn't in Manhattan for that long!","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The title to this movie is very misleading as you can see from the summary above. Mosty of it take place on the boat. Which is very disappointing, because you want to see Jason go on a Rampage through New York City, but it does not happen. So as you can tell the plot is not what you would expect. The acting in this movie is though. It's just as corny as the rest of the acting in the Friday the 13th films. The music in this movie is okay. It does succeed in setting the mood for the movie. The deaths in this movie are good. Just like a lot of the deaths in the series. The most memorable death in this film is the scene were Jason punches a guys head off. That's pretty corny, but yet so cool. So in the end this movie is pretty bad, and not heavily recommended. "},{"Title":"Jason Is Back Again... And Again... And Again... And Again...","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of the things that have always made me wonder throughout the Friday the 13th series, are the geographic changes around Crystal Lake. In the first part, for example, the lake was entirely surrounded by deep woods, whereas in the third part, the area looked more like a swamp. Still, none of the films gave the impression that Crystal Lake was connected to any other waters, let alone a river that connects to the sea. Well,... guess what Good old Jason is resurrected once again by a teenage couple in a boat on Crystal Lake. After butchering the two lovebirds, Jason takes the boat to a nearby coastal small-town, where a bunch of teenagers as well as two teachers are planning a trip to New York on a cruise ship. Jason sneaks on board, of course, and his presence quickly reduces the number of teens on the ship...The Friday the 13th series is mainly a product of the 80s, and, shot in 1989, Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is the last 80s Friday film. This film's setting on a cruise ship (which, considering its size, carries only very few people) is actually a good thing, in my opinion, as a ship is one of the most inescapable settings imaginable. And, at least in the beginning, Jason does what he does best with acceptable results. Sadly enough, Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is once again relatively gore-less (which also was my main complaint about the previous part, New Blood. Most of the murders either let camera slide away when the good stuff happens, or are virtually gore-less. This is too bad, because, at least in my humble opinion, gore was probably the one thing the earlier entries to the series had to offer. Kane Hodder plays Jason again, which is good as he gives him a creepy and intimidating look. Jason's look is generally creepier in the later entries to the series, but the gore is still way too tame in this film for my tastes. The few gory sequences are pretty cool, though, especially one in which Jason punches a guy's head off his torso with his bare hands. Also, one could (once again) care less about any of the protagonists, as a viewer one isn't scared for them but eagerly waits for them to get butchered. The Jason makeup underneath the mask isn't impressive (it was very good in the previous part). Oh, and the ending is the stupidest thing ever.Personally I have always thought of the Friday series as extremely overrated by many of my fellow Horror fans, and this eighth part is one that can easily be skipped. The one thing that is applaudable is the new setting, which at least brings some kind of change. 3.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A poorly made film.","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After the masterpieces that Part 6 and 7 turned out to be, I really had some high hopes with Part 8. It says Jason Takes Manhattan, but the movie is more like Jason Takes a Cruise, which no one ever wanted to see.It's not a great idea to set a Jason movie on such a small area. Eventually it gets boring and that will happen before they get off the boat.When Jason's on the cruise though, he doesn't seem to like to use his signature machete and chooses to kill with random things and objects that he finds lying around and plenty of them aren't even inventive.Have I mentioned that everyone in the movie are terrible actors and they provide the movie with so much unintentional humor that you will never take the movie seriously.When they finally get into Manhattan, everything about it feels fake. There's so many wacky parts of this movie that could have been solved if they had just done some research. For instance, it's very unlikely that the New York sewers fill up with toxic waste every night at midnight. ADSURD! I like Kane Hodder but he's makeup was really very awful. The soundtrack is also really bad and dated because they chose to feature the worst songs of the 80's.Avoid this movie like the plague, unless you get chuckles out of so bad it's good movies. "},{"Title":"Beautiful nature and a well-done horror-film!","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A few young kids went in a cruise to New York and will celebrate that they have weekend, but what they does'not know that a murderer ravage on board. It will be a fight between death and life.It is also beautiful nature, environment mountains and hills in Vancouver. It is very scary moments in this classic horror-movie. It is a violent and a brutal horror-film.The acting is very good and trustworthy.Rob Hedden show the most bloody and brutal scenes in this success series Friday the 13th.A horror-film that sensitive persons not to see! "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes a cruise","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first found this movie in my grandmother's collection of videos. Never watched it because she hid it (i found it on a list she had). When a local video store was going out of business they sold all their videos and I bought this one and Jason X (which is worse). I watched it and well watched Jason march around a ship killing people. Then I asked myself- Where is New York in this movie? The ship sinks and then everyones in a boat going towards New York (they are in the middle of no where). Then they make it to New York and all bad stuff happens to them. Jason pops up sees a sign for Hockey and goes and punches a head off. The ending could not have been any worse. "},{"Title":"Jason's infamous boat ride, but is it the worst? A comprehensive review of his field trip.","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Film opens on Crystal Lake (will they ever learn?) Two teens on a yacht talking about the legend of Jason, they start to make out while there boat accidentally awakens Jason again with some electricity. Jason (Hodder) quickly dispatches them, grabs the kid's hockey mask and is on his way. We meet the main characters the next day about to board a cruise ship headed for New York. Rennie (Daggett) the main character, talks about her future with her favorite teacher Miss Van Deusen (Bingham). Her uncle, the principle Mr. McCulloch (Richman), the big ass of the film starts to rag on Rennie about everything and how he is disappointed about her coming. Meantime Rennie's man Sean (Reeves) is the captain's son, who is also disappointed with the youngster about not wanting to be a boat captain, sue me dad. So Jason climbs on board and some janitor of course knows more then the others to tell them they are all doomed. Soon we meet heavy metal girl and a nerd, the nerd is a must for most of these films. The metal chick goes to jam in the lower decks and soon has a flying v in her skull. In the meantime Rennie continues to have these silly visions of some boy and fear of drowning all connected to Jason. Even sillier is McCulloch on the senior trip asking for various forms of homework while they are supposed to be partying. The slutty girl of the film gives him a short biology lesson before she is cut to ribbons. Eventually Jason goes the through the kids one by one and after throwing the nerd on some electrical stuff, which starts a fire, those who are left have to abandon ship. After finally arriving in NY some thugs kidnap Rennie, but Jason also is there and kills them. Before going after her he boxes with Julius (laughable scene) and Jason punches his head off. Rennie escapes with Sean, confronts McCulloch about almost drowning her as a kid and they run off, while McCulloch is drowned head first in some toxic waste, one of the better parts of the film I might add. Jason start's to chase them through time square, diner, sub way, and eventually the sewers. Rennie manages to throw toxic waste on Jason's face making him melt and cry like baby, hilarious. The sewer cleans out, Jason wines like baby (laughable) the water drowns Jason and when it subsides he is transformed into a kid. Makes no sense but who cares Rennie and Sean walk off into time square with her dog to live anther day.Overall a bad film and one of the weaker ones in the franchise, however I admit that for some reason I tend to enjoy this one. One of the big problems as everyone mentions was the lack of Jason being in NY. Most people know that director Rob Hedden did not have the money to film in NY so much of the film is on a boat or in Vancouver for the city shots. And I think for the most part that works, but again Jason is there for maybe the last 20 minutes, so it's somewhat of a letdown. The acting as usual is really bad, even for a Friday film, with a few exceptions. Peter Mark Richman as McCulloch is the one who stands out. He plays the jerk of the film to perfection and his death is enjoyable. Most of the others seem to walk through their roles, Especially Scott reeves as Sean. He wines the whole time and is not believable for a second. For instance his dad is laying dead on the floor and he barley acts that upset. As for Hodder, I was never really big on him as Jason. I rather like the actor more then him as the character. But he is good in this.The story is weak as well, with the kids on the boat most of the movie, just a few survivors make it to NY. The worst part of the story is the nonsense with Rennie having flashbacks of her drowning and supposedly Jason was dragging her down as a kid while McCulloch her uncle, watched. It never works out and I think Jason would have been an adult when she was a child. The end is stupid too with Jason being turned into a kid at the end of the film. It makes no sense and looks likes crap. And how funny is having the principle come on the trip and asking for school crap and acting like he is the boss? As always the deaths are what people talk about and there are only a few good ones in this. I think most people like when Julius, one of the better characters from the film, eventually has his head punched off. Stupid but good. Let's see, toxic waste drowning, the steam rock in the gut, the wrench, the nerd on fire, but many more were just generic because they toned the whole movie down, not Robs fault. The MPAA edited up to much so again it's not Hedden's fault so I give him a break. The movie is better then Jason Goes to Hell, which was awful. Hardcore fans will hate it, but it has 80's nostalgic feel to it and if you like that you may want to hit it up. Lets 6 out 10. "},{"Title":"Maybe the most underrated part of the franchise","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have no idea why does everybody hates it, but anyway - for me it's one of good parts of Friday the 13th series. Yes, maybe Jason's cruise to NY looks a little bit strange, but you can compare that with 9 or 10 (Jason X) parts - and guys, do you still REALLY think 8 is the worst?! JTM got a several typical characters, good killing scenes, new locations and - the most important - JTM got a great, classic-type Jason big, merciless monster with silent rage. So, if you're a fan of Friday the 13th you should have to see it for yourself and make your own opinion - at least because it's the part of classic slasher series. Just give that movie a chance - it's not bad, it's just underrated. "},{"Title":"Worst of the first 8 films!","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie, without a doubt, is the worst of the first 8 Friday the 13th films. With this being the 7th sequel, it is expected to be a pretty big let down, especially after seeing the series go downhill after Part 4 (not counting Part 5). Not only is this film not well made or scary; It's not even entertaining! The movie starts out with an opening around New York City. The opening of the movie is actually pretty good, but it just makes the rest of the film seem terrible. We are then deported to Camp Crystal Lake when we see a young couple having sex on a large boat on the lake. Well, what do you know, Jason comes back to life AGAIN in the cheesiest, cheapest way you can imagine. Then the plot evolves, if you can even say this movie has a plot. Jason somehow ends up on a cruise ship that is somehow going from Camp Crystal Lake to New York. This is one part of the movie I couldn't get at all. It is not once mentioned in the series that Camp Crystal Lake is a bay or a river. How could a bout possibly get from a lake in the middle of nowhere to New York. It doesn't make sense to me.We are then introduced to a group of characters, who are the worst in the entire series. The acting isn't good at all. I expected much better acting considering the budget and the hype this movie had behind it. I think the only thing that made this movie good was the hype. Without the hype, this movie would definitely be considered the worst of all time. If I had to compare this movie with another slasher film, I would have to compare it to a watered down version of Slumber Party Massacre (which was terrible to begin with).The entire film actually takes place on a cruise ship, rather than New York City. New York isn't actually introduced until the last 15 minutes. This is another part of the movie I couldn't get; When there's a big guy walking down the sidewalk wearing a hockey mask and holding a bloody machete, wouldn't people panic? Guess not. Whatever. Well, because the plot (if you can say this movie has one) moves so slow, I found this movie to be incredibly poor and boring. I actually fell asleep on this movie 5 times.The only entertaining piece scene in this mess of the movie are the scenes in New York, which I somewhat enjoyed. Either way, those scenes seemed watered out when looking at the entire movie.Avoid this movie unless you are a completest like me. "}{"Title":"Just ignore the subtitle and enjoy the ride","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The fourth installment was originally meant to be the final chapter for one of Paramount's most successful franchises, but this happened to not be the case and the series continued there for 5 more years. With box office numbers slowly, but surely declining with each sequel the studio decided to make this seventh sequel Jason's swan song. It wasn't such a bad idea because, let's be frank, seeing a psycho in a hockey mask kill naughty teenagers gets old after a while. That doesn't mean this sequel isn't any good, because actually it's one of the most enjoyable and well made of the series.Pros Has some of the best acting of the series. Fans sick of Crystal Lake should be pleased with the new setting. Some of the most inventive kills in the franchise. At night the ship can be one spooky place. Ditches the humor for the most part, but still has some humorous moments, my favorite being the biology project scene. Briskly-paced. Fred Mollin is no Harry Manfredini, but his score gets the job done. A few great set pieces and scenes on the streets of Manhattan. A couple nice homages to the first film, like an old man warning the others about Jason. Though brief, seeing Jason in Times Square is a cool image.Cons Since when can Jason magically move from one spot to another? Like a lot of the other sequels this one has no true suspense. Still the same old stuff, just in a new setting and with better production values. The worst make-up job on Jason, not to mention inconsistent with the one in the previous film.Final thoughts Most fans hate this one with a passion, but I for one have always really enjoyed it. Sure it's not original or really scary, but it's more entertaining and well made than a lot of other horror sequels from the 80s. On to part 9.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"an underrated sequel","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this movie VHS with low expectations, but this wasn't half as bad as I expected. The plot is clever and it was really entertaining. The movie starts with a trip to New York with graduates on board, Jason climbs on board and resumes his relentless killing spree, when some of the travellers escape and set on a journey to NYC, Jason soon catches up and reaches Manhatten, he then kills several more and chases the remaining survivors through the city. This movie is totally better than Friday The 13th New Blood, Friday The 13th Jason Goes To Hell and Jason X. I wouldn't call this a great sequel but it is more than watchable! "},{"Title":"Was this necessary?","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My least favorite installment to the series, where's Crystal Lake? Why is Jason all the way out towards the Statue of Liberty??? Why jump on a cruise boat? Why not go back to Crystal Lake like he has six other times? I can understand the 'trying to be different' direction that director Rob Hedden was going but this movie will either make you or break you of the Friday series, I was disappointed greatly but I can admit that some of the death sequences were pretty original and good. Peter Mark Richman is in this movie!!! I found his role very amusing as the overbearing uncle to young heroine Rennie, the ending is just a huge bunch of question marks to me (very very confusing) I would only recommend this movie if you're only choices are Friday the 13th Part 8 or one of the worst movies ever made (fill in the blank), otherwise watch something better (I know you movie buffs out there are smart people) because this movie is just merely a financial gain on Paramount's part. "},{"Title":"Night Time is the Right Time...","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" To watch this movie! I don't know why all the fans hate this one. The deaths are awesome (ie being electrocuted on a control panel) and this had good acting.First, the most important thing in a slasher movie. The deaths! The deaths are awesome. Wayne's was my favorite. Ooh! That's gotta hurt! I also liked Mile's. Falling and then being impaled on the deck post.The acting is also good. Kane Hodder is the best Jason. Kelly Hu did a fine job in her film debut. Peter Mark Richman and Sharlene Martin are good as the characters you are glad to see meeting their gruesome demise. But, probably the stand out for me was Martin Cummings as Wayne. His death scene was awesome and I really liked his character's attitude. Even after being dissed by the girl he wants to be with, he just smiles and insults himself.I really don't see what all the negativity is all about. Out of the first 8, this one is my favorite and any Friday the 13th fan should check this out! "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was by far the best of the sequels. Its different, fast moving, has a very good 80's feel to it, and the movie isn't isolated at all compared to its prequels. It all starts when Jason manages to stow away on a cruise ship full with teenagers heading towards to New York City,and starts to pick them off one by one. What makes this the best of the Friday's is that ITS NOT BORING, IT does'nt really give you that awful feeling when your just waiting who's going to die next...in fact the body count is so high in this movie you just don't really care and you'll just start enjoying the movie instead. And also compared to the other movies you just don't see Jason stalking people with the camera behind some unknown figure who just isn't scary at all. In this movie Jason is not a stalker, he is brutal killer who kills anyone he comes into contact with aboard the ship all the way into New York City.Im dropping one star because of the visions of young Jason the lead cast has which didn't really feel appropriate.Other than that, its a very enjoyable movie, and like I said, this was the best of the Friday the 13th movies, If not the best "},{"Title":"The worst one, by far...","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have always been a huge fan of all the Friday the 13th films and still consider Jason Takes Manhattan to be by far the worst. Not only it is goreless, boring, and amateurish, it shows absolutely no respect for any of the films that preceded it.Even the opening credits are different... ki ki ki ha ha ha has been replaced with Jay-Jay-Jay son-son-son. The great Psycho-style music scores for the opening credits have been replaced with a cheesy song from the 80s, to accompany footage of New York, a.k.a. Vancouver. The flashback scene of how Jason drowned has been re-filmed, with some normal-looking kid (with a full head of hair!) playing him. The opening kill scene is over- acted and not inspired, personally I could have done without the girl's annoying screeching....and that's the first 10 minutes!Then, the rest of the damn movie takes place on a boat. Except the last 15 minutes, in which Jason finally gets to New York, and even then nothing exciting happens.After forcing myself to sit through this one several times (thanks to the From Crystal Lake to Manhattan box-set), I still can't see it's appeal. "},{"Title":"The best of the sequels despite the false title","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan is best sequel to Friday the 13th of all time. But i (along with everybody else who has seen the film) did feel lied to by the films title. If the title says Jason Takes Manhattan then how come only the last 36 minuets of the film is actually set in Manhattan. But this is still a very good movie. This is the one of the about two or three Friday the 13th films that even attempts to have any actual characters instead of just stick figures that get slaughtered in VVVVVVEEEEEEERRRRRRRYYYYY gruesome ways. The fact that most of the film is set on a cruise ship actually builds up the moment of the movie shifting to the streets of New York City.The death scenes are not as good or gorie as usual but the cruise ship is a great and fresh new setting for Jason to kill his new batch of teens who has previously limited to just a broken down summer camp. when the film finally does shift to New York the filmmakers do a very good job at showing Jason having a hard time trying to kill the remaining teens and also being confused by his new surroundings.the scenes of Jason chasing the remaining teens through Times Square (the scene where Jason knocks over the gang's boom box is great), the New York subway, and the sewers are outstanding.one thing that bothered me is that when the only 5 passengers on the ship that are still alive finally leave the ship they are a little to late. if they where smart they would after left the ship after maybe 2 or 3 of the passengers where found dead they would get the *fuck* of the boat immediately. The climatic scene where Jason is killed by toxic waste and the two survivors walk off into times square is strange but good none the less.I have heard so many complaints from fans of the series about this film not about taking place in New York that i will right this wrong by writing a version of the script that will be set entirely in New York. I will give anyone who wants one a copy of my script.see this film as soon as you can "},{"Title":"This has possibilities to be one of the great sequels of the series but somewhat it has failed.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Once again, Jason (Kane Hodder) is coming back to life from the dark cold water of Camp Cyrstal Lake. But this time, Jason is going to take a trip to the Big Apple. When he aboard on a cruise ship with a full of graduating high school kids.Written and Directed by Rob Hedden made an flawed but surprisingly well made slasher film that is certainly less bloody than most. This one is nicely shot, well produced and even nostalgic. Some might called this, the best or the worst of the Friday the 13th series. But Hedden's script is preposterous, the connection between Rennie (Played by Jensen Daggett) and Jason doesn't always make sense. Unless she's graduated attending her 30 year Reunion (!) as a example. This would be the last Friday the 13th film to be produced at Paramount. Then later Jason Goes to HellThe Final Friday, Jason X and Freddy Vs. Jason was produced by New Line Cinema.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good-Dolby Digital 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD doesn't have no extras but the DVD Box Set from Friday the 13th series, it has an interesting commentary track by the director, interviews with the director & actorHodder and the original theatrical teaser is a hoot. This eighth film might have been more successful at the box office, if the movie was re-titled Jason Takes on a Cruise Ship. Which the director explained in the interview from the DVD extras that in his original script, the movie was supposed to take place 2/3 in New York City and then the last third in a Cruise Ship. The plot got flip over because of budget reasons.Because of that, the picture was mis-marketed and it was lowest grosses of the series for Paramount. The film is quite long, heavy handed at times and it has an unsatisfying conclusion that nearly knocks it down but the movie is pretty good, visually clever at times and it has amusing sense of humour. Die Hard fans of the series won't probably enjoy this one but director Hedden did the best he could with this one and brings the best performances from his cast. Which makes this most well acted in the series. Watch for an young Kelly Hu (Best known for The Scorpian King and X-Men 2 as Yuriko Oyama/Deathstrike) as one of Jason's victims. Canadian StuntmanKen Kirzinger appears in a cameo in the diner scene. Which Kirzinger went on to play Jason Voorhees in the already camp classic hit Freddy Vs. Jason. (***/*****). "},{"Title":"A Film To Live By 7","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While a good movie it certainly will never live up to it's brothers. This is a film that should mostly be watched for it's camp value much as you would watch any Ed Wood movie or Snakes on a Plane. This movie has no real value in it's characters, it is just one 98 minute gag. I love the movie for trying to do something different as I know by 1989 the old Jason in the woods scenario had been played out. But what follow up directors of this series have neglected to understand is that it has now been almost twenty years since Jason stalked the woods of Crystal Lake. He's been on vacation since 1989. He went to Hell in 93, Space in 02, and Elm Street in 03. Let's bring him him back to the camp, he needs it, he belongs there. I'm not talking about a remake like the evil Michael Bay wishes to push on us but a new entry in the saga that could end where Freddy vs Jason left off and bridge the gap to Jason X. Give us this film and let Michael Bay go as he does not know what the fans want but only what the stupid jocks and cheerleaders want along with the rap crowd. While that was a little off topic I had to say it as the down fall of Jason began with this film. If Jason Goes to Hell had done better and had more continuity with the Jason story line than the series would most likely be reaching it's twentieth film and not it's 12th. Friday The 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhatten is a fine film but it should have been a one off and then went back to the Masked One being violent and scary again as he was in the first four films and part seven. Bring Jason back. New Line listen, this is what the people want, Bring Jason back to Crystal Lake!!! Post Haste!!! "},{"Title":"Your all gonna die","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There was no bouncing breasts or even pert breasts of a teenager about to die... No-one said ''I'll be right back''... But a crazy guy did pop up a few times and shout ''You're all gonnna die'' so that was enough for me.Lot's of people dying, some terrible scenes with idiots escaping to dead ends, but you need idiots when Jason moves as slow as he does.A couple of interesting deaths that I hadn't seen done before, which was both nice and informative on different ways to end people.Not really enough suspense for me but it's a cheesy horror flick so with that genre in mind it gets top marks.Great classic horror good for a laugh. "}{"Title":"actually.... the second best in the series","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" May Contain Spoilers this was a highly enjoyable movie, not as enjoyable as the 1st, but i still liked it.It starts out with the graduating class of a local high school. The heroine believes when she was a child, she was almost killed by Jason. When Jason sinks the boat, many kids die, but some run off in Manhattan, and Jason follows. If u liked any of the Friday the 13th movies, see this one. If u didn't, then don't. To me i prefer it all back at camp crystal lake, but somehow got changed to new york. I consider this movie to be probably the second best in the series, if not then the third best. For a cheap, low budget horror movie, i really liked it. I recommend this one to horror fans. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Jason vs. New York City","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This 8th part in the Friday the 13th series, called Jason Takes Manhattan, sounds like a promising new addition to the Friday movies. In some ways, this movie is actually more creative than the previous sequels. In other ways, the movie misses out on many things.In this movie, Jason Voorhees is shocked back to life and climbs aboard a cruise ship filled with college students. The ship is heading for New York City, and Jason starts killing most of the people on board. Then later on, some remaining people survive and arrive at New York, with Jason following them...I must say that I love the very beginning of this movie. There are nice shots of New York City at night, as well as a great 80's song to begin the movie. However, the film doesn't really begin in New York; the scene shifts away to Camp Crystal Lake, where Jason is about to be resurrected by an electric shock from an underwater electric cable.Later on, the film introduces us to the characters that will board a ship, which Jason climbs aboard as the ship leaves for New York. Most of the film's run time is spent on the ship to explore the characters, while Jason hunts many of them down and starts killing them.The problem with this time spent on the ship is that it can get pretty boring just seeing the characters do dumb things. Thankfully, Jason kills them off quite well, although in not as good a fashion as in the previous sequels. There was just too much time spent on the ship and on useless characters.Another problem is the portrayal of New York City, when the few survivors (and Jason) finally get there. New York is a really dangerous place in the movie, with drug dealers and dirty barrels of toxic chemicals everywhere on the docking bays. I have never been in New York, but I'm sure the docks weren't that bad. I guess the film-makers had to make the docking bays look horrible so that the movie can remain a horror film.There are some good points, though. The idea of Jason being in a big city is fascinating, since Jason can finally get a taste of city life, rather than the usual forests on the outskirts of New Jersey (namely at Camp Crystal Lake). Also, the film seems to have borrowed elements from the Nightmare on Elm Street films The lead female character actually daydreams about a younger Jason in various parts of the movie.Overall, the best part of the movie is when the action happens in New York City. It's really interesting to see Jason stalking his victims in the Big Apple. If you're a fan of the Friday the 13th movies, then you might like this movie. However, don't expect it to be better than the sequels; it's just more creative than the sequels. Fast-forward to the last 30 minutes, when Jason & his victims are in New York City.I give this movie a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Very, very stupid","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason Takes Manhattan! Yeah right! What Jason does take is a cruise ship, the alleys and subways of Vancouver and a stroll down Times Square. All this amounts to the second worst Friday installment (nothing can top the 5th entry).The loopholes here are major league, even by Friday standards. Jason gets from one place to the other at lightning pace and that's just irritating as hell. Some technique director Hedden was trying out, even comparing this film in some places to the work of Hitchcock! To me, it's just irritating. Yes, some people have made a big deal out of it's visual style, but the fourth entry has a lot more style than here. Hedden also makes silly changes in the legacy of Jason and the ending totally blows everything, the worst ending possible to tack onto this film.The characters are uninteresting to say the least. The film's leading lady is intolerable and her uncle (one-dimesional anyone!) is pretty tough to take. Some of her actions are so far out there (like sitting down, taking a breather and feeling sorry for her abuse since childhood while Jason is just around the corner) that I was nearly in tears. Ahhhh, there's so much incredibly stupid things to point out here that I can't even recommend this film to fans of the series. The others are sometimes stupid but none compare to this.On the plus side; it's quite funny at times, with some clever dialogue and a few chuckles when Jason finally arrives in Manhattan. It was the most expensive Friday up to that point and it shows, every technical aspect well handled.In short; Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Jason  In Manhattan...What Were They Thinking!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This one sinks Lower than the last sequel did and this time we send Jason over to Manhattan and half the time there on the boat, really disappointing (this is where i started to lose hope in the series) anyway here's the plot Jim and Suzy drift peacefully through Crystal Lake on his houseboat - at least until its anchor snags an underwater power cable and drags it to the submerged body of Jason Voorhees! As Jim and Suzy make love, Jason boards the boat and kills the two teenagers.The graduating class of Lakeview High boards the SS Lazarus, bound for New York City. Boarding the ship with her teacher Miss Van Deusen, Rennie Wickham is accosted by her uncle (and trip chaperon) Charles McCulloch. Despite his obvious displeasure at her attendance, she boards and meets up with her boyfriend Sean Robertson. Sean also has problems with his father, Admiral Robertson, the captain of the Lazarus. But their personal problems are about to become secondary to one big problem - Jim's boat drifts by and the Lazarus picks up an unwelcome stowaway...Soon JJ is killed by Jason when she goes below decks to jam on her guitar. Rennie is assailed by visions of a young Jason, and her dog Toby runs off. Elsewhere, Julius pummels a hapless opponent in a boxing match. Above, Tamara and Eva watch the match, and then head off (at Tamara's request) to do some cocaine. They are interrupted first by Rennie, then by her uncle. Jason kills Julius' opponent in the sauna while Tamara, afraid of being ratted out by Rennie, knocks her overboard. Rennie can't swim, and is first hit with visions of a young Jason as she flails in the water, and then again in the restroom after being rescued by Sean.After Tamara gets Wayne to tape McCulloch in a compromising position with her, she is stabbed with glass shards by Jason. A storm breaks out, and Jason makes his way to the bridge to kill the first mate and the Admiral. Sean and Rennie, going to radio the Coast Guard to get off the ship, find the bodies and call everyone to the bridge. Jason cuts the radio, and everyone splits up to find the killer. Eva finds Tamara's body, is chased into the dance room and killed. Below decks, Wayne loses his glasses and accidentally shoots a crew member before being thrown into an electrical panel by Jason.A fire breaks out below as Sean tries to get the ship back on course. Miles is killed by Jason and Julius is thrown overboard. Rennie has another vision and then is attacked by the real Jason, who she stabs in the eye. Below, the fire causes the fuel tanks to explode and most of the kids on board are killed. The crazy deck hand is axed in the back by Jason and only Rennie, Sean, Miss Van Deusen, Rennie's dog and McCulloch make it to the lifeboat. In the water, Julius climbs aboard.Julius and Sean row from the sinking Lazarus to New York. Once there, the group is accosted by two thugs who take Rennie away and inject her with a filthy syringe. The others split up to look for help, and Jason kills the two thugs. Rennie escapes but Julius runs into Jason. After a valiant fight, Jason literally knocks Julius' block off, sending his head flying. The others find each one another, along with an cop who lets them into his cruiser. On the dash sits Julius' head, and the cop is dragged away by Jason. Rennie takes the wheel and slams the car into Jason. But when she tries to run down a vision of the young Jason, she rams into a wall. The car explodes, and Miss Van Deusen is killed.The trauma forces Rennie to remember her childhood, when her uncle took her out on Crystal Lake. He pushed her overboard to teach her how to swim, and she had a vision of Jason then. Sean and Rennie run off, leaving McCulloch to be killed by Jason. They are chased by Jason through the subway and Times Square - can Rennie and Sean stop Jason from taking Manhattan?I only recommend this to the DIE HARD fans only (as with part 5 and part 7 i only ever watch this if i watch the whole series in one go). "},{"Title":"Not the best film in the franchise but still an entertaining entry","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After seven, seemingly interchangeable entries, director ROB HEDDEN, decided to ditch Crystal Lake, sight of Jason's previous massacres, in favour of putting Jason in a new environment & make a film that had every chance in the world to be considered the best sequel in the series. Despite the films intentions, things didn't turn out good critically or financially. As everyone knows, the title for is somewhat misleading. While Jason does indeed appear in Manhattan, the film is close to being over & even then the endless possibilities of the things Jason could do is trashed by the simple fact that film hasn't got the budget to fulfil it's premise. Instead Hedden has his characters upon arrival, roaming down back alleys & subway systems & sewers looking for help (an odd place to look for an authority figure if you ask me). For many years, Friday fans consider PART 8 to be the weakest film in the franchise. Failing to deliver on what it's subtitle promised & the fact that the film, despite a small sprinkling of blood, fails to deliver on the gory thrills, however I honestly don't believe it was the directors fault. Several things were already up against the film right from the get go, like the actual cost of filming the majority of it in Manhattan became to much to spend on a Friday film (especially on a series that had dwindling box office returns since PART 5) & that forced the director to rework his original story. It's here though that I feel if we couldn't have Jason in Manhattan for the majority of the running time, that the title should have at least been changed to something else. Hedden's strength is in his writing & that's very evident here as the dialogue & characters are quiet good. Unlike the teens characters we seen in the Friday films before this, the teens all have personalities & back stories, not to mention goals & felt more real & while yes they may be the same type of characters cut from the same cloth (the nerd, the mean prom queen etc.) we actually care for these characters & Hedden has chosen an attractive & talented cast, as well as delivering excellent shots of New York and a much more polished look than the previous instalments. Another thing that runs through one's mind while they are watching the film is this, in previous entries, Jason always had a reason for killing his victims, here it makes no sense, why would Jason ditch Crystal Lake & head down the river to stalk kids on a boat bound for Manhatten? still I applaud Hedden for trying to do something different with this series & his directing is good. Another thing fans have kicked on is the films somewhat confusing ending, that sees Jason somehow transformed back into the 11 year old kid he was when he drowned on that terrible fateful day at Crystal Lake in 1957, in my eyes I don't believe Jason did, if you remember early in the film you'll see that Rennie kept having visions of Jason as a child many times before, both in his human & rotting forms, & what I think what director Hedden was trying to bring across is that Rennie saw that Jason was finally at rest, which is what the human 11 year old Jason symbolized, it was just another vision of Rennie's. As for the scenes where Jason can oddly teleport himself ahead of his intended victims, I never did understand fans complaints over this, Jason did the very same thing in Part 6 to some of his victims & nobody complained! If only Hedden had been able to get the budget to make his vision of the script come to life, box office failure or not, I can't help but think how the conversations & reviews of this film would have different. I mean can you imagine Jason stalking his victims through central park? killing somebody in or near the statue of liberty? fighting Julias one of his many victims inside Madison Square Garden? tearing up Broadway? or terrorizing The Rockettes? fighting or killing hookers & pimps? the possibilities are endless! & sadly we'll never know the alternate reality of what a real JASON TAKES MANHATTAN could have been. In terms of time line, the film although appears to be set in 1989, contradicts the time lines set in previous sequels & as a result of budget constraints, the film set almost entirely on a boat, is really the same old, same old, we seen in the previous seven instalments & fans looking for several shots of New York will be disappointed to learn that the film spends most of it's time in subways, alleyways & sewer systems & is actually Vancouver & what's up with the large boat to accompany just a handful of graduates? (The majority of whom disappear, never to be seen or heard from again as the film goes on) All in all, though I still recommend you see the film, my advice be that you push the somewhat misleading subtitle out of your mind & give the film a chance. Director Hedden manages a few funny moments most notably when Jason gets hassled by a street gang, that he scares off by showing them his face & another where the kids run into the diner & say that a maniac is trying to kill them, to which the waitress replies, Welcome to New York! as if Jason is just another maniac the city has to deal with, no biggie! Followed JASON GOES TO HELL THE FINAL Friday.*** stars "},{"Title":"this movie began the horror/comedy genre...","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While the other installments were a little more scary, and horrific, this one is very easy to handle due to its silliness. Not saying that its not interesting, but it seemed as though the creators of the whole franchise ran out of gas when they made this one. This movie, like many others, is just something to look at. If you're like myself and just watch movies to be entertained then you will find what you are looking for. Definitely worth checking out if you like slasher/80's type (silly) movies. Not to spoil the movie but the scene where the boxer gets his head completely punched off by Jason is something one will laugh out loud for! Other than that there are not very many memorable scenes. But, then again I have not bothered to watch it very many times. "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *Spoilers. It doesnt matter anyway because this movie was spoiled to begin with* I am a huge jason fan. Huge. But be that as it may, i wish i had a razor next to my seat by the end of that movie, because suicide seemed a lot more compitent then most of that movie. I shouldnt even have to back that up, but i will.First off...-What the F**KThat being said.... -Jason takes manhatten is boring, predictable, unimaginative, stupid and just full of plot holes... -Jason is found at the bottom of crystal lake with gigantic piles of wood covering him. Now if you'll recall in Jason VII, Tina's father pops up from the dock...undecomposed in mint condition with a mysterious chain...and pulls him under...with maybe two boards falling from the dock. That in NO WAY shows why he would be trapped at the bottom of the lake. Hell, a roof fell on the guy. -Where did the stupid long haired kid in the beginning get jasons mask? I could have sworn it was burned up in two pieces in the house. -It is obvious the director of this movie never saw one jason movie. So much for plot holes...The movie itself -Boring. So jasons first boat sails from Crystal lake....a lake....into a big ocean. I forgot lakes flowed into the ocean. Silly me.-When jason is killing people in the basement of the boat and they get away to the deck, somehow...jason is just there. He can't fly, he can't teleport...he doesnt even run. How does he do it? -He never actually takes manhatten. He kinda just walks around for 30 minutes and kills 3 native new yorkers. Wow...good title. -The manifestations of little jason? What the flying hell? Was it supposed to be scary? It was just confusing.If jason were around, he would be rolling around in his grave. Then he'd wake up and probably stab the director in the eye socket with a rusty nail. I can't believe anyone gave this a good review and honestly call it their favorite jason movie. This isn't a jason movie. Its a mindless pile of crap and fake blood that didnt deserve to make it to theatres. I would have rather watched jason takes a shit. at least you'd get what you pay for. And as for the hockey mask billboard...Dumb. No one makes hockey masks like that. If you liked this movie, i highly reccomend the following Killing yourself...having someone else kill you...fatally injuring yourself...or getting aids.Awful. Just awful... -12/10 "},{"Title":"CHEESY, BUT AMONG THE BETTER F13th SEQUELS.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i know, u dont have to tell me, the friday the 13 sequels have a certain cheese factor. even thought the plot for part 8 is cheesy as hell, i still found it to be great fun and have some really cool death scenes (disco floor). its pretty decent up until the final 8 minutes which become a mockery. the best act of the movie is when theyre actually on the cruise ship. WICKEDLY ENTERTAINING WITH SOME GREAT THRILLS AND TERRIFIC DEATH SEQUENCES... SICK FUN.... "},{"Title":"jason takes...detroit?","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have seen every single Jason movie, and this is the most ridiculous Friday the 13th ever. By a lot. Pause in your reading to think about that for a second. Yes, it is more ridiculous than Jason surviving the end times of Earth and becomes a space killer in the future. Yes, it is more ridiculous than a zombie killing machine fighting Freddy Kreuger, a creature of dreams (zombies dream?). Yes, it is even more ridiculous than the Mr. Smith Goes to Washington crossover that is in the works, where Jason kills Congress (this is really in the works) (not really).That said, this is a stupid movie. Jason is awakened from his death in Part VII (he was at the bottom of Crystal Lake) by a lightning bolt. Apparently, Jason just needed a jump start. As usual, Jason decides to kill the naughty teens of the Crystal Lake area. However, this time, the kids are taking a senior cruise. On Crystal Lake. To New York City. They went from a lake to New York City by boat. Of course, Jason starts killing people well before they land in New York, and the kids are forced into lifeboats that drift toward the city in a way that allows them to pass the Statue of Liberty. So, I guess the geography lesson we learn in this movie is that Crystal Lake is located in the Atlantic Ocean, because they certainly came to New York from the East.Another interesting tidbit we learn in this film is that Jason doesn't hate people or teens...he hates CRYSTAL LAKE people and teens. When Jason comes to New York, he doesn't just start a killing rampage, he tracks down the six people from his home town and proceeds to kill their faces off. What does this teach us about Jason? Obviously, he spends his time between murder rampages being a private investigator. He was able to find six people in New York City in one night with absolutely no problem. I would like to see this idea made into a movie. It would be like a cross between Shaft, Shaft in Africa, and Shaft is an Unkillable Zombie (Sucka!).Another fascinating part of this movie is the fact that Jason develops the ability to teleport. Well, there is no attempt to explain how he moves faster that some of his victims, so I suppose it's closer to Droopy-portation. You know how...you can run to the top of a mountain, lock yourself in a safe, and Droopy (you know, the cartoon dog) will still be right behind you. Jason takes a page from Droopy's book in this film. A kid might be climbling up a ladder with Jason on the ground below him, but through the magic of Droopy-portation, Jason appears on the top of the ladder, ready to kill.For added fun, try to identify the city this movie takes place in. It is clearly not New York. My best guess is Detroit, although it could have been filmed in a garage, too. "},{"Title":"what no comments about JJ?","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've read about 60 reviews so far and my fave character gets killed way too early.  She is J.J. Jarrett played by Saffron Henderson. Her character appears to be a merging of Joan Jett (hence J.J.) and Lita Ford (hence the more heavy metal style of playing than Joan and the type of guitar--a flying v---). Both Joan and Lisa (former band mates in The Runaways(1976-1979) were at the peak of their popularity when this movie came out. Since guitars are also known by the name 'Ax' Jason uses her new instrument as one. Annoyingly though he appears to 'teleport' from above his victim to down and in front of her while picking up her 'Ax' along the way.Reni is nice looking too, but I like JJ best.As for the rest of the movie. It does suck. I hate the location changes and no one has commented that Crystal Lake is a LAKE! How do you take a small boat into a lake? I thought this was a landlocked body of water in upstate(?) New York. But as others have noted Crystal Lake seems to be like The Simpsons 'Springfield' and be located near whatever the plot needs.I, too, am confused why Jason gets on the boat and leaves Crystal Lake? Does he think more victims will be acquired this way?The special effects on Jason are terrible. Continuity flaws abound. Jason's 'teleportation' power is a joke. The Manhattan scenes are awful. The ending is pathetic.A 2 star movie. I only made it 3 stars for Saffron Henderson's too-brief role as a girl with a guitar.I've seen Jason goes to hell. I like the opening sequence only, but I plan to watch it again via NetFlix along with Jason X. I am preparing for the big Freddy vs. Jason movie opening soon.Cheers You Lot! By the way I HATE CAMPING. lol.Alan aka AlanJBBX aka BryanJBBX aka JettBlackBerryX aka JettBlack9 aka jlx2000. "}{"Title":"One of the better entries","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *spoilers*Friday the 13th, Part VIII is one of the more entertaining entries in this infamous slasher series. Most fans disliked it, partly due to its new settings, but I found it a refreshing, long-overdue change of pace. After the six previous sequels, I was getting tired of that same old summer camp, and I suspect even Jason might have felt that way by this point. It's an entertaining movie if not taken too seriously, especially the final act, where he chases potential victims all over the back alleys of New York City. The sewer finale is what a Jason movie is like at its cheesy best; pretty goofy if held up to the light of day, but fun to watch if you're in the right mood.Actually, its subtitle is a bit misleading. Much of the film takes place aboard a small cruise ship filled with students. That makes things a bit more interesting, due to their isolation in a confined space; it's not like they can just get up and run off. Perhaps it's too convenient that the bodies remain undiscovered for so long, but logic was never a priority in most slasher movies. Another point of consternation among fans was Jason's new teleporting ability, but that didn't bother me too much. If he truly has a supernatural hellspawn living within him, as the next film would reveal, it only stands to reason that he has other supernatural aspects that have not yet been touched upon. The bizarre subplot about the heroine's telepathic powers (shades of Friday 7) are not adequately explained, but exposition never fit comfortably in the series. If it makes things more interesting, why not include it? All in good fun.On a technical level, this is arguably the most polished film in the series (with the possible exception of Jason X). More effort than usual was put into the lighting, and the camerawork is smooth and assured. Most of the time, it doesn't even look like a slasher movie. Though most of the Manhattan scenes were actually filmed in Canada, director Rob Hedden manages to preserve the illusion by a couple of brief, carefully inserted Times Square scenes. The acting is much better than usual for this type of film, especially a strong supporting performance from Peter Mark Richman as a coldhearted, overprotective uncle. Jensen Dagget is likable as the troubled heroine; overall the performances are credible, if not outstanding. At the very least, the characters are not nearly as obnoxious as they were in previous outings. Even the obligatory slut character is somewhat more tolerable than usual. The most ironic part is that the Big Apple is portrayed in such a nasty light that Jason himself doesn't seem too bad in comparison. Kane Hodder still makes him a compelling killer though. Grab a beer and enjoy.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures  "},{"Title":"Luxury Cruise to New York Feating the Hockey Masked Murderer, Jason Voorhees!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A senior class is taking a trip to New York city. Two teens decide to take a boat to Crystal Lake and make love on it. Meanwhile the electricity line underneath the water connects with the boat anchor, and they both touch the slain body of Jason Voorhees and he soon comes back to life. He climbs aboard the boat, adournes a new hockey mask and kills the teens.        The vessel bound for New York get's loaded up the next day. A young girl, Rennie, arrives with her teacher and her dog, Toby.Her uncle the principal, a mean old grouch named Charles McCulloch, isthere too. He's always being bossy and ordering people about. He alsothinks the legend of Jason Voorhees is a load of malarchy. The teensinclude a mean girl named Tamera, Dwayne-a geek with a camcorder,Julius-a cool boxer, and Sean-the son of the captain. Sean takes aliking to Rennie, even gives her a Statue of Liberty necklace. Butthere's a stowaway on board Jason Voorhees. So this gradulation trip toNew York becomes the ultimate voyage of the damned. Jason murders everyteen he can get his hands on. Soon, the ship runs into a terrible storm. The surviving kids, Rennie, Sean, Julius, Mrs. Menduzan, and Charles McCulloch climb aboard a life raft and soon arrive in New York. They're first caught in a fog and McCulloch offers his criticism and really doesn't help at all! They dock in New York in aplace that McCulloch calls sarcastically, a fine place. They meet up with pick pockets, who kidnap Rennie. But soon after, Jason arrives in New York!! For once, Jason actually saves a life rather than takesit. When the pickpockets force Rennie to take heroine and attempt to rape her, Jason kills them. Hooray for Jason! Rennie escapes and meets back up with Sean, Mrs. Menduzan and McCulloch. Julius had a run-in with Jason and began to box him, but when Jason took his shot, he took Julius' head right off! Now poor Mrs. Menduzan is killed in a caraccident that has flaming results! Someone else did Jason's job! In the fire, Rennie saw a vision of when she was a little girl and her uncle Charles took her to Crystal Lake and scared her by telling her fables of Jason at the bottom of the lake that pulls down kids who can't swim. So it was because of him that she's terrified andhallucinates about Jason. So Sean and Rennie leave McCulloch...At the mercy of Jason! Good old Jason grabs McCulloch and drowns him in arat tank. Once again, Jason kills someone who deserves it. He's killed people in the past who have deserved it, but McCulloch really deserved it! Jason then chases Rennie and Sean downtown. In the subway, in a restaurant, even meets up with punks who are scared stiff at what Jason shows them underneath his mask.         Rennie and Sean hide in the sewer and dice him with toxic waste. Then the sewer floods with it and when it clears, all that's left of Jason is a little boy. Rennie and Sean, and now Toby, are left together in the big good old New York city!         This film was good. Original. But I hated Charles McCulloch and Tamera. What's good about horror movies is that if there's a jerky character, he or she will be killed, but not in any other movie. Not a comedy anyway. So if you saw the first seven parts, see this one too! It's followed by JASON GOES TO HELL THE FINAL FRIDAY, but we all know it wasn't, for JASON X is coming out next year. But until then, enjoy  "},{"Title":"That's really sad...","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From previous comments, this film has been called the best of the series.Not being a big fan of the F13 films(considering they were the 80's version of Halloween),I've only seen this and a few minutes of Jason Goes to Hell.Well let's see... The film starts off with cheesy special effects then goes on to an actor-less story line of gory murders on a boat.And it ends up in Manhattan where people are drugged and raped by thugs.As if the clothes weren't enough to make you shudder,the lack of story and character development will.Watching about an hour and half of this,it felt like 9 years.Nine years I'll never,ever get back.If you want to rent this movie,you're obviously in the mood for bad horror.So why not rent Silence of the Hams with Shelly Winter instead? With her starring,it's guaranteed to scare you.As for Friday the 13th Part VIII,I've seen scarier toddlers. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the last movie.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This sucks. It has a bad plot and doesn't come close to the last movie. Jason leaves the camp to catch a boat. He kills teens for reasons unknown but he always does that. The beginning makes no sense and most of the movie is dumb. There are some good parts but not much else. Just watch the last movie, Friday the 13th Part VII The New Blood. It's a lot better and it has better characters. The script is badly written and the acting still dumb. Just one more, people. One more to go in this nightmare. Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan F "},{"Title":"It was a nightmare on Friday the 13th","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The story lines seem to get worse as it goes along, Jason acts more fake as ever and the death scenes are so fake I even thought about watching Halloween III and the final two Jaws films over and over.The beginning was so crap I fell asleep twice, the scene in which Jason kills the two people at the beginning was totally fake, he is meant to have pulled out the mans intestines but you can blatantly tell that it is just some rubber tubes.At least 10 people are massacred which is fine and dandy, he manages (Jason) some how to punch a mans head off, which of course has a clean cut!!I can`t be bothered to talk about this film anymore so if you want to committing suicide by boredom watch this filmI give it a 2 out of 10, because of the funny but fake death scenes. "},{"Title":"Out of the original 8, the worst one is this film...","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Big Apple's in big trouble, as indestructible psycho-fiend Jason Voorhees finds his way to New York City - and paints the town red. After returning from the grave, the diabolical Jason ships out aboard a teen-filled love boat set for New York, which he soon transforms into the ultimate voyage of the damned. Then one of his terrified victims escape into the nightmarish maze of Manhattan's subways and sewers, only to confront Jason one last time.This film starred Jensen Dagett, Kane Hodder & Peter Mark Richman.Part 8 is my least favourite of the series so far, I have reviewed parts 1-7 already on the website and part 8 just really annoyed me. The film's duration time was 96 minutes and when I was watching it, it seemed to go on for much longer it seemed like it was sitting there for 3 to 4 hours. It dragged too much. With the subtitle being Jason Takes Manhattan, I expected him to be in New York for longer than 25 minutes as he is on the boat for the first hour and a bit. I will carry on watching these films, I don't know why because from memory I remember Jason goes to hell (part 9 in the franchise, sequel to this film) being even worse. This film is not recommended from me but if you want to watch the film from the original to the remake including bad sequels like this one check it out if you wish.*/***** Very poor. "},{"Title":"The city of lights casts many shadows indeed....","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Though often criticized for spending most of the film on a cruise ship rather than New York as the title seemingly promises, I find that Jason Takes Manhattan is actually one of the best entries in the series, and easily the most underrated Friday the 13th film.Jason's slimy look in the film is pretty cool (though his unmasked face is wildly disappointing), and he racks up a couple of pretty great kills. The protagonists are pretty standard, I don't really like or dislike them. The character of Tamara is pretty much exactly the same as Melissa from Part VII, and the deckhand character is the same type of doom prophet like Ralph from the first two films or that guy with the eyeball in Part III.Once the protagonists and Jason get to New York City, it gets really great, and more time in the film is actually spent there than some people's complaints would lead you to believe. It's cool to see Jason in a new environment after spending so many films in a forest setting. "},{"Title":"Swan Song.","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Part VIII begins with Jason Voorhees being accidentally revived from his watery grave by an electrical cable that collides with his chains. Upon awakening, and after killing two teenagers, he steals their boat and proceeds to the open sea, where he climbs on board a cruise ship containing a high school graduating class, whom he proceeds to decimate, until the ship sinks, and he(along with the survivors) square off for a final showdown in the city of Manhattan, New York.You have to love the honesty to use the subtitle Part VIII, instead of trying to fool the audience by not referring to the actual number, like it isn't really a sequel. Director Rob Hedden manages to write a fairly imaginative story here with the beautiful Jensen Dagget as heroine Rennie, dealing with her latent psychic powers, as it seems that fate has decreed she will be the one to break the curse of Jason, destroying his body and freeing his soul once and for all, which was the intent of the thoughtful ending.Of course, this is still a routine killing picture, with the expected violence(though not as graphic as usual) and supporting characters quite similar to Part VII, and this film does not stray that far from formula, but it is IMO the best of the sequels(not the popular view I know!)which at least attempts something different, and brings the series to a fitting end...well, at least as Paramount is concerned, though sadly another studio would get its hands on this franchise, in a series of films I choose to ignore! This is the real final chapter...though of course a proper Part IX could happen one day, I suppose! "},{"Title":"Jason leaves Crystal Lake, and heads to New York!!!","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's cool how Jason climbs on a huge ship full of graduate students heading to New York and has a massacre on the ship. At least it's different from the teens staying at an abandoned house and having sex, then Jason shows up. The main star named Rennie, her boyfriend, some teachers, and a black boxer survive the boat trip from hell, but now they must survive New York...and Jason. It turns out that Rennie had been to Camp Crystal Lake and and was almost killed by Jason when she was a child. I always thought it was funny when Jason breaks the boom-box and gets the punks angry and Jason shows them his real face and they all run away...that's hilarious! If you love Jason and New York, you'll love Friday THE 13TH PART VIII JASON TAKES MANHATTAN!!! "},{"Title":"This was bad","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a huge Friday the 13th fan, but this is among the worst in the series. We start out all right (once we get past the opening credits and the annoying music), with a couple of kids on a yacht having sex. The boat anchor gets snagged on an underwater power line and pulls it into Jason's submerged corpse. Yadda yadda yadda, the kids wind up dead. Pretty good up to this point, but then we start meeting the kids that are going on their senior trip - a cruise to New York. For some reason the director decided to make the rest of the movie with a very morose attitude. The characters act gloomy, dismal, the whole atmosphere is one of sorrowful bleakness. The movie grinds to an immediate halt as soon as the lead female pulls up in a car and we discover that we're no longer watching a Friday the 13th movie, we've stumbled across a Lifetime Movie of the Week! Our lead character is deeply troubled because of something bad that happened to her in the past. She spends every waking moment filled with anxiety and hopelessness. She goes through an entire Lifetime Movie of the Week story arc, eventually facing her fears and overcoming them! Oh, for pete's sake. This boring melodramatic crap drags the whole thing to a standstill, while every time Jason shows up for a quick kill, the movie lurches back into gear. Then it stops, then it lurches. Repeat throughout movie.It doesn't help that among the adult characters, the female has absolutely no personality whatsoever, and the male is a jerk with a capital J, E, R, and K. That guy gets unbearable after a while.Oh, but wait, here's a cool rock 'n' roll chick! Maybe this movie will be fun after all! No, 60 seconds later she's dead. Then there's the prom queen, a nasty little tart who provides what little entertainment there is in the movie. She has one scene where she seduces the teacher. It's fairly indicative of what's screwed up about the rest of the movie, so let me tell you about it. For one thing, the teacher is a JERK (as previously mentioned). For another thing, he's bugging her to hand in her biology project. Like, who the heck turns in homework in the middle of a senior trip? Then miss prom queen strips to her undies, which you might think would be nice, but she's got this stupid stuff drawn all over herself - pictures of her organs. She's her own biology project, get it? It's dumb, it's distracting, and it's completely unnecessary considering she's only trying to get pictures of the teacher in a compromising position with her. And just to really cap it all off, the teacher does a horrible job of acting during the scene. In other words, this scene is a microcosm of all the errors committed in the rest of the film.Anyhow, Jason kills most everybody in very boring fashion. With so few people on the boat, why does it seem to take so long for everyone to die? Well, because there's absolutely no suspense; somebody is walking somewhere, you know perfectly well what happens next, Jason all of a sudden appears and instantly kills them. No suspense, no scares, just boring redundancy. The survivors paddle a rowboat to Manhattan, everything is filthy, there's a stupid ending, and then you're done. One funny part is when Jason punches a guy and knocks his head clean off.Overall, I'd recommend watching parts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 10 instead of wasting your time with this one. It's not fun, it's not scary, it actually is fairly boring. There's not even a decent amount of T&A, not that it would help. And that's gotta be one incredibly bad slasher if T&A wouldn't have even helped.The bottom line is that the folks who made this committed the biggest mistake you can make in B movie making They didn't have the talent to make a good movie, but they didn't have the humility to make an enjoyable bad one. "}{"Title":"Good Movie, Worth Watching","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This part is good and worth the time if you are into this series, that is.... like me.  Certain parts are funny and cool especially when he kills the guy in the sauna with the piece of coal.  Another part that's wicked is when he drowns the guy in the toxic waste. "},{"Title":"This should have been called Jason of the Seven Seas","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I didn't know any better when this movie came out. I thought, going into it, that I was about to see the movie to end all movies. I'll tell you flat out and say this movie sucked! It sucked then and it sucks now! The title of this movie is so misleading that it may make you upset if you were hoping to see Jason taking hostages and making all sorts of demands that could never possibly be honored. No, this movie is primo garbage in a bevy of different ways, not the least of which is the almost complete absence of gore. Apparently they cut it all out. Not that it would have helped the movie much but it would've been a more involving experience. There are one or two creative deaths, the take your best shot scene being the most memorable. Chances are, anyone who's seen this funky sock of a movie will remember that scene as well.The one thing you will hear the most about the movie is that about three quarters of it takes place on a boat. What?, you say. Believe me when I tell you that this is indeed a sad yet true fact. Most of the people that die get it on the boat. I don't remember the details but somehow the boat gets messed up pretty bad and the survivors escape and float over to Manhattan, where they are immediately greeted by the best that the city has to offer, i.e. drug dealers, bums, street gangs, etc. Jason mangles a few people and it's edited down to a watery flavor whenever it happens. There's one part that will probably make you laugh and it's when Jason, about to skewer our heroes on a train that is unlike any Manhattan train I have ever ridden in my twenty eight years (and believe me, I've ridden them all), loses his balance when one of the kids pulls the emergency brake and slides across the entire car on his back. And then he gets up and does everything short of ask the passengers in the crowded car if they saw him bust his ass. It is the best thing about this movie. Sigh.Anyway, I think my biggest gripe with this flick is that they manage to make Manhattan look like more of a cesspool than it actually is. There's a scene where two people running from Jason on Times Square (!) turn a corner and END UP IN A DEAD END ALLEY. From Times Square! What the hell is that all about? Anyway, I'm gonna stop here. Unless you are a die hard Jason maniac, I'd strongly suggest that you avoid it. Seriously. Thank me later.RATING 1/2* out of ***** "},{"Title":"This is a disgrace!!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a rally big fan of the series.  I liked the first, fell in love with the second, third and fourth, loved the fifth even though it was really dumb and thought the sixth was an honest effort.  The seventh was bad but the eighth sinks to an all time low when it comes to the adventures of Jason Voorhees.  The first thing that is wrong with this is the title.  Jason Takes Manhatten.  Jason is not supposed to be in the city, he is not scary there.  He is supposed to be in the woods away from civilization where he can terrorize unsuspecting kids in the forest or at a cottage.  By putting him in the city it takes away the element of fear but more than that, it makes you question how any of these people could die.  Hello, New York is one of the biggest cities in the world, how hard can it be to get away?  Could you imagine Indiana Jones in the same world that The Matrix took place in?  Kind of hard isn't it?    There is no suspence, no terror, no wondering or caring about who is going to live.  There is just idiocy.  And I know the Friday's are famous for their lack of continuity but please, how could that girl have possibly been attacked by Jason when she was a kid?  That is almost as bad as Chris' story from the third one ( remember the story about the hideous looking man that attacked her in the woods and then she passes out and wakes up in her bed ).  This is just plain bad.  Really bad.  There was not one character that I really cared about and I was actually hoping that they would die, all of them.  What this Friday does is takes all that is good and creepy about the great ones and throws that out the window and tries to reinvent horror standards.  My gosh, it had only been nine years since the first came out when this one was made, is it really that hard to follow some of the original formula?  This is an abomination and a disgrace and even though I really didn't think part 9 was much better, I'm glad that it pretended that part 8 didn't exist.  What a terrible film and a bad bad bad bad bad Friday the 13th entry!!!  "},{"Title":"Pretty boring and hardly a drop of blood","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't know why Paramount kept on making these movies if they always cut out the violence and gore. There's hardly any of it in this film despite the high body count! That said, this one does have a few (a few!) traces of wit and intelligence. Jason doesn't look as threatening though. He's a bit to cuddly and this was made when Kane Hodder was still the best Jason. But how can he get from a sinking ship in the middle of the ocean to New York when he cannot swim? And can someone please tell me how a ship sailing from British Columbia can end up in New York? Now that almost an impossibility unless they go around Cape Horn and that would take weeks! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite entries. *** out of 5","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Along with parts three and six this is one of my absolute favorites in the series.Most people will gripe and grumble that Jason doesn't get to Manhattan for awhile and stays on the boat way too long. But c'mon, isn't the time he's on the boat a lot of fun? And I think he spends plenty of time in the big apple. The best moment being the scene in Times Square.I think the acting is decent in this one. Peter Mark Richman was a character you love to hate and his meeting with Mr. Voorhees ends up with quite a messy argument to say the least.Personally, I think this film has some of the best moments in the entire series.Check it out you Friday fan you. "},{"Title":"Gore-less effort.","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Plot Synopsis Jason Voorhees is revived by a broken underwater electrical cable. He stows away on the cruise ship Lazarus, slaughtering the teenage passengers. The survivors escape to New York with Jason in hot pursuit.This is it, the final entry in the Friday the 13th series, at least with Paramount producing (they sold the rights to New Line Cinema). As is the case with the other seven films, the film degenerates into the series' tired formula of the usual hack-&-slash, this time skipping back on the gore. It seems that the MPAA has had the last say. Instead, the killings are done with more imagination than the previous films. Jason, not only content with being an unkillable zombie, has now picked up the ability to teleport, an effect that is really daft. The acting is the same as the previous films, although the characters are given some personality, even if they are clichéd. The film even throws in some humour, with Jason scaring away some punks by revealing his ugly face to them. There is even a large poster featuring a hockey mask! That said, the very notion that the sewers flood nightly with toxic waste is beyond stupid. "},{"Title":"the love of the film","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love the 8th installment of the Friday the 13th film. Rob Hayden did good work on Jason at new york, Kane odder is excellent ( although I did hate the Jason costume in the movie ) Th scene when Jason show the street punks his face and when Jason sees the hockey game billboard are hilarious! And the opening title song  The darkest side of the night  is the best song I've ever heard. Fred moll-in's composition of the film is OK. but not as good as harry Manfred. Still this is the best Friday film I've ever seen.This is Maurice the man Dixon Jr. thank you and good night.... for now.... "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th VIII is really great!","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Opening with a strong power ballad, this Jason/Friday the 13th is one of the more entertaining of the franchise. It actually has a story outside of the whole 'Camp Crystal Lake' thing. The characters actually have lives, history and the main characters have story lines that don't revolve around being a counselor. I found this refreshing and actually really hated to see them get picked off. Everything is perfectly 80's. We go on an adventure with the lake soggy Jason as he  accidentally encounters some hip high school seniors on a cruise to Manhattan. Graphic, as usual, with some comedic gore. This is a slasher film, with a brain. "},{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie definitely sucks.  The acting is predictably terrible and the plot is just a rehash.  What were you expecting?  At least Jensen Daggett is extremely hot.  She's so hot in this movie, as she definitely was as Tim Taylor's sister-in-law on Home Improvement.  Some funny death scenes; not nearly as good as Killer Klowns from Outer Space, which I feel this flick was trying to rip off at times. "},{"Title":"Love boat.... with Jason","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is so stupid. I cannot believe I watched it completely. Girl gets a pen before boarding It actually belonged to Stephen King. YEAH RIGHT!!. Metal chick checks out acoustics in the machine chamber of the boat with her purple Gibson Flying V!?! Black kid gets his head kicked off in a head-soccer game lead by Jason!! This one actually made me laugh. And last but not least. Jason only gets to see a New York sewer for 10 minutes before getting offed. Previously spending a WHOOOOOLLE hour or so of the film, on a kinda like boring boat cruise. WORST PARAMOUNT Friday 13th!!! I kinda liked the previous sequels but. Stay clear of this one!! "}{"Title":"Jason aboard the Titanic!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie reminds me of Jason aboard the Titanic.  The love scene is there between Rennie and Sean.  The ultimate destruction of almost everything aboard the ship is also there.  This is an extremely entertaining film.  I can watch it any day at any time.  I just wish there was even more death scenes in it!!  It's a great film.  A major generation gap between the first one though.  "},{"Title":"Part 8 is scarier then first 7","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first seven movie of Friday the 13th are very scary. But this one is scarier. This movie as great acting. Great story line. Great special effects. If you like scary movie then you need to see this movie. It is one of scariest movies made before 1993. There are scarier movies. Jason goes to hell the final Friday is scarier. That one would be part 9. Still this is very scary movie. Because Jason is a zombie I consider this horror fantasy. This movie as a lot of suspense. I need more lines and I am running out of things to say. This movie is most see. It is a great movie. Great movie great movie great movie. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan (1989)","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 37/100. Poorly executed even under the standards of less than stellar slasher flicks. However, I give the film props for changing scenery and finally getting Jason out of Crystal Lake. But if they really intended to have Jason run loose in the Big Apple, they should have made that the dominant plot point. As almost every review every written for this film will tell you, the movie should have taken place in New York more. Instead we get an hour of predictable blood sheds on a cruise (which also foolishly suggests Camp Crystal Lake is connected to the ocean) before the cast finally gets to New York in the final half hour. Cast is pretty bland outside of a hilariously high strung performance by Peter Mark Richman, and Kane Hodder who once again proves he's the scariest Jason. Also the first 'Friday' film to have comedy override the suspense. Some bad special effects such for lame kills and the worst Jason face in the series combined with poor acting and film decisions makes this installment edge out part five as the worst in the series to date. Although on the plus side I did appreciate the humor in portraying New York as a dirty, graffiti ridden city. Poor ending featuring an unexplained transformation of Jason to his former child self. "},{"Title":"A worst film of the F13 franchise candidate","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Re-watching this was not a pleasant experience. I really had to force myself to watch it and once I finally did it was almost painful to make myself sit through the entire thing. Continuity is probably the film's biggest flaw. When we see young Jason drown, he looks like a normal little boy. Whenever Rennie sees him, however, he suddenly looks like he has down syndrome and like somebody beat him with a 2x4 made from every ugly branch they could get a hold of. On top of that, he pretty much has a different appearance every time Rennie sees him. Then there's the whole Crystal Lake leading into the ocean thing and the ending. Heavens, the ending is just a cluster of retardism. The script isn't so hot either. Julius is probably the best example. After Wayne asks him what weapon he's going to take after they realize Jason is on the ship, Julius replies, Nothing, then pauses for a moment before following with, ...but this gun. The kills were also lacking. Jason takes a guitar to a girl's head and throws a guy onto an antenna. That's about as inventive as we get this time around. The one enjoyable factor of the film is Kane Hodder as Jason. The scene in Times Square is probably the highlight of the film. It's disappointing that the last film with Friday the 13th in the title is so bad. "},{"Title":"A must-see for Fridayfans","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film would most certain have been much cooler and better if the director's vision had been possible. He wanted more of the film to take place in manhattan and Jason climbing the Statue of liberty etc. But this production suffered from the same problem as most low-budget horrorfilms too little money and to little time. It's only about the last third of the film that takes place in Manhattan. Still, it's a pretty cool flick and it is good they tried something new. (they would have to i guess, after seven films in the same setting, people start to loose interest). I think the biggest problem was that people had to high expectations. Bottom line is that if you're just a fan of horror or slasher in general, then maybe it's not worth your while, but if you're a fan of jason and Friday-see it! "},{"Title":"Jason takes a cruise...","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason leaves the safety of the woods and Crystal Lake to take a cruise aboard a ship filled with the usual Friday the 13th kids. Ya know, sex starved and dumb. I mean how much can people watch of kids getting butchered till you say enough!! Friday the 13th was never an original idea and to be frank it was never really all that scary. All it is is kids getting killed for 90 minutes, one dizzy blond girl who always survives and Jason dying at the end. Well, sometimes he dies or comes back from the dead or whatever. In this one Jason kills a lot of kids plus the ships Captain then leaves the ship, which is sinking, to Manhatten to kill some more people. Manhatten in this film seemed strangely empty of people except what was left from the ship...In any case avoid if you can. "},{"Title":"Jason Takes The Ship In This Sinker Stinker","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In the dumbest entry in the whole series, Jason dauntlessly returns once again revived by a open power-line under the waters of Crystal Lake where his body lies (I thought he was blown to smithereens in Part VII), his first victims are two grad students aboard a yacht.Ironically, they are due to board a ship to Manhattan with other grad students including the Captain's son Sean, their professor Charles, and his niece Rennie.There is a bunch of non-descriptive deserved Jason fodder such as the slutty prom queen Tamara, JJ the guitar player, Wayne the film-maker wannabe, Eva the science major, Rennie's teacher Colleen, Julius the boxer, and a crazy deckhand that rants ominous warnings that the voyage is doomed and that Jason is back. With that kind of foresight this deckhand could have had a better career on stage and late night talk shows. Also before launching off they are warned of a coming storm coming their way soon.In this episode Jason is not happy with slaying his usual Crystal Lake residents but migrates down river and boards ship by scaling up the anchor.Doesn't take long before Jason trims down his cast mates, in a contrived twist of events Rennie conveniently is psychically linked to the young boy Jason Voorhees begins suffering visions of the boy drowning or pleading for his life.When Sean's father the captain of the vessel is discovered dead, the students begin to buy into this Jason crap but the professor Charles suspects it's that crazy loony deckhand (honestly I would have made the same deduction but oh well). Everybody arms themselves and choose to divide and conquer hunting Jason down to kill him before he kills them never mind he is a walking zombie corpse.This choices only seems to hurt their chances of survival and during the course of this action more bodies pile up and Jason even succeeds in destroying the engines. Soon the ship is taking water and the survivors board a life boat and escape.Luck is on their side, they dock at a New York harbor, begin discussing their next set of actions when they held up by some lowlife crooks who abduct Rennie. The gang flees the scene to find help and meanwhile Jason emerges out of the bay onto the dock (either he is an incredible fast swimmer with an on-board GPS device or he teleported?).In his pursuit of the gang, he does something heroic for once and kills the pair of crooks that were going to rape Rennie.Once again our intrepid gang decides to divide their efforts to find the cops.In this movie New York is about seven city blocks large because everyone has no difficulty finding each other through the labyrinthine alleys and streets of New York neither does the instantaneous teleporting Jason. Yet they can't find a single damn cop anywhere. And Jason has to be the stupidest one of all, he can kill the whole city of New York but chooses to chase our gang of grad students and teachers (maybe it's his on-board GPS device?).With the students dwindling, Rennie has sudden recollections of her uncle Charles cruelly using Crystal Lake and the tale of Jason as a motivational tool to help Rennie learn to swim as he is one of those stern figures that encourages success and achieving important goals. Rennie believes she seen Jason while she was drowning under the watchful eye of Charles and that the boy had tried to pull her under. Here is our link! Eventually it's just Sean and Rennie with Jason close behind in pursuit after a couple of near misses and dead ends they find themselves in the sewer with 10 minutes left before its flooded with toxic waste. The end is predictable.I have rated F13 Parts VI-VIII incredibly low I find nothing respectable about these films, they are strictly catering to the popularity of Jason Voorhees and these films were for the fanbois to set their panties in a hanker.1/10 "},{"Title":"it's funny but no Kubrick please","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" yes, I would have said this was the best part of the whole Friday the 13th series, but the strange ending messed up my positive ideas about it. so it's weird, that's nice. it's a bit incestuous (with that uncle), it's got heroes we already know and the best of all Jason is so cool! really, in this episode, Jason steals the show. he's funny (the gang in New York sees his face and they run away scared as hell), he's intelligent (he doesn't kill everyone he sees), he's a menace (he destroys a lot more than in the other pictures of the Friday series), he's a monster (creepy effects), but... I don't know, when they shot water on him, he became a kid again. how the BEEP is that possible? as if I'm taking a shower and suddenly I'm 10 years younger?! please! it's so stupid! and what happens to Jason? he becomes a kid and he simply disappears??? it's not a Kubrick film! they should have terminated him! but anyway, I'm very much looking forward to part IX - Jason goes to Hell. "},{"Title":"An average horror flick but which adds something in the series.","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This 8th title in the Friday THE 13TH series is not a great film but at least it's not as bad as the part VII. First I think here they tried to recall some stuff of the original movies (especially the part of the little JASON die drowned), which was good. Then they also put some new stuff the new scenarios (ship and New York). I guess it was something nice to be different, unlike the Part VII when they tried to innovate with the paranormal phenomena, and I found it really absurd and out of context to a JASON flick. Unlike the title might induce the major part of the plot is not passed in New York but inside the ship which was traveling to there. So JASON just took a lift to travel a little bit!) I think this film is more suspenseful than other titles in the series and it fits in a type of horror movie which has more to do with the 90's and recent horror films that to the 80's flicks. It's clichéd of course, but with the clichés of the 90's and not so much of the 80's, like the previous films. Besides, it also has a subtle but effective humor (like that scene where JASON takes his mask and show his face to some New York street kids, or the other one when a guy says give me your best shot, and JASON rip off his head...), unlike the Part VI, where it was totally forced and unfunny. An average horror flick but which adds something in the series. "},{"Title":"Jason's Trip to Manhattan","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What should've been called Jason's Trip to Manhattan, due to the fact that 'Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan' takes place 70% on a cruise ship, easily ranks in the bottom 3 worst of the series. We've already learned in previous installments that Jason is an unstoppable and un-killable monster with enormous strength. But wait, 'VIII' now shows us he can teleport as well! No wonder while all his victims run fast, he can always catch up with them without much effort. In a lot of the scenes on the ship and a few in Vancouver, Canada (Oh, sorry, they're saying it's Manhattan, USA my bad,) he seems to just disappear and reappear right in front of the soulless characters. Despite a few unique kills (true meaning to knocking one's block off and vanity kills,) most are just stale or just simply odd &#150; toxic waste is just left in barrels in alleys? And speaking of which, I have wondered why we never see Jason eat, but 'VIII' seems to show a Freddy Krueger side &#150; when he kills, that seems to be soul-capturing, or nourishment to him, I suppose. Again, in this 'Friday' installment are the usual suspects scenes that don't make sense (an anchored ship drifts off (??) with Jason on board, and he doesn't seem to want to get off, despite he was at his home where he always tried to get to), sex and dumb characters with dumb ideas. However, there were a few highlights the soundtrack was pretty good (for the time,) the billboard scene was hilarious and the getting him out of the woods for once and into the city was interesting. Again, unfortunately, only expect that for about a half hour of the film, just like 'Jurassic Park 2's dinos in San Diego. "}{"Title":"Jason Takes The Titanic","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Basically the story is same as the other seven parts but this time Jason embarks on a cruise ship instead of Camp Crystal Lake but he's still kills a few luckless teens and chases the remaining few through New York city.First of all the title is very misleading, The eighth entry in the Friday The 13th franchise should have been call Jason Takes The Titanic, the first hour takes place on a cruise ship and the last 20 minutes or so takes place in Manhattan.I actually enjoyed this entry in the franchise and I know a lot of people slag it off saying it's the worse in the series but I think they're wrong, OK it's not the best one but it's not by far the worst. To be honest I don't think any of the Friday The 13th films are bad I found them all great. Being the huge Jason fan for as long as I remember I really enjoyed Jason killing off teens on a cruise ship a little different, as you don't see many slasher movies set on cruise ships.Although there were a few things I was disappointed with in this film, some of the deaths weren't shown and others weren't that good This sequel also slaps in new gimmicks and they don't really work. I'll start off with the teleportation vibe. What was up with that? This entry has Jason being able to materialise anywhere he wants, which is just stupid and the back story involving the main heroine and Jason was just pointless.Jensen Dagget (Rennie) is good at playing the female lead and plus she's stunning, Peter Mark Richman (Charles) excels at playing the cruel headmaster/Rennie's uncle you just love to hate him, Scott Reeves (Sean) is good and easy on the eye as the good hearted hunk, VC Dupree (Julius) is amusing as the tough guy, I enjoyed the scene where he keeps punching Jason then Jason takes his head of literally, Barbara Bingham played the kind hearted teacher Miss Colleen Van Deusen well very likable but ends with tragic results Sharlene Martin (Tamara) plays the one-dimensional slut to perfection. The acting is actually very good.All in all I'm a big fan of Jason, Kane Hodder rules as Jason, OK it is a bit of a let down in places but it's still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A Slight Comeback, but not much better...","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's okay, but it's definitely not much better than part 7, which was nearly unwatchable.In this one, Jason returns from his watery grave, and creates a bloodbath on a huge ship carrying a class on a sort of 'field trip', until the few remaining survivors dock in Mannhattan. (If you can call it docking...) Then, the same-old, same-old begins with Jason slicing and dicing his way through New York, looking for the survivors until only two remain, one with a back-story involving Jason and her uncle in her youth, at the infamous site of Camp Crystal Lake...The unique part of this film is that it's, for once, not in Crystal Lake, and that you become very close to about three of the characters. (Though, I do give a star or two to the big fist-fight with Jason on a rooftop in New York- very nerve-racking!) "},{"Title":"I Don't Like Jason","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SPOILERSThis is a pretty average movie. I never was a big fan of Jason Voorhees. This was on Bravo and I said I have nothing better to do, I might as well watch it. And then came the movie. Jason climbs on a ship heading for Manhattan and slaughters the teenagers on the ship. Big surprise, right? Yeah, that's what I thought. Anyway, the brutal, so-so deaths came. Throat slit, stabbed, impaled, gouge, and much more unoriginal deaths. Eventually after ninety minutes of deaths and commercials they finally reach Manhattan. But what's this? Jason made it too! Oh, my gosh! I'm being sarcastic. As you can see by now, this movie is so predictable I could predict the whole film in the first ten minutes. I don't think that is a good sign. The film's climax takes place in a sewer. Toxic waste destroys Jason, or does it? Probably not. And the film ends with the dog finding the two teenage survivors.Overall, this is a very, very, very average movie. If you are a die-hard fan of Jason, well, you will like this.4/10Rec. films Friday the 13th 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, Jason Goes to Hell, Jason X, and Freddy vs. Jason. "},{"Title":"Bad, But Still Fun For Jason Fans","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember pretty well seeing previews for this flick back in the late 80's. I wasn't to familiar with the Jason flicks other then seeing part 1, 2 and part 6, but this one looked really interesting to me at the time. Mainly, because Jason is suppose to take Manhatten. The whole thought of it seemed like a lot of fun and was a good time to take advantage of the body count. Of course, as all of us Jason fans know, this movie was a big let down. Jason is in New York for the last 30 minutes of the movie and certainly doesn't take Manhattan.For those of you that don't know the storyline on how the heck Jason even gets to Manhattan, here it is. There is a High School trip on a cruise boat heading out towards New York. Jason, still underwater from the last film, awakens once again and boards the ship. Of course, he starts killing off the High Schoolers one by one in various different methods. About an hour into the film the remaining people on board decide to ditch the boat and head for shore on a row boat. And were do they end up? In Manhattan of course! Some how, Jason has followed them to Manhattan (I just can't see Jason swimming) and starts stalking them on the streets and alleys of New York.This really could have been a fun film, with the whole change in atmosphere and what not. There are a lot of problems with the film, though. Of course, what I stated above in my first paragraph about Jason only being in the City for about 30 minutes. This didn't really give Jason enough time to go on any real rampage. Sure, he kills some dead beat heroin addicts and and a few other people, but I wanted to see Jason really tear up New York and make them remember the name Jason Voorhies. Instead, he just decides to terrorize the last remaining people from the ship.Also, the music for the movie was pretty bad at times dating the movie. The nice thing about the other Jason flicks is a great and unforgettable soundtrack. What we get here is a lot of hair rock. But, they may have done this trying to change the format. It just doesn't work, though. Instead, it adds an extra bit of humor to this already silly film.I think with this movie it is important not to try and take it so seriously. Yes, this is a poor excuse for a Jason flick, but, it certainly is a laugh riot at times. And I think that is what you have to do. Ignore the fact that Jason can magically teleport about and laugh about it instead. Laugh at how silly Kane Hodder looks with his heavy breathing. And laugh at the death scenes, as they are quite funny even if they aren't all that bloody. And finally, laugh at how stupid Jason looks without his mask on.I have to defend this movie as a horror fan and as a Friday the 13th fan. Certainly, it is not a good movie, but it is still a lot of fun. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jason's Night On The Town.","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VIII - Jason Takes Manhattan is the eighth (yes, eighth) sequel in the series. The film opens with a couple of young adults on a boat on Camp Crystal Lake. The boyfriend, with intent on scaring his girlfriend, begins to tell her the story of Jason Voorhees, who is now somewhere below the waters of the lake, chained down after Tina Shepard sent him there in Part VII. Well, with a lightning strike, Jason is revived, and of course, slaughters the couple on the boat. From there, we are introduced to a girl named Rennie, an aspiring writer who is boarding a small cruise ship with her graduating class for a fun night in New York City. But little do they know, Jason is onboard also, and he begins killing the kids off one by one. A very small group of teens, including Rennie and her boyfriend, escape the ship at the NY dock, with Jason hot on their trail. It's Jason's night on the town, and he reprises his reign of terror on the city.It was different to see Jason in such a different setting here, all of the other films featured him stalking innocent (and not so innocent) teens in the woods around Crystal Lake, so the change of scenery was a bit refreshing. Kane Hodder returns to play Jason, I think he's the best, most convincing actor to take the job of playing such a maniac. It's good fun to watch him stalk the teenagers in alleyways, streets, and the underground tunnels below New York. It isn't until the 40-45 minute point when Jason and the teens actually arrive at the city, but the rest from there was complete fun. Jason actually does good in this film too, unintentionally saving Rennie from two inner-city guys who are about to rape her. Of course, they get theirs from Jason. Speaking of deaths, the body count in this film is quite large, possible one of the largest counts of the series. Well, maybe. The deaths are gory and gruesome, plenty to please the hardcore gorehounds. The acting was so-so, but one doesn't expect much from a Friday sequel.Overall, Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is semi-brainless fun. It's a nice change of scenery to see Jason do his thing in the inner-city, and I'm sure all of the hardcore fans of the series will enjoy watching it all happen. Entertaining and fun all around. 6/10. "},{"Title":"good solid  film in the series","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i remember waiting in anticipation for this film to come out.something different maybe? Jason in new york? i found the 1st hour to this film the most enjoyable on the boat.good selection of your gruesome deaths at the hands of our hero Jason. i felt the franchise had dipped with parts 5,6 and 7 a little disappointing but i found this 1 a welcome return to form.Kane hodder again plays Jason with strength and his silent stalking of the teens is excellent as usual.good support cast from the unknown actors.this is a film i enjoy to watch every 6 months to refresh myself of a good 80s classic teen horror.my favourite Fri 13ths are still parts 2 and 3, part 2 still being an exceptionaly scary horror film "},{"Title":"Jason rox, but to be serious, this kinda sucked (","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I Love Jason, and i don't like to say it but, this film wasn't to my liking. Jason showed himself 90% before killing, which made it 0% shocking. Jason was not spooky, he reminded me of a normal killer instead of the Avenging zombie he really is. there was not really any moments where you got a pow inside, there was so many places where a shock (whatever its called) could have been horrific but not there, it was like following an agent sent by some corporation, killing people. ****************************SPOILER (or maybe not, very small)********** His Head / mask beneath hockey mask was Low budget, like many things in the movie +++++++++++++++++++++++++++SPOILER END************************************************************PLUSS (GOOD) ****************************** +Uhm... yea people getting killed for those who love that p +Makes it kinda less spooky, but some like it you follow Jason more than the teenagers. + Some Creative kills Cant really find anymore ( ***************************MINUS (BAD) ******************************** -I know this is an old movie, but still much low budgeted effects. - Not really spooky, some action and they could have called it an action movie instead. - Much didn't care scenes Since when was Jason (kid)a Bald kid and an Adult Asian at the same time? and Jason should be afraid of water. - What was part of making Friday the 13th famous, the horrific scenes where you could keep a little Wow / eww at the screen for 4-6 sec.s, where not properly used in this film "},{"Title":"Really dumb and fomulaic... not that there's anything wrong with that.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There's a place in the world for movies like this. This is the kind of movie you go to see at the drive-in, or you rent with friends, and you talk through the movie. You make Tom Servo and Crow T. Robot jokes. You make out. Maybe you get high-- though kids, I am not condoning such illegal shenanigans! The Jason formula is good for that, because it holds your attention, without demanding it. It's not terribly scary, but it's not boring either, especially if you have someone interesting to talk to. It's not talky or complicated. The stock teenage characters are easy to recognize as they appear and are dispatched, one by one, by the lumbering sleepwalker in the hockey mask. There's the Leather Tuscadero Clone with her electric guitar. WHAM! There's the Spoiled Rich Bitch (you can tell she's rich cause she's into cocaine, and not marijuana). SLASH! There's the AV geek with the camera. YARGGH! There's the studious black girl. (You may remember her from Nightmare on Elm Street IV, when she had asthsma.) GASP! Anyone need anything from the concession stand? It's worth noting that the first few Friday the Thirteen films, back before Jason discovered the hockey mask, were a little more interesting and original. If that's what you're into. "},{"Title":"Cheesy 1980s horror movie","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 8th movie in my Friday The 13th movie marathon.The plot for this movie is about how Jason Voorhees is brought back to life by getting electrocuted and he then gos aboard a cruse ship full high school graduates that are on there way to New York city to celebrate.This movie called Friday The 13th part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is so cheesy and lame and this movie is drawed first with the 5th movie in this series as the worst.I am a huge fan of the Friday the 13th series but there was no need to make this movie in the first place.The acting in this movie is really poor except for Kane Hodder who i think acted so well as Jason Voorhes in this movie.Over all this movie is just a crap horror movie that i sort of like even though it is crap and u should only ever watch it if u want to have a good giggle.My rating for this movie is 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Note to Jason STAY IN CRYSTAL LAKE!","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you thought Part 7 was exciting enough, this one has gone too far! Jason is at it again, this time he takes a boat to the East Coast and makes a killing there. New York City is always under attack, Jason Voorhes is bad enough here as he was in Camp Crystal Lake. This movie was indeed a major letdown. I thought Part 5 was bad when they had the fake Jason running around, NOPE! The parts got sillier and sillier by the minute, the gang knew they wouldn't stand a chance against Voorhes. He raises the mask, and they automatically retreat. Then he used the same syringe to kill the guy who doped up the young woman. Then knocks the guy block off was just a expression right? See for yourself and you know I'm not kidding around. All these different killing styles, to the sewers, this movie was a bit too weird for my taste, even though Jason wasn't in Crystal Lake, the kids and counselors will breathe a sigh of relief. For this movie, it's rotten to the core of the Big Apple! Rating 1 out of 5 stars! "}{"Title":"Finally, A Friday The 13th That's Not Worth Watching","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A pallid, ugly installment that any fan of this series would probably rather forget about. The worst Jason film that has Friday The 13th in the title. Jason gets on a cruise ship that is full of high-schoolers from Crystal Lake. The ship is headed for New York and Jason kills everyone before they get there. The last 15 minutes actually takes place in Manhattan, and it's obviously not Manhattan. The creepy element of the theme music that helped make every installment before this one good is gone. It's replaced with rancid '80's rock songs. Kane Hodder portrays Jason, and even though he portrayed the best Jason in Part 7, Jason's physique in this film is boring, and by the numbers. The murders are the tamest yet, and the characters don't seem to belong in this movie. They all seem like they should be on a soap-opera. None are likable. Not one. Each film before this had a couple characters you could enjoy before they got hacked.I know things had to change for this sequel because Paramount wasn't making their money with the last few films, but still, the result here is a bloodless, characterless, sequel that bears no resemblance to the previous films. It also has a sluggish pace. Not to mention the title is a lie. Also, the change of setting didn't help either. Features a decapitation by punch-to-the-face, girl stabbed with arrow, and little else. One star. "},{"Title":"The WORST has Come!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Just when the series was getting back on it's feet, a man by the name of Rob Hedden comes along and destroys a perfect franchise. And the title totally mislead the fans of the series.JASON(Kane Hodder) reawakens and hops on a cruse ship on it's way to New York City. Rennie(Jenssen Daggent), who had a run in with JASON, when she was young, comes along with Uncle Charles(Peter Mark Richman) to get way from problems. Boy was she wrong, because JASON is aboard. When the rest of the survivors get off the boat to New York(In which the movie takes place there for 35 minutes), only to find JASON there.This is the worst in the series I love. When the main part of the title is called MANHATTAN, make sure the movie mainly takes place in MANHATTAN. Only two things saved it for being total garbage. 1.)Kane Hodder's always amazing performance as JASON and 2.)Peter as the evil a$$ uncle from hell. The deaths are also a little clean, but show just enough for taste, just always teasing us. The acting is also weak by lead stars. THe WORST in the series. Watch out for sexy Kelly Hu in her early years, she's still a looker. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Here I am finally nearing the end of my reviews of the Friday the 13th franchise. Jason Takes Manahattan is one of my favorite sequels of the series and I find it strange that there are so many negative reviews from fans for this installment. Aside from the weird ending, part 8 actually treads new ground successfully(in my opinion) and definitely delivers it very entertainingly. This is one of the only sequels in which we know other things about the characters than just their names. For example we have the main character Rennie who has a mysterious secret throughout the film that she is terrified of the water because when she was a little girl Jason tried to pull her down under the water while she was drowning we also have Wayne the aspiring film student and Tamara the beauty prom-queen type and Sean the guy who doesn't want to follow in his fathers footsteps. All in all it just seems as if the script cared a little bit more for its characters unlike some of the previous films. Not too much more, but enough to elevate the story above average.I hear a lot of people complain that too much of this movie takes place aboard the cruise ship. And this is true and sort of misleading because the title states that Jason takes Manhattan when in reality he just goes there and kills the rest of the survivors from the cruise ship. This DID disappoint me at first but I got over it. I like this movie. The soundtrack and songs are great, it has a good opening, and all the characters are pretty likable(except for Rennie's Uncle and Tamara). There are also a few worth mentioning death scenes in this installment which is an improvement over Part 7's excruciatingly censored farce. First off there is the fairly violent strangulation scene on the dance floor of one of the would-be grads. Then there is the scene in the boats basement involving a guitar which I think is pretty awesome. And last we have the boxing scene in NYC between Julius and Jason himself which is classic stuff.The NY scenes(the last quarter of the film)were all well executed and definitely worth the wait. I like the scene where Rennie and Sean are pleading for the waitress to call the police claiming that a maniac is trying to kill them and she replies welcome to New York just as Jason busts through the front doors. Yeah, this ain't nothing from New York honey!! The finale in the sewers is great. Jason's execution in this one started out just fine/Rennie throws a drum full of toxic waste straight into his eyes, blinding him, and he ultimately drowns again after the sewer floods out. All this would have been a nice end to a fun and energetic sequel until they show the shot of him reborn as a little boy. What?? It makes no sense at all. They should have skipped that and had the last shot be the one of his acid-melted mask floating by. That would have been great. But hey, its all good. 8/10 is my vote. One of my personal faves!! "},{"Title":"So you can get to New York by way of Crystal Lake, eh?","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film was the first Friday the 13th film I viewed in theaters. It would not be the last, the best or the worst. Jason Goes to Hell was the worst, Freddy Versus Jason the best. This film is also the last go around from Paramount which sold its rights to New Line, not sure why. This film cost the company only five million and grossed 15, so while not a super hit, it made money. It is the last film in the series to really try to follow the story set in the previous film too, as New Line completely ignores the ending here and completely made a crazy film that was more science fiction than slasher. So for me, this film was not exactly good, but I always thought part six was actually the most entertaining and the films declined until Freddy Versus Jason livened things up again.The story here has Jason being shocked back alive again after being left dead in the lake again. Seriously, he is like the Hensei version of Godzilla, where if he is put in the water he stays harmless until provoked again. Well he gets a new mask, kills a couple of idiots and then makes his way onto another boat full of dumb graduate teens that is heading for New York! Though one has to wonder how that is possible as I always imagined Camp Crystal Lake being landlocked and nowhere near the Atlantic Ocean. Well, whatever, I can roll with it. Well you keep waiting for them to get to New York and for Jason to take Manhattan, but for the most part the film is set on the boat. Maybe 15 or so minutes are actually in the Big Apple. If the film had been titled Jason Takes a Boat to Manhattan, people would not be quite as upset with the film. A couple of stupid plot points involving the main girl and her previous encounters at the lake add nothing and the ending is kind of ridiculous. Gunshots do not harm him, electricity revives him and toxic waste apparently turns him back to a child...what? The film is not boring and for that I give it a few more stars than it probably deserves. Honestly, the coolest part of the film is that rather good song they sing at the beginning and end as it is the best song in the series after Alice Cooper's Man Behind the Mask. You have your kills and you have your nudity and for maybe a bit of the movie you have the location promised. After this film though, the series got a lot worse until Freddy Versus Jason which I felt Freddy carried and made. I would be interested in what they had in store next had Paramount continued making the films as they followed and incorporated what happened in previous installments. "},{"Title":"one of the best friday the 13th","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ok this movie is one of the best friday the 13th movies. Even if the first two were a little screwy or should i say real screwy this is an excellent comeback. The cast are very good and Kane Hodder (Jason) is an excellent actor. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not what it's cracked up to be...","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Don't be fooled by the title. I was disappointed when I first saw this back in '89 and kept waiting and waiting and waiting for Jason to take Manhattan. Anyway, this is the worst of the series (tied with Part 9) after Part 5 of course. Worth a look if you have nothing else to do and you come across it late one night on cable. "},{"Title":"Pretty cool; one of the best of the Friday sequels","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I see that many have bashed this film, but it's one of my favorite Jason sequels along with Parts 5 and 6.  OK, so it's false advertising to a degree.  We see a great opening shot of Manhattan, and we don't see Manhattan again until the final 30 minutes.  And other than the Times Square footage (which you can't fake), it was all shot in Canada!  And probably any real New Yorker (like myself) can tell the difference.  But who cares?  That's not the issue!  You think the director of a Friday movie is gonna be meticulous about detail?  Get the hell out of here! The point is it's a fun movie with cool death scenes (i.e.  the fighter getting his head literally knocked off by Jason's powerful punch), characters you can give a damn about, actors who are moderately good and even some moments of humor.  There was no gratuitous nudity, but I was having so much fun that I really didn't care.  I gotta say, the methods of bringing Jason get back become more pathetic by the sequel (Jason Goes to Hell is the most prime example), but once you get over that, you should have tons of fun.  It definitely has its memorable moments, like when a group of thugs plan to attack Jason.  Once Jason lifts his mask (and it's made funnier since we don't see Jason's face and instead we're fixated on the thugs' reactions), the thugs quickly run off.  Hell, it's convincing to have someone like Jason roaming the streets of Manhattan and have no one give a damn.  In Manhattan, you got much more deadly people than Jason roaming around, who look weirder than a tall guy in a hockey mask.  Psycho in hockey mask walking the streets of Times Square?  What else is new?  Die-hard fans of the Jason series may find a boatload of flaws with this eighth installment (I once heard someone complain that one of the actors who played Jason didn't show enough expression--WHAT FREAKING EXPRESSION???), but anyone who's simply a fan of good B-horror should appreciate the film.  I sure did.  My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":" Do you know what happens to children that can't swim?","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jensen Daggett is superb as Renata in this cutting horror film. The remaining cast is wonderful. The costumes are marvelous. One of the good flicks in the genre, Friday The 13th Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan will slice the viewer's lungs out. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Behind the 8-Ball.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Another yawner in the amazingly long-running series that puts Jason in New York City of all places chasing a bunch of stupid teens again who have Crystal Lake connections. The film is just slightly better than the three movies that came before it. Giving Jason a larger scope actually benefited this film to an extent. The murders keep adding up and the gore keeps piling up. Somehow avoids the turkey, but still a sorry film from start to finish. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Could have been a good movie....","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, the title alone should have made it an interesting movie...but what hurts this franchise more than anything you ask..? Moving it away from the grounds at Camp Crystal Lake. Jason is brought back to life, & hitches a ride aboard a ferry carrying vacationers, or as Jason sees it fresh meat. The movie takes too long on the boat, & not enough time in NYC, hence the title. What hurts the movie worse of all, is the horrible acting. When Jason is chasing people of scaring them, no one screams of acts terrified. The movie is just bad, bad, bad...and the ending is a real stinker...if you understand it. But then again, myself being a huge fan of the Jason franchise, have to watch it. After you've seen this, go rent parts 6 & 7; two of the best 'Friday the 13th' movies made. "}{"Title":" Jason the hero!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Actually,this movie isn't that bad.The main difference between its predecessors and this one is that here Jason is pretty much portrayed as a hero,rather than the villain. He actually does us a favour by wiping out most of the teens and ruining their nice little cruise (oh,what a shame!). In fact,not only are the cast on a vacation but Jason seems to be as well, as he hardly needs to break a sweat in order to dispose of them  and you can't really blame him-after seven installments,he deserved a break!). Anyway, this movie is all about Jason. He proves that he was the hero all along. I also like the way this one was shot. It's got a really raw,underground feel to it (perhaps it's because of the sewers). In all,while it certainly isn't the best,it's not the worst either. "},{"Title":"8th installment of a classic!!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was an overall great movie..the acting's good, okay plot, and Jason in New York..what more could you ask for. If you're a fan you'll love this one. Lots of cool death scenes, and cool music..this movie really brought some new life to the series. The big apple is in BIG trouble! A must see!! "},{"Title":"The big apple watch out . (Even though more than half the movie takes place on a boat)","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok I broght this movie last week because I'm a huge!!!!!!! jason fan and i have seen this movie three times already . Horror fans (espially Jason fans ) will love this movie . If your not into blood , ax , gore etc. you will find this movie a waste of time. It is about a ship where Jason V. makes his kills in this seventh sequel . Only five people make it into the big apple but when they reach the big apple all hell backs losse .***Spilor*** At the end Jason dies as usaul with only two surives ( in most jason movies there only one survor)If your not into the Friday the 13th movies dont watch it but if your a FAN YOU WILL FIND THIS VERY WATCHABLE . ** AND A HALF STARTS OUT OF FOUR .  "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BETTER ONES!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the better friday The 13th's in the series. Jason returns after being hit with electricity. He jumps aboard a boat passing by Crystal Lake, then boards an even bigger boat were there are plenty of teens to kill. After the boat ride Jason takes manhattan and there is carnage. Some cool killings with one guy thinking he can box Jason, but with one punch Jason decapitates the wannabe and he also slams a guitar in to someone's head. It is not the best movie, but can pass as an average movie. Bad acting as always and a very stranger ending which creators completing scraped when making Jason Goes To Hell. Also kane Hodder shows he is the true Jason and he was born to play the part, also look for him in House as one of the monsters. "},{"Title":"Is a refreshing take on the old movie series.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This Jason movie is a new take on the old border-line mini-series Friday the 13th flicks. Apparently, the public wasn't going to watch Jason killing people on the lake again, so the writers thought something along the lines of Hey, why don't we put Jason in the city? Pfffttt... what if he was seen killing someone? What would they do about it, arrest him?. So Friday the 13th; #VIII was born! This movie also has good flashbacks, they bring you up to speed if you havent seen all 7 previous Jason movies and establish a supernatural presence at once. This Jason also has the regular Jason/Michael Myers basic elements, taking shots from a wide variety of firearms, explosions, rudimentary teleportation, stabbings, drownings and futile pleas for mercy. However F13#8 has endearing qualities unlike any of the other Jason films, the almost funny scene when he stands next to the billboard with his exact likeness and when he disses the street gang and scares the hell out of them instead of killing them, showing that he takes priority over those who step near his lake. This is one of the best Jason movies as of late, but the upcoming battle between Jason and Freddy Kruger is sure to bring some closure to both longwinding series.  "},{"Title":"2nd best in the series","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What an original idea! NOT! Who cares! They said the 4th one was supposed to be the final, it wasn't now we're on number 8 and still going. Whatever, I liked this regardless, I don't look at them as being sequels, I look at them as seperate movies. Watch Jason tried to jumped by a bunch of street punks. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A head hit in the face. A film that knocks you out just after watching it. Not for the squeamish. Whatever you may have seen in your life or even whatever you will see in the future, I can predict that no movie will ever give you the same feeling as this. I much enjoyed this film, mostly because of the convincing characters, especially the gal with man manners (but so glamorous from a certain point of view). I'll be honest, I have never been courageous enough to watch a movie from this series. The only thinking to watch one movie from here scared me to death. I won't explain why, you could misunderstand me. Final rating equals 7/10. "},{"Title":"At least it was a different setting.","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is another Jason sequel, where we have him as a stowaway on a luxury case of a graduating high school class. While Jason begins his usual rampage on the unsuspecting teens, many of them diverge to Manhattan, where another Jason vs. the teens battle ensue.While it's more of the screams, running and butchering, much of the movie is set on the cruise and Manhattan, rather than the usual Camp Crystal Lake. This gives the movie a somewhat fresh setting and it was actually pretty neat seeing Jason running around in the city and terrorizing other people, like a couple of gang-bangers.Like the previous movie, there is nothing you really haven't seen before in the earlier Friday the 13th entries, save for the Manhattan and luxury cruise setting, and the heroine Rennie who thinks Jason tried to drown her as a kid. But, for a movie at 100 minutes, there is really no room for boring fillers and you might find a few chuckles or thrills out of this film if you don't mind some of the overacting, usual Friday stuff and campy effects.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"not worthy","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" well where to begin with this piece of trash that belongs at the bottom of the lake .... Jason gets resurrected by electricity again... tired and an unreal trick.... bumps off stereotypical teens and then ends up in Manhattan.... the acting is well below par and the supposedly 'key players' in the film are weak and their backstorys are lame, you don't really care about them when they get killed... i miss the days where Jason was a deformed man and not some unkillable machine. It takes away the creepiness and all the things that made Friday a great series.I'm not even a big fan of Friday 7 - but its way more solid than this instalment.... there is a time when a series gets overdone and this was it no effort was made with this film at all... awful. "},{"Title":"Too Predictable & Very Unrealistic","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Jason Takes Manhatton. I think this should be called Jason's boat ride or something. This is the weakest in the series though there are 3.5 good elements which want me to give this a 5. Look I mean I was close on giving this a 4 though it picked up a little bit with these things Kane Hodder did a great job at being Jason Voorhees. He truly does a menacing, stunt like, risk taking monster.In this film there is intense music and the theme Darkest Side Of The Night is enjoyable to listen to.The Kills like any Friday the 13th are awesome and fun to watch.The Story line is OK though it could of being more high up like the other Friday the 13th. The other Fridays had a creepy side and this one just doesn't come level and razor with it.Noiw I'm going to talk about the things that could of been improved on and the things that are an utter fail This film is too Predictable. Every time someone is somewhere, we just see Jason sneak on them. With the girl with the rockin guitar for an example, it was obvious that when she went down to the boiler room, Jason was going to go after her. There are many other scenes that do this and that's why I found this film predictable all the time. The Other Friday the 13ths where never predictable. It was a long wait and then Jason would just attack, but here all we have is Jason on a gory rampage.The film is also very unrealistic. I believe that this 13th film is shitty in the way it's trying to be realistic. In any Horror film, we see one Horror icon in the corner, and then seconds later, we'll see it behind a car or in front of a tree. But it only happened from time to time. Here it's a major problem. They keep up this thing that I've just talked about though they are making Jason move from one place to the other every 5 seconds and in different scenes, it just keeps happening. For example I found it stupid when the Asian woman was getting chased by Jason. Every corner she turned he was there. When she tried another corner, he was there quick before her, WTF!?, and then Jason chasing Remmie's uncle/principal. Jason was standing near a trash pile and the principal ran away, and into a building. As he gets in there Jason is already there and throws him out of a second story window. That's just stupid.There is also bad acting and some of the things that relate to this movie are weird.This film is also a blow up because it's not set at Crystal Lake, and it doesn't have that chilling, eerie feeling because it's not set at Crystal Lake.Anyway that it. I'm going to be fair because even if this film shits big time, there are small elements that make the film alright. It's watchable. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Rob Hedden punches the head off the F13 franchise","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jason Takes Manhattan isn't just the worst movie in the Friday The 13th series, it's actually so bad that it would take 20 years for another group of film-makers to dare using the words Friday The 13th in a title again. Until the series reboot in 2009, which set out to take the troubled franchise back to year zero, Jason films after this one would have stand-alone titles that ostensibly separated them from the Friday films. It's certainly telling that Part VIII is so stupid and insulting to F13 fans that no one wanted to officially follow it up for two decades.Director Rob Hedden is so clueless in his handling of the relatively simple Jason character that one suspects he either chose not to see any of the other films in the Friday series before setting out to make this piece of crap, or he simply thought that discarding every element that made even the most marginal sequels fun to watch would somehow strike filmatic gold. Jason's primary purpose throughout this series is to kill people off in gruesome ways, right? However, in this film, for every creative kill (such as the admittedly original sauna rock meets chest cavity gag), there is a rote piece of minor mayhem that would be more at home in a PG film. After watching Jason use cutlery and brute strength in fascinating ways for 7 films, seeing him limit himself to a strangulation and drowning here is quite a downer. Even the scene where Jason literally punches someone's head off, which should be cool since it has someone's head getting literally punched off, plays out with an air of idiocy on par with the rest of this wretched excursion.Aside from spitting in the face of Friday fans with the absence of gore and the borderline blasphemous change of scenery, the sheer absurdity and disregard of anything resembling coherence here is beyond anything we've previously seen in a series already well known for testing its audience's ability to suspend their disbelief. Our heroine Rennie is haunted throughout the film by the ghost of Jason as a boy (?!) for no apparent reason, which sets us up for a climax where Jason as we know him is caught in a flood of toxic waste that somehow transforms him from our lovable murderous behemoth (who, pathetically, looks and sounds like a stillborn Muppet when his mask comes off) into the sniveling little boy we see in Rennie's visions. To further make this bit of nonsense difficult to digest, young Jason appears throughout the film with almost zero facial deformity and a full head of hair, which, short of Rennie seeing a little girl instead, couldn't be more ignorant of the Jason mythos. But, wait, it gets better! In one of Rennie's visions, lil' Jason manifests as the bald and misshapen lad we're familiar with, only to magically grow his hair back and lose his disfigurements the next time we see him. Make up your mind, Rob...The tone of the film is particularly disjointed, utilizing almost no intentional humor yet reveling in the absurd with such abandon that we're almost certain by the end that Hedden was setting out to make a comedy. The fact that the film opens and closes with a badly aged 80's song that sounds more like a Miami Vice plot-summary montage tune certainly doesn't help matters either.Even the actors seem confused as they go through the motions. Consider the emotional apex late in the film when Rennie recounts the story of finding out her parents were killed in a car accident, to which her boyfriend replies, that's not going to happen this time. Good call, dude. It's good to reassure Rennie that being chased through the alleys of New York by Jason is not going to cause her parents to somehow come back to life and die in a car crash for a second time.While the film doesn't succeed as an effective Friday The 13th sequel, or even as a watchable movie, it does provide some truly fascinating little known facts about New York. For instance, did you know that in New York City, there are barrels of toxic waste just sitting around in alleyways? To be fair, this is one of the few points that is consistent with the film's concussed logic, since a sanitation worker tells us later that the sewers become flooded with toxic waste every night at midnight (??!!).We are also illuminated on a few fallacies that the series to this point had failed to illustrate. Like the fact that Crystal Lake isn't a lake at all, but is actually attached to the Atlantic Ocean, thus allowing Jason to cling to the departing cruise ship most of the film takes place on and set sail for New York. Thanks for filling us in, Rob Hedden! Still, you have to sympathize with hapless Rennie, who throughout the film endures the deaths of virtually everyone she knows, gets stalked by a merciless killer, nearly freezes in a life boat for hours, then gets mugged, kidnapped, shot up with heroin, and almost raped by two thugs IMMEDIATELY after finding the relative safety of New York. The poor gal certainly has a legitimate claim for worst day ever. Appearing in this steaming pile of pig-vomit certainly doesn't make things any better for her either.If all of this ranting makes this film sound like a so bad it's good contender, don't be misled. I cannot stress enough how awful this film is, or how ineptly the makers of this tripe handle material that should pretty much write itself. Jason Takes Manhattan is an abomination, and a definite contender for the Worst Film Of All Time Not Starring Rob Schneider trophy. Now THAT'S scary... "},{"Title":"Go Jason! It's Your Birthday!","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Rennie Wickham, a hydrophobic aspiring young writer, boards a cruise ship with her graduating class and heads for New York for fun. Unbeknownst to her and the rest of the passengers, Jason Voorhees, recently resurrected and VERY PO'd, has already boarded the ship and is looking for irresponsible teens to slaughter. Rennie, her boyfriend, her sadistic jerk of an uncle and a very small handful of survivors manage to escape the ship and dock in New York harbor before Jason can kill them too...but Jason is not so easily left behind. The huge and hulking hockey masked killer follows Rennie and her friends right into Times Square.This is yet another semi-brainless installment in the never ending teen slaughter-fest that is Friday the 13th, and yet I really enjoyed this 8th sequel. It's nice to see Jason taken out of Crystal Lake and transplanted elsewhere for a change. Kane Hodder is and remains my favorite incarnation of Jason Voorhees and his performance here is nothing short of amazing the man somehow manages to make Jason express explosive rage, childlike curiosity, impatience, disgust and even dry humor, all from behind an expressionless hockey mask. My favorite scenes are all of him Jason peering up at a billboard advertising a hockey team, Jason flipping his mask up and revealing his rotting visage to a group of punks, Jason knocking a guys head off, Jason throwing Ken Kirzinger (the future Mr. Voorhees) across a diner and into a mirror. Jason Voorhees has never been more frightening and cool than when played by Hodder, and watching Jason plow through back alleys, a subway train and the New York sewer system is exhilarating great fun! You'll be rooting for Jason in several scenes, such as when Jason unintentionally rescues Rennie from rape or slams the jerk of an uncle head first into a rain barrel.The body count is high and bloody, the teens one-dimensional and vacuous - the better to enjoy the slaughter - and the action unrelenting. And though it is true that Jason spends far more time on the cruise ship than in Manhattan itself, its a forgivable mishap. Once Jason enters Times Square you'll have forgotten about the ship anyway. Longtime hardcore fans of the series will probably enjoy this offering of cinematic junk food and appreciate it for what it is - harmless fun. 7 out of 10 stars for Jason takes Manhattan. "},{"Title":"Hey..... Not Bad!","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well finally a decent Friday the 13th movie that doesn't take place at the same old camp. I don't usually watch a f13 movie unless there isn't anything on TV. AnywayI saw it on TV and I said what the hell why not give it a chance. I was hoping it would be better then the awful part 5 I last watch. Anyway the plot for F13 part8 goes as Graduating Students go on a trip to NewYork on a Boat but they have a uninvited guess also going for the ride.... Jason. Once Jason is aboard he waits till its night and starts at what he does best. those who are left alive head to NewYork. However Jason follows them and ends up Stalking each one until he can put a end to there lives Can Jason be stop? Well I liked this movie even though it has bad ratings it won't have any in my book. I can see why maybe it wasn't liked but, who knows there is always a different reason for each person.Overall I give it a 7/10 for once in the series it takes place somewhere else other then Cyrstal Lake that what I liked. I Recommend this to anyone who has seen the series and are looking for something different for a change it is worth a look. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i thought friday the 13th part 8 jason takes Manhattan was good, this movie was made in 1989, in the decade (1980 - 1990) the creators of friday the 13th have made 8 friday the 13th movies in just 10 years, how great is that. I wonder if there is any other movies that have made 8 or more movies besides friday the 13th. This movie i thought had a good set. Based on a cruise i thought was a good idea. Then towards the end of the movie, based in New York, with a town of lots of people who jason can kill. I did like this movie i give it 10 out of 10 because i thought the actors were ok and the set i thought was ok as well. The next friday the 13th movie was part 9 jason goes to hell.  "},{"Title":"The Best Jason","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the best of the series.It is great because it is funny,moving,and loaded with irony.Just think,our heroes escape Jason-only to be mugged in Manhattan! Also,Jason saves the girl's life soon after by killing the gang bangers. The only thing this movie needs is a sequel.Is the boy at the foot of Liberty a purified Jason or just a red herring to throw us off.Part nine is no sequel and no friend to real Jason fans. I hope in part 10 that Jason kills Freddy for Good!!!! "},{"Title":"Jason takes a cruise to the big city!","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm not a gorehound at all and only occasionally watch slasher flicks, but I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th franchise, which started in 1980 with the mega-success of the first film. My appreciation has nothing to do with nostalgia since I didn't become a fan until I was well into adulthood when I saw 1985's Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning on TV one night in the early 2000s. I think I like these movies because they typically involve young adults in a fun camp-type environment in the woods, which naturally stirs fond youthful memories (not that I'm that old); the presence of a lunatic unstoppable killer &#x97; who increasingly becomes an infernal monster &#x97; just adds an air of danger and suspense to the dramedy and adventure. Add scores of gorgeous females and various filming locations around North America and you have a fabulously entertaining franchise that has yet to end. It's the camp-like settings of most of the series and the unstoppable malevolent force that is Voorhees -- Jason, his mother, or anyone under his diabolic spell -- that especially sets Friday the 13th apart from similar franchises.The first two films are serious in nature with the expected antics of youths on vacation in the woods, but the franchise introduced a campy element with Part III, which pretty much plagues the rest of the series with the exception of maybe Part IV, Part VII and the reboot in 2009. Not that I'm complaining much, as these films are only quasi-believable anyway.Released in 1989, Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is a nice change of pace as the series was suffering from banality at this point; the previous two installments and Part IV are prime examples (people complain about Part V but at least it had an interesting new kind of story with Tommy Jarvis going to the halfway house in the woods seeking succor for his psychological trauma, etc.). Not that I dislike those entries, but the basic Friday formula was getting tired and they needed to try something new. Part VII tried something new with the Carrie-like protagonist, and that entry has a great finale, but it was hampered by a subpar cast of women and forgettable dramedy. Part VIII changes things up by switching the normal location of Crystal Lake (and surrounding area) to a ship going to Manhattan with a group of high school kids and adults aboard. Of course, Jason also gets on board and starts systematically wiping out the youths. A handful of them make it to Manhattan, but so does Jason! I have to admit to enjoying the different settings of Part VIII. The story is split into four parts The prologue takes place on Crystal Lake and features Jason's resurrection -- a great opening. The brief first act takes place on the shore of Crystal Lake with the youths and adults boarding the ship. The long second act takes place on the ship and the final act involves the surviors on a lifeboat and their adventures in Manhattan chased by Jason.Jensen Daggett stands out as the heroine Rennie and places as one of my top 3 or 4 Friday girls. Peter Mark Richman is also notable as Rennie's peculiar stepdad and Scott Reeves as Rennie's sort-of boyfriend.Sharlene Martin is a highlight as Tamara and the filmmakers show off her curves, but she's so devious that she's a turn-off despite her good looks. Kelly Hu is also on hand.The main complaint I hear about this entry is that it's called Jason Takes Manhattan but only the final act takes place in the city. This criticism never made any sense to me as the film spends more than enough time in the big city, at least 35 minutes. The fact that the entire second act occurs on the ship keeps the movie from being one-dimensional.One thing that spoils the continuity and believability of the series is that this installment reveals that Crystal Lake isn't really just a small lake with camps and houses sporadically scattered around it; it's actually some kind of inlet since cruise ships can dock there and go out to sea -- why sure! Interestingly, Jason's facial F/X (shown at the end) aren't as good as the previous two installments, but they're serviceable.As far as locations go, Part VIII was shot in Vancouver & Britannia Beach, British Columbia; Los Angeles (the alley way & warf scenes); and Times Square, Manhattan (the ending).Many people find these films scary and shocking and the first two movies have some slightly chilling aspects, some of the others as well, but &#x97; with the exception of the 2009 reboot &#x97; I don't find these movies particularly scary, although they have loads of jump scares. They're sometimes creepy, sometimes suspenseful, sometimes exciting and always fun & entertaining, but not very scary, for me anyway. In fact, I usually bust out laughing at the inevitable death scenes.BOTTOM LINE Part VIII is a worthy entry in the series and is notable for trying something new by placing the main cast in a cruise ship environment and the big city, plus Jensen Daggett is a highlight as the female protagonist. It's actually better than the previous installment and Part III. The film runs 100 minutes.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Garbage Sequel","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is the worst Friday flick from the Paramount era - Beating out Part 7 for the dishonour! It's practically bloodless; the change of local fails to deliver; the chronology is further pooch-screwed; Jason looks like a left over Ghoulie (who hasn't gone to college); His footsteps sound like RoboCop; He teleports (!?); the final couple are completely forgettable; and the ending, oh good God the ending, is atrocious!On the other hand, this was the first one I saw in the movie theatre, so I do hold a special place in my heart for it. It's got some funny bits; the lighting is great; and Kane Hodder portrays Jason perfectly - that is until he's unmasked (in arguably the film's most unintentionally hilarious moment). As a creepy, Crazy Ralph like deckhand proclaims This Voyage is Doomed! Indeed.For a more in-depth dissection of this film, check out our Friday the 13th Podcast here http//tgif13.podbean.com "},{"Title":"The end of the beginning","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've always found this very 80's installment of the F-13 franchise to be enjoyable. And this long overdue rewatch was no exception. But wow! The last one of the original 8 really was the last gasps of breath for this franchise. So many intelligence insulting plot holes! And a film that doesn't exactly live up to its title. A better title for this woulda been Friday The 13th part VIII Jason somehow manages to hi jack a cruise ship and kill everyone whilst defying logic. Either way, I can imagine people sitting in the theater in 1989 thinking to themselves This has gotta be IT!. And unfortunately, it kinda was. One thing I noticed this time that I never did before is how Jason kills only 6 or 7 teenagers on the cruise ship. yet before all the mayhem begins, it's shown that there are indeed more than just 6 or 7 of them. An entire class, in fact. Where did they all go? Did Jason kill them off camera? Or did they all get tuckered out from their 80's style partying and go to bed early? Doesn't matter. No one in this movie seems to care about anyone elses death. Not even their own, really. I love how near the end while the four remaining survivors are in a cop car that crashes, and then explodes seconds after three of them hurry out, while they leave the one female teacher in there to burn to death, with nearly no acknowledgement whatsoever. Then, they just stand around while the down there and it screwed her up. So, now, Jason is apparently the same age as this teenage chick. Despite the fact that 15 or 20 (or 30?) years have supposedly passed since part 2, when he was already a grown man for quite some time. Nevermind the fact that we still haven't even made it out of the 80's yet. So, we get what? Less than 1/3 of the movie taking place in Manhattan? Brilliant! The ending was stupid, yet sorta satisfying at the same time. Jason's new frog face was hilarious. His look of Horror when he saw the toxic waste heading for him was just epic. And then in a shocking twist, after Jason , the main chick's , that she was looking for way back on the ship, shows up out nowhere just to make it an even happier ending. You gotta be kiddin' me!But while watching the last few minutes, it occurred to me that the next installment, Jason Goes To Hell, coulda been taken a little more seriously had there been one more F-13 to link the 2 films. I think such a movie could still happen. I always wanted an Friday the 13th part IX which ignores Jason Goes To Hell and everything after it. But what about a Lost F-13 which makes all the ones after 8 make a little more sense? It could even be officially listed as a 1991 movie. Unlike Friday The 13th Part VIII, that could actually work! 5/10 "},{"Title":"And here we go again...","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really wonder what the hell was wrong with American teens back in the eighties. I mean, how the hell could a monster as boring as Jason ever rise to fame? Well anyway, I'm actually I'm not supposed to write about how dumb people were back then, I'm supposed to write something about Friday the 13th part *drums* eight!!! Eight means really good! As any person who understands anything about movies should know, the higher the figure in the end of the title is, the better the movie is! This is proved by Battlefield Earth A Saga of the Year 3000, 3000 means that this is the best movie in the world! That's until Battlefield Earth A Saga of the Year 4000 comes of course.Sic. What I really wanted to say was this this movie is just like any other Friday... movie, but somehow manages to be worse than Jason goes to hell minus every other Friday... movie. Well only three things really the beginning, the end and everything in between.I would rather nail my testicles to a block of ice than watch this again.1/10 "},{"Title":"A serious guilty pleasure","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You'd think after being defeated half a dozen times, Mr Voorhees would think of maybe giving up this pointless killing lark, but no, he's back to give it another shot, and he's very welcome. I have no idea why, I have just always had an uncertain fondness for this instalment in the so far, 11 part series. For some strange reason it is surprisingly watchable. As it essentially consists of a pointlessly re-awoken, unexplainably slimy Jason plodding about on a cruise liner heading for the big apple, knocking off one by one, each nubile teenage passenger in various inventive ways until just a select handful are left. Just from that brief outline I think we can all safely assume that it's not one heading for the Oscars, but it is very entertaining. With a body count of over 20, each of which are pretty memorable and a length of just under 90 minutes....well you do the math. This proves that there is never a dull moment throughout and those with a sweet tooth for comic violence will be in movie viewing heaven. A definite guilty pleasure. "}{"Title":"Pretty enjoyable horror flick.","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Rob Hedden's Friday the 13th Part VIIIJason Takes Manhattan is usually trashed by fans of this series,but it's actually much better than The New Beginning or crappy Jason X.Still it's nothing in comparison to Jason Lives or Friday the 13thThe Final Chapter.This time the menacing killer Jason Voorhees slaughters a school class aboard a cruise ship.Only the finale takes place in Manhattan.Jason Takes Manhattan is nothing special at all.It certainly features some really bad special effects,and some of the weakest death scenes of the series.Still there are some creative moments in this film,especially the material seen from a character's camcorder.The ending is really horrible,so you have been warned.Anyway,Jason Takes Manhattan is only for fans of this series,but if you like slasher movies you can give it a look.7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"TRIPE.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I have ever seen. It is quite simply terrible and should be avoided at all costs. The particular acting of Scott Reeves who plays Sean Robertson and Peter Mark Richman who plays Charles Mculloch is especially criminal. I'm lost for words what paramount were thinking when they decided to do this movie. They should have left the series, which seems now to be going into a 10th!, at part 6. Part 6 was a cool movie, I have also commented on this so check it out and I guarentee that reading my comments will be better than settling down and watching the shambolic part 8.What particulary amuses me is at the start of the movie, when Jim and Suzie are on Crystal Lake in their boat and Suzie asks Jim what the matter is. He then replies, Just remembering this summer camp, where all those murders took place..... She then unbelievably replies What murders?!. WHAT MURDERS???!!!!, is she and the writers of the script and storyline insane???!!!. In England, everyone has heard of Jack the ripper, and how many murders did he carry out?. Not many. In America, there have been many serial killers that have gone on a insane rampage and how many have they murdered?, possibly in extreme cases 10-15 and American people have heard of those unique cases. It's different though with Jason Voorhees though isn't it. He must have killed over 200 people up to part 8 and she's acting like she has never heard of him!. Rather amusing.Well, I wasted enough time watching this movie so I'll spend no more of my time commenting on it. Avoid this movie unless your related to one of the cast or Jason Voorhees.Film rating, 1/10. Trash. "},{"Title":"Not awful, but tired and pointless","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (27%) In what came to be the 1980's equivalent of the Saw movies, this really started to run out of steam by the third instalment, so by eight this is pretty tired. The gimmick to set this in New York city is just that as a good portion of the run-time is set on a ship allowing Jason to do his typical routine of killing mostly teenagers one-by-one without there being too many people around to do anything about it. The strange thing is though is that the ship is void of almost all staff members. The kitchens are empty, the engine room is unmanned and there's no cabin crew, so either the company that runs it is soon to go bankrupt and this is the last voyage, or the movie has nothing but contempt for its audience. The movie improves somewhat when Jason arrives in the city, but the fact that a slow moving killer can go about his business with millions of people about is more a desire to add something new than an actual good in itself. "},{"Title":"Jason expanding his playground.","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, it's a Friday the 13th, so why not watch a Friday the 13th movie? This is the already 7th establishment in the commercially successful Friday the 13th movie, that started out in 1980. That means that almost every year a new Friday the 13th movie got released. This of course goes at the expense of the quality of the movies and the series mostly consists out of stories and moments that repeat itself. This movie tries to be different by setting the movie at a new location. No, it's not really Manhattan, at least not until for the last halve hour of the movie but it's a movie that for most part is set aboard a ship, with a school-class aboard.The change of settings doesn't help to make this a better movie though. Even more so than other Friday the 13th movies, this movie just simply consists out of the one killing after the other. Its story and characters just aren't exactly good or interesting enough to make this a good or original enough entry in the series. It just no a movie you ever really get into.Guess the movie in its essence showed some potential. I mean an horror movie set aboard a ship should be good enough to provide the movie with a couple of claustrophobic and well build up horror sequences. But none of it. As an horror this movie falls flat and it just purely relies on its graphic killings it seems.The movie does get better though the moment the movie hits New York. It shows that having Jason roaming around in the big city can be just as good and effective as having the movie set at a camp, somewhere in the woods. Guess this movie also made the creators realized this and later movies in the series would also be set outside of the woods. It took them only 7 movies to realize this though.Not a very good or interesting done movie, until its final 30 minutes.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Silly bit of fun","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So, forget Part VII, we're back to the over the top stupidity of VI. Unlike VI, which had just enough story in it to still be taken seriously, this one doesn't even try to be anything but ridiculous.Gone was the R 18+ Jason. Here comes the M15 version and it's not a wholly satisfying transition. There are some good kills, like a guy getting turned upside down in a barrel of waste, a guy getting a hot coal through his chest, a girl getting stabbed by a piece of glass from a mirror. But the emphasis here is on absurdity and they really hit the nail on the head there.Good fun movie, not likely to scare anyone. There are mild sex scenes and mild nudity, but not likely to offend anyone.Missable, but not a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"The worst of all the Jason Movies","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love the Friday Movie's I loved number seven even though it was a bit far fetched so was excepting a lot from this movie...well I was sadly disappointed!!.....First of all the plot is so bad.....u blink and u miss how Jason even gets on a boat in New York its mentioned for like ten seconds and thats it.....then there's the random little boy in the water that only the one girl can see...y can she only see him its never explained and second of all who's the little boy....I had to read up on this cuz was totally confused...it's meant to be little Jason and he is wanting to be free from the curse of who Jason is...although u will not get that impression from the movie also any idea how the mad guy got on the boat?? it's a bit random u thing somebody would of seen him get on no?? so over all its the worst of the Jason movie's it explains nothing and is just so random!!! "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i know this is called Jason Takes Manhattan,but***spoiler ahead***Manhattan has nothing to do with the movie until less than 20 minutes remain.***end of spoiler.anyway,this is one boring movie.i had to fight from turning it ff before the end.there are a couple of funny moments,particularly the reaction(or rather non reaction)of the New Yorkers to Jason.mostly though,the movie is just silly.i guess most of the movies in the series are silly,but this movie is silly even in the confines if the series.for me,it's the worst one of the first 8.but that's just me.my vote for Friday the 13th Part VIIIJason takes Manhattan is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Jason Takes ManhattanFriday the 13th VIII","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The hockey-masked zombie slayer Jason Voorhees(Kate Hodder, in probably my favorite interpretation of the character)rises from his watery grave of Crystal Lake boarding a cruise ship headed for New York City, adding quite a few more fresh victims to his already impressive resume. An electrical hose is damaged by a teen couple's yacht anchor awakening Jason from his slumber thanks to a charge that refreshes his corpse. After finishing them off and snatching a brand new hockey mask the male on the yacht had appropriately enough on board, he secretly hitches a ride on the cruise ship Lazarus(appropriate title for a cruise harboring a killer who understands the meaning of returning to life)with a graduate class of obnoxious teens to slaughter in various ways(..not to mention the ship's captain and assistant). A good portion of the film consists of Jason killing people on the cruise because director Rob Hedden had to back paddle when he was informed that budget costs limited his work in New York City. Hedden does what he can with Vancouver to at least convince us those nasty alleys are smoking Manhattan streets with druggie undesirables as perfect fodder for Jason to destroy.Even if you think his methods corny, Hedden at least attempts to return a human face to Jason with the added sub-plot regarding the heroine Rennie(Jensen Daggett)reliving a terrifying childhood memory of nearly drowning thanks to Jason, the boy pulling her under after Uncle Charles(Peter Mark Richman, who is perfectly cast as the overly protective biology teacher on the trip always scolding everyone and barking orders to his students. He's quite an intolerable character)pushes her in trying to teach her how to swim. On the cruise ship, Rennie faces reminders of Jason, whether it be the child banging on a port hole begging for help as water fills his lungs, or the shivering child appearing as an apparition in her room. This sub-text feels inspired..at the very least, Hedden tries to inject life into a tired franchise fresh out. I think it's when he feels obligated to retreat at times to the slasher formula with rather uninspired kills(such as the first female victim who doesn't even swat the harpoon spear Jason is slowly closing into her torso, or the hot high school bitch Tamara who gets stabbed, off screen, by a shard of glass from a mirror Jason shatters)than Hedden often fails. And, I know many have a problem with the closing sequence inside the sewer, but I admired Hedden's effort to end the series once and for all in a unique way..as the toxic waste flushes through the sewer, it, in a sense, removes the evil infirmities where we realize that truthfully within this sadistic monster is a frightened child now able to die in peace.There's an element of fun here if you're not too dependent on logic, or aren't too disappointed in the fact that the film doesn't cash the check as it proclaims on the poster and title. But, there's an energy behind the camera-work(love how they zoom in on Jason, particularly on the subway and in Times Square)and some good humorous bits such as when Jason finds a hockey sign(the way the camera frames Jason in front of it is a treat for horror fans of the series), when a group of wannabe gangsters retreat from their plan to mess Jason up for destroying their jukebox when he reveals his face to them, or the inspired diner scene where Rennie and boyfriend Sean(Scott Reeves)ask for help because a maniac is after them, with the waitress' response being, Welcome to New York. My favorite kill would probably be the way Jason murders a rock chick with her guitar. And, that kill with the steaming sauna rock..OUCH! "},{"Title":"Wow, not good. No not good.","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" New York has a new problem Summary written by Will Rennie (Jensen Daggett) is celebrating her graduation aboard the SS Lazarus, along with her strict uncle (Peter Mark Richman), her favorite teacher (Barbara Bingham), her boyfriend, Sean (Scott Reeves), all of her classmates, and a stowaway hockey-masked serial killer Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder). One by one, Jason slowly murders each classmate and sinks the ship, stranding the survivors in New York. Rennie and the few survivors now must face Jason to save their lives from impending doom.Kane Hodder plays Jason perfectly, but this film is horrible. If the fans of this series cant see it, then its their fault. 3/10 (Ans this isn't even the worse one) "},{"Title":"The start of the demise of the series.....","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was just awful!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Jason's look which stole the show in part 7 was reduced to some childlike grade school makeup. What's will the pathetic back story on this one.....yeah right running out of ideas. Jason takes Manhatten...well it took an hour to get there before Jason dispatches everyone on a cruise ship but again the MPAA destroys the film making it virtually bloodless. We have another threes company alumni on tap here as Reverand Snow is on board just like Terry Kiser in part 7. This film is sooooo boring, the acting is atrocious, the blood is invisible and we have the hokiest ending of the series. Criminal!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"I have saw this movie twice yet i could finish it","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is second times, i have seen this and again not in full, i just could not get into this movie at all, This as be the only movie in THE series, that i just can't seem sit thought at allI just found the movie really boring, i did not like how they brought Jason back from the dead, i just found that really silly. The deaths scene in this movie were not that good at all, i found dull and boring and to over the top and not gory at all, some of deaths scene were off screen and i saw way too many goof mistakes in the deaths scene and you might think, was that outtake they forgot get rid of? what i really hated about this movie was that , the whole think about the boy in water, just made the movie messing and it kinda of annoyed me. The acting was really bad from most of the cast, yes, even bad for a Friday 13th movie, some of the cast were decent.I have no idea how the movies, i already try sit thought this movie twice and i won't try again, I did not find scary in this movie at all, tell you truth i found copycat killer Friday 13th part 5 scary then Jason in this movie. I have not see the ending of this movie, so i don't if there scary scenes later in the movie! I going to this 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"If you listen really carefully as this plays, you can hear the guy who pitched it say it was just a *joke*...!","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yes, somehow, Jason(who now breaths like Darth Vader) floats out of Crystal Lake. He then proceeds to take Manhattan... or, rather, a cruise ship(the passengers of which disappear once people start dying) on the way there(false advertising much?), carrying a girl who hallucinates(and she's the most normal one there) because she's scared of the water and other characters we couldn't care less about. I'm not against the setting... it's far better than a big city(why in the name of soup would you want that? Have you considered it for even a couple of seconds? Do you honestly think it worked for the Predator?), it's cool for a horror piece, with isolation and plenty of room for stalking(little occurs, though). If this wasn't so dull, it'd be good. The acting remains poor. FX are the one great thing in this, and yet there are hardly any of them, except for near the end. The deaths are among the most uninspired of the series, with one exception. They try to spice it up by having the score laugh at them a couple of times... this is not entertaining, in spite of being partially a black comedy(there is only one funny line, in my opinion). There is blood, gore, violence, nudity and sexuality in this. I recommend this to those who refuse to heed the warning cries. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Start spreading the news, I'm leaving to slay...","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In Jason Takes Manhattan, the eighth chapter of the Friday the 13th franchise, everybody's favourite hockey-mask wearing maniac finally tires of slaughtering over-sexed teens at Crystal Lake and ups sticks for New York. After climbing on board a cruise boat en route for the big city, the lumbering killer proceeds to hack and slice his way through the passengers a group of graduates celebrating finishing school.When a handful of survivors manage to escape Jason's maggoty grasp by rowing into New York Harbour in a lifeboat, they believe that they are finally safe. But Jason&#151;never happy at leaving anyone breathing&#151;is not far behind. And besides, New York has plenty of dangers of its own.Although the new locales in Pt. VIII make a welcome change from wooden cabins and abandoned barns, it's not enough to stop this episode being yet another disappointing sequel. Once again, ridiculous plot developments illicit laughs rather than screams, with the silliest moments seeing Jason using supernatural powers to teleport around the boat, a boxer throwing repeated punches at Jason's face (not quite appreciating that a hockey mask is supposed to protect the wearer from harm), and an aspiring film-maker who has lost his glasses looking through the viewfinder of a video camera in order to help focus his vision.However, it is the severe lack of gory deaths that really hurt this film the camera either cuts too quickly from the kill, or the method used by Jason is simply not gruesome enough. Strangulation, electrocution and drowning in a barrel of green muck just don't cut it, Mr. Vorhees!Jason's actual rampage through the city is also lacklustre, being fairly brief, featuring only one half-decent death scene (a fun decapitation), and ending with the ugly murdering mofo pursuing his quarry into the New York sewers only to be dissolved by a flood of toxic waste (that apparently courses through the system every night&#151;shyeah right!).3.5 out of 10, rounded up to 4 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Jason vs. New York, and New York won!","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan sequel number 8 in the Friday the 13th series, and honestly, this is a big step ahead when it comes to the sequels. Why, you ask? It's so beyond cheesy, that it turns around and is so much fun, I just loved Jason being in New York, how could the world's toughest city handle big, scary Jason Vorhees? Well, I'd say they took him on very well, lol. I just also loved how this movie made me think of Titanic in some sick way, it was like Jason vs. Titanic as well with the kids being on the boat. It just added so much, the characters are way over done and nothing in this film is done right, but that's what makes the film just so much fun and it delivers as a fun Friday the 13th sequel.A group of teens go on a field trip/cruise, including a girl who is an orphan and one of the teachers took pity upon and let her come, but she is mocked by the other peers. But when Jason comes aboard, he is ready to take on these horrible teens, and when the ship aboards Manhatten, New York is taken in for a very big surprise with what is just a normal thug not to be taken too seriously.The ironic humor in Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is what makes the film one of my favorites. I just loved when Jason is walking the streets and he sees the group of punk teenagers and it takes the kids a few minutes to realize that this is a guy not to be messed with. This is just a fun sequel and I loved it, I'd love to see it again for a good laugh, believe me, this is a sequel not to be missed.5/10 "},{"Title":"The worst Friday the 13th sequel","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Movie has a bunch of brainless high school kids taking a cruise ship to New York from Crystal Lake. (According to this one Crystal LAKE is magically attached to the ocean). Jason is revived (again) gets on the ship and starts slashing away. For some reason he's drawn to Rennie (Jensen Daggett) and starts having flashbacks of drowning as a child (???).Pretty desperate. The original theme music is never used--they throw in some generic rock songs instead; there's a crew member on the ship who inexplicably knows they're all doomed (like Crazy Ralph from parts 1 and 2); most of the killings take place on the ship--only the last 35 minutes are in NY; Jason again shows his amazing teleportation tricks; most of the killings are bloodless or take place off screen (thanks to the MPAA which really went after this one); the makeup on Jason at the end is laughable; it's far too long (100 minutes) and has some of the worst acting too (Scott Reeves is drop dead handsome but has zero acting ability). Also, according to this film, New York City washes all its sewers with TOXIC WASTE every night at midnight!!! The director said he tried to add humor to the film but it fails miserably. The only amusing part is Jason's reaction in NYC to a billboard with a large goalie's mask on it. Also ditching the original theme music was a stupid idea. This one was the last distributed by Paramount. It was (understandably) a bomb--even F13 fans consider this the nadir of the series. Not worth your time. I give this a 1. "},{"Title":"Words Fail Me","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yes, that's right. Jason Voorhees ditches Camp Crystal Lake for a trip to NYC. While there, he visits the Statue of Liberty, eats a hot dog in Central Park and takes in a Broadway show. O.k., so he doesn't do any of those, but this installment in the hack Friday the 13th series might have been scarier -- and would certainly have been more interesting -- if he did.There's absolutely nothing to say about this movie. If you're reading this comment, stop now. Because nothing having to do with this film, including my thoughts about it, are worth your time. The film stock used to make this movie would have been put to better use as toilet paper.I was satisfying a little nostalgic tug by re-watching the entire Friday the 13th series -- one a year around Halloween. But I quit. My resistance to the awfulness of these movies started to wane around Part 6, and after this one (one of the dullest movies I have ever seen), I simply can't go on. Friday the 13th......you win.Grade F "},{"Title":"The Death of Jason's Run With Paramount","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The ongoing story of Jason Voorhees continues for an eighth chapter. Here we see Jason catching a ride with a luxury cruiser (the appropriately-named Lazarus), come ashore in Manhattan and continue his trek to slaughter almost everything in his path (though for some reason he does nothing to the dozens of people on the Subway). This was the eighth and final film that Jason Voorhees appeared in for Paramount Pictures before being picked up by New Line Cinema (and saved, in my opinion). Written and directed by Rob Hedden, who is known for practically nothing. He worked on a variety of television shows in the 1980s and 1990s for one or two episodes, and often times nothing really worth talking about (Knight Rider 2000 and Simon and Simon, for example). With all due respect to Mr. Hedden, I am under the impression he was given this film because he was about the least expensive writer and director available. But sadly, he also had the capability to make the film completely worthless even by low-budget standards.I don't think it's a big surprise that this film failed. There was basically nothing new going on (watching a guy walk without dialogue and hack things up is fun, but eight movies in a row?). No new mythology. No great death scenes (in fact, these are almost the weakest and least gory death scenes in the entire series).Jason's ability to teleport reaches an all-time high in this film. Even after getting a quarter-mile behind his victim, he still magically teleports ahead of them, sometimes even up a flight of stairs and then back down to the bottom. Sure, he can run when he really wants to, but not quite that fast.The victims weren't worth caring about. The dad or principal or whatever his role was supposed to be... annoying, to the point that nothing could redeem him. He would make a great vampire, but he's awful in this movie. The two heroes (the young lovers) didn't give me any reason to care about them. Everyone else was forgettable or unlikable. The heroin from the gang members (or whatever that stuff was) did not play into the film nearly as much as it should have. Apparently, it doesn't do anything the first time you inject it and driving a car is still relatively easy. I could point out a dozen other flaws and continuity errors. And sure, I could say it's a horror film and that's to be expected, but they really put no effort at all into making this one streamlined.Two best parts the boxing scene (though still not as good as the fight scene in They Live), and when Jason fights the cook. (The cook was played by the guy -- Ken Kirzinger -- who would take over Voorhees from Kane Hodder many years later, so it was almost like a Jason versus Jason moment. At the time this film was released, that meant nothing. But looking back, that's a fun thing to watch for.) The boxing scene is what most people remember from this film, I believe. And it's not bad, but if you're sitting through the whole thing waiting for that moment, you're going to be let down.I should also point out this is the film debut of Kelly Hu, who plays the very 1980s-dressed Asian girl in this movie. She's easy to miss, as her role is rather small and of no real consequence. But Kelly would go on to much bigger and better things (and thankfully become more attractive with age). You might know her from Strange Days, X2 or Cradle 2 the Grave... I absolutely adored her in the 2006 horror film Devil's Den alongside Devon Sawa and Ken Foree.If you like Jason Voorhees, you'll probably be okay with this film since you'll be getting what you've come to expect. But the thrills are smaller, the deaths less violent, the plot runs a little thin. This is possibly the least of the 11-part series, or pretty close. Watch the next installment Jason Goes to Hell, the best in the series, by far. That's the only cure for this failure. "},{"Title":"Best of the series","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I sayt this is the best of the series.  It delivers the goods like no other besides part 1 (and maybe part 3) by taking place on a cruise ship and going all the way to NYC.  Killings to be sure, mainly by Jason onto helpless teens (my favorite is the guitar scene), but crafted well along the New York skyline into a sewer of mass destruction.  One of the better horror films ever made.  A "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes The Sewers","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I love this franchise and especially the first part. And actually I had quite high hopes for this part, especially from promising title, even earlier two were so awful I thought it was that worse it could get. But I was wrong. Firstly the name is completely misleading, first hour we spend the time with Jason on a crappy boat and rest of the time in Manhattan's sewers. I expected this movie would be about Jason on Manhattan killing and chasing people but no, its about Jason on a holiday cruise, highly censored (and I'm not talking about MPAA cuts but showing style of killings in movie) so we don't even see most of killings. Plot is quite stupid and movie is boring. So I think its quite failed in its purpose, it wasn't entertaining or scary. I don't think this is Friday the 13th about all, its just a stupid and lame sequel. And I don't understand where they put 5 million in this movie (its highest budget on this series) there's nothing special in it, not in decoration, actors or anything. "},{"Title":"Jason on a ship good but Manhattan? too much","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" An underwater power cable gets damaged and reanimates Jason from the bottom of the lake. He follows the waters until he hitches a ride on a cruise ship hired for a graduating high school class. There he finds a whole new set of young people to slice and dice.The cast and characters are mostly unknowns and forgettable. Peter Mark Richman is probably the most recognizable as teacher Charles McCulloch. The good part is that the kids mostly look like kids. Killing them is slightly more fascinating than the older 'college' kids from the other movies.Going all the way to Manhattan is a mistake. It takes a workable horror premise into silly camp territory. This gets really campy with the ruffians in the crumpling docks. That's the point where the whole endeavor completely collapses. The rest of the Manhattan stuff is just a waste of time. "}{"Title":"I liked it a lot!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    Friday the 13th part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan is the best Friday the 13th film in the series. My top three are Part 8, part 6, and part 4. I don't know why alot of people are trashing it, but I do know that it had really good visuals and the dog was the cutest thing ever! I really thought that the kills were done the best here and were the most creative out of all of the other ones in the series. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Everything is wrong with this movie","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well I lied in my last Friday the 13th review. I had said the 7th film was the worst so far. Actually, it's this one that's the worst. Everything is wrong with this movie, even the freaking title. Jason does not take Manhattan in this movie. All he really does is chase two people the entire time he's in New York. Anyway, that's the least of this movies' problems. Wanna know how Jason comes back in this movie? It's the most ludicrous one yet! He comes back by being electrocuted by a random electric pipeline on the bottom of the lake and the only reason that pipe shocked him was because some random people on a random boat just happened to drop the anchor in exactly the right place to cut the pipe. I'm not making this up, though I wish I was. Next we have Jason killing people on a cruise boat. I don't know why he decided to get on a cruise boat (probably because the script called for it), but that's not the main issue. Jason is literally never seen, despite the fact that it's a fairly small ship and despite the fact that he killed like four people. HOW DID NO ONE SEE HIM!? It kills me to even try and think about it! Okay next we have bad acting blah, blah blah, the standard Jason won't die, blah, blah, blah, and of course the idiots being idiots. Typical Friday the 13th formula with a few extra bits of awful. Just stay away from it and you will be perfectly fine. "},{"Title":"Friday THE 13TH PART VIII - JASON TAKES MANHATTAN (Rob Hedden, 1989) *1/2","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Other than the fact that the film is largely set aboard ship (complete with doom-spouting caretaker) - with Manhattan itself serving mainly as a backdrop for the finale - this is strictly formula stuff perturbed heroine, her bitchy rival for the attentions of the misfit hero, her bossy guardian; plus a plethora of stereotypical teenagers (black sidekick, rocker, film-geek armed with a camera, etc.). The shipboard antics don't generate much interest or excitement - but when the scene shifts to New York, it becomes tolerable enough (with even a number of amusing bits such as Jason - wearing his trademark hockey mask - coming face to face with a large billboard with an ad for an ice hockey match, his being accosted by junkies and street gangs, and the scene where the heroine dashes into a bar screaming that a maniac is stalking her - followed by the unalarmed female bartender's quip, Welcome to New York!). The climax in the sewers - with Jason drowning during a flooding of chemical waste - is effectively handled as well. "},{"Title":"Silly nonsense...but not that bad by slasher standards","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, I've only got myself to blame; but since I've wasted ninety minutes of my life on each of the other nine Friday the 13th films (and Freddy vs Jason), I figured that it wouldn't hurt to see the only one I hadn't seen. Actually, as slashers go; this ridiculously silly effort isn't all that bad, and it certainly isn't the worst film in the series. The familiar Friday location, Camp Crystal Lake, evidently was worn out by the time of this film; and so we've got a location change to Manhattan. Actually, this is a bit of a cop-out, as the vast majority of the movie actually takes place on a boat bound for the Big Apple. Naturally, this boat is full of teenagers and Jason has stowed away on it. The film kicks off with a ridiculously silly sequence which sees a kid whose almost about to get laid distracted by the fact that he and his girl are at Camp Crystal Lake, where a bunch of murders took place. After a convenient and extremely ham-fisted flashback which serves as an excuse to educate anyone who has found themselves in an eighth instalment of a series they know nothing about, we see Jason resurrected by way of an extremely tacky electrical sequence...Despite the fact that it takes place in New York this time, part eight is a Friday the 13th movie like any other. The body count is ridiculously high and sees Jason Voorhees dispatching his victims in a variety of grisly ways. Strangely, the death scenes involving the girls seem to run the same course every time - namely, we get the girl screaming as Jason is closing in, and then he proceeds to kill them anyway. Why don't they just run away? Anyway, while a lot of people get killed in this movie, it's never very shocking. Somehow, director Rob Hedden has managed to create an ultra-violent movie that feels like something you'd have no problem letting your kids watch. Kane Hodder takes the lead role as Jason, and does just as well as any other big guy in a hockey mask would have done. The make-up on the killer under his mask is typically crappy and hard to take seriously, much like the rest of the film. The loss of Crystal Lake as a location does spoil it a little, as that's the place that is associated with Friday the 13th, and the rural atmosphere fits the tone of the series well; but since this is the seventh sequel, it really was time for a change. I can't say that I recommend this film, but there are worse slashers than this one and at least Jason Takes Manhattan is fairly fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th 8 *** (out of 4) Friday the 13th 8 Jason Takes Manhattan looked like a dream come true especially with the promo poster and Jason ripping through a I Love NY sign.This was the second Jason film I was able to view in the theater and at the time I really hated the film. I still have a lot of hatred towards the film but this isn't because of the actual film. The film itself isn't too bad and you've got to respect the fact that the director was trying to add new life to a series but the series had already been worn thin. The biggest grip I have with the movie is that they didn't take advantage of a wonderful idea.Another problem with the film are all of the characters who are so obnoxious that you can't wait for Jason to get them off the screen. This film and the previous were trying to do different things with the story yet they continued to use the typical teenagers. The performances are all rather dull, especially the leading lady, which has to be one of the worst in the series. "},{"Title":"Jason decides to go where the killing is easy & there are plenty of victims to choose from... Enjoyable 8th entry in the Friday the 13th series.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan starts at Camp Crystal Lake where lovers Jim Miller (Todd Shaffer) & Suzi Donaldson (Tiffany Paulsen) are enjoying a romantic night on their yacht. Unknown to them the anchor is tugging away at some electricity cables at the bottom of the lake which eventually break & send huge amounts of electricity pulsating through the corpse of the notorious ice hockey mask wearing serial killer Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) which brings him back to life, it's not long before Jim & Suzi become Jason's latest victims. A group of college graduates from Crystal Lake are about to set sail on a trip to New York but they have an unexpected passenger as Jason decides to gatecrash the party in a way only he can... A rock chick named J.J Jarrett (Saffron Henderson) becomes Jason's first victim when she has her head bashed in, the first victim but far from the last if Jason has anything to do with it...Written & directed by Rob Hedden this is the eighth film in the long running Friday the 13th franchise, I have to be honest & say I'm a fan of the series & while Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan isn't exactly the best film in the world I found it enjoyable & entertaining if nothing else. The script tries something a bit different this time around, it's the first time the series really dared to do something radically different from the original Friday the 13th (1980) all those years ago. Jason's still here, the hockey mask is still here, the mindless teens are still here, the killings are still here & the only thing that's changed significantly is the location. This is still a Friday the 13th film as far as I'm concerned. There's even a bit of The Poseidon Adventure (1972) hiding in here as well as the boat runs into trouble & starts to flood & the film is pretty cool when it gets to Times Square & to see Jason strutting his stuff there. I thought there was a bit too much unnecessary & pointless excess character development in this one, like Tamara Mason (Sharlene Martin) who gets a lot of screen time during the first half but is then killed off & forgotten, nor did I like the way Rennie (Jensen Daggett) had lots of supernatural encounters with the young Jason & it's never explained properly whether these were in fact 'reality' or just in her head. Anyway, it moves along at a nice pace, there's some decent kills, Jason's in it a lot & I personally liked it, it's not the best Friday the 13th film but it's a lot better than the next instalment Jason Goes to Hell The Final Friday (1990).Director Hedden does a decent job & the film looks OK, there isn't much style to it but the kills are reasonably well handled & Jason is as cool as ever. As with most of the Friday the 13th's this was cut to get a certain rating right down to one scene being totally re-shot & another shot five different ways & Hedden being forced to use the least gory take. What's left is a little on the tame side, a few impalings, some stabbings, a hot rock shoved into someone's stomach, a cool decapitation, a bloodless slit throat, someone has a needle pushed through their body, someone has their head bashed in with a guitar, someone is electrocuted & there are a few dead bodies. We also get to see Jason's rotten & mouldy face at the end when he takes his iconic mask off, a scene which contains some neat special effects.With a supposed budget of about $5,000,000 Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is generally well made & competent throughout although some of the scenes supposedly shot in New York obviously aren't. The acting isn't up to much in this one & Scott Reeves makes for a dull hero.Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan is an enjoyable entry in the series in my opinion, it's not the best Friday the 13th but it's not the worst either. A must for fans of the series, like me so maybe I was prepared to cut it a bit more slack than most folk would. "},{"Title":"City-trip Jason !!","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm a Jason Vorhees-fan! I consider all the Friday the 13th sequels to be guilty pleasures (except that dreadful fifth installment) and I don't really support all the people who criticize them. The Friday series never were intellectual cinema experiences and it probably doesn't take you 8 film to find that out. So I see no use in bashing these film and if you hate them, just skip them. All of Jason adventures are amusing money-makers, intended for the fans. And this 'Jason takes Manhattan' perfectly fits in this slasher-structure. This film should better been entitled 'Jason takes a boat ride', as more than half of the film takes place on a cruise ship on its way from Crystal Lake to New York city. And, when arrived in New York, Jason doesn't get much further than the docks and the rancid slums. A group of high-school graduates are on their way to Manhattan for a city-trip and Jason cheerfully joins them as a stowaway. Our hockey-masked friend wanders around the boat and violently terminates everyone he comes across. The best characteristic about Jason is that he's the least discriminating killer ever! Whether a NY purse-snatcher or a young steersman who just informed us about his 19-months-old son&#133;.Jason Vorhees annihilates them all! Talking in terms of plotting, part VIII is weaker than the previous installment (The New Blood) that desperately tried to bring some creativity into the routine franchise. This film connects to the original by the main-heroine, who suffers from visions of young Jason pulling her down in Crystal Lake. But&#133;don't worry too much about the plot as the killings offer more than enough amusement and horror-fun. Favorite sequence definitely is when Jason takes about hundred hits from an amateur-boxer and then simply beheads his attacker with one clean smash! Go Jason, go!  "}]