[{"Title":"An objective review...I hope.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  In Communion, Whitley Strieber's autobiographical book comes to life...sort of. Viewing this movie is a strange experience, and certainly not for all tastes. It is a very cerebral piece of work from a director who did not wholeheartedly agree with Strieber's interpretation of the events surrounding his so-called abduction. Phillipe Mora makes an effort to give the film an air of surrealism, right down to even having the blatant symbolism of DeChirico paintings on the walls of Strieber's home (whether or not Strieber actually had such paintings is beside the point). The director tries to give the impression that Strieber is suffering a breakdown while simultaneously trying to present the events without too much distortion. Tough task...it's easy to see why the film seems diluted and without chemistry.However, this also provides the film with an atmosphere that can also help enhance the whole point, which is not was Whitley Strieber abducted by aliens, but rather how did Whitley's interpretation of an inexplicable event effect him and those around him? One of the last scenes, an exchange between Strieber and his wife in a museum, conveys this point perfectly. It's just God, masks of God. It can be equated with a religious experience, feeling the touch of God. Strieber FELT the touch of an outside presence. Does that mean he was visited by aliens? This is irrelevant, and I firmly believe that this is what the point of the film should be. And let's face it, the film is called Communion, which means to be at one with God.The mechanics of the film are rather well constructed. Christopher Walken is in fine form as Strieber, giving a wonderful portrayal of a writer on the edge (of a discovery or his sanity?). Lindsay Crouse does a good job as Strieber's wife. The acting is slightly flat in some areas, but this might've been another device of Mora's to add to the surrealism. Constant uses of the New York skyline add a sense of foreboding to the film, not just because of the beauty of these scenes, but because it helps give the impression of an outside presence. The music (with Eric Clapton on guitar) is pretty good, typical of the synthesizer-based scores of most '80's movies, but it adds well to the setting. And even though the special effects may seem laughable, Mora has made the case (perhaps pretentiously) that this was also deliberate. The FOX TV version (which seems to be the version being shown on Showtime Digital Cable) adds several sequences, and increases the light contrast in certain scenes, adding a glowing white haze to many scenes. Some have complained about the scene in the psychiatrist's office being so bright, but I think it also helps get the message that there may be an outside presence surrounding all of us, whether we recognize it or not.Communion is an interesting movie that suffered from a view that was perhaps too short-sighted. If the film were made today, one can be sure the message might have been lost on overbloated special effects, and the surreal effect would've been diminished to appeal to the lowest common denominator of movie-going audiences. No matter what your stance on alien abduction, this is a very thought-provoking film. Give it a chance...watch it. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful treatment of controversial subject.","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The film depicts the personal and professional crises a writer experiences after a series of encounters with non-human beings.The film strongly benefits from the performances of Christopher Walken and Lindsay Crouse.  Walken (always engaging) manages the challenging task of making Whitley Strieber a compelling character; you care about him even if you don't necessarily like him 100% of the time.  Crouse succeeds as Whitley's wife; the two together are immediately believable as a married couple.The film is arguably the most intelligent film about the alien abduction/ visitor phenomenon.  Unlike countless cheap, made-for-TV films, where the emphasis is on the sensationalistic, shocking aspects of the subject, COMMUNION focuses on the psychological and emotional harm the experience does.  We see Strieber describe his experiences to his medical doctor, and then to a psychiatrist.  Once his own mental health has been established, then (and only then) does he begin to consider the possibility that the creatures he has seen are actually real.After questioning everyone from medical professionals to fellow abductees, Whitley realizes the only ones with the answers are the visitors themselves. At the film's climax, he willingly presents himself to the visitors. This is what makes COMMUNION transcend every other film about the phenomenon.Director Phillipe Mora successfully creates a you-are-there atmosphere, letting the actors improvise a lot of their dialogue.  There are two distinct moods one, where things are brightly lit, secure, and normal; and secondly, the dark, unsettling world Strieber inhabits only with himself and with the visitors.  Mora's direction is subtle, with cues in both the dialogue and a detailed, occasionally wry visual style.Another plus is Eric Clapton's opening and closing theme music.This is a seriously underrated film.The director's cut (with commentary by Mora) is recommended. "},{"Title":"Freakin' WEIRD movie, this!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Director Philippe Mora has made some bizarre movies in his time, and 'Communion' is one of the strangest. Christopher Walken plays writer Whitley Strieber who finds his life going in a very odd direction. Strieber isn't the most grounded guy in the first place - his writing technique seems to consist of putting on funny hats and pretending to be a wolf - but even his broadminded wife Anne (Mamet regular Lindsay Crouse) draws the line at freaking out at Halloween masks, pulling a gun on imaginary owls or intruders or whatever it was, and generally nutso behaviour. She convinces Whit to see a doctor, and then a psychiatrist. Under hypnosis Strieber finds out more than he is prepared for. At least he's not insane... I think.This is one of Walken's greatest out there performances, as memorable as 'The Deerhunter', 'The King Of New York' and 'Wild Side'. He mumbles, grimaces, laughs, dances, twitches, stares, freaks out, charms, irritates and scares. I don't think his Whitley Strieber has anything to do with the real life one, but it's a sensational performance nonetheless. Walken has few rivals in screen psychos - only Dennis Hopper during his 70s excesses, or vintage Timothy Carey can rival him. Freakin' weird role in a freakin' weird movie! A must see for lovers of movie strangeness. "},{"Title":"Intelligently handled film about a usually less-than-intelligently handled subject","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  First off, let me say that I'm a tad biased, as I have never failed to enjoy Christopher Walken's film roles.  His characters are always quirky but always Walken...in much the same way every character Cary Grant or John Wayne played was always Cary Grant or John Wayne.  He has a personality that is difficult to hide behind another persona, but which always adds a little something to it.This is a suitably creepy film, but is very realistically and believably handled, given the fantastic story matter.  The visitors in this movie aren't quite the sadistic neo-vivisectionists of Fire in the Sky, but they are still unsettling.  The blue men almost remind one of something out of Star Wars, but the presence of the willowy aliens keep that impression well in the background.Walken carries the film, especially in his sojourns aboard the aliens' craft.  One is never quite sure what is really happening...oft times it is like something out of an early David Lynch movie...lying on the borderline between funny and nightmarish.The film does make you think about all angles of the situation, especially when you consider the point of views and personalities of the people at the abduction support group that Walken's character goes to, and his reaction to it.The special effects are excellent...not gaudy, but quite realistic (for lack of a better term).I've seen the real Whitley Strieber on television and read a few of his novels. Walken is definitely not Strieber, but I think he is the only actor who could've made this movie work. "},{"Title":"Great performance by Walken amplifies the terror in this film.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" After reading other users' comments, I concur that this film is not for everyone. I, also, am not a believer in this specific subject matter, but I don't let that interfere with my interpretation of the film. Nevertheless, this film absolutely scared the hell out of me. Walken's character, though often bizarre beyond the point of full understanding, is outstandingly well acted. Some may view this film as a silly alien movie. Others, such as myself, will feel absolute terror for Walken's character. Several scenes in the film have made their way into my head and are most disturbing indeed. Fans of this film will agree that specific visual and audio segments are the stuff of nightmares! Walken fans _must_ see this film, as should any alien buffs or film afficionados. "},{"Title":"aftermath of a life altering experience","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Whitley suddenly finds himself in an alien world, where once he tells his abduction story, he becomes subject of, strangely enough, his own ridicule, but also public skepticism. When his mind tells him something even his own, never mind outsiders, own logic rejects, he truly finds himself inside an alien nightmare of a reality. But this is the moment he has his communion, when he changes as a person. The symbolism is powerful in this movie, suggesting that it's not what is obvious, but that there is a hidden meaning behind a life-altering experience.From a creative point of view, a story like this might be quite appealing, and regarded as extravagant, but how would we cope with somebody claiming to have lived such things? Or more, with our own minds telling us? And how are these things going to affect us? Are they going to derail us from our current paths, change our perception, or are we going to regard them as oddities beyond our grasp and understanding? There is a moment where Whitley says that they are all masks of God, perfectly underlining the fact that the strangest thing can actually be just a bit outside our roam of understanding, but still within some common frame of cosmic alignment. It's up to us weather we accept or reject it. Much of the movie is Walken's merit, because his performance compensates the lack of elaborate special effects and there are some occasions where his facial expression is enough to make your skin crawl. "},{"Title":"Who dare look behind the mask?","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film left a lasting impression on me, which didn't wane during the second and even third viewing. I have never thought about it as an alien-movie. (Incidentally, the word aliens is never once mentioned in the film.) In my opinion, it is a film about the man's reaction to the inexplicable intruding into his orderly existence. It is all about people, not aliens. Each character has their own reaction to the strange. In fact, what we see is a pilgrim's progress, with Walken fighting against various attempts (by others and by himself) to explain it away. It is a philosophical parable, saying that any explanation would be nothing but a mask over the truth, which cannot be expressed in words. As Walken says This cannot be it. I didn't come all this way for you to tell me that this is it. "},{"Title":"One of Walken's best - an eerie portrayal","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" I have read the book and seen the movie and wasn't disappointed by either. I am a Strieber fan so appreciated what risks he took to write this autobiographical novel. It's true the book does have a different feel to the movie. This is mostly due, I believe to, the director Philippe Mora and Christopher Walken's quirky yet memorable acting presence.This film is very eerie, frightening, surreal and disturbing. It's not a feel-good movie but is definitely thought-provoking, just like the novel.This is definitely one of Walken's best movies. I was impressed! Also Joel Carlson does a great job as Strieber's son, Andrew. The scenes involving his son and the other dream sequences are perhaps the most disturbing.I felt empathy for Strieber in Walken's very convincing performance. I felt drawn to the character and his family.I find myself watching this film every few years and as I do it is more rewarding each time. There are some very memorable lines in this movie that will stay with you long afterwards.If you like thought-provoking, eerie, movies involving alien abduction then this may be well worth your while. "},{"Title":"Wake up, we've got overnight visitors.","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Whitley Strieber is a writer who goes off with his family and couple of friends to his holiday home in the woods. During their first night there they experience a strange sensation involving a blinding light and they all had the same startling experience. Whitley shrugs it off as a dream, but then he starts hallucinating and seeing unearthly figures. Is he going mad or was he abducted? So, he sees a psychiatrist to go under hypnosis to see what really did happen to him.How strangely surreal can this get! I was simply bug-eyed to what the hell was going on and Christopher Walken's spontaneously intense performance just kept you guessing and totally riveted. The story is supposedly based on true facts and lifted from Whitley Strieber's novel, which also did the screenplay for the film. This touchy subject matter will have a lot of its sceptics, but this piece I found to be an engrossing format that builds an authentically sincere approach to its controversial nature, even despite its very outlandish, quite silly and largely dreamy nature. But anyway, that's surrealism for ya! The story is emotionally moody and that can be attributed a lot Walken's erratic character - who rambles on until the cows come home about whatever he's thinking and cracking out rather humorous jokes. At times I didn't have a clue what he was going on about! But Walken is simply ace in a role that's fits him perfectly.The first half of the film is actually creepy with its atmospheric lighting, bone rattling sound effects and stinging score. This side of the story is psychologically powering as we watch the realistic deterioration, traumatic stress and the denial of Whitley. When we get our first (and vastly memorable) glimpse of our out-of-town visitors too- it's visually surreal and eerily unnerving. It gave me the shivers! But that very feel changes course in the second half of the film were it becomes uneven and we get a break down on Whitely coming to terms and accepting his fate. But there's one thing that hits you and that this whole joint feels like one large dream with it's change in moods, bizarre hallucinations, blurry intentions and that you'll forget about large chunks of it after experiencing it. Yeah, it's rather forgettable with only a couple of scenes that stick with you and that's basically the whack-out sequences. I don't know, but I was expecting a little more to come out of the layout and it does clock off with some meandering scenes, but if Walken was on screen it was hard not to be compelled. The script can get a bit self-indulgent and distant, while the sweeping guitar riffs are terribly dated. Although it's a low-budgeted flick the special effects are well implemented and the rubbery alien designs are adeptly crafted. Philippe Mora who brought us such films like The Howling 2 and 3 adds his distinguishable style and generates some extremely haunting and effective build-ups. His confidence in the production and that in Walken makes his direction one of the film's standing assets. The rest of the cast pale in comparison to Walken, but Lindsey Crouse as Whitley's on-edge wife and Frances Sternhagen as Dr. Janet Duffy work off him greatly. I got to say that the best time to watch this one - is late night&#133; I guarantee.It's not totally successful, but it's an interestingly odd project with capable direction by Mora and a sensational central performance from Walken. "},{"Title":"Freaking me out with those big, black eyes!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie remains one of Walken's best performances to date. Forget Deer Hunter, he is one of two things that carry this film. It's him and the aliens, and that's it, but what a great film, anyway. The X-Files, though a good show, never quite reaches the level of freakiness that Communion has in moments like those in which Walken confronts the aliens. At one point, he states upon waking up to a suspected abduction that, I don't want to think about that so, I go back to bed. There are so many classic lines of dialogue between Walken and the aliens that the movie reaches a point where it seems almost like a bizarre, personal delusion--portrait of a madman rather than alien abductions.  "}{"Title":"weird but scary","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I guess different things haunt different people.  This movie absolutely terrifies me.  First off... I don't believe in aliens.  That being said, the scene with the alien looking around the wall of Walken's house has been burned into my retina and I will never forget it.  Nothing has kept me up at night like that since The  Excorcist.  Sure - there is bad stuff in this film, and Walken's character is almost too eccentric to take.  But if you want a sit-alone-in-the-dark film that isn't Hollywood or hack/slash and will scare the snot out of you, give it a try. "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christopher Walken gets an anal probe in this alien abduction movie. This movie (and the original book) is actually the origin of that bit of alien lore. The film is not that good. It kind of has the opposite problem of Fire in the Sky. There are a lot of scenes with the aliens, but they're quite poorly done. The aliens look like crap. The big skinny ones (the grays) look like balloons (like Fire in the Sky, it's suggested that these are actually aliens wearing space suits) and the short, stumpy ones look like rejected costumes from a Star Wars rip-off (one of them always has its lips pursed, because, you know, that's the way the animatronic mask was made). The alien scene at the end also gets pretty silly, with the aliens dancing with Walken and high fiving him. Walken himself is pretty good. Definitely Walken at his hammiest, but I think the film would have been unbearably boring if he hadn't gone that way. "},{"Title":"Night Visitors","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Based on the true story best selling book of the same name Communion has to do with the Strieber family in general and Whitley Strieber, Christopher Walken,in particular. Strieber claims to have been both contacted and abducted by aliens from outer space who have been conducting experiments with his genetic code or makeup since he was a little boy back in Texas! This all came back to Streiber after his latest abduction at his cabin in upstate New York in October 1985 when he was straying there with his wife Anne, Lindsay Crouse, ten year old son Andrews, Joel Carlson, and two friends Alex & Sarah, Andreas Katsulas & Terri Hanauer.Coming back home to New York City Streiber starts getting nightmares about his encounter in upstate New York and slowly starts to lose it. Thinking that he's going insane Streiber with his wife Anne insistence goes to see shrink or psychiatrist Dr.Janet Duffy, Frances Sternhagen, who deals with the kinds of mental problems that Strieber is now going through. It's when he learns that what he went through is very common among people who claim to be victims of alien abductions that Strieber really starts to freak out! It's then that all of Strieber's suppressed memories of his being abducted over the years by aliens from outer space starts to resurfaces in his by now very troubled mind. And with that Strieber instead of running away from them starts to confront his kidnappers and with that slowly learns the real reasons for their actions which is, if true, nothing short of mind boggling to say the least!The movie based on Whitley Striebers book and screenplay has developed over the years a large cult following among the UFO and alien abduction community. Strieber himself is fully convinced that he as well as thousands of other alien abductees are having their DNA material manipulated by aliens who are incapable of reproduction on their own! The aliens are using Streiber and other selected abductee's DNA material to create a hybrid race by somehow interbreeding with human beings, through artificial insemination, in order to keep them from dying out. If this is true the human race has no control of its own destiny or future and in fact may have been artificially created by the aliens themselves just to save them from becoming extinct. True or not the movie as well as book makes interesting reading as well as watching. "},{"Title":"An intelligent but flawed film is worth seeing for the intriguing premise and Walken's role.","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" An successful novelist Whitley Strieber (Oscar-WinnerChristopher Walken), who finds himself being visited by strange creatures from another world in his cabin at the woods from the state of New York. Is this unexplained phenomenon on his mind ? or the strange visitors are for real ? Directed by Phillipe Mora (The Howling Part 2 and Part 3, The Beast Within, Mad Dog Morgan) made an effective psychological drama that is occasionally eerie, suspenseful and even darkly humorous. Walken is excellent in the role of the true-life writer. Which Striber claims that the story is true! This independently made film is well acted and keeps your interests for making up for the movie's occasional flaws.DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an fine digitally remastered Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an fascinating commentary track by the director and President of UFO Publishing on UFO MagazineWilliam J. Birnes. DVD also includes outtakes with commentary by the director, two theatrical trailers and more. Communion is truly an flawed film but director Mora and screenwriter Strieber (Based on his Best Selling Novel) keeps you on the edge of your seat. It's more of a mystery psychological drama than an science fiction film but it does works both ways for the viewers.It was an box office disappointment, the reviews from critics were mixed but it went on to be an Cult Classic on video. This is an intelligent movie that should not be missed and it's Mora's best picture so far. Strong music score by Eric Clapton (Lethal Weapon Series, Homeboy, Rush) and Allan Zavod. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"What is the truth behind alien abductions?","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is an extraordinary film which portrays the intense experience that victims of 'alien abduction' go through. This is a well documented phenomenon and the descriptions from people who believe they have undergone them have much in common. The subject was even researched by a professor at Harvard, the late Dr. John E. Mack, which ended up putting his career on the line. Dr Mack believed he was near to the truth about what was happening and this film may also be a step in the right direction towards a definitive explanation. Christopher Walken is superb in the role of Whitley Streiber, a rather wacky and annoying New York writer, who encounters alien beings at his country house. The first sight he has of the creature in his bedroom is one of the most intensely frightening scenes ever filmed and is the beginning of the real life nightmare Strieber and his family are then plunged into. Their further experiences are in turn scary, comic and disturbing and the film offers no easy answers as to exactly what this all means. There is however a lot of food for thought and anyone with the slightest interest in the subject of alien abductions should watch it. "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken's best performance","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Wow! If you haven't seen this flick and your a big fan of Christopher Walken, you're in for a treat. Walken plays one of the most bizarre characters in this film. Not only does he get abducted by aliens but he himself is out of this world when it comes to his personality. Check it out, you're gonna love it. "},{"Title":"A poor representation of the book","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Whitley Strieber's book is a completely different experience than this movie.Many of the incidents portrayed in the movie do not adequately convey the emotions and actions of the principals. There are also scenes that are overly stylized, detracting from the enormity of the subject.Christopher Walken, while a fine actor, is completely off in his portrayal of Strieber. Strieber is much more studious, somewhat mild-mannered, yet logically inquisitive.Anyone interested in this film should read Strieber's books -  they are much more intense than the motion picture. "},{"Title":"Did you all see the same movie I did?","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I rented this one again after having remembered enjoying it when I was a  kid.  Man... I don't know what I was thinking back then.  Although there are some very interesting concepts discussed in this film (and moreso in the book), this is just an example of a good idea poorly executed.  Horrible special effects (the blue creatures are especially laughable) are one of the films biggest flaws, but the absolute biggest flaw of them all is Walken's portrayal of Streiber.  I almost couldn't watch the movie because his character was so annoying and, as another poster mention, goofy.  Someone smack that stupid hat off his head, please.  Maybe it was just the writing, but I actually found most of the performances, Walken's included, pretty bad... Again, I think this is probably just do to really poorly written dialogue.  It'd be nice to see someone redo this one.  "},{"Title":"What are we to believe?","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Ever read 'The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe'?  Remember that scene where Peter and Susan talk to the professor because they're worried about Lucy? Lucy claims that she visited another world by stepping inside a wardrobe. The professor responds by stating quite logically, either she is lying, she is mad, or she is telling the truth.  Lucy is quite a truthful person, and one only needs to look at her to see that she is not mad.  Therefore for now we must assume that she is telling the truth.That statement perfectly describes Whitley Strieber's very strange case. If he is lying, then why has he passed numerous lie detector tests?  If he is crazy, then why have numerous doctors failed to diagnose him with schizophrenia, temporal lobe epilepsy, etc.  And why have numerous people had strange experiences at his cabin?  As Arthur Conan Doyle once said, Once you rule out the impossible...I would highly recommend people watch this very scary film.  The scenes at Strieber's cabin and while he is hypnotized were really creepy.  They left a lasting impression on me.  Christopher Walken gives a compelling performance as Whitley Strieber (Strieber probably isn't this eccentric in real life).I wish I could say this film was perfect but this was not so.  The scenes in between the 'abduction' sequences were less compelling, and the film drags on at least ten minutes past when it should have ended.  Still the film is a good introduction to the alien abduction phenomenon and to Strieber's book. It may make you leave the lights on at night. "},{"Title":"Communion (1989)","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Communion is a bizarre and conflicted treat. I believe a number of those involved with the making of the film had differing ideas as to what the film was about and what was fact. Walken plays Whitley Strieber, a man that investigates his supposed encounters with aliens. Strieber reportedly told Walken he was playing the role too crazy to which Walken replied If the shoe fits.... This sums up the difficult story being told here. The film never gives a clear answer on what the truth is, nor which characters believe what. It's more an examination of reality, imagination, truth, and all out mental psychological weirdness. It begins as a rather terrifying film. The aliens (fake looking) appear bit by bit, and their simplicity adds an artificial and uncomfortable atmosphere. It becomes apparent that the aliens are meant to look fake, as they are later used as a tool for identity and realism. We see other aliens wearing alien masks and the lack of realism lures us into a bizarre, comical and unsettling world. Communion is a confusing film, but if you are willing to let a film punch your brain you should seek it out. Comes with a haunting main theme by Eric Clapton. "}{"Title":"To be abducted or not to be abducted","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" -- The BookI just read the book last month, and it was a very anticipated read (with me having seen the movie years prior and the book being a best seller and all). And in this case, I wasn't all that thrilled after reading it. Don't get me wrong, it's a great book. Whitley has a clever writing-style. He fights a constant psychological battle, on the one hand coming up with evidence that he really was abducted by aliens, while otherwise trying to refute the experience with other, more rational explanations. He also, at times, delves into folklore and mythology, though he only scratches the tip of the iceberg and doesn't really develop nor support any theories. This book's really about him and his experience. Makes up for an interesting read, but the downside is, that the book becomes very repetitive after a while. Strieber keeps on going over the same events that happened on two nights in such a way that after a while he really isn't adding anything new. Not a new angle, nor a new light on the matter. And at such times, it gets a little harder to sit through his whole story. Nevertheless, it's an interesting read, and great material to compare to the screenplay of the movie (also written by Strieber).-- The MovieThe 1989 adaptation is one that grew on me. I just finished watching it for the 3rd time (after quite some years), and I like it better now. The film itself is actually more entertaining than the book, so again, Strieber managed to write a clever adaptation. True, near the end the story gets quite fragmented, and results more in the telling of anecdotes than actually trying to wrap up an already incoherent story (note that I'm not using the word 'inconsistent', because Strieber is very consistent in his way of telling the events, both in the book and the movie). It's fun, though, noticing little details that he left out of the movie. Sometimes Strieber devoted a whole chapter in the book to a certain anecdote, while in the movie it gets reduced to nothing more than one line of dialogue (obviously carrying a lot more weight than you'd at first imagine). Christopher Walken plays Strieber, and he simply owns the film. It's great to see him walk and talk through this whole movie. The special effects are really neat and surreal at times, which fits the atmosphere of the movie. I'd say COMMUNION is really worth a watch. Reading the book gives you a more in-depth look on what happened and might help you to understand how the movie came to be. "},{"Title":"Communion","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" There's a close contest between the other-worldly beings and Christopher Walken as to who is creepiest in this (allegedly true) tale of a writer who isn't sure if he's being visited by aliens or by insanity. It doesn't help that the creatures are referred to at one point as the little blue doctors, and in this is the essence of the movie &#150; never has there been such a fine line between being scared and in hysterics, simultaneously. The visitations are eerie, dream-like events that are sometimes unsettling although there is also a mildly ridiculous feel to the proceedings which lends these scenes a strange narcotic quality. The plot itself is primarily concerned with Walken's character and his gradual mental collapse, along with the strain his behaviour has on his wife and child. Walken is predictably fascinating as a seriously eccentric author, and is supported by an assured cast.80% - Close Encounters, 10% - Hunter Thomson, 10% - Weird dreams, "},{"Title":"Had potential, but misfires pretty badly","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" In 1985, sci-fi novelist Whitney Striber had a dream which led to a close encounter. It became the subject for his book 'Communion' which became a best-seller. Four years later he gives us this. True story though it may be, it is clearly too personal for Striber to manipulate (even just a little bit) to make it the right shape and form for a movie. Instead it remains too abstract, and subsequently clumsy. But that is only half the problem.Communion wins my award for biggest miscast in cinema history. Christopher Walken does everything wrong, starting with the way he delivers his dialogue. He is not even remotely engaged in the story, he is emotionally dead. Walken is portraying somebody who went though what must've been the most traumatic experience that a person could have. The only time he comes close to showing signs of trauma is his ability to make himself cry (a little) at the end of one scene. Next, there is the matter of visual effects. If you were to walk into a room where this was on TV, and up to the part when we meet the 'little blue doctors' and their slightly taller, skinnier red-skinned cousins, you might think you were watching an Ed Wood flick, or something from that decade. Looking at these creatures, one is more likely to think they are cute rather than creepy or surreal. Anything that looks like rubber on strings belongs in a puppet theatre, not in a sci-fi thriller.I guess the only crew member who did a competent job in their field is Eric Clapton, who wrote a good theme for an otherwise mediocre score. Communion has much potential, but sadly it ends up being one of those films that you are glad when it is over. "},{"Title":"above average WARNING!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" above average flick is quite creepy at times with beautiful images that are sometimes down right moody and creepy it also had good character development and the acting was amazing Christopher Walken was astonishing here in my opinion he is this film and he alone makes this worth watching he was creepy funny all at the same time i cared for him and his character and i felt for him when he went through these things Lindsay Crouse is good as the caring and concerned wife she gives a credible performance and is likable good job! this also had cool visuals but that kid annoyed me and thought he was a bit of a brat there is a couple of cool moments when Walken goes and see's the hypnotist and another cool moment when he grabs a gun and fires it in his house the ending however was quite disappointing but overall this was a engaging time that is quite intelligent if only not for that weak ending *** Out of 5 skirts a **1/2 because of that weak ending but i was engaged the whole way so it gets a *** "},{"Title":"Scary, but then funny, at the same time!!!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  You have to watch this movie for the pure enjoyment of witnessing Christopher Walken do his thing... The special effects are cheesy at times, and the wife and child are two of the worst characters and actors I've ever seen.  Honestly, I thought many of the effects worked and the suspense was skillfully crafted, but the hypnosis scenes were where the movie began to go downhill.  Still, hearing Walken describe the abduction and even utter the words rectal probe was worth the price of admission.  Make a night of it by pairing this movie up with Brainstorm another classic Christopher Walken performance.  7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Communion left me immensly disturbed and profoundly changed.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was a kid. Only two movies have images and scenes that will stay with me forever. One is 'Saving Private Ryan' which I was devastated by just last year in my 20's, an the other is 'Communion'.Telling people to see this film just doesn't work, it really is something you have to discover yourself. Also seems like one of those films you either 'get' or 'dont'. I've had two types of reactions from friends/people I've told to see this film1. What a hokey piece of rubbish, etc...or2. Why did you make me watch that? I can't sleep now.I'm became a complete Walken fan after this movie (my first Walken experience if you will), and I won't reiterate the already spot-on comments. The kid in the film is incredibly amazing and real too, however Lindsay Crouse lets Walken influence her too much (starts doing a Walken at one point). Only failing of the film.So many classic lines...Well, look, the thing is, if you're reading this trying to figure out whether or not to hire this video, I have these words of advice. You'll either hate it, or...I've seen 'Fire in the Sky', I've watched and been a fan of 'The X-Files' since the beginning, I've seen that Roswell movie with Kyle MacLauchlan, and that TV special 'Intruders'... none of them have been able to do what Communion did. I've never been abducted by aliens, and I hope to God I never am, but god damn 'Communion' is the only movie I have ever seen that has absolutely captured the primal fear, freaky mind-bending bizareness, and profoundly life changing aspects of what one of those experiences might possibly be like. Those aliens are the single most evil special effects I've ever seen, with their black eyes. And as you just begin to laugh slightly and think Walken is freaker than them, the mood just -turns- sickeningly... ok, I've said enough.Watch it alone, with the lights out, very late at night, and it may very well change your life.My vote for the most underrated film of all time. Definitely one of the most disturbing, and I'll never, ever look at the corner of my cupboard in my bedroom at night the same way again. ) "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken dancing with aliens","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie is just insane...I don't know were to start, its supposed to be about alien abduction but it goes beyond to weird territory, i honestly saw Chistopher Walken become Tommy Wissau in some scenes, it is so surreal you think your watching a comedy when its supposed to be science fiction, i don't know what was in the directors mind when he mixed aliens and Christopher Walken, we get one of the most insane movies ever made i don't know if to compare it with Brazil or Eraser head.Its not bad or good its in a rating limbo, you have to see it for yourself to believe what your watching and trying to make sense of it, its entertaining specially if you like strange premises, i honestly would say give it a watch and judge it for the craziness that it is "},{"Title":"Worthwhile for camp value","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christopher Walken gives a distractingly bizarre performance in this trippy alien abduction movie. At times, he is bizarre and manic, going from a Dad joke making fuddy dud, to a somewhat menacing dangerous character (such as when he shoots up his home, and receives a muted reaction from his wife). He seems unfocused and indecisive, as he is both convinced of his alien abduction but on the fence about receiving therapy. This kind of day to day indecision may be common in real life, but it is odd to see a character change his mind with each scene in a movie. As in Fire in the Sky, the characters' positive traits are overemphasized so as to make them seem like everyday Americans and not alien abduction kooks. This is somewhat undone by the strange nature of Walken's performance. The director also throws in seeming Easter eggs to cast doubts on the story, throwing in references to alcohol and making the dream sequences ridiculous, campy and trippy. We also know the lead character is a writer, and that this would make a compelling book. At one point, when Walken is journeying to the cabin to perhaps commune with the aliens again, he is passed by a Miller Lite truck. The dream sequences are some of the most bizarre I've seen committed to film. They are trippier than David Lynch, and various camp musicals like The Apple. There are costumed gorilla aliens and dancing slim aliens that invite Walken to an orgy replete with anal probing, all while Walken recites lyrics from The Beatles. This makes it rather hard to believe. I have heard the author feels that the movie was not entirely accurate to his story, but his name is all over it, so he could have exercised greater control. I can only recommend this as a camp film. I will say it is far more entertaining than Fire in the Sky, but the one alien scene we get in Fire in the Sky is more frightening than the alien activity we see here. "},{"Title":"Unsettling and silly","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Nice attempt this. What seems to be a honest take on a probably manufactured story concerning aliens, or just supernatural creatures(don't remember really seeing a UFO), and its impact on a family's life. part horror, part drama.How unsettling it is relies entirely on how you feel about aliens and abduction. The subject matter terrifies me, and therefore, it had me incredible uncomfortable during the first visit of the aliens. Its such a pleasure to see Cristopher Walker here, sitting around in different positions with clinched jaws. The director makes a tremendous job at presenting the abduction as a metaphysical and psychological collapse that clearly wont be remembered by the ones involved. Creepy.As the film progresses some of this visitors turn out to look a bit like hooded Ewokds and it brings the experience down. Actually its quite interesting. These creatures are not as frightening as the grays, but logically, they are really not more unrealistic and silly. It kinda highlights how ridiculous this whole fear we have are. But for some (read the Paralysed Sleep thread on the board here) they might be very frightening.Its still a pretty interesting film. The effects has aged well. "},{"Title":"Is that someone there?","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Communion is directed by Phillipe Mora and adapted for the screen by Whitley Strieber from his own book of the same name. It stars Christopher Walken, Lindsay Crouse and Francis Sternhagen. Theme music is by Eric Clapton, with the musical score by Allan Zavod. Photography is by Louis Irving, with locations for filming at Big Bear Valley and Running Springs in California.Based on the true story of one American family It continues to be a controversial movie to this very day, its subject matter, that of alien abduction/experiments, one that ensures the most divisive of audiences. Director Mora insists it's a film for those of an open mind, triumphantly proclaiming that he made a deliberately ambiguous and agnostic film against the big studios wishes. The trouble here is not in the subject matter, for it is a fascinating story, true or not, the problem is that the director isn't sure what to do with such material. In his attempt to flip the finger at the big wigs refusing to back his movie, he's made a mess of a picture. At times genuinely creepy, potent even, at others laughable and tacky. Were it not for a powerhouse eccentric performance from Walken, this would not be worthy of further inspection. It also feels like a collage of other sub-genre movies, eschewing the philosophy and scientific theories of Strieber's best selling book, in favour of Walken wielding a shotgun and freaking out under the inevitable hypnosis treatment. Strieber would later claim dissatisfaction with the movie, which while consistent with his own inconsistencies, is quite understandable. Because whether you believe or not, at the core is an intriguing and provocative story, sadly this film, in trying to be smug, loses the plot quite early on. 5/10 "}{"Title":"a long list of turkeys","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" So now that Christopher Walken is a star, let's see if we can dig up any old tapes and market them. This is a series of ancient, poor quality copies of Mr. Walken's earliest work. You'll find only the slightest hints of the whimsy and slapstick which defines a later-day Christopher Walken film. Communion is devoid of dialogue or context was there any evolution of style or experience? What were the production dates? Will these actors appear again in later films? You might wonder, and after that throw it in the bin. And you'll never know. Truly disappointing. "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken is... fill in the blank if you please","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" I don't think Communion would work nearly as well, in its own sort of warped-entertaining way, without Christopher Walken. Its budget would appear to be pretty low despite the pyrotechnics and veneer of effects; watch those scenes with the aliens, as weirdly cute and obviously fake as they are, for proof of that. And other actors around him, including Lindsay Crouse as the main character's wife and their son Andrew (Joel Carson), don't impress much except in their rigid one-dimensional parts, she as the shrill wife, he the precocious/scared kid.So it falls on Walken to steal the show, and really, how could he not with this? Another actor might play Whitley Streiber- named after the author and supposedly based on the author's actual experiences with aliens- with a straight face, maybe like Richard Drefuss in Close Encounters of the Third Kind, a down-to-earth father and husband who is good to his kid (more or less) and loves his wife and has wisecracks and an original sensibility as a novelist to spare. But Walken, when he walks in (see what I did there), does his own thing with his unique, sometimes awkward and hilarious vocal inflections, and a way of looking at things that can be over the top as dead-pan, if that makes sense.Actually, to give a better example of what Walken can do here better than anyone, watch the scenes where he reacts first to the blazing lights of the alien ships (a kind of detached amusement, some interest when his son screams, and even a smirk of hah, you don't amuse, me to the aliens when they arrive). Then, when he's on the ship, oh boy this is when we get to the bizarre stuff, as Walken talks to the camera (I am me, I am here, we are all together like in I Am the Walrus or something), or sits back reading a magazine, or has an ambiguous response to the aliens advances with shaking hands. Probing him, of course, turns out to be another matter, albeit we see this all when Whitley is under hypnosis.So a lot of this, plus some random scenes where we see Whitley's writing process writing under different characters and voices on a monitor, or those hypnosis scenes (or a classic scene where he sees everyone on a bus as a giant bug - Walken in the midst of sci-fi comedy Kafka), makes for some classic Christopher Walken bits. Hell, the guy even dances from time to time! This and a few creative touches as director from Philippe Mora help make this a kind of guilty pleasure. I can't recommend it the same way I could Close Encounters, since that one genuinely inspires and awes and gives great performances and music. This one has Eric Clapton on an off-day, low-rent alien fx and lighting cues, and it just kind of... ends really, on a note that should have been a few minutes before. But if you love Walken being Walken, and want some cheesy alien-abduction sci-fi, you can surely look here for the goods - certainly it's a big step up from a more recent self-serious true story alien movie, The Fourth Kind. "},{"Title":"I don't know who's scarier &#x85; Christopher Walken or Abducting Aliens.","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" From the writer of Wolfen and The Hunger, two somewhat awkward but nevertheless genuine horror tales, comes this truly outlandish and unclassifiable amalgam of Sci-Fi, thriller and family drama that I still haven't figured out how to properly rate even though I saw it several days ago and did a whole lot of contemplating since. Whitley Strieber, who turned his own novel into a screenplay and co-produced the film, unceasingly claims that Communion is based on his very own experiences as being the target of alien abduction and examination. Now this given could easily be dismissed as a cuckoo and sensational gimmick to promote the film, but simultaneously you can't deny that Strieber and director Philippe Mora (The Beast Within, The Howling II) attempted &#x96; and mainly succeeded &#x96; to insert a lot more psychological depth and feeling into this film than usually the case with alien movies. Communion is, above all, an extremely weird film and undeniably one that provokes thoughts and opinions that go far beyond the experiences you usually have when watching late 80's movies that deal with extraterrestrial encounters. The author Whitley Strieber is depicted by Christopher Walken &#x96; I'll get back to his unforgettable performance later &#x96; and the movie begins somewhere early October 1985. During a series of recesses at their country cabin, whether with friends or just with his family, Whitley has meetings with two types of alien visitors &#x96; the stereotypical large black-eyed ones and little blue monsters &#x96; that thoroughly subject him to painful and psychologically devastating examinations. Since Whitley doesn't recall these meeting but obviously alter his mental state of mind, he eventually agrees to relive them via hypnosis sessions. The revelations that come to the surface during these sessions are amazing and fantastic, to say the least&#x85; This film's greatest trump is inarguably how it forces you to identify with the supportive characters. Not the protagonist himself, as he's obviously a character you can't easily relate to, but his wife or his doctor. Personally, I'm not a believer in extraterrestrial life myself, but that doesn't matter because you are only supposed to accept that Whitley Strieber strongly believes all the ordeals that he's hallucinating about. It's quite remarkable how Strieber and Mora manage to put the emphasis on the impact that Whitley's behavior has on his social life, rather than on the actual alien encounters itself. I haven't read it myself, but a friend of mine assured me that the novel digs even deeper into the psychological aspects, so if you're into complex protagonist portrayals you might want to check out the book. If half of the film's power relies on atmosphere, than the other half definitely relies on Christopher Walken's performance! Walken is famous for his outrageous performances and eccentric characters, but he truly surpasses himself as Whitley Strieber. The stereotypical maniac and certifiable crazy person that you know as Christopher Walken &#x96; and how he's often imitated by fellow celebrities like Kevin Pollack and Kevin Spacey &#x96; fully came to life on the set of Communion, I presume. He yells, stares creepily, pauses between words and pulls petrifying faces almost like he's spoofing his own personality. In an attempt to appeal to an as versatile as possible audience, Communion loses a lot of its credibility and ingenuity near the end, with sequences that are just exaggeratedly demented and special effects that ruin the surreal ambiance. The last fifteen minutes are overlong and sorely disappointing. Also, on a lesser important note, you better not have seen the pilot episode of South Park too many times, otherwise you can't help comparing Whitley Strieber's alien encounters with the anal probes that Eric Cartman had. "},{"Title":"Worst Walken film","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" To me Communion was a disappointment. I expected more of a Christopher Walken film, although all great actors have made lesser films. When I saw a clip of the film I thought it would be really scary but only parts of it were. It starts out well but the second time he meets the aliens it just starts to get funny. Ther'e not scary or even believable as abductors. They look like cheap little blue copies of Jabba The Hutt! The ''greys'' in the movie were scary but later on you only get funny looking orange versions of them. I like Christopher Walken as an actor but this is definitely his worst picture. They only thing good about it was the little boys acting he was great and at such a young age. A well deserved award "},{"Title":"A major disappointment","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I found this film to be a major disappointment, especially since the book had a powerful effect on me, and the director is a friend of the author. The character of Whitley Strieber as played by Chris Walken is unrecognizably goofy to me, and the effects photography fail over and over to capture the imagery of the book.  Strieber has referred many times to the high strangeness of his experiences, but as depicted here they often seem merely silly. "},{"Title":"Changed my rating of Communion - and why...","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" I've been on an alien movie kick of late, having recently seen (in no particular order), Fire In The Sky, Night Skies, Altered, The Forgotten, and Fourth Kind. All as an adult. As a child, alien movies were the few types of movies that would give me nightmares. I wasn't sure if I'd ever seen Communion before. Turns out I would've NEVER forgotten this movie. As I was watching it, with most movies I start with a 7 (by default) and adjust upward or downward based upon if there's something I actively like or dislike about it. As I was watching this, I started with a '10' due to impact, atmosphere (I loved the NY ooze of Christopher Walken and Lindsay Crouse and the 1989 vibe as 1989 was a magical year for me - I just never realized it back then), message, blending of genres, and potential for being memorable to me (kinda like impact, lol). And I immediately deducted 1 point each for a) a slightly meandering plot/very occasional dragging and b) I personally thought the short grays looked stupid/comic and the floating aliens too undetailed compared to some of the other movies. And thus thought I rated the movie an '8'. Quite respectable. After sleeping on it, I decided to read what others said about Communion on IMDb (reviews and message board threads), and was surprised to realize I actually rated it a '9'. I decided b) above was a bogus deduction as who the hell am I to think the aliens looked silly if this was a movie really based upon a reputable guy who did NOT just cook these things up for intriguing movie effect? When I came back, as I'm reading IMDb because I'm more eager to read other's thoughts, have searched Google for Whitley Strieber, and now will probably read all Whitley Strieber novels based upon true (to him) encounters. Then I looked at my own voting history and looked at the few other movies I rated a '10'. All were due to impact and overall plot issues to me. And I finally gave this movie a '10' as although it still is NOT perfect, uh, it's impact on me actually was as memorably great as the others. For comparison, here's the other movies I rated a '10' (no flames please), will probably discuss more about Communion as I truly grooved to it Falling Down (1993), Hard Candy (2005), Mr. Brooks (2007), Taking Lives (2004), Tape (2001), The Butterfly Effect (2004), Vanilla Sky (2001), Babel (2006)(The only movie above that I was truly shocked when I realized I'd rated it in that lofty '10' category was Taking Lives. As it didn't pass the impact test as I barely remember what that movie was about - how's that for amnesia impact? But changing that to an '8' or '9' for that? Nah, lol) "},{"Title":"Walken in Dreamland","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" I saw this in original release and recently viewed it again with a friend who'd never seen it. What I remembered about the film was obvious in seeing it again. This is the most bizarre performance Christopher Walken has ever given on screen. It's as though he personally finds the story insanely funny (and for many, Streiber's visitors in the night schtick is a joke), and he seems to be winking at the audience and barely restraining himself from rolling his eyes. Whether or not this movie works for you depends almost solely on whether you buy into Streiber's personal alien abduction mythology. I don't. Alien abduction may be an open question, but I see Streiber as an opportunistic huckster. So for me the film is third-rate sci fi. It's a little spooky in the beginning, but as it unfolds you'll understand why Walken seems to be laughing at a private joke all the way through the movie. "},{"Title":"Some eerie moments in forgettable sci-fi thriller","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Novelist Whitley Strieber adapted his own book to the screen, a non-fiction account of his encounter with aliens. Occasionally intense and haunting piece about alien-abduction which doesn't hold back on the probing details and bug-eyed little green men. Christopher Walken plays Strieber as an unassuming family man who suffers the alien encounter while vacationing in the country. First-half of the film is quite intriguing, but it begins to unravel from there, becoming 'surreal' in the worst sense. The director, Philippe Mora, has a good eye, but he drops the ball, letting the project become murky and disjointed, and ultimately unabsorbing for the audience. Certainly worth a look for Walken's fans (he's solid, as usual). Lindsey Crouse is also fine as Strieber's wife and it's always nice to see Frances Sternhagen's work, here playing another in her stable of medical professionals. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Rated R for Rectal Probing","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  As the credits rolled for Communion it instantly entered my top ten worst films ever.Having read some of the other comments about this film it seems it actually makes sense to some people. Myself I spent the entire film waiting for some kind of continuity or sensibility to enter the picture and bring about closure of some sort, any sort! I waited in vain, instead at the end of the film we receive dreadful monologues by Walken and that appalling woman about the nature of the Universe and the feasibility/ possibility of extra terrestrial intelligence. Considering these were questions that were being asked almost at the beginning of the film the whole exercise has been a pointless one.And a painful pointless exercise at that! Some of the other comments have alluded to the Excellent and not at all hokey special effects. These viewers must be suffering from severe eyeball removal. The effects were dreadful! Midgets in cheap latex suits with about two different mouth movements and dodgy looking eye blinks do not make me scared! Rubbery looking Roswell Aliens floating about on fishing wire being jiggled off screen by someone in a vain attempt to provide articulation do not make me cower in fear, rather they make me double over in bouts of painful laughter!The whole premise seemed dreamt up by someone who lives a very comfortable life in New York and doesn't get out much. Considering the main character is a writer and the film was written and produced by the author of the book it was adapted from we can see where things started to go wrong. Comfortable New York apartments do not make good staging grounds for musings on the nature of the universe and the possibility of extra terrestrials. Could that support group have been made up of a more annoying and less theatrically gifted bunch of people? Does everyone in New York simply swan about to endless cocktail parties, children's nativity shows, mountain retreats etc? Where were the real people in this film??And what was with that Kid!? Just how much pain did the filmmakers wish to inflict upon me? The dialogue that came out of that shiny-eyed little weirdo's mouth was so unrealistic it wasn't funny.Avoid this film at all costs, or use to inflict pain on someone you dislike.  "},{"Title":"Bizarre","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a very bizarre little movie in every way. I can't say it's particularly good or that scary, and it's rather boring in some parts. But, just for it's strangeness it's somewhat interesting. I read the book, and this movie is different in some ways (I don't remember any blue guys in the book, for example), which is odd because Strieber wrote the screenplay. But I think Strieber is probably full of crap, anyway. He's being abducted straight to the bank. He keeps remembering new wacked things every couple of years so he can put out a new book. The book, incidentally, is even crazier than the movie.Anyway, watching these characters is like watching psychotic lunatics you don't know. Are they dangerous? What should you expect? What the hell are they going to do next? As for the aliens, they don't make that many appearances and when they do, the scenes are more bizarre-o than scary. Although the blue guys at the end did freak me out when they shot their hands out and freaky music played, but it was disturbing and irritating.I don't recommend this film if you're looking for something scary, but if you're into UFO stuff you might want to have a look at it.  "}{"Title":"Good alien movie with Christopher Walken","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Communion is a good alien movie that's based on a true story. Christopher Walken was very good. I don't want to get into the film much but I will say that the film can be quite scary sometimes especially with that haunting music! The film is entertaining and interesting! The box is beautiful! I believe this story as I believe in aliens and the unknown! That's all I can say without spoiling it. I can say I strongly recommend you see Communion!Movie Nuttball's note If you like alien movies I also recommend the following films The UFO Incident, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, E.T. the Extra- Terrestrial, Time Walker, Invaders from Mars, Fire in the Sky, Independence Day, The Arrival, Xtro 3 Watch the Skies, Life Form, Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, Predator, and Predator 2! "},{"Title":"If it wasn't for Walken, I would have been walken'...out of the theater","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If it wasn't for Walken, I would have been walken'...out of the theater.  He was the lone savior of this film.  I can't believe Whitley Streiber was actively involved in this film.  His book was excellent, the movie is another story.  This visual atrocity completely does his book an injustice. I understand dressing up certain aspects of the film to make it more appealing, but come on.  They should have at least tried to stay within the scope of the text and support the basic premise of the book.  There was a tremendous intellectual and philosophical upside to Communion that just didn't come out on film.  Instead, the viewer gets ninety minutes of choppy, inadequate details that mostly go unexplained.  Need I even mention the cheesey aliens.  They looked like something out of Willy Wonka.  Shame on you Whitley for allowing this to happen. "},{"Title":"Almost a comedy","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" A family (and another couple) spend a night at their country house, where they all get spooked by unknown night-time events. Back for Christmas and more spookiness ensues for the family; especially for husband and father Whitley (Christopher Walken's character) ... what could be going on?If you saw the cover art you already have a pretty clear idea about what this film is about, but it takes its excruciating time to get to the lacklustre punchline. After undergoing hypnotherapy and sitting in on a support group for probing victims, Whitelty finds a way to high-five the aliens and turn the experience from sinister to light-hearted. Christopher Walken tries so very hard to be this lovable zany hipster, but his performance ends up as irretrievably irritating. He gets even more grating as slowly, slowly the audience is let in on the old ET probe story. Walken comes across as a demented Groucho Marx, but the real comedy starts with the woeful special effects.Bright lights are about as good as the special effects get. The phallic 'probe' that slides through the wall is almost hilarious, and the aliens were so fake-looking it is very hard to take them seriously.Overall the film comes off as an amateur production, and I'd advise anyone to avoid it like the plague ... unless you want to laugh out loud at the pathetic aliens or the massive phallic probe. Whitley Strieber (the main character) was apparently trying to write the great American novel as these events unfurled. Funny that. I just don't buy his formulaic story or this lame duck of a movie. Avoid both. "},{"Title":"Fun job","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was the Elec. BestBoy. It was a casual show (good for non-union), we all had fun, nobody got hurt, and it was a summer of work during the Writers' strike of '88 (or whenever that one was). I can't say it was a great movie, but Walken is an ........................ interesting fella. Good. For the alien exam sequence (shot at the HW Athletic Club while it was being rebuilt) I took some great (if I say so!) photos of him and Mora in the set. Kodak Tmax 3200 looked good! No still man on the show, no real publicist, no pix; whatever. Worth renting? No. Good times.Oh my, that was only three lines of text, and they want ten. Guess I need to hit 'return' more often. Anyway, the gaffer was Kevin Williams. I wonder what he's doing these days. Last I talked to him, he was fixing up houses in Bakersfield or something. Fun guy; may he find his way. Is this enough now? "},{"Title":"defining film","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  For me, Communion is one of the few films I can say have had a profound effect on me.  No, not because I was looking for aliens around every corner after watching it.  Exactly the opposite.  I forced myself to watch this film when I was 15 and it was airing on FOX one night.  From the time I was nine on, I had a terrible fear of aliens.  Couldn't even look at the cartoony faces it was so bad.  Yet, I was fascinated by the UFO phenomenon. When I was eight years old, a reporter named George Knapp here at the local tv station did a five-part series on UFOs that introduced Area 51 to the world.  Before that NO ONE knew about it except military personnel. Knapp's series was a groundbreaker.  I saw every part of it, and it launched my fascination.  But back to the point.  Forcing myself to look at those big black eyes, I was finally able to not lose sleep over aliens for the first time in over six years.  Watching this movie is great therapy for any kid with a UFO phobia.  And that scene with the kid in the bug mask is a classic. "},{"Title":"Read the book.. forget this movie.","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" I read Communion about 16 years ago and the feeling of terror was palpable so I waited with great expectations for this movie to see if Whitley Strieber's vision could be captured on-screen. Unfortunately, this is just a bad film built on a bad screen play.Ilker Yucel's review was interesting to read but I'm not sure how much of his insights bare witness to the truth.... but I enjoyed reading it, Ilker.It would be such a change of pace if the movie, based on a book, could actually match the brilliance of the written word. It is accomplished so rarely. "},{"Title":"If You Like Walken - Yes. If You Don't - No...","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of those films (like Missouri Breaks with Brando, and Vampire Kiss with Nicholas Cage) where a bravura performance is the entire experience. Walken truly gives it his all here, in service to a less-than-stellar narrative in a less-than-stellar films from an almost worthless book.The actual joy of watching this film (and I've viewed it several times now) is that it seems Walken's character is forever commenting on the film itself, with such lines as I've got to get out of here and some ironic looks from Christopher. I assume he knew that he was in a dud, and decided to take the paid ride as far as it would take him.Certainly worth a viewing (or several) for admirers of Walken at his most engaged and energetic. Otherwise...no. "},{"Title":"Never so close to sleep in a 'thriller'","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I tried to watch this piece of trash late one night, and even though I have a profound phobia about alien abduction (no, I'm not lying) I didn't think this was scary and I didn't think it was suspenseful.  The 'special' effects were absolutely idiotic.  I can't believe that anyone would think that those blue creatures were aliens.  I'm getting sleepy just thinking of it.I'm not sure that they weren't trying to make a spoof.  It was _that_ bad. A ridiculous waste of film.1/10  "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Horror","Review":" Some movies are so bad, they're good. This movie is so bad, it's bad.A man is visited by aliens a couple times, and nothing more happens. There are some vaguely entertaining surreal parts, when the main character encounters the aliens (both of which look like cheap X-Com rejects), but the whole fun of the surreality is that a willing viewer can briefly pretend he is not watching Communion and is instead enjoying an ugly acid flashback. The suspense is horribly managed, the acting is terrible, the film has little direction, and when that 103rd minute finally rolls by, the audience is left with nothing more than the back of the box will tell them. Avoid, avoid, avoid. Better than Manos The Hands of Fate, but worse than Death Machine. And not in that fun-to-watch bad movie way, either. "}]