[{"Title":"Wonderful Shirley speaks for us all...","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pauline Collins is my hero.  So is Shirley Valentine.  They really are.  I'm not kidding you.  And I am man.  This movie speaks to me, even so.We all have dreams that have not been realized. We all need Shirley's courage to do as much as we can to live these dreams before we go off to the other place.  This movie taught me about life.  It's not too late to be happy, to be in love, to smile every day and mean it.  No matter what age you are.Conti is charming and it is a shame we don't see him much anymore.  He offers us a type of romantic hero we will never find in a Tom, Hanks or Cruise...too bad.Joanna Lumley brings a special charm to her meeting with Shirley.  Julia Mackenzie is especially good as her annoying friend.  Willy Russell cooked up a wonderful script from the wonderful play. Lewis Gilbert put it all together and worked hard to make us smile.If you don't fall in love with this movie, you'll need a swift kick.  Don't look at me.  You'll have to give it to yourself.  That's the magic and wonder of Shirley Valentine.  She taught me how to kick myself into living!Thank you, Shirley.  Thank you, Pauline, Bill, Willy and Lewis. "},{"Title":"Finding your own reality","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just recommended this movie to a friend who's having her mid-life crisis. Just like Shirley, she can't stop taking care of other people at her own expense. Everyone who reviews this film focuses on its heart-warming qualities, making it sound like Pollyanna. The reality of Shirley Valentine is that it's very grounded in reality. Every moment of the film is fraught with ambiguity, moral and emotional. Shirley's trip to Greece and subsequent adventures are not Hallmark moments. She realizes quite clearly that her fantasies are superimposed on the necessities of reality. She doesn't marry a tycoon she gets a waitress job. She realizes from the get-go that her relationship with Costas is a good-natured fraud. The ending of the movie doesn't answer any questions except How does Shirley feel right at this moment in time? This is not a film about escaping to a fantasy. It's about finding a reality that works for who you really are. Every human being on earth who's dissatisfied with their life should watch this film. "},{"Title":"Engaging and entertaining from start to finish","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I certainly had no trouble relating to Shirley Valentine.  In fact, in a lot of this movie, I thought she was talking straight from my head.  She sees the humour in all the humdrum b.s. of life, and comes out triumphant. Excellent job by director Lewis Gilbert in adapting one-woman show into a movie that did not feel the least bit claustrophobic.  Highly imaginative. I've seen it 3 times now, and will watch again the next time it's on 10/10. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful comment on a fabulous film","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a sweet yet hilariously funny film about a housewife from the north of England, who takes a trip to Greece and finds that there is more to life than the kitchen sink.It's one of those films that should be seen by anyone that has at any point felt that there's something missing in their life or that they've had missed opportunities as you will have great empathy with the main character Shirley. Having said that, it's generally just a great film. Not only does it do a very good job at putting one in Shirley's shoes but it's also a great social comment about an average English persons life.Having said all this, it's one of the funniest films I have ever seen. The humor is ever present throughout the film yet never takes away from the seriousness of Shirley's situation. I found I was smiling to myself all the way through. I particularly liked the way that it pokes fun at the common Englisman's appreciation of foreign hospitality.Each character brings great life to the film particularly Pauline Collins and Tom Conti. Pauline's regular off-the-cuff comments add character to the film while Tom's smarmy approach entwined with his overall role in the story (without wanting to spoil it) make for an excellent watch.Great appearances by Julia McKenzie, Alison Steadman and Joanna Lumley add great depth to Pauline's character whilst adding great comedy and life to the film.Shirley Valentine is a gem of a film and a must see. The style is certainly not Hollywood and it appeals to the same tastes as other English greats such as -The Full Monty-.I give it a strong 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"That's it! I am going to Greece next year","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's been my dream since childhood, since I read for the first time the immortal ancient myths and legends; Greece where the sea is so blue that Aphrodite could be born only from its foam and the sun so gold that it makes the whole country glow with the eternal forever young smile, Greece that the Gods chose as their residence. I always wanted to go but the film Shirley Valentine (1989) directed by Lewis Gilbert and written by Willy Russell (also play) with Pauline Collins has added to my desire to see the magic country.Pauline Collins reprises her Broadway's role as the hilariously charming and unpredictable 45 (or so) year old Liverpool housewife Shirley Valentine &#150; Bradshaw whose life is the humorist Sam Levinson's lament When I was a kid, they told me to do what my parents wanted. When I became a parent, they told me to do what my kids wanted. When do I get to do what I want? until one day she proves to herself that it is never too late to try to make your dream come true. When a friend wins the paid trip to Greece for two, Shirley joins her and finds that Greece is her dream because she always wanted to see the sunset over a blue sea. She says yes to the romance with a handsome Costas Caldes (Tom Conti) who likes her in spite her extra weight, saggy boobs and the stretch marks. She began to like herself, too. Sounds like your typical sloppy romantic comedy, ah? Wait until you see it. This is a wonderful and delightful film - clever, witty, funny, and thought-provoking. And to Roger Ebert goes my question what is wrong with you, man?! "},{"Title":"Getting older doesn't mean getting old","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've often used this film to cheer me up when I feel down.  As I pass through middle age myself, it reminds me that, with the right attitude toward life, the years alone need not make us feel old.Shirley discovers what we all need to learn  if life ain't right, then fix it! "},{"Title":"The Classic Married Person's Midlife-Crisis Comedy","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every woman - and man for that matter - experiencing or approaching their 40s-50s midlife and/or who suspects they are living a stuck-in-a-rut lifestyle ought to be required to see this movie ASAP!! A rare gem that is simultaneously interesting, hilarious AND potentially life-changing! Plus a true feminist statement that is never obnoxious. I wonder how many marriages have been rescued by this film - although some may have been ended by it too. Beats the heck out of most books on the subject. Timeless.He needs to feel the sun on his skin and swim in water that is as deep as forever  "},{"Title":"The greatest journey leads us to ourselves","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shirley had lost herself in the humdrum lifestyle of a housewife with kids grown and an indifferent husband stuck in his own boring routine. She strikes out on a vacation to Greece to get in touch with the girl she once was.  The show worked better as a theatre piece - as a one woman show. Here it gets cluttered up with a lot of characters and Shirley's asides to the camera do not always work.  Pauline Collins is as great in the role as she was on stage.  Greek men seeing this must cringe at the Tom Conte caricature of a Greek lover.  I rated it an 8 for Pauline's performance and the music. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful, beautiful movie!!","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For all of you middle-aged men and women who wonder just who you are, and where you're going; this is the movie for you!! What an insight to the real human spirit!! I've watched this several times and never fail to shed a tear over how I spent my life. This is a MUST DO for any adult struggling to make it. ( Bring a hankie) This is for men also!! The director has touched on the basic human emotion; who are we, why are we here, and most of all; what happened to ME? This movie has addressed so many questions that we all have, being caught up in the every day life, but always wondering-----what if? What a release for us to see that some times a person will follow their dreams! The message here is---Be true to yourself!! "},{"Title":"Life","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For me, this movie Shirley Valentine is about changes! You CAN all ways make your self better person and develop. There are no age groups, or other obstacles but only ourselves. Like in movie Sostiene Pereira, when Pereira in his late 50 or 60 made tremendous change in his life, shocked by death of a young man. But he only made change when he will stop to live in the past. Also when Shirley meets her high school friend decides that she has to move one. Partners should push each other ahead, so as they are getting better, the relationship will be better. Like Shirley I am only sorry that I don't have copy of a movie. Carpe diem! "}{"Title":"One of the great movies.","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the great movies. One of the most satisfying movies you are ever likely to see. Any woman who has been married and reached a certain stage in their life will be able to identify with Shirley Valentine.Pauline Collins gives one of the most memorable performances ever on screen as Shirley. It would be difficult to imagine anybody else in the part. There is so much in this movie. Every scene is a work of art. Shirley Valentine is one of the great heroines simply because she is so real. And we feel for her all the way along.It's also very emotionally charged. In particular the scenes with Joanna Lumley's Marjorie and Shirley are particularly poignant. I won't reveal why. But it's a great scene. But they all are. There is nothing tired about this movie. It is quite simply a masterpiece. A must see. "},{"Title":"We always have steak on a Thursday","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Six years after the success of Educating Rita, writer Willy Russell and director Lewis Gilbert returned to the theme of a Liverpool housewife trapped in an unhappy marriage. There are, of course, differences between the two stories. Rita, a hairdresser, was a young woman in her mid-twenties, who sought an education in literature and culture as a means of escape from her working-class background, much to the disgust of her cheerfully Philistine husband. Shirley is older, a housewife in her early forties and the mother of two grown up children. She and her husband Joe, a successful builder, have already escaped from their working-class backgrounds to prosperous pebbledashed suburbia, although it is notable that their Liverpudlian accents still set them apart from their middle class neighbours.Shirley's main concern is that life is passing her by. We learn from flashbacks that the young Shirley was a wild, rebellious, free-spirited girl and in the early days of her marriage was still fun-loving and unconventional, devotedly in love with her husband. The older Shirley is bored and frustrated, trapped in a marriage which seems to have died. She has fallen out of love with Joe, who has become cold, stingy and bad-tempered. Whereas Shirley hates routine and predictability, Joe thrives on them; in one memorable scene he loses his temper because she has served him egg and chips rather than steak for his tea. (We always have steak on a Thursday. We have chips and egg on a Tuesday). Shirley sees a chance of escape from her routine when her friend Jane wins a holiday for two to Greece in a competition and asks Shirley to come with her. Shirley has never been abroad before (Joe being too mean to pay for foreign holidays), and, after some hesitation, accepts and sets off for Greece without telling her husband. While on holiday she meets, falls for, and has a brief affair with, Costas, a Greek bar owner. At first, he appears to be everything Joe is not- handsome, charming, generous and attentive- but Shirley soon discovers that he is a practised seducer, which is why their affair is only a brief one. The main theme of the film can be seen as Shirley's search for her lost youth, for the person she used to be. The title is, significantly, her maiden name, her married name being Bradshaw. An older woman trying to act like a younger one can often be seen in very negative terms, as in the phrase mutton dressed as lamb; both Joe and Shirley's daughter Millandra disapprove of Jane, largely because she is a single woman in her forties who is still sexually active. There is, however, no reason why trying to recapture one's youth should be seen as something negative. If youth is associated with idealism, unconventionality, joyousness and free-spiritedness, what is wrong with trying to rediscover those qualities? At the end of the film Shirley realises that she has not fallen in love with Costas, but has done something more important. She has fallen in love with life once again. The ending of the film, when Joe goes out to Greece to join her, suggests that they may be reconciled and that their marriage may be rekindled. Russell's original play was a one-woman monologue in which Shirley tells the audience about characters who never actually appear on stage. He and Gilbert clearly felt that this format would not work in the cinema, so the screenplay opens up the action and shows us Joe, Costas and the other characters in the flesh. Nevertheless, some of the devices used in the play are retained. Some scenes are still monologues in which Shirley, lacking anyone to talk to, speaks either to her kitchen wall or to a rock on the beach in Greece, or else addresses the audience directly. Gilbert had used this device in an earlier film, Alfie, in which the hero also frequently speaks direct to camera. Both Russell and Gilbert wanted Pauline Collins, who had played the role on the London stage, as Shirley, and eventually got her, although the producers would have preferred a bigger name. Collins was a well-known stage and television actress in Britain, but had little previous cinema experience. Although the film is no longer a one-woman show, Shirley is still very much at the centre. Her part is much larger than any of the others, and she is on screen, either as her older or her younger self, almost throughout; about the only scenes in which Collins does not appear are the flashback sequences, in which Shirley is played by a younger actress. Most of the other parts are little more than cameos, although there are some very good ones- from Bernard Hill as Joe, from Tom Conti as Costas, Julia McKenzie as Shirley's snobbish neighbour Gillian, whose snobbery takes the form of a permanent game of one-oneupmanship with the rest of humanity, from Alison Steadman as Jane, the sort of feminist whose principles disappear whenever she spots a handsome man, from Sylvia Sims as Shirley's grim headmistress and from Joanna Lumley as her snooty classmate Marjorie who ends up as a high-class hooker. There are also George Costigan and Anna Keaveney as Dougie and Jeannette, the crass, insensitive and insular Mancunian couple who try to take Shirley under their wing in Greece. (Do they represent Russell's comment on the traditional rivalry between Liverpool and Manchester). The British film industry made a number of great films during the eighties, certainly more than it has produced since, and Shirley Valentine was perhaps the last, of these. It combines some sharp social observation, a witty script and an optimistic philosophy of life with a delightful, sympathetic heroine. Collins described Shirley as the part of a lifetime, and it is one that she makes the most of. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Lovely and compassionate movie","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If it weren't for being a little slow paced at times, I would give this a 10. Still, it is a terrific movie. Shirley Valentine is a beautiful, witty, and aging woman who starts to wear from her tiresome and dull life in Manchester, England. However, she doesn't brow beat or turn herself into an us against the world person like most Hollywood actors and actresses do in their characters. Shirley Valentine has flaws and she can poke fun of others in a funny, sensitive way. She loves her husband, but he has become a terrible bore. Her daughter is spoiled. Her neighbor is too prying. Her son is a dreamer.There are flashbacks throughout her life that are hysterical. She remembers in school that she hated this one prissy girl. She hates the class prejudice at the school that condemns her as a dimwit and troublemaker, when she knows that she is better than that. She finally runs into the prissy girl, whom she was so jealous of, and is surprised that she has become a high-class call girl, and secretly admired her for being a person who didn't just take things as they were.She has a feminist friend who invites her along to Greece on holiday, only to prove that she is a fickle ist. In her Manchester blue collar common sense wisdom, Shirley Valentine, knows people better than they know themselves. After all, ists are often failures and weak-willed when it comes to reality. Her feminist friend ends off abandoning her in pursuit of a man (whom she pretends to be bitterly angry with).So, Shirley Valentine is all alone in beautiful Greece, until she meets a terrifically charming Greek. It turns out that he is a tourist seducer, but Valentine doesn't care. He has reawakened her passion for life. One more thing - there is a beautiful scene before Valentine leaves for Greece. Her hubby comes home and flips out when he doesn't get the dinner he wants. He ends up smashing the table, and the food ends up all over his wife's lap. However, in the end, Valentine saves her husband. It is her son that tells him what an incredible bore he has become, and how times have changed, but he hasn't. So, in the end, her husband comes to Greece to look for Valentine, and for them finally to meet on equal terms - as two aging individuals. It was this beauty in the film of not counting out one person from the equation that makes this film so winning. No one is a bad person, but just flawed and needed to find a new look at things. "},{"Title":"Shirley, a rebel we all can associate with.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How many people lack the courage to do something that they really feel passionate about.  Like so many of us Shirley Valentine coped with the everyday responsibilities of life and like so many of us fell deeper into the everyday drudgery of routine, boredom and despair.A chance to have two weeks in Greece may be her opportunity to escape.  The 40 something desperate housewife is transformed into the mature rebel.  We long for her to take advantage of her new found freedom and she does not disappoint us.  Willy Russell allows her to do what many of us only dream of doing, making ourselves happy.Superbly written and acted and with a superb cast. This film is as fresh in the 21st century as it was on release.  If you are ever in need of reminding that life is what you make it watch Shirley Valentine.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, wonderful and more wonderful","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My major question is how could a man (Willy Russell) know what goes on in the head of a woman? he got it perfectly right. How we feel, how we react, how we are treated by some men, how we should like to be treated, what bugs us in men-woman relationships and so on. I watched it over and over again and find it still funny, still baffling how he did it, still wondering if she did go back? and if she did what her life would be like back home having experienced freedom and release from the drudgery? First I watched it for the comedy aspect, but in fact this is no comedy; there are funny lines in it, but are home truths many of us either experienced, knew or were afraid to say. The movie has a warm feel about it, full of humanity, sentiments, sad facts of life. So many of us wish we could do as she did, but haven't got the guts. I recommend this to anyone for a little dream what if I did it? "},{"Title":"If they make you run around like R2D2, there's only one thing that you can do.","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you thought that Lewis Gilbert did a good job focusing on a woman in Educating Rita, wait until you see Shirley Valentine. This story of an abused Liverpool wife (Pauline Collins) who gets fed up and goes on vacation to Greece does everything perfectly. It very much has the feeling of a play, what with the characters talking directly to the camera occasionally (after she goes to Greece, her husband (Bernard Hill of the Lord of the Rings movies) talks to the camera and you can see around him how the house is turning into a mess). And they did a great job adapting it to the screen. Whether it's Shirley's talk about a her previous mispronunciation of a certain body part, or her rip at the people badmouthing Greece, this is one of the coolest movies that I've ever seen. Also starring Tom Conti and Joanna Lumley. "},{"Title":"It's all good stuff! (Minor spoilers)","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although nitpickers may beef at Tom Conti's comedy Greek accent, this is mostly a heartwarming and immensely enjoyable comedy, and contains more than enough scenes that will make you laugh as well as think. Pauline Collins - and thank your lucky stars that it IS Pauline Collins, and not Julie Walters again - plays Shirley, a bored, forty-something housewife who has lost contact with her friends, her children and whatever drew her and her morose husband (a perfectly understated Bernard Hill) together, and spends her humdrum days talking to the wall or being lectured by her so-called friends, an ardent feminist (an unshowy Alison Steadman) and an inveterate bragger (Julia McKenzie, perfectly capturing a certain level of aspirational suburban humourlessness), or reminiscing about her rebellious childhood (the young Shirley is perfectly played by Gillian Kearney, who has carved out a fine career since). When Steadman wins a holiday for two in Greece and invites Shirley along, she's in two minds about going, but a string of incidents helps her make up her mind - an authentically petty argument with her husband (who only likes chips and egg on a Thursday), the unwelcome return of her brattish, ungrateful daughter, and a candid conversation with McKenzie who gifts her an expensive wrap - and suddenly Shirley's in Mykonos, enjoying sun, sea, sand, Sangria and an unlikely romance with Carlos (Conti), a bar owner whose down-to-earth patter (unrepeatable here!) strikes a chord with the once-wayward housewife. There's also a hilarious bunch of whiny, malcontent British tourists (Where's the disco?) for Shirley to deal with (her sudden outburst in the hotel dining room is priceless)and a lovely cameo from the veteran British comedy actor Cardew 'the cad' Robinson...but what about Hill, who seems to have found a new friend in Shirley's kitchen wall? Well, you'll have to find out for yourself! So go out and grab a copy of this film as soon as you can, because I really do recommend it to EVERYONE...and I promise you won't regret it. Thirty house points!  "},{"Title":"We have met Shirley, and she is us","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A review called Shirley Valentine a chick-flick.   Nonsense.  This film cuts right to the core of dreams and plans and bravery, and does it in settings so totally believable that Reality TV  looks made-up in comparison. What a great film, most likely treasured by the relatively few people who seem to have seen it.  One of my all-time favourites.  "},{"Title":"25 House Points","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film when it first came out in 1989.I immediately loved it. What an excellent story and cast. Pauline Collins as Shirley is excellent. I think it is a wonderful story of a women who is not content with who she is and her process of rediscovering who she was at a younger age. She refuses to give up that old fire burning in her.  The scenery in Greece is also breath taking .. I love the idea that she escapes to Greece and really lets her hair down. I have not seen Pauline Collins in much. She is an excellent actress with a dynamite supporting cast. I highly recommend this film to anyone looking for a bit of escape "},{"Title":"Shirley Valentine","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Lewis Gilbert (Alfie, You Only Live Twice, The Spy Who Loved Me, Educating Rita), I studied the play by Willy Russell for English Literature in Secondary School, of course we watched the film also, I hadn't seen it in years since then, so I decided to watch it again. Basically Shirley Valentine (BAFTA winning, and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Pauline Collins) is a bored middle- aged Liverpudlian housewife who finds herself talking to her kitchen wall and wondering what has happened to her life. In school Young Shirley (Gillian Kearney) was rebellious most of the time, but tried and failed to impress the Headmistress (Sylvia Syms), and her enemy, who she wanted to be like, was well elocuted Marjorie Majors (Catharine Duncan), one day they happen to meet each other as adults, Marjorie (Joanna Lumley) reveals that she was envious of Shirley, and she is now a high class hooker. Shirley still loves her husband Joe (Bernard Hill), and memorises their happy times when he was fun loving, but as time has gone by he has a routine for her, especially when it comes to what food they eat on what night when he comes home from work, he snaps if he doesn't get his way. Shirley's flamboyant friend Jane (Alison Steadman) wins a trip to Greece for two, she invites Shirley to join her, she doubts herself leaving everything behind, but unexpected encouragement from her neighbour Gillian (Miss Marple's Julia McKenzie) reignites her confidence. Shirley does tell Joe, he of course objects, and she almost forces herself to stay when her daughter Millandra (Tracie Bennett) returns home, who also objects, but Shirley is determined not to change her mind and give herself a two week break and find herself. Soon after arriving in Greece however, Jane abandons Shirley for a holiday romance with a passenger from the plane, she meanwhile talks to a rock, enjoys the Greek culture, but other holidaymakers seem to want English food and stereotypical entertainment, Shirley finds herself feeling lonely. This is until she meets nearby tavern owner Costas Dimitriades (Tom Conti), he helps Shirley fulfil her dream of drinking wine by the seashore, and invites her to travel the islands on his brother's boat, he promises not to attempt to seduce her. Jane finally returns and asks for forgiveness for abandoning her, she is stunned by the plans Shirley has made with Costas, but Shirley continues, enjoying the day, even swimming in the sea naked, and realising she doesn't want Costas to keep his promise, they share a kiss and make love on the boat. Jane believes Shirley has fallen in love with Costas, she says to the camera she has fallen in love with life, she even runs back to the tavern at the airport that would take her home, Costas is shocked to see her, he was even trying to seduce another woman, Shirley says she wants a job, and she is not upset at catching him in the act. Joe was angry and confused by Shirley's departure, he finds himself talking to the wall too, he awaits her return, but is embarrassed that she chose to stay, he calls her constantly to plea and argue with her to return, speculating that she is going through a mid-life or menopause, she refuses to come back. Shirley becomes content with her new life, and a success with narrow-minded holidaymakers who want familiar British food, Joe's son tells his father to go and get her, she receives a telegram that he is coming, Costas makes his excuses and leaves her, Shirley is sipping wine by the sea in the sunset when Joe arrives in a suit, he doesn't recognise her, in the end they have a drink together, it is unclear whether matters are resolved. Also starring George Costigan as Dougie, Anna Keaveney as Jeanette, Ken Sharrock as Sydney, Karen Craig as Thelma and Gareth Jefferson as Brian. Collins became an instant star from this film, she is a lovable character breaking the fourth wall and talking to the audience, and wanting to escape her dull home life. Conti does have a dodgy Greek accent but is likeably hammy, and supporting cast members Hill and Lumley do very well also, you can tell it is based on a play, it is a simple story of a bored housewife escaping to paradise to find herself, but it is well crafted and easy to enjoy comedy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for The Girl Who Used to Be Me (also nominated the Golden Globe), it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay for Willy Russell and Best Film, and it won the British Comedy Award for Top Comedy Film. Very good! "}{"Title":"Shirley valentine. Why change the script?","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" in Shirley valentine recently brought out on DVD some of the words said by Shirley have been dubbed over. this spoils the original concept of the film. can anyone explain why this has been done.The film however is still great viewing. My wife knows the words to the film and was surprised that words had been taken out and replaced which seem totally unnecessary. We could only think that it may be for a younger viewing audience or perhaps for the purpose of sale in other countries. In conclusion still a really great film with fantastic views of Greece. I'm sure the film has been made many girls think that they too would like to be shirley. "},{"Title":"Funny Valentine","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm guessing that this will work best with those who didn't see the play, based on nothing more that the play was a tour de force, a one-actor piece which relies on the actress being good enough to make the audience 'see' the other characters as she conjures them up from her imagination/memory. In a movie, of course, it's easier to show the other characters and risk weakening the concept. It's not exactly new -way back in the 50s/60s Anthony Newley played 'Sammy' on television; a role which called for him to spend 50 minutes on the telephone calling a series of unseen people as he bought/sold and connived in an effort to stave off a beating or worse from the guys to whom he was in hock. When they adapted it to the big screen they also expanded it to include the characters on the end of the phone and changed the title to The Small Sad World Of Sammy Lee. This is virtually the same thing and works about as well. No major surprises/revelations but still a pleasant film. "},{"Title":"Modest character study/comedy elevated by Collins' performance...","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pauline Collins received a deserved Oscar nomination for feel-good performance as Shirley Valentine, stifled working-class housewife from Liverpool who tires of her boring job and dull marriage and splits for a vacation alone in Greece. Willy Russell adapted his own play, with Collins occasionally addressing the camera directly, and for a few awkward scenes it feels like nothing more than a stunt. Russell balances antiquated You Can Do Anything-isms with saucier set-pieces and gags, and the results are both warm and queasy. Still, Collins overcomes the self-conscious, unsure handling of the material and creates a memorable, funny woman. She's the genuine article, the picture itself is not. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Brilliantly observed comedy drama","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favourite films. It follows a middle aged woman who comes to a crossroads in her life and chooses to follow her dream rather than accept the crushing predictability of her life. It boasts a great British cast with great performances from Pauline Collins as Shirley Valentine and especially the outstanding Bernard Hill as her world weary husband. There are so many scenes that ring true and it's a great observation of 1980's Brits, especially their behaviour abroad on holiday. The ' chips and egg' scene is one my all time favourites, containing both humour and pathos in equal measure. This is a faultless film, even Tom Conti's fake Greek accent somehow works. Many films are let down by their ending but the ambiguous ending of this one is just brilliant. Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Valentine Asks Questions I Have Asked Myself","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie for all brave souls. It hits the midlife crisis square between the eyes. You notice the nuances going along, the satire tickles you, and it lingers with you afterward. My favorite symbolism is her tightly permed hair in the beginning with her loosely natural hair at the end, and how her makeup becomes less severe. How she handles the restaurant owner when he doesn't know she's listening is pure grace.So many differences from Hollywood movies; the way she dresses, first, with no thought given to covering her less attractive features. How naturally she handles herself in the partially-nude scenes. Again, the word grace comes to mind. Maybe the Summary line above should say grace. "},{"Title":"Shirley Valentine is an excellent film.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I adore that film, I have seen it at least 10 times..it is full of humor, emotion, the acting is wonderful...once a year, my brother-in-law and his wife Jennifer spend a few days by us on their way to Spain or Italy..and she and I are every time watching the video of Shirley Valentine while our husbands are talking and drinking in the garden..and we are every time moved by the film and we say soon, let's go to Greece...Every wife and mother will recognize herself in some of the situations describe in the film.I saw an interview of Lewis Gilbert on Hard-Talk, BBC World and he is such a charming man, interesting and witty, but so far away from the plot described in the film so that is why for me he is one of the best director,not just in UK.It is always a pleasure watching Shirley Valentine and Educating Rita,both films are in the list of 10 films I prefer. "},{"Title":"Doesn't go as well as the Ford Taurus!","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Such a great movie! Hilarious in parts, and certainly one women everywhere can relate to. I loved Marjorie, the Concord Hostess, in particular.Shirley is a good person who has, despite her claims to the contrary, always done what is expected of women, in England and everywhere else. Somewhere along the way she lost herself, and this film is about her adventures in finding that lost treasure.One thing I like about Shirley Valentine is that it does not make anybody the bad guy. Shirley's husband is a person who has his own lost dreams and he isn't cast as the villain.This is a wonderful film for any female who dreams of a ride on,My brother's boat. "},{"Title":"A must see movie for everyone","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is well done and brought to life wonderfully from stage by Pauline Collins. Pauline portrays the main character Shirley Valentine, a woman who in her 40's feels shortchanged with her life and decides to do something about it. The struggle and inner conflict are emotions everyone will relate to. The supporting characters do a terrific job with their roles and help propel Shirley to her destination to be, the girl she used to be. The story line is excellent, and inspirational to us all. Great movie, watch it when you are feeling a little blue with your own life.  "},{"Title":"great movie, thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was excellent for a number of reasons. First of all, it was a unique and original topic. There are very few movies that talk about middle-aged, dead-end houseqives who pick up to follow their dreams. Also, it added a lot of comedy to what would normally be a dramatic, perhaps sad subject. Pauline Collins was excellent in her role as Shirley, and portrayed a typical housewife superbly. Well done Pauline on your Oscar nomination! Even though this film has a major comedic base, it ask questions about life and has lots philosophical value, and provokes the audience to question their own accomplishments, however without overwhelminmg the audience. In all, this movie is about life itself, with a light-hearted sense about it. Well done Pauline Collins, and Bernard Hill for your roles. Well done writers..great screen play. With all of these compliments to the movie there was one thing that took off from the film. Although at times the character Costas (played by Tom Conti) was very funny, his acting in the serious moments are horrible, and there are even parts that are supposed to be funny but Tom Conti ruins its comedic value. Pauline Collins carried his acting and played off of it to make it overall sucessful.Well done Shirley Valentine "},{"Title":"A wake up call to follow your heart....","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most profound moment for me was when Shirley is riding home on the bus, at night in the rain,  talking to herself  (us) in the reflection of the window.  She asked the question that so many middle aged people find themselves asking as they look into the mirror and see themselves getting old. She asked What ever happened to Shirley Valentine? . As if she had lost herself in her role as parent and wife. She does not  mean that she is regretful or spiteful, and no way suggests that she wasn't happy to do it.Shirley's quest to get reacquainted with herself is a wake up call to so many people who have given themselves up to their own role of parent and/or spouse. Call it mid-life crisis if you want, but Shirley's journey is full of honesty, warmth, daring and humor.  It is a joyful journey that calls to each of us to get off the couch and live the dream life we put aside years ago.  Whether her husband wakes up to the call is a detail I'll leave for you to discover when you watch this wonderful movie! "}{"Title":"One of the best ever, may change your life.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will try not to speak in cliches.  This film is fantastic.  This more than heart warming and exceptionally inspirational film I believe speaks to all of us.  We do not have to be repressed house wives to get it.  Even the greatest adventurer will recieve encouragement to take risks from this film. Very, very human and endearing.  I love shirley Valentine.Don't be shy, see this film. "},{"Title":"Woman who gave up her individuality for husband and kids says It is my turn.","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As one whose nest is recently empty this was a particularly meaningful movie. It is a microcosm of what is going on with us boomers. Men had best wake up and recognize these issues or they will die alone. A must see movie artfully and tastefully presented especially the aside comments (talking to herself but really to us)Last line is most prophetic and gives all of us men hope in our outcomes if we would only see its truth.  "},{"Title":"A really good movie with a really good message for everyone.","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shirley Valentine is a marvelous movie.  It is far more that a screen adaptation of Pauline Collins' one woman hit from the London stage.  It is well produced (by the folks who brought us Educating Rita 6 years earlier), beautifully filmed, smoothly directed and brilliantly acted. It is sensuous and bawdy and honest and may well be the first film to actually have a Greek Island setting as one of its leading characters.  The supporting cast, in typical British ensemble fashion is a group of first rate actors who back-up Collins to the hilt...and then there's Tom Conti.If they ever decide to give an award for the  category of Ridiculous unto the Sublime they must surely make the first award retroactive for Tom Conti's creation of Costas.  He is at once Pablo Picasso living out his last years in Bikini bathing trunks on the beach in the south of France and a slightly befuddled boy who's found that the key to the cookie jar is merely and honest smile for the nearest warm hearted woman.  His only vice is living life merely for today.  His only virtue is having absolutely no expectation.  And he has the best line in the whole show, Dreams, they are never in the place where you expect to find them.This is the fable of human liberation.  It's only message is to learn to like yourself.  Take you intended to see this film.  If it makes them nervous, find out why before you go another step together. "},{"Title":"Funny, surprisingly charming British comedy....","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This delightful film is a warmhearted look at a 42 year old woman's escape to her always-young inner self. When Shirley Valentine decides its time to leave the dull routine of her lackluster home, and her domineering (yet morose) husband whose sharp edges and coarse routines keep her locked in boredom, she finds that she's quite the interesting and free spirited young woman. At times hilarious, the film comes from the same folks who produced Educating Rita. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Shirley Valentine","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is derived from the eponymous Tony-award winning play starring Pauline Collins as the titular protagonist, who reprises her role on the big screen by director Lewis Gilbert, the film captures two Oscar nominations BEST ACTRESS for Collins and BEST ORIGINAL SONG THE GIRL WHO USED TO BE ME. Entertainingly satisfactory, SHIRLEY VALENTINE features a direct talking-to-you approach from the very start (also including talking-to-the-wall and talking-to-the-Greek-stone antics), and it distinctively assists the film to be saturated in a zanily humorous tone, and all the dialogues are astutely written, after 20 years, it still could feasibly express the zeitgeist of the independence of woman in a quite smart fashion. Collins is fully equipped with all the wisecracks which can easily crack audience up with and the life-inspiring adventure in an exotic country to pursue self-seeking catharsis has its adequate ammunitions to cheer up middle-aged women who are trapped in their drudgeries and may set a paradigm but in reality a free trip to Greece does not happen every day, although the uplifting message has been effectively and manifestly delivered and Collins is spectacular in conveying her pertinent way of narrating with the viewers, and successfully mingles the mundane escapism with a whiff of upscale self-esteem (as a theatrical old- hander, she might could overdo it), although her nude scenes are rather too realistic to be admired on screen, it is gutsy for the actress per se, but this feminist bravura is plain unnecessary. Tom Conti and Bernard Hill are the two male foils, one is Shirley's Greek womanizer, one is her stereotyped British husband, both are serviceable and it has a wackily comical response to watch Conti murmuring with his feigned Greek accent while wooing his sex prey. Also in the Liverpool locale, Collins' inadvertent encounter with her high-school bestie (a wonderful cameo of Joanna Lumley) is pure amazement, especially when Lumley gracefully confesses to Collins her high-end occupation, this is the authentic Anglo spirit! "},{"Title":"She's leaving home","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have mixed feelings about 'Shirley Valentine'. I think Pauline Collins is wonderful in it ( the studio were demanding an established Hollywood star take on the role. On seeing Pauline's performance, they were so impressed they gave it to her. She was Oscar nominated for 'Best Actress' but did not win ), and Willy Russell's script is thoughtful and shot through with witty one-liners ( I love her 'F-Plan' comment! ). It was directed by Lewis Gilbert, and was a worthy follow-up to the smash-hit 'Educating Rita' ( 1983 ).Basically, the film is about a bored, middle-aged Liverpool housewife who is married to the dead-from-the-waist-down 'Joe' ( Bernard Hill ) and rebels by flying to Greece where she has a torrid fling with local fisherman 'Costas' ( an uncomfortable looking Tom Conti ). She returns home eventually, and is reconciled with Joe. The film struck a chord with women of a certain age everywhere. Some very good supporting performers appear such as Julia MacKenzie and Joanna Lumley ( as an old school-friend of Shirley's who has turned to prostitution ).So what are my main objections? Firstly, I cannot help but think that had this been about a bloke called 'Stanley Valentine' who leaves his wife for a fling with a Greek waitress there would have been outrage on a mass scale from feminists. The film was made at the height of A.I.D.S. hysteria, so it was irresponsible of its makers to ignore what was happening in the real world ( as a matter of fact, a British housewife called Jeanette Pink copied Shirley by going to Greece and sleeping with a local man. She duly contracted the dreaded disease, from which she later died ). The 'Joe' character is a right twit and you can understand why she leaves him, but the marriage coming right at the end is unbelievable. Most men would not want Shirley back after what she had just done.So see it for Pauline and enjoy her brilliant performance, but please don't regard the film as a handbook on how to survive a mid-life crisis. "},{"Title":"What film did Mister Ebert see?","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not the target audience for this film. I prefer gunfire, heroics, romance and laughs. Shirley Valentine has only the last element, but it's a kind of endearing film. It lets us dudes look at what your mother's or aunt's life might be like at some point. That's kind of the appeal; see how the other half lives, so to speak.That, and it's a nice little film that doesn't take itself too seriously. Yeah, there're a lot of clichés here, but I think there's a unique enough twist in them to let viewers enjoy the film for what it is. I mean, it ain't Quo Vadis. Heck, it ain't even Porky's (thank goodness). It ain't the Godfather, Giant nor anything else. It's a nice little tribute to that person who took care of you when you were younger.Remember her? Good. Because that person deserved a film, and this is it. Yeah, it's a bit over the top and smarmy, but what the heck. "},{"Title":"Lewis Gilbert does it again!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pauline Collins was superb in Willy Russell's one-woman show, and in my opinion, is even better in this utterly magnificent movie.  All the wit from the play is intact, blessed by superb supporting performances by Joanna Lumley from AbFab (what a hoot!), Sylvia Syms as the bitter house mother who stole some never-to-be-recovered self-esteem from all of us, Alison Steadman as the feminist-friend-only-when it's convenient, and Bernard Hill as the surprised husband.  Now we come to Lewis Gilbert whom I believe to be the greatest living British director, and certainly one of the most underrated and versatile.  And, one of the most female-insightful male directors ever! Forgetting his James Bond turns for a moment (which he directed with droll wit for the most part), his credentials for some of the most powerful female star turns ever include Virginia McKenna in Carve Her Name With Pride, Susannah York in the utterly amazing Greengage Summer, Millicent Martin & Vivian Merchant (to name just two of the most poignant) in Alfie, and Julie Waters in Educating Rita (also written by Willy Russell).  Gilbert opens up a play better than any director I've ever seen.  Contrast this and Rita (a two-person play) with such static filmed stage plays with female leads as Dancing at Lughnasa, Night Mother, and Crimes of the Heart and you quickly see Gilbert's tremendous artistry in contrast.  This movie conveys the heart and soul of Shirley's character and the extent and progress of her epiphanies as she experiences change and getting to love herself really for the first time.  These changes also occur in Pride, Greengage, and Rita, and not-so-happy changes in Alfie. Since women's lives are based upon change, much more so then men's, Gilbert's true magic is the depth to which he unearths, feels, relates us to, and celebrates these changes better than any other male director I have ever seen.  And for those of you who love this movie, but haven't seen Carve Her Name With Pride, Greengage Summer, Alfie, or Educating Rita, please see them.  They are every bit as wonderful, and I give all 5 magnificent Gilbert works 10/10.  (And as a bonus, he's not bad doing traditionally male movies either  such as Sink the Bismarck! ) "},{"Title":"What more can be said...","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just watch the movie. That's about all that can be said about it. There's a little bit of Shirley in us all!From the fabulous 'poking the egg' scene, to the 'No want make **** with you', Shirley Valentine is a classic that you just have to watch over and over and over again.When you do though, just make sure that you give the Bloodhound some meat... and close the door so he doesn't get out.10 flaps out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Missed the mark","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Middle-aged Shirley Valentine (Pauline Collins) likes to reminisce about her younger, rebellious days before she married, had children, and her life became a bore. When a friend invites her to go to Greece, she happily leaves Liverpool behind, knowing whatever lies ahead has to be better than what she has.I know this is a tremendously popular movie, but I found it really dull and predictable. Pauline Collins didn't engage me at all; she wasn't charismatic or interesting and I kept thinking, There must be more to her... but there wasn't. The photography on the island of Mykonos was lovely, but the story took such a fairy tale turn that all reality went out the window.Shirley quite often looked into the camera and addressed the audience, a technique that works well if the character is likable or funny, or outrageous, but Shirley was none of these. The movie tried too hard to be cute, but was just boring. "}{"Title":"Thatcher's legacy.","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film; Shirley Valentine could be misconstrued as having consensus with the feminist movement's idea of liberating women from the kitchen sink. But, on close viewing the lead character Shirley Valentine (Pauline Collins) is not set free of domesticity and its drudgery. Indeed, throughout her time on the Greek Island she is seen continuing her servility as she did within her home. Likewise Shirley continues to be tethered to a Utopian romantic idea of love which never equates to what women are lead to expect by the mass media.Such neglect of women's romantic yearnings often culminate in dissatisfaction with marriage as is seen in this film. Such dissolution of marriage through a dearth of romance culminates in a lacklustre sex life. This is where many men are bewildered as to why their spouses (wives, girlfriends) become disinterested in sex which they then use as an excuse to hire the services of a sex worker such as that of Marjarie Majors (Joanna Lumley) who uses her profession as a means of survival as opposed to independence during a period of economic instability culminating from former British Primeinister Thatcher's policy.Part of this economic instability which encouraged the rise of sex work among women during the 1980s stems from men's redundant place as the traditional bread winners, due to many being made surplus to the requirements of their employment. As such they were no longer viable commodities to women. This culminated in women being made vulnerable to economic forces in a world where they lacked opportunities to earn recompense in quality jobs and careers. Meanwhile other men, such as Shirley's husband are coerced into setting up business ( which is more acceptable than the sex worker's profession, which due to its moral implications causes shock as illustrated by the maid when she serves Marjarie's tea)and work all hours in order to survive economic uncertainty, as illustrated in this film. It is this which pushes Shirley away, and gives a deluded appearance of women's liberation.The film would fit neatly into the genre which is termed 'kitchen sink' drama. However, the fact that it is shot in colour, and is peppered with satirical one-liners takes the edge from its bleak reality.The characters are well cast, especially that of Joanna Lumley who often portrays an ambiguity between whore and lady as illustrated in Shirley Valentine.In sum, a film to make the viewer laugh for its one-liners and cry for its bleak reality which culminated from of Thatcherism! "},{"Title":"Rallying cry for the selfish women","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There was a case recently of a woman who abandoned her child in England so she can be with her lover in Turkey. The inspiration for her must be this movie, a film that tells women to find their own dreams and damn everyone else, and gives them the rallying cry - the one that screams out ME! ME! ME!!! and only ME!!!.It is easy to do really, just think of your husband as a selfish brute, your children as whiny ungrateful spoilt brats (wonder how they got that way, could it be their upbringing? Oh perish the thought that you could be a bad mother). And you have this beautiful dream that just cries out to be fulfilled, and there are beautiful men in distant lands just there to service your deepest needs.So now you find prematurely wrinkled ladies, inspired by the film, wandering around remote corners of the world like Zambia picking up young (and poor, why else would anyone think that these young men would make love to bloated or disintegrating bodies) local men to satisfy their desires. One comment I read from one of these used young men is that these women are like vampires, going to those countries looking shrivelled and saggy, sucking up the life-blood from them, before returning home looking all freshened and plumped-up.So, cheers to Pauline Collins, a great service you have done to all the Shirley Valentines of the Western World, liberating them from their drudgery and care, and hello to freedom and great sex. "}]