[{"Title":"Romantic Masterpiece","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"111 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie solely based on the excellent reviews that it has gotten everywhere.  I missed it during its theatrical release (as so many others did) and had the hardest time finding a copy of it at our local video rental stores.  Not because it wasn't popular but b/c, according to the clerks, people kept stealing or losing their copies...especially around Valentines Day.  When I finally got my hands on a copy I was blown away.  I had thought this was going to be just another in a long link of Pretty in Pinkish movies with predictable characters and a bad case of puppy love, but what I got was a surprisingly refreshing, unconventional story with a complicated and well-developed emotional depth flawlessly captured by the actors and Cameron Crowe.And talk about role reversals!  I'm so used to seeing the man take the assertive and mature role while courting a woman of limited financial or intellectual means...but in this film it's the girl that's got her future together and the guy who's more than willing to concentrate his attention on making her happy.  And Lloyd Dobler isn't just a shiftless man with no future.  He's an eternal optimist who lives in the present and recognizes, admires, and compliments the qualities in Diane that go beyond her amazing intellect.  She becomes his dare-to-be-great situation and his absolute love and devotion to her is anything but unmanly.  The force of it is palatable and immensely erotic without being reduced to cheap teenage lust.  The sight of Lloyd in the shadows defiantly blasting out the truth of their love through the boombox is a scene which would have seemed awkward and goofy in any other movie but this one.  It's easy to understand why even the critics of the time gave Say Anything two enthusiastic thumbs up.  This is one of the few films that really captures the feeling of love. "},{"Title":"Who says teen romance needs to be perverse? 10/10","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"86 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very few films have even tried to be as smart and honest as Say Anything.  The film, which is more then 10 years old, still remains to be one of the strongest pieces of romantic cinema.  Not only do John Cusack and Ione Skye have perfect chemistry; not only is John Mahoney's character one of the most complicated father figures in the history of film; not only is the screen play delightfully honest; but everything just seems to fit right in this movie.  A true treasure "},{"Title":"You Say it Best, When You Say Nothing at All ...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"81 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The magic, the heart of Say Anything, is that it dares to be normal. You remember the 80 teen romantic comedy genre. It was a nice idea that became an epidemic, but once and awhile there was a gem like Some Kind of Wonderful. But here is the major difference, the lack of cliche, the lack of formula, the lack of cute dialogue, and saying things without any words. Instead it is said with a look, a touch, a smile, and a tear falling down a face. It allows these talented young actors to _act_!John Cusack plays Lloyd and it is the fact that Lloyd dares to be normal that explains why the film works. Lloyd is just a regular guy who dares to just call the beautiful class brain Diane (Ione Skye) after they graduate. It is the genuine niceness and persistence of Lloyd's phone call, that is responsible for her caving and saying yes. And it goes from there. What is a friendship, a respect for each other, grows into friends with potential, and then goes even farther. Writer-director Cameron Crowe is famous for not pushing it and he perfected that style here. He doesn't try to make John and Ione look and feel hot, he lets them continue to play young adults, who would by all rights still be awkward, nervous, testing the waters of life, love, and trust.In a brilliant parallel, we learn of Diane's relationship with her father Jim (John Mahoney) which she has always been sure of, even when she needed to chose between her parents after their divorce. The subtle and detailed scenes between Diane and Jim are important to the twists in the story when Diane grows to trust someone other than her father and finds deceit with something she had faith in. Jim, is not your typical teen movie father. He's real and normal as well. His car is not backed into a house, he is not thrown into a great body of water, and he is not a typical ogre. He is allowed to be a three dimensional character, a driving force and an obstacle in the teen romance. Jim runs a nursing home and wants the best for Diane. He holds their relationship very dear, as it is all a part of Diane being the best she can be. That desire will end up being a double edged sword as Diane's growing pre-occupation with Lloyd the summer before she is set to go to England, threatens his plans for her. And although Jim seems to respect how Lloyd treats his daughter and him, he is bothered by Lloyd's lack of drive, that the only thing that drives Lloyd is the then almost unheard of sport of kick-boxing and Diane.When the story comes to important moments that changes Jim, Diane, and Lloyd's world, this is when the story shines. This is when Lloyd's rambling and desperation to re-define his life due to his despair is a welcome change from the overbearing or over brooding of most teen flick heroes. This is when Diane's confusion and discovery is so wonderfully done with little dialogue. This is when Jim, feeling his world is spiraling out of his control, grows quiet, and the power of un-showy direction from Crowe says all we need to see.The supporting characters as well are gems, who are true supporting characters. Joan Cusack appeared uncredited as Lloyd's single mother sister who, once a blast is now uptight, but is still a supportive guardian for Lloyd. Lloyd's girl friends D.C. and Corey are like salt and pepper for Lloyd. Corey (played by Lili Taylor) is terminally depressed. She previously had attempted suicide due to fellow classmate, Joe, playing with her heart like a yo-yo and is always being the voice of negativity for Lloyd, always telling him what will go wrong, what can't happen, what should happen, and how he is different from Joe. D.C. is practically dwarfed by Corey, never being allowed to talk and never being able to steer Lloyd in a much more sane direction which Lloyd usually discovers on his own anyhow. All of the supporting characters of friends, former classmates, and residents at Jim's nursing home, are important, none are cardboard cut-out cliches. They all have dimension, depth, feeling, and we can understand their motivation, what drives them with carefully crafted scenes and dialogue.When the ending comes, it is the subtle way they foreshadow the future instead of the standard frantic pacing most romantic comedies have when it comes to a conclusion. That in itself pretty much sums up the beauty of the film.It is pure genius, this film is pure genius. "},{"Title":"It's a wonderfully written film, with equal acting, to remind us all of falling in love for the first time without all the hurt, mistrust and disbelief in oneself.","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"70 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful film which made me laugh, cry and heavily identify with the first time I ever saw it. Then, some 13 years later, after buying it on DVD with faded memories, I watched it again and it all came back.I laughed; I was moved; I cheered inside when things went well for the hero, and I even remembered things about my first love. Especially the shaking with happiness moment (Judith). This film has survived 13 years with me, and it's not all down to my own memories.John Cusack and Ione Skye give such wonderful performances that are so believable there's not a second that you're thinking of them as actors. Everything they feel and do seems so real. John Mahoney portrays the over protective Father very well, and his understated struggle when he realises this is superbly done.Cameron Crowe has excelled himself in capturing the feelings and moments that you can so easily identify with to make them just right, and seem so natural.It's a wonderfully written film, with equal acting, to remind us all of falling in love for the first time without all the hurt, mistrust and disbelief in oneself. It even manages to provide one of the best endings I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Awwwwwwww!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"37 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you have read my Sixteen Candles comment, I have been on a journey to watch all of the classic teen 80's movies. The girls at my work have been on my case with this, so now I have seen Pretty in Pink, The Breakfast Club, and Sixteen Candles, now Say Anything.... When I told one of the girls I rented this movie, she was excited. She said this is one of the best teen movies of the 80's, and I'd have to agree.It's not a real sappy love story, it's more normal and real. It has it doubt's, flaws, scary parts, fun parts, sexy parts, and the friendship. Ione and John clicked so well in this movie. I loved the scene where John is standing outside with the stereo blasting In your eyes by Peter Gabriel. What a fantastic scene, I mean what girl wouldn't like that? And poor John was only like 90 pounds, I was hoping Ione would have run to him to let him put that 1000 pound stereo down! It was the 80's, there was nothing smaller. D This is a great movie. I think it should be watched by anyone. It's just a fun film to watch with friends or a date. So far, this is my favorite 80's teen flick.10/10 "},{"Title":"Teen Romantic Comedies Don't Get Much Better Than This","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Seattle high-school graduate with no apparent future, tired and for most part abandoned Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) sets his sights on the lovely Diane Court (Ione Skye), the class valedictorian, whom he had a chance encounter with at the town mall. After numerous valiant attempts and apparent successes, the two fall in love; however, while Lloyd is head over heels, Diane seems hesitant to maintain their relationship considering her recent fellowship at an acclaimed university and her father's trouble with the Internal Revenue Service. The romance between Cusack's Lloyd and Skye's Diane, although seemingly coming from out of nowhere, is still palpable and, as far as teen romance is concerned, very believable, and writer-director Cameron Crowe's bizarre and motor-mouthed dialogue perfectly suits the character of Lloydl; however, most of the scenes are stolen by John Cusack in what likely is his best performance to date; he fumbles over his words to accentuate the attitude of his character, and there are other moments when Cusack suddenly becomes the ultimate hero, even more involving than Rocky Balboa or Luke Skywalker at times; through the climax of the film it seems impossible not to root for Cusack, particularly the iconic scene forever cemented in teen movie history in which Lloyd stands outside of Diane's house next to his car, holding a boom box over his head and blasting Peter Gabriel's In Your Eyes with a look of desperate heartache and lost pride on his face. An iconic date movie. "},{"Title":"Hard to Place this Movie in any Genre Besides Good Movie","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never cared for teen movies and this *isn't* one, so don't worry. On the surface, this movie would appear to be about high school, or growing up, or the 'loser' guy dares to get the 'winner' girl. This movie is about truthfulness and it's liberating qualities and also about the price one pays for success or greatness.Diane Court is the valedictorian and the most likely to succeed in her high school. Lloyd Dobler is the well-liked underachiever with good character. Lloyd's low-pressure friends accept Diane at a party and she, at last, gets to let her hair down. This launches a romance that Diane's father disdains.Always quick to shower her with praise, encouragements, and gifts Diane's father has visions of her earth-shattering success. On her part, Diane is getting a little self-conscious over her father's incessant chatter about what HE wants her to be.Lloyd's attentions to Diane grow inconvenient to her father perhaps less for his romantic interest, but worse he's diverting her from her greatness. Simultaneously, Lloyd has no outward indicators of achievement. He lacks direction and can't really say what his next moves are. Diane's father's agitation grows when investigators from the IRS launch a criminal investigation of him. The acting in this film is so believable you feel like you are in the movie yourself. John Mahoney (the father)makes this role look so easy and his face conveys every emotion so clearly. John Cusack nails this role as the anxious-to-please, smitten teen with a sincere heart. His dialog sounds very natural. Ione Skye is lucky. Not many female rolls for teenage girls are as juicy as this one no nudity, no ax murderers, and no entering into talent competitions. Additional endorsement I danced with a naval officer from a nuclear sub to the main theme of this film and he immediately asked me if I had seen this film. We proceeded to have a conversation about how great this film is! "},{"Title":"Lyoyd, Lyoyd, null and void.","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most people I know loved Say anything and I am among the many who thought this was a very good touching, funny movie for teens and young people. It is a bit more wholesome then a lot of what's out there in this genre and although it doesn't rank among my favorite teen movie it definitely earned it's praise.There are some terrific one liners in Say Anything and the male/female relationship is depicted in a touching and often very accurate-surprisingly accurate way. Plus there are moments of just pure hilarity and unforgettable lines, one of them being what I headed my Quote(my buddy and I still throw this line around to this day.) John Cussack stars here and was very good, it was my introduction to him. I'd recommend this movie to anyone who just wants to see a nice fresh teen movie with both touching and hilarious moments. My vote is 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A rarity an intelligent 80's teen movie!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the rare 80's teen flicks that doesn't portray all teens as sex-crazed dimwits and all adults as lobotomized morons. An insightful, romantic comedy that only Cameron Crowe could give us. "},{"Title":"A genuinely sweet, never sappy comedy about first love","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Say Anything Cameron Crowe has crafted a one-of-a-kind romantic comedy which avoids at least 90% of the pitfalls one would commonly associate with films within the genre. How does he do it? Simply by avoiding sappy moments, by creating a script that more or less mirrors the bittersweet experience of first love, and by simply, but tastefully guiding the film's visuals and outstanding acting.Say Anything is not completely anti-conventions, and actually uses some wildly popular rom-com conventions to its advantage, but the role reversal (Dobbler being the 'lost' one), interjection of successfully genuine drama, and simple, understated romantic moments make this a wild success. That's not to say that Crowe isn't successful when he goes for the wildly over-the-top sap, because he knows it's sappy, but it does happen in real life. I mean, the over-the-top gestures like the stereo outside the window do occur in reality, and they guys who do them usually are just like Lloyd Dobbler.Great characters, a great cast, really good writing, and simple but solid direction make this a real winner that is deservedly recognized as a romantic classic.8.5/10 "}{"Title":"I tried desperately hard to like this, but... (possible spoiler)","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like most 80s high school movies, this has sadly, badly dated.  Sadly, because it stars the incomparable John Cusack, the only reason for still watching this, giving a typically rich performance alternating nervy confidence with masked vulnerability.  He plays Lloyd Dobler, an average(ish) high school student who is about to graduate.  He lives with his single mother sister Constance and her young son, while his parents are with the American army in Germany.He is besotted with Diane Court, an apparently beautiful brainbox whose astonishing academic success has been achieved at the cost of peer contact. She lives with her father, James, who runs a lucrative old folks home, and who comes under investigation from the IRS for mismanaging and defrauding his clients' money.  Diane is awarded a prestigious scholarship in England, but becomes derailed by her relationship with LLoyd, who, for all his aimlessness, offers her an emotional security she never had with her acrimoniously divorced parents.  She is seemingly obliged to decide between Lloyd and a glittering career, until shock revelations about her father force things to a head.There is nothing offensively wrong with SAY ANYTHING.  There is vague pleasure to be had in spotting future minor celebrities (Eric Stoltz, Jeremy Piven, Lili Taylor).  Writer/director Crowe tries to incorporate a few formal devices into a generally naturalistic framework, such as the pseudo-Greek chorus of Lloyd's three girlfriends counterpointed with his late-night advice session from his male friends.The film is also mildly subversive.  The scene seems set for a reactionary tract about broken homes - Lloyd's parents are absent, Diane's are divorced. It might be suggested that the fears and aimlessness felt by the young in the movie arise from a lack of direction offered by the parents.  The parents are the culpable ones here, in Diane's case horrifically, unexpectedly so.  Lloyd is a thoroughly decent and dependable, as a surrogate father, as a kick-boxing coach.  Diane is finally able to make a decision after the burden of parental pressure is lifted.  It is seen as right to abandon the tainted tradition of the past.This is figured in the wonderful role-reversal ending.  All the way, as Hollywood convention decrees, it seems as if Lloyd, as male hero, is going to be Diane's teacher, despite her brains - he shows her how to fit in with her peers, how to achieve independence from her father, how to drive etc. But at the end, he goes to England with her; she is allowed fulfil her career; he is the, usually female-coded, hanger-on.  An 80s film about leaving America for Europe suggests an anti-Jamesian quest for freedom from corruption, uncertainty etc.  Happily, the film ends on unbalance and doubt.ANYTHING's problems are two-fold contrivance and lack of humour.  There is an air of phoniness about the whole thing, from the tried and tired 80s high school movie rituals, to the gropings for emotion (using sub-Phil Collins music as signifiers for emotion is really tacky and distancing).  The whole film, as my wife pointed out, is shot in a flat, TV-movie style, which focuses the now embarrassing 80s detritus.The lack of humour is the fatal flaw for a supposed comedy - anything that could be satirised is turned into melodrama; the fratboy slapstick has been done better elsewhere, the determination to take these characters oh-so-seriously lessens any attempt to see their angst as faintly ridiculous.  Which leaves verbal comedy.  As the title suggest, there is a running thematic motif concerning communication, truth, concealment, the ability to formulate emotion in words.  You can't say anything, it must be the right thing.  But too much talk and too little visual distance results in a very dull film.  It IS interesting that middle-class white boys wanted to be black so early as 1989.  Of course, there isn't a single black character in the film. "},{"Title":"Romance and pop culture...gen X style","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is still one of my and my wife's all time favorite movies. This is one of those rare romance movies that is told from the mans perspective. He was not afraid to show the guys sensitive side and the even more rare guys hurting side.What is interesting is that this movie was written/directed by Cameron Crowe, who did not do that many movies...but the ones he did were brilliant. Example Singles, Fast times at Ridgemont high and of course Jerry Maguire. Also interesting is that this was a Drama breakthrough for John Cusak.I do not want to give to much away. But basically the story is about a young man's romantic quest for a girl he has admired for a long time. This happens after high school graduation, a pivotal point in a mans life where carefree adolescence ends and adulthood becomes reality. A regular guy falls in love with a beautiful, wealthy and intelligent woman. Story is solid, acting is solid, soundtrack is outstanding. Worth owning and watching over and over. "},{"Title":"What can I say? Anything, maybe *(SPOILERS AHEAD)*","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has been labeled as a teen movie and even though I like teen movies like She's All That, I feel calling Say Anything... a teen movie is an insult. Yeah it was a movie aimed at teens but this movie was much deeper than a teen movie. In most teen movies the main couple has a fight, makes up, and kiss right before the credits start to roll. However in this movie the couple, Lloyd and Diane, actually break up and they both emotionally almost break down. You see ALL the aspects of their relationship The initiation, the big first date, the sex, and all the other BS that they have to fight through before they really start to be a couple. That's the great thing about this movie, the depth. The thing I did notice about this movie is that it suckers its viewers. You THINK that you are seeing the average guy getting the girl of his dreams but in all actuality Lloyd isn't an average guy. He kickboxes, he is very loyal and dedicated to the people he cares about (Diane, his sister's kid, Corey), he is very selfless. He drove that guy around the city of Seattle all night just to drive him home safely. He visited Diane's father in jail even though he knew the dad hated him. Lloyd was a really good guy, a great guy, but he didn't believe it and Cameron Crowe wrote the Lloyd character so that we wouldn't get that right away and John Cusack executed the part so well. Cusack is awesome. Enough said about that. Another commenter said that they didn't enjoy the movie because of its lack of humor. Hello? This movie was supposed to be serious. It's a romantic comedy with more emphasis on the romance element. Case in point The boombox serenade with In Your Eyes by Peter Gabriel, NOT PHIL COLLINS. That scene was the most brilliant thing I've seen in movies. I tip my glass to Cameron Crowe for coming up with that. A great thing about watching this movie on DVD is that you can still see the 80's quality video which shows that this movie is timeless seeing that all of the people I lent my copy to related to this movie or REALLY enjoyed. (This a great movie to watch with a girl BEFORE you get into a serious relationship) There is a lot more things I could say about this movie but I am tired of typing. Anyway, this movie is awesome. If you haven't seen this movie, see it immediately. If you have, see it againFINAL RATINGS 143 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After hearing from dozens of IMDb denizens that this is THE romance movie, I was really disappointed.The plot is aimless and without purpose. Diane hesitates to go out with Lloyd because he's perfect. No, wait, that can't be it. She hesitates for no good reason. They go out and it's perfect. Then she breaks up for no good reason. Then Lloyd is perfect some more. Guess what happens?Meanwhile, we are subjected to a meaningless subplot about Diane's father which is supposed to, but fails to, create dramatic tension and justification for Diane's actions.Maybe if Ione Skye could act her way out of a paper bag, the movie would have done it for me, but she can't and it didn't.  "},{"Title":"the title says it all","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Few movies can boast more apropos titles than Say Anything. It serves as both title and a summary. The characters have such charming and open communication lines with one another. Most notably was the relationship between Diane and her father. A child of divorce, Diane was forced to choose with which parent she wanted to live. She chose her father, and this led them to build an amazingly close and unique bond. They talk about anything and everything with little to no hesitation and feel nothing but relief and acceptance after they share the information.Lloyd has a similar bond with his female friends. They are brutally honest, yet lovingly supportive, a beautiful combination that makes every on screen conversation a joy to behold. They two groups have plenty of hearty discussions as Lloyd and Diane progress from near strangers to teenage love birds. Lloyd, who initiates the contact with Diane, uses a remarkably simple approach to winning her heart&#x97;he asks her out and then spends time with her. All he needed was the courage to pursue what he wanted. No one else had the guts to ask out the beautiful and mysterious Diane. Lloyd gained her affection with the simple act of effort.That's the most fascinating thing about Lloyd&#x97;he is clearly an underachiever, but this seems due almost entirely to lack of desire rather than talent or skill. In the entire film he cares about only two things Diane and Kickboxing (the sport of the future, he claims). He pursues those two passions with prodigious vigor and eventually reaches laudable success with both. Desire is the key for Lloyd.In congruence with the charming bonds in the movie is the theme of love, or more specifically the question, is love enough? The relationship between Lloyd and Diane seems to suggest that the answer is yes. Although, Diane and her father hit a massive speed bump that threatens their relationship, despite the obvious love that they have for each other. Perhaps love is enough as long as no one completely screws it up.SPOILER ALERT I must briefly talk about the ending. Diane and Lloyd are on a plane to continue their life together in Europe. This is clearly going to be a tricky situation with Lloyd looking for work while Diane is in school. Any number of issues could potentially jeopardize their relationship.Shortly after the plane takes off, Lloyd comforts Diane, who fears flying. Lloyd tells her that they just need to wait for the 'ding' because once that sounds they will know that everything is going to be okay. They anxiously anticipate the sound and the screen cuts to black just at the 'ding' is heard. I understand the metaphor, and it's a good one. I was merely disappointed that we were not given a chance to view Lloyd and Diane in their new life together. This new atmosphere could have created endless conflict and watchable circumstances. Regardless, the movie was excellent and very much worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Enter Cameron Crowe","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love all of Cameron Crowe's movies. He's a master screenwriter that injects heart and smarts in the traditional rom-com and crafts characters that anyone can relate to. When you go see a traditional romantic comedy, the target audience is usually women. Say Anything has Lloyd Dobler. Besides being the nice guy girls like, he's an honest strong willed dreamer. He's cool but not in the typical tall dark and handsome cool but in the outsider, marches to his own beat cool. He's very nontraditional for the genre and an example of why Crowe triumphs in his films.Diane Court is also atypical. She's the good looking brain, who is not really popular at school, as is traditionally found in teen rom coms. She's also torn between what she wants and what her father wants. Her father's questionable dealings with a nursing home he runs also creates a serious situation for Diane. She deals with her decisions post high school, her father, and her love for Lloyd. That Crowe creates such complex conflicts for Diane in 100 minutes is nothing short of brilliant direction and screen writing.This was Cameron Crowe's directorial debut and was a very promising one. It's still my favorite film of his if for no other reason than John Cusack delivers some of the beautifully written dialogue so well. But it IS so much more. Say Anything came at the end of the 80s. Teenagers grew up with the characters in John Hughes films, dealing with those high school problems. I love those films and love how Say Anything provided the wonderful afterthought to those films. Life after high school, dealing with our parents vs. our own desires and coming into our own as adults. Say Anything is often cited as a teen romantic comedy, often mentioned in the same breath of many high school romcoms. Yet the graduation and party are just a small tiny bit of the film. Crowe's characters are deeper than that. The story, dialogue, and acting helped jump-start Cameron Crowe's career yet is still my favorite of his films. "},{"Title":"Buy this DVD for your daughter","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I believe it is a parent's duty to expose their children to all the fine arts, including classic movies. This movie is one that you should share with your kids. It is a very realistic yet romantic view of young love and following your heart. My daughter Meaghan loved this movie. She wants to meet her Loyd. She has also become a fan of Peter Gabriel and any movie by Cameron Crowe. Watching these kinds of movies with my kids has given me some magical memories that I will cherish as they head off to college and the rest of their lives. And, just so you don't think I am a softy, I have recommended The Bad Seed, Citizen Kane and On The Waterfront among fine films for my kids to watch. "},{"Title":"Great for any age","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After all the references made in current movies and music I listen to, I had to see this movie to find out the whole story. I fell in love with it within the first 30 minutes of the movie. It will leave any girl no matter what age in love with Lloyd and in search of his own. Guys will love the movie because it shows that the average Joe only has to be himself to get the girl. The movie's most famous scene involving the boom box is something I would love for a guy to do for me. The only problem was the mysterious ending. But, being the hopeless romantic I am, I think Lloyd and Diane got off that plane and lived happily in England for all eternity. Thank you, Cameron Crowe for making this amazing move that is going to be a favorite of all because it speaks to everyone who ever believed in love. "},{"Title":"THE guide to all future romantic teen movies","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As we watch movies we search for the ones that we can truly identify with, whether its with certain characters or situations.  With Say Anything I was able to identify with everything in the movie characters and all.The plot for Say Anything is fairly standard, but its the details and nuances that make the movie one of the greatest of all time.  The script has such a freshness, and honesty that its impossible to brush it aside as a typical romantic teen comedy. Instead it gives you truly believable characters going through very believable situations. Some of the most important points of the movie were some of the most honest and overlooked parts.  Like when Loyd and Diane make love for the very first time(for each of them as well)  loyd begins shaking and though he tries to deny he is, and then says its because he is happy that you see one of the reasons the movie is so great.  The break-up seen in the middle of the movie is so heart breaking that you almost want to reach out to loyd to try and help him and all of this movie and all are done with a script I wish most teen movies would have.  Its intelligent, funny, honest, and precisely written with all the characters being three-demensional even down to bits parts.  And the famous scene where loyd stands in front of his car and holds up his boom box with your eyes blasting out of it is one of the most memorable and great scenes of any movie. . . ever.John Cusak who is one of the most underrated actors of all time plays Loyd Dobbler with such  delicacy that you would not be surprised if he was just playing himself. Ione Skye is perfectly convincing as a girl who is as intelligent as she is beautiful(and she is very much both) who doesnt realize how beautiful she really is. The honesty with which both of these actors played and poured themselves into the roles are admirable. And if you really want to find out some more about this movie listen to the commentary by cusak, skye, and cameron crowe and you will find even more depth than you ever thought to this movie.  It gets a 10/10, ****, and is most definately in my top 10 of all time. "},{"Title":"Didn't quite get me.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    A friend of mine who also likes John Cusack movies told me to check this one out, that I'd like it a lot. Maybe I tried too hard, because the movie fell short of capturing me. Granted, I'm bitter and cynical about love, but some movies can break me, as it were. 	It was almost as if the plot created a relationship that was improbable in its conception, but got a little too good. They had to slap together a way to make that mid-film falling out, and it didn't quite work. The controversy with her dad's business created more drama in Diane's life than perhaps it should have, and created an unwanted dragging effect 3/4 of the way through. Not as funny as Cusack's mid-80's outings, but has its moments. Still worth the 3 bucks I paid to rent it. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Ridgemont High Grows Up.","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Late adolescence Angst. Small-town girl smartie Ione Skye wins a scholarship to an exclusive college in England, much to the delight of her doting father, John Mahoney. Skye herself is thrilled and can hardly wait for the summer to pass.Enter John Cusack, who begins to woo her. (And why not? She's delicious.) She begins to respond to his importunings and finally gives it up in the back seat of his car. Now she finds herself torn between her desire to advance herself while pleasing her father, and her growing attachment to the blunt, candid, but perceptive Cusack.This displeases Mahoney mightily. Cusack lacks enterprise. He's marking time as a kick-boxing instructor until he decides what to do with his life. Mahoney knows all about the affair because she tells him everything. They have a pact that they will always tell each other the truth. This would never work in real life but, okay, this is only a movie. After her father's earnest pleadings she cuts it off with Cusack who can find no solace elsewhere.Then it turns out that the retirement home run by her father is a fraud. He's been milking the clients, stealing their Social Security checks, and I don't know what all -- a terrible guy and a liar. His only justification I took CARE of them! Mahoney winds up in the slams and Skye and Cusack take off for England together.It's a not exactly inspiring story of class conflict. It's as if she's a Capulet and he's a Montague, only the Capulets have more money and a brighter future than the Montague. (Low point of the movie Cusack stands outside Skye's bedroom, apparently all night, holding a boom box above his head playing their favorite song.) Pretty dumb. But it's not nearly as dumb a movie as Cameron Crowe's Fast Times At Ridgemont High, which was populated by thirty-year-old high school boys and the only redeeming features of which were Phoebe Cates' ample bosoms.Its values are those of late adolescence rather than post pubescence. There is little in the way of the kind of invented semi-witty slang you find in some movies about school kids. And, while some of the characters have goofy hair, none of them approaches the perpetually stoned Sean Penn in Fast Times. Even so, it does pander. After all, the two lovers are right and the old man is a fraud and pretender. That outcome is the sort that gets them right in the middle of the good old demographic.The acting on the part of all the principles is pretty good. Mahoney in particular does well in a complex role. Ione Skye is beautiful without being stunning and gives the least accomplished performance. John Cusack seems to fit his role more naturally. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Romantic movie","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. What i love about this movie much? I love the way John Cusack express the character. I love the line ............................................................... I love the dialog, very romantic, realistic..... I love this movie better than High fidelity. This movie more exciting and move interesting. This movie very pleased me. i enjoy every single scene. I enjoy the stupidity of the character. I think I can understand the father character. The father love his daughter. All he want to do is to protect her from uncertainty world. ............................................................. ........................................................... the point is this is a must see movie "},{"Title":"Where in the world is Lloyd Dobler?","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's one of my favorite brat pack films from the 80's. The concept of this movie universal in it's theme about love, relationships, family, and friends. How you can find yourself with the person you love most. This movie is about two youths dealing pressures of friends and over protective parents. In this tale of first love Lloyd Dobler finds the courage to ask the brainy and beautiful Diane Court out to a party. When she says yes, Lloyd and everyone who knows him is surprised by her answer. Things for the two of them is beginning to heat up and Diane's over-protective father doesn't approve of Lloyd, he sees him as a distraction. And she has a decision to make disappoint her father or stay with Lloyd. "},{"Title":"The best John Hughes teen movie John Hughes never made.","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is a rare movie that allows its teenage characters to be human beings, and not just a collection of frat-boy cliches and ditzy blonde stereotypes. In the last twenty years, there have only been a handful 'Real Genius', 'Some Kind Of Wonderful', 'Running On Empty', 'Scream', and this movie, 'Say Anything'. It stars John Cusack, one of this generation's most interesting actors, as Lloyd Dobler, a kick boxing grad who decides to call up the cutest girl in school just because it feels like the right thing to do.  The girl, Diane Court (played by Ione Skye), is not only beautiful, but smart enough to be valedictorian.  They both happen to be outsiders for different reasons, and as they get together, their relationship blossoming, they find they have nothing in common except love.  Sometimes, that's all you need. As the movie continues, we meet Diane's father, who will do anything for his daughter (a fact that comes back to haunt him), and finds himself in competition with Lloyd for his daughter's attention.  The screenwriter /director, Cameron Crowe, handles this competition and his characters with a deft, realistic touch. The title of the movie, 'Say Anything', refers to the relationship that Diane has with her father, in that she can 'say anything' to him, but the title is ironic, because it is what he doesn't tell her that turns the plot in a surprising direction. Crowe would go on to make 'Singles' and 'Jerry Maguire', but it is here that we first see his insight into characterization.  The performance that keeps you watching the screen throughout the movie is Cusack's, because his mind keeps working; you get the sense that Lloyd has a lot more to say, but is far too interested in Diane to focus on anything else. 'Say Anything' makes a good date movie because both sides are represented fairly, and while the resolution is a romantic one, the viewer gets the impression that it's the logical choice, too. "},{"Title":"Be a man, not a guy","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" That was one incredible line I gave her my heart and she gives me a pen. You could just feel the pain. I caught this tonight and was really surprised. Cusack was magnificent. Maybe I need to watch more of his movies to get some tips.Ione Skye was so much more that Girls in Prison. She really played a great part and was so sweet. She has that Drew Barrymore smile.I really like Lili Taylor, too. She really played a great part. And, when he went to the guys, I swear I recognized one of them, but I can't place him.All in all, I have to agree that this was one good movie. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of ALL Time","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have nothing but good words for Say Anything.  I first saw it two years ago, and I fell in love with it immediately.  It is the one movie I could watch everyday for the rest of my life and not tire of it.  Cameron Crowe is a genius, the dialogue is great.  As always a stellar performance from the amazing John Cusack.  Lloyd Dobler is the perfect man and I couldn't see anyone but Cusack filling the role.  Ione Skye is great and believable as a brain, trapped in the body of a game show hostess.  Also not mentioned as much, John Mahoney gives a very good performance. I would recommend seeing Say Anything, it always puts me in a good mood and its a great movie.  In my book it's a 10/10! "},{"Title":"Unlike fine wine, this movie doesn't get better with age.","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and seem to remember not being overly impressed with it. When they recently showed it on one of the movie channels, I decided to watch it again, being on a bit of a nostalgia for the 80s kick. Turns out, the movie still sucks. Seems to me that even though John Cusack is a very good actor, every character he played during the 80's was exactly the same. He always played the quirky, self effacing guy who dressed funny. This character is exactly the same as the dude he played in The Sure Thing. In the scene where he's holding the ghetto blaster over his head, I was hoping someone would shoot it out of his hands. I liked him a lot better when he was an extra in John Hughes' movies.It's no wonder the girl's dad didn't want him around - what dad would want a 19 year old loser who's career goal is to be a kick boxer or his daughter's full time boyfriend to follow his daughter to England where she's going to be studying at a prestigious university? They should have made a sequel where they continue their relationship for a couple of months before the girl realizes what a loser this dork is and dumps him for an intelligent, ambitious guy she meets at university.Then, Cusack's character could have wandered around Europe for awhile, being a big baby and then joining the Army. That might have made the movie more interesting. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it looks on paper","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I may be way off here, especially in this laudatory context, but this flick is as far from pure genius as we are to the nearest galaxy. If this is the best of the so-called teen movies of the 80's and 90's, I'm afraid to think of what those movies looked like. This film did not impress me with its flat plot, flat dialogue, or flat acting. I'm sorry to be so negative, but I'm surprised this film could have been so over-rated. "},{"Title":"SAY WHAT YOU LIKE","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film turned out to be a big disappointment. They hype said it was an underrated gem from the 1980s. Instead it's a very slow, flat film. Yes it's more classy than it's Brat Pack predecessors, but nothing happens. Some very dull teenagers go to a party. There's no plot, tension or chemistry.Check out Singles for Crowe at his best, and virtually everything Cusack has done since.   "},{"Title":"Cute.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Awh, this film is cute, you know. I wouldn't say it's amazing but for what it is, it's entertaining, I cared about the characters and I got frustrated when the plot didn't go the way I wanted it to. I wanna give this a rewatch now I know the plot so I can appreciate the other things which I don't think I did enough of i.e. music, side characters, acting etc. I was just in the mood to watch an old-school romance and that's what I got. The boombox scene (which is all I knew about this movie) wasn't as WHOAH as I expected but maybe that's what's so great about it, is that it wasn't a big overblown plot point but it still has a place in lots of audiences hearts. I think this could be a regular go-to film for me. John Cusack is a little cutie and his hopeless romantic character is a believable and real performance. As is Diane Court who's family struggles bring an unexpected struggle to the couple. The ending is so heart-warming and leaves you wanting a little bit more but that's what you want from a film. You're put in the characters shoes. You're happy and got what you want with the couple but you have no idea what's round the corner, just hope and love. "}{"Title":"Say Anything? How About, It's Awesome!","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything (1989) Dir Cameron Crowe / Cast John Cusack, Ione Skye, John Mahoney, Lili Taylor, Joan Cusack In the dusk of a decade comes one of the best teen romances ever filmed. Cameron Crowe's observant teen portrayals involves honesty and communication. It stars John Cusack as a high school graduate who makes cash teaching kick boxing, and lives with his sister, herself a mother. Ignoring any career prospects, he sets his sights on a brainy valedictorian, played by Ione Skye who is set to fly to England with a scholarship. She is asked out via phone by Cusack, whom she vaguely remembers, but her acceptance leads to a romance, security and freedom she never knew, even during a drunken party. Her parents are divorced and she lives with her father, played by John Mahoney, who runs a nursing home where he is investigated on charges of pocketing the cash of those in his care. The screenplay has funny moments where Cusack expresses himself as he does, but the serious undertones are convicting with solid performances by all three principal actors as well as Lili Taylor as Cusack's love sick friend who once attempted suicide. Now she writes songs about the guy who dumped her. Joan Cusack plays John's sister, which plays in effect as real siblings. Crowe is an expert observer of relationships, both young and old and the bonds that remain even after devastation. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"One of the most realistic romance films!","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything... follows the story of Lloyd, an eternal optimist who seeks to capture the heart of Diane, an unattainable high-school beauty and straight-A student. It surprises just about everyone when she returns the same sentiment. But Diane's overly possessive, divorced father doesn't approve and it will take more than the power of love to conquer all. The charm, the desire that brought this charming film to life is to hard to believe, the romance that is brought on to the screen is unlike no other romantic film. It's full of wonder and belief that bring these two teens that attract one another that bring you to understand that they won't abandon their love for each other even If it kills them. What this film gave to us is a certain spark that no other ordinary romance film hasn't gave us before, a unpredictable kind of approach to its story, you don't really know what to anticipate to each scene handed to you in your first viewing. The characters brought on upon John Cusack and Ione Skye (Lloyd & Diane) at the ritual ages of 22 & 18 gives you a sense of wonderment that gave these youngsters with such a sense of accomplishment to their acting capabilities and give us a straight forward way to render in such characters as the ones they were approached too. Predictable requirements you are trying harbor into this film is brought up so wrong because you are shown with surplus storytelling with no clich's in sight, the story gives you encouragement to root for the main characters of Lloyd and Diane because you just know these two are mean't for one another and you don't want them to see them give up. The witty and sharp dialogue for each character is done so proper to fit them with such whimsical attributes that make each and every one of them carefree or unpleasant. The love story that is brought along in this is not your usual kind of romance, the love is brought on with such realism that can relate, it does have its moments with things that couples would do but that's fine because Cameron Crowe brought you feelings to such dubious storytelling. This directional debut of Crowe really gave us a lot to live up too! "},{"Title":"Friends With Potential","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cameron Crowe is one of those directors that is incredibly gifted at writing great characters that feel like they are having real relationships. Whether it be parents to children, unlikely friendships, or just great romance, Crowe always finds a way to get the best out of actors and that always starts with his scripts. Say Anything tells the story of Lloyd, a well mannered 19 year old who lives in the now, and Diane, a valedictorian with everything good coming her way, and how a relationship like that may blossom over the course of the summer before college.Some may shrug at the fact that Lloyd may have no business in being with a girl of her stature, but the film does a nice job of making the romance believable. Having not known each other in high school, Lloyd decides to take his chances and just call and ask her on a date. Of course, she's very hesitant at first but by simply saying he made me laugh was enough for me. It's true, a laugh can go a long way in getting to know something in whatever aspect possible. Now 26 years later you can definitely feel the influence that this film had on coming of age films even to this day. The Spectacular Now takes a similar premise and also was very successful. It's hard to nail a high school film, but Say Anything did a pretty good job. I also appreciated the way they portrayed Diane's relationship with her father. It was clearly a close bond they had, and for 3/4 of the movie I felt like it wasn't clichd at all. There wasn't the typical Disney moments of it's my dream dad, not yours. Now, towards the end of the film I think that same relationship was sacrificed for certain plot points. Knowing that the film isn't all that unpredictable, I should have guessed certain things would happen, but I felt like the last third of the movie felt too much like all the other Hollywood films.There are a lot of classic Crowe moments like when Lloyd is constantly getting advice from his close girlfriends or even his guy friends, so there's no shortage of laughs or fun moments. The film also contains a fantastic score and soundtrack, which are also Crowe trademarks. The famous boombox scene is shorter than I thought and doesn't hold as much of a bearing on the film's outcome as I had heard. But Say Anything is still a well done coming of age film with real characters with real moments.+Soundtrack/score +Real romance +Everyone is well written +Felt like I was living it with them -3rd acts left turn 7.7/10 "},{"Title":"sincere teen rom-com","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's graduation at a Seattle high school. Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) vows to go out with Diane Court (Ione Skye). His friends Corey Flood (Lili Taylor) explain to Lloyd that she's a brain and they won't fit. He's living with his single mom sister Constance (Joan Cusack). She's the valedictorian on her way to England with a hard won scholarship. Her only friend is her father Jim (John Mahoney) who owns a nursing home. She regrets being detached from her schoolmates and is intrigued with Lloyd. Her father disapproves of Lloyd and the slacker distraction he represents.This is one of the most sincere of the teen rom-com genre. It's more than the iconic boombox scene. John Cusack seems perfectly fitted to play this charming nice guy. He has great friends and he's a perfect gentleman. He's like a prince charming and it's completely believable that Diane would fall heavily for Lloyd. Written and directed by Cameron Crowe, this movie takes the genre seriously which often easily falls into broad slacker comedy. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best High School Films Ever Released","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything... is a teen romantic comedy-drama that follows the relationship between Lloyd Dobler,an average student, and Diane Court,the class valedictorian, after their graduation from high school.It stars John Cusack and Ione Skye together with John Mahoney,Lily Taylor and Joan Cusack.This serves as the directorial debut of Cameron Crowe,who also wrote the film's screenplay.The story was set in Seattle,Washington. Lloyd Dobler, an average student and aspiring kickboxer, who attempts a relationship with the lovely valedictorian Diane Court immediately after their graduation from the same high school. Intrigued by Lloyd's endearing manner and willingness to take a chance at someone,they began seeing each other regularly.But when the father interfered,they have to end their relationship.In the end,Diane began to realize that there is just more to life than just good grades and perfection.This is definitely one of the best high school films ever released.Cameron Crowe definitely made a classic film that remains memorable after it has been released more than 25 years ago.The jokes maybe dated and the story of two different people falling in love maybe old-fashioned,the leads - Cusack and Skye - have authentic feelings and emotions that they become more than just stereotypes that viewers normally see just any other movie.Aside from well-developed characters,we also get to witness two great young thespians that exhibited real and authentic feelings. "},{"Title":"Touching, Memorable 80's Classic","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Say Anything' is a comedy-romance film about high school graduate, Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) who tries to win over the girl of his dreams, Diane Court (Ione Skye). Amidst deciding on his future and a protective father, Lloyd tries to do all he can to win over Diane before she heads off for college. 'Say Anything' is written and directed by Cameron Crowe, best known for his work on 'Almost Famous' and 'Jerry Maguire'.Cusack and Skye's chemistry in this film is some of the best ever on screen. Their on-screen chemistry really draws viewers into their relationship and makes the viewer feel so many emotions. All throughout the film the audience can relate and can not help but feel touched by these characters. This is definitely one of Cusack's best performances in his career. John Mahoney's performance as Diane's father James, is very great as well. His on-screen presence is very powerful and the viewer will feel many emotions towards him as well.This film is written almost perfectly. Every line is greatness and this film holds such memorable quotes. Along with memorable quotes, the film delivers heart-warming, memorable moments that viewers will fall in love with. Some of the best moments and quotes in cinema history came from this film. Great job by Crowe on writing and directing this film.The score in this film is done pretty well. Costume design is good, it serves its purpose. Cinematography is noting special. Editing is done pretty average. Ultimately this film boils down to great writing and performances.'Say Anything' is a great 80's classic that most anyone can fall in love with. With memorable quotes and events in this film, it is a movie that will stick with the viewer forever. Given one of the best on-screen chemistries in cinema history and great writing, 'Say Anything' gets a solid 8/10 stars from me. "},{"Title":"Be a man. Don't be a guy.","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lloyd Dobler has got it all figured out. Except he doesn't realize he's got it all figured out. He's just graduated high school and now what? He aspires to be a kickboxer which is a way of saying he has no prospects whatsoever, no future. But he knows what he wants. And what he wants most of all is to be with Diane Court. Diane is the school's golden girl. A brain trapped in the body of a game show hostess is the way her classmates describe her. She's the class valedictorian, winner of a prestigious fellowship which will have her leaving her Seattle home at the end of the summer to go study in England. Which leaves her with very little time to forge a romantic relationship. Not that she has any real chance of a relationship anyway. Intimidated by her brains and beauty guys find Diane unapproachable. Her classmates know of her but they don't really know her. So caught up in her studies and so seemingly unattainable, she never really had any friends, certainly no lovers. But Lloyd Dobler is ready to reach for the unreachable star. He calls her up out of the blue and, never mind the fact she really has no idea who he is, invites her to a graduation party. She says no, he persists, she says yes. And a love affair is born.Lloyd opens Diane's eyes to a whole new world. She allows herself to love and laugh, to really live for the first time. Not particularly enthused with this new relationship is Diane's father. He's always been the only man in her life, her only true friend and confidant. When her parents divorced Diane chose to live with her father and their lives proceeded according to his plan. He would do anything for his daughter, always be there for her to push her towards her dreams. But were they really her dreams or his? And how exactly did he finance these dreams? The IRS would like to know. Her father's under investigation, she's just fallen in love and she's headed for England in a few months. Diane's life is in complete turmoil. But Lloyd can be her rock. If she'll let him.Lloyd may seem to have no future but he has a wisdom beyond his years. Listen to the speech he gives Diane's father about what he wants to do with his life. Or more accurately, what he doesn't want to do with his life. It may not be a good enough plan for Diane's father but Lloyd knows the path to happiness. And for him right now that path involves spending as much time with Diane as possible. But her impending departure and her father's legal travails put pressure on the relationship and it all falls apart. Again though Lloyd has it all figured out. Certainly more than the guys hanging out at the Gas 'n' Sip do, as Lloyd drops some more precious wisdom on them. And then, urged on by his female friends to be more than a guy, to be a man, Lloyd goes about reclaiming his girl with the help of film's most legendary boombox.And they all lived happily ever after? Nope, this film is smarter than that, doesn't take the easy way out. Writer/director Cameron Crowe takes his time bringing the couple back together, to the point you wonder if they're actually going to get back together at all. This is no cheap, easy, formulaic teen romantic comedy. The characters have depth and brains and the central relationship is allowed to run a realistic, natural course. Nothing is rushed. And there is room for some wonderful, witty and in some cases now iconic dialogue along the way. Crowe wrote a terrific script, guided his actors with a strong hand and produced a real gem. John Cusack as Lloyd and Ione Skye as Diane are terrific in the key roles and are ably supported by a number of other fine performers. John Mahoney gives off such a good-at-heart vibe as Diane's father and then when things turn for the character Mahoney's performance evolves beautifully. Lili Taylor plays Lloyd's quirky musician friend. If you wrong this girl she's gonna write a song about it. Or 63 songs about it. Your heart breaks for her even as you can't help but laugh at her snarling musical missives to her ex. Other familiar faces like Joan Cusack and Philip Baker Hall pop up in small but important roles. It all comes together with a story which entertains, captivates and warms the heart. There are laughs but there's plenty of drama too all the way right up to the final scene, one of the best movie endings ever which has your heart right up in your throat to the very last moment. Lloyd and Diane went on a magical ride during their summer of love. Crowe took his audience on quite a ride as well. "},{"Title":"School is out, it's time for love","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The school is out for Lloyd Dobler, a mediocre Seattle student.He wants to go out with Diane Court, an intelligent valedictorian girl.Diane doesn't have much of a social life, and she lives with her divorced father Jim.Going out with Lloyd Dobler changes her life, and eventually the two of them are in love.She has just won a major fellowship to study in England.He has no other plans for the future, except to spend as much time as possible with Diane.And maybe later be a professional kickboxer.Things start going wrong when her father is facing troubles with the Internal Revenue Service.That also means troubles to their relationship.Say Anything... is from 20 years back, 1989.Cameron Crowe is the director and writer, this being the first movie he directed.James L. Brooks was producing it.John Cusack is very cool, very relaxed actor.That makes him most fitting for the part of Lloyd Dobler.And who else would be better to play the part of the sweet and smart Diane Court than Ione Skye.John Mahoney is brilliant as Jim Court, the troubled father.Lili Taylor plays Lloyd's friend Corey Flood, who's in pain over Joe.Joe is played by Loren Dean.Lloyd's other friends, D.C. and Rebecca are played by Amy Brooks (daughter of James) and Pamela Adlon.The part of Mike Cameron, a drunken partygoer is played by Jason Gould.Glen Walker Harris Jr. is Jason Dobler.Cusack's pal Jeremy Piven, who's appeared alongside with John in films like Grosse Point Blank, plays his high school buddy Mark.John's sister, Joan Cusack plays his movie sister Constance Dobler.The soundtrack includes stuff from Peter Gabriel, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Depeche Mode and Crowe's wife Nancy Wilson.This is not your average boy meets girl- story.This goes much deeper being a romantic movie with brains. "},{"Title":"A novel romance","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lloyd Dobler (youthful John Cusack) great people skills, popular, everyone in HS knows him and likes him, fun to be with, nice guy, lives in the moment; doesn't have any real plans about what to with his life after graduation, has no interest in college or in conventional jobs.Diane Court (Ione Skye) highly intelligent, dedicated student, valedictorian, won prestigious fellowship for study abroad, doesn't realize she's beautiful, her father (John Mahoney) is her confidant; had little time for social life in HS; no school friends, everyone in H.S. knows of her but no one in school knows her; they think she is an elitist brainiac and unapproachable by the common student.But she has attracted his attention, so he ignores advice that contacting her is bound to fail, makes her laugh, and they become a couple.Conflicts What happens when she goes to England in a few weeks? Will her father accept her new behavior? Is her father hiding something? Good story, not predictable, good acting, holds your attention from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Great Friday Night Movie","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything is one of my all time favorite movies. The movie isn't too far fetched and the actors did a wonderful job making these characters seem even more believable and worthy of our sympathy at times. This movie can probably only appeal to the younger crowd (teens and early twenties) but as I'm sure there are exceptions to that. The story is simple and not made overly dramatic which is definitely a plus. I never tire of watching this movie and even see new things in the characters each time. There are moments when i can see a little of myself in each of the characters. The story isn't something that you're likely to see in real life but it seems so real you think you can. "}{"Title":"Cusack makes it worthwhile","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Quite a good film about love and relationships that holds its own thanks to a solid, believable performance from John Cusack and a likable cast including Ione Skye.Cusack falls for genius school girl Skye, whose father spoils her rotten. A relationship blooms between the former two until a rift appears when her father faces an accusation of stealing money that belonged to the elderly folk he supposedly cares for.While writer-director Cameron Crowe's film has little direction or originality, John Cusack always manages to keep you interested in what's happening to him. Fair entertainment.Sunday, September 1, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"a more adult teen comedy","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" john cusack will get me to watch the most banal film as long as he is in it...American sweethearts,serendipity,anyone? cusacks character in this movie however,is the reason i love him as an actor,he almost seems to be playing himself.that is that its the kind of role we have come to love him in.lloyd dobler is not too dissimilar from the characters he played in grosse pointe blank and high fidelity.smart,intelligent,sometimes shrewd,but untimately lovable people.its this that makes this film so watchable.because it is more serious in tone than say john hughes' teen movies,its slightly harder to watch were it not for cusack.also brilliant is john mahoney,erstwhile martin crane in frasier.the film also has a great sense of time and place,one of its biggest appeals for me was its 80's setting and the music that comes with it. unlike some other teen movies the film is also very realistic,dealing with real issues,that are dealt with realistically. this is a very enjoyable film,not what i was expecting going into it,but for which i am pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 2","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 2. SAY ANYTHING (comedy-romance, 1989) Lloyd (John Cusak) is graduating from high school. His main interests in life include kick-boxing, and having fun. Diane (Ione Skye) is the smart and beautiful genius of Lloyd's school, so he calls her up for a date. She accepts only because he made me laugh. Since they lead very different lives, it comes as a surprise to all when the no-so serious Lloyd gets Diane to fall in love with him. But Diane suddenly has to decide whether to leave for an exclusive college, or stay with the man she loves.CRITIQUE Starting out as another one of those 'sex-teen' comedies that were popular during the 1980s (i.e. 'Meatballs', 'Porky's'), the film surprisingly settles down to a wonderful coming-of-age romance. Cameron Crowes' witty script and direction helps to lift it above those inferior flicks. He gives the characters clever lines (so how did you get Diane to go out with you? Lloyd I called her up. Thanks, that gives me hope), along with a story that touches on the complicated aspects of young love.It also examines their emotions and thoughts as young adults, not just sex-starved teens full of hormones. Best of all, Crowe gives the oftentimes-miscast John Cusak a perfect role. His on-screen romance with the beguiling Ione Skye has to be one of the sweetest in cinema memory.QUOTES Diane Why are you shaking? Lloyd I don't know. I'm just happy. "},{"Title":"A movie that remembers what movies are all about.","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time with my ex-girlfriend.  I don't consider myself critical of date movies per se, but this one changed my  entire perception of the chick flick genre.  It's one of those films which, for me, don't seem that profound until a few days after you've seen them.   Then you start thinking about certain scenes or feelings those scenes provoked in you.  The more I watch this film, the more I enjoy it.  The famous scene  (anyone familiar at all with this movie knows the one I am referring to) inspired me to do the same thing for my ex-girlfriend when, in May of 1998, she left me because she hadn't grown up to want what we had.  This film holds a special place in my heart, as does its love theme (which broke through the night air  at 1230am when I stood outside re-enacting the sweetest, simplest, most heart-tearing demonstration of love I have ever seen in a motion picture).  I am not  writing this review to comment on one scene, however, but rather on the brilliance of it as a whole and that of its director, Cameron Crowe.  He never  forgets that life is made up of moments and as such includes scenes which, while they don't necessarily advance the plot, stay in your mind and your heart  long after you've forgotten the film's title and story years afterwards.  Say Anything... is one of my favorite movies because it explores things that have  always been close to my heart (the possibility that adults, though older, may not be able to understand certain places of love when they've never had  anything so intimate to relate to, the insecurity and mixed emotions that go with being your own person, and the kind of selflessness, spontaneity, and  tenderness that define what real love is all about).  This was one of the best films of 1989. "},{"Title":"Great Screenplay Raises The Standard","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On the surface, this seems to be just another teen movie, but the dialog and performances elevate the work above the myriad of trash teen films. The material seems superfluous and shallow, but upon viewing, one realizes that this is deeper and more thoughtful than the rest.The players represent some of the best teen talent of the time (though many are in their twenties at this time). Most of these young people have made it as adult thespians; a testimony to the performance quality presented here.Teen rom/com's are not my thing (if you can dig it), but this was highly enjoyable and more thoughtful than at first, it may seem.All in all? Don't save this one up for Friday or Saturday night, but it's great for an afternoon romantic comedy/teen flick, thought it may be a bit dated.It rates a 7.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Nice Guy Gets Nice Girl","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I happened across this film whilst channel-hopping, and decided to watch it with absolutely zero expectations. Given my usual aversion to any film described as a teen romance, it may be that I was just in a good mood, but to my surprise I rather enjoyed it.A large part of its appeal undoubtedly lies in the fact that John Cusack and Ione Skye do make a genuinely likable couple, helped out by an understated script that allows them to be just that. In a number of other films by Cameron Crowe, I've felt the emotion was cloyingly overdone. However, although Say Anything, with its central premise of nice guy gets nice girl, occasionally teeters on the brink of such sentimentality, it never quite topples.There's a pleasant naturalistic quality to the film. Not what you would call realism, just an unforced emotional sincerity. Despite the fact many of the characters could, on the face of it, easily be slotted into familiar stereotypes of the genre, the script ensures they diverge just enough to keep things interesting.This is particularly true of Ione's father, engagingly played by John Mahoney, better known as Marty Crane on Frasier. At first I assumed he was going to be the standard domineering dad, putting his foot down to prevent his darling daughter consorting with a guy who just wasn't good enough for her. And to an extent this does happen, but it is all a good deal more subtle and nuanced than I had been expecting.Elsewhere, the film could be accused of leaving a number of the supporting characters underdeveloped, and some of the subplots unconcluded. Yet I actually didn't really mind. If anything it helped add a kind of authenticity to the story. After all in reality people can drift in and out of our lives quite haphazardly, without providing us with in depth looks into their character, nor any neat endings for their stories.In summation then, although Say Anything is no cinematic masterpiece, if you approach it in a relatively uncynical frame of mind, you should find it an engaging and sincere romantic drama. "},{"Title":"If you haven't seen it, SEE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my absolute favorite movie ever, and as the years pass I am more and more convinced that it will remain my favorite. Best performances, best soundtrack, most romantic. That is the best part. This movie is not corny or sappy in the least, there are no clichs - it is real life. Cameron Crowe created a masterpiece, with a funny, intelligent, heart-breaking script and honest moments that make you feel as a fly on the wall, instead of a movie-goer.John Cusack has always been up there on my list of best actors, and his performance here is simply amazing. Lili Taylor proves what an incredible, real actress she is. And of course, Ione Skye is terrific as well. As you watch the movie, it's cool to know that the actors are really friends and it shows.Amazing film. "},{"Title":"Awesome Film","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From start to finish, just an awesome film. I can't quite put my finger on it, but it just felt like you were watching real people, not actors. I think its the manner in which a series of those uncomfortable, sometimes even awkward moments were strung together to form a plot. The characters seemed to have this desire to relate to each other by creating a collective cohesive set of performances that individually might seem out of sync, but combined together are in complete harmony. The selection of music was also just fantastic. That moment when John Cusack is holding the ghetto blaster,standing outside of the house, while In your eyes is playing, sets the bar of excellence for romantic comedies to come. It really doesn't matter if this scene is plausible or not, its symbolic, everybody should strive to have a moment like that at least once during the course of their lifetime. Its about self-expression, its about clichd expression like wearing your heart on your sleeve and putting yourself out there. Its a moment that will make you remember this film. A reminder to all of us not to lead a life of quiet desperation. John Cusack is simply outstanding as Lloyd Dobler, John Mahoney (The dad from 'Frasier') turned in an incredible performance. This film wasn't your typical eightes teen romance flick, but it definitely left me with a great vibe at the end. It left me with, as cheesy as this might sound, that nice guys don't actually finish last and they do get the girl at the end. "},{"Title":"It just works","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wish I understood exactly why this movie works so well.  On the outside it's nothing more than a cookie cutter version of a love story.  It follows the same basic trajectory as every other romance story I've seen and the screenplay is nothing out of the ordinary.  But there is something about Lloyd Dobler's (John Cusack) unfailing optimism that you can't help but route for him.  Diane (Ione) may make you want to throw something at the screen at times for not grasping how truly special her relationship is with Lloyd, but it's the fact that you feel impassioned enough to actually throw something that shows you really do care about the fate of these characters. Plus, if someone didn't go crazy and doubt the relationship there wouldn't be much of a story, and it's about time it's not the guy who messes up. Beyond the care this film evokes from the audience for the characters, Say Anything also includes one of the all time greatest scenes of any love story (or any movie, for that matter) ever created.  If you've seen the movie you know which scene I'm talking about.  If you haven't, you'll realize it when you have to mold your melted heart back together (hint Peter Gabriel lends a little help).  Once again, I don't understand why I love this movie because I usually don't get into shallow chick flicks. Say Anything, though it epitomizes the chick flick genre, stands head and shoulders and  boom boxes above most other love stories because Cameron Crowe masterfully weaves a love triangle between Lloyd, Diane, and the audience. "},{"Title":"Ultra-charming, the height of '80s teen movies","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is one of the most enjoyable actors alive. It's a shame that he's most well-known from semi-terrible action movies like Con Air (worth watching for an amazing cast -- Steve Buscemi, Nicolas Cage having fun with a bad southern accent, Ving Rhames, and John Malkovich chomping the scenery) and so-sweet-they'll-make-your-teeth-rot romantic comedies. When he's in a good, even great, role as he is here, the pleasures he brings are endless.The so true tagline of the movie is To know Lloyd Dobler is to love him. Diane Court is about to know Lloyd Dobler. Cusack plays Lloyd Dobler as an optimistic, verbose charmer of a 19 year-old longing for Diane Court (Ione Skye). Diane is an overachiever -- not a snob, but she's afraid that people see her as prissy. In the film, we never see her with her friends; rather, we see her working at her father's (John Mahoney) old folks home. Dobler, on the other hand, we see with his friends like the great Lily Taylor, as a forlorn girl who sings Angry Chick music -- 65 songs written about the guy who dumped her. (She encourages Dobler to be a man, not just some guy.)Diane's not a long-legged blonde or a bombshell by any means, but she is cute. She's a social outcast of sorts. While she's been accepted by a fellowship in England, she doesn't have a clue socially. When she reluctantly agrees to go out to an after-graduation party with Dobler (after one of the all-time classic phone calls, in a constraining bathroom space), she overdresses terribly for the occasion. Dobler isn't a stud, but he's instantly likeable and spending time with his presence is a joy.As Diane's father, John Mahoney gives a subtle, hopelessly un-hip portrayal of an emotionally open father whose pride is his daughter (and will do whatever he can to secure her happiness). At first, he's indifferent towards Lloyd, although he does question Lloyd's career prospects (just as Lloyd's friends question why Diane is interested in him at all). In the most heartbreaking and perfectly handled scene in the movie, the divorced Mahoney tries to pull a Lloyd Dobler and charm a store clerk, only to have two credit cards denied, and have the clerk pity him by saying she won't confiscate his card as she's supposed to.I've always had an affection for '80s teen movies (even though -- or maybe because -- I'm too young to remember them first first-hand). Many of them -- particularly those by the King of '80s teen movies, John Hughes -- have a strange self-awareness and a weirdness that's really unique. The two reining favourites remain The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off, both by Hughes. But Say Anything... wasn't a John Hughes movie, it was Cameron Crowe's first as a director. It doesn't have that weirdness of many '80s teen movies; instead, it's got an honest charm (as opposed to, I don't know, a goofball charm). It's genuinely funny (Cusack's dead-on timing is a major asset), and ultimately the perfect date movie. The only thing I'd worry about is your date falling in love too much with Lloyd and his bumbling eloquence. After watching Say Anything..., she might see you as second rate.There's one scene in the back of a car (yep, you guessed it) that seems as if it were directly thieved by James Cameron for his vastly overrated (but sill enjoyable) Titanic. (I know it's not just some coincidence either -- there's more than one Bob Dylan line stolen and reworded for Cameron's film.) Also, I'm fairly certain that The Simpsons paid homage to Say Anything... and Diane's fear of flying, in an episode where Marge is calmed by Homer, naming all the completely ordinary plane noises. (Diana also retells a story in the film of how she screamed so loud that she and her father made a plane turn around -- in The Simpsons, it's actually shown.)In this, one of the great romantic-teen-comedies -- a masterwork, and Crowe's crowning achievement with Almost Famous trailing close behind -- it's great fun getting to know Lloyd Dobler.**** "}{"Title":"The movie still rocks, but the commentary is why to buy...","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's little I can add about this film that hasn't already been said. So I won't.  I will say that the commentary by Crowe, Cusack, and Skye on the DVD version is worth the price of purchasing or renting this title.  There is about a 20 minute preamble where Crowe and co. talk about the genesis of the film, and the casting process. It's a fascinating look into how films get made, and in this case, a look at just how miraculous this film was/is - it literally fell together with all the pieces in the right place at the right time (with much help from James L. Brooks).  "},{"Title":"Perfect.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is absolutely perfect in my opinion. It never steps wrong and always hits the idea right on top of the head. Say Anything is a perfect and beautiful movie. I watched this film years ago and realized that someone actually got what it's like to be in love with someone and know that they are the only one for you. John Cusack and Ione Skye are a perfect couple in this movie and it works well on the screen. John Mahoney, playing Skye's father, is heart-breaking and very real in his portrayal of a man who wants the best for his daughter. Cameron Crowe is a great writer and shows off his directorial talent too. The film has a great soundtrack. Great movie.  "},{"Title":"The writing and performances help it rise above the standards of the 80's teen romance genre","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's graduation day and while Lloyd Dobler has graduated he has yet to speak to the girl of his dreams Diane Court. Meanwhile Diane has a bright future in front of her but yet managed to go through school without really being friends with anyone but her father. When Lloyd finally gets the courage to ask her out she accepts and finds that she enjoys her company and that this is the world she has been missing out on. However will their growing friendship go anywhere with Diane destined for a scholarship in England?Like many people I knew this film from the famous image of Lloyd holding a ghetto-blaster above his head, but I had never seen the film or known anything about it until recently. The film opens on fairly typical teen territory and I settled in for what I expected (knew?) would bring just what I expected from it. In a way this is what it did do because the basic narrative arch and characters are familiar and it is solid and enjoyable in this regard. However the film is better than the basics would suggest because it has a smart script in Crowe's impressive feature debut. The story has more to it than the romance and in this way it deepens the characters. Of course it is still a teen movie so it is not as deep as all that but it is refreshing different from the majority of the films where the action focuses entirely on the young couple.With this approach Mahoney works well with a character that has real interest and complexity and his character is much better than I expected as a result. Cusack does equally as well with a gently quirky character with dignity and humour &#150; he contrasts well with his peers, most of who are the clichs associated with the genre but are mocked a bit for it. Skye is good but takes a while to get to the good material &#150; for the majority she does what the genre requires but is better with better material later on. The support cast features mostly solid performances from a cast of actors on their way to fame &#150; Taylor, Piven, Hall and others are surprise finds.Overall then this is a genre teen romance and is good on that level. However the writing and performances are better than the genre average and make for a much more interesting and engaging film that should be liked by the majority of viewers as long as you don't dislike the genre itself. "},{"Title":"Three characters in search of a plot.","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a great fan of high school movies and of the Cusacks but this movie left me underwhelmed.The problem is, that although it makes an admirable attempt to round out the three main characters (Lloyd, Diane and her Dad) it does so at the expense of the plot.Let's face it, there's nothing to the plot other than the traditional boy gets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl again and, within this framework, everything that happens is almost completely predictable.There are all sorts of potentially interesting supporting characters (especially Lloyd's sister played by the uncredited Joan Cusack)but nothing is made of them.So, not bad exactly, just a little ho-hum. If you haven't seen it already watch The Sure Thing instead. "},{"Title":"The truth of the lie","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most if not all the characters in the film are at one point or another lying. Some are living a lie while others just tell them. Overall fiction, Say Anything is about the reality of relationship and love. Crown is outstanding. He has written a love story based on a lie (fiction) but in return, produces the truth. The narrative alone is more innocent, more real than in any other romantic movie of the decade. It is the best that the 80's offered. 16 Candles may come close, but is only a comedy in the end. Say Anything takes the cake for the best love story of its generation. "},{"Title":"An intelligent comedy? hard to believe but true","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack stars in this suprisingly intelligent adult comedy about a recent high school grad who goes after the smart beautiful woman from his school. Things get a little complicated when real life interrupts their attempts. A smart film that treats all of its characters as real people - adults and kids - something very rare especially in teen focused comedies - the result is a very well done and involving movie with great performances and a high romance factor. Features a classic scene with Cusack outside Skye's window playing  In Your Eyes  A great date movie on a scale of one to ten... 8 "},{"Title":"Doesn't meet my requirements that define a 'good movie'. Just average.","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not a big fan of and do not have a lot of knowledge about romantic films but it seems to me 'Say Anything' is just a mediocre film, nothing special really. I can't really identify with the '80's atmosphere since I'm a 90's ( and '00's) kid but I can see why this film can be nostalgia for some people. This being known as one of the best teen romances of the '80's makes me not want to see the others. It was fine but wasn't rewarding enough, didn't leave enough to ponder on after the credits were rolling. I guess I'm just saying 'Say Anything' didn't meet my requirements, it didn't fulfill any of the criteria of what makes a movie better than average according to me. I expect something special when watching, watching the same formulaic films every time leaves me yearning for more.'Say Anything' isn't a bad movie, the acting's decent, the on screen chemistry's good, the plot is a little thin but OK. It's a great film for fans of the '80's teen film genre, can bring back a lot of teenage or childhood memories and so it's worth the watch for people who meet the fore-mentioned standards.I'm a pretty big Cusack fan, have been ever since watching Runaway Jury, and I've been searching for more movies of his. Sadly, this is probably the worst film he's made that I've seen so far. Cusack's the reason I gave this film a 5.5, because everything else makes me want to give this film a 5. Just to clarify, a 5 is a mediocre movie in my book, not a bad one. I've given plenty of critically acclaimed movies 4 or less.Decent, not good enough. "},{"Title":"What we do for love.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cameron Crowe succeeds in creating a vary likeable character dealing with love from afar. Lloyd Dobler, played by John Cusak, is very popular, but without major ambition. He is smitten with the smartest girl in school, played by Ione Skye. Dobler's current main goal in life is to get a date with the object of his obsession. If you liked the movie PRETTY IN PINK, you will really enjoy this movie. Two people from different walks of life discover each other. Cusak is flawless in his role. Miss Skye is more than just a pretty face. John Mahoney plays the pampering father.Crowe has a talented flair with the agonizing emotions that are part of approaching adulthood. "},{"Title":"Did I watch the same movie as everyone else?","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I seem to go against everyone else, here are my thoughts on Say Anything... I checked over all the user comments... a vast majority are praise for Say Anything. I just saw this movie two days ago, and nearly fell asleep while watching it. The only reason to watch is Cusack. He is such a good actor in this movie. Skye really brought down the movie. Other than that, I found this movie was boring, and lame, and way to sappy sometimes. And almost unbelievable. I didn't believe that they really loved each other. I'm not a big fan of this movie, I wouldn't recommend it, and I won't watch it again. All I have left to say is... yawn. "},{"Title":"Say Anything...","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My favorite part about Say Anything... is how it treats it's characters. They feel genuine, like real people, not like archetypes like in most teen movies (I love The Breakfast Club, but literally every character in that movie is an archetype). There is no nerd or jock character, and their dialogue doesn't feel like movie dialogue. The chemistry between the characters is (intentionally) awkward at first, but as they come to know each other better it becomes more relaxed and natural. Lloyd is not a perfect guy, he gets easily anxious, isn't very smart, and has absolutely no idea where he is going in life (but he doesn't seem to care). But he also has good intentions and is easy to like. Diane is VERY connected to her dad, and her dad try's to plan out her life for he because he wants her to have everything. But this results in her not really having much of a social life, which pretty much leads to her decision to go to the party on the night of their graduation with Lloyd. At first she doesn't like Lloyd, and it seems she even thinks about ditching him at one point, but from talking to one of Lloyd's best friends she decides to give him a chance.All of the characters in this movie end up learning one thing no matter how much you plan for something, a simple feeling that you have for someone can completely change it, so really, you can't plan for anything. Diane's dad, James, is arrested later in the movie for essentially stealing money from people, and his plan to raise money for when his daughter comes back from England is completely foiled. Even though Diane thinks it's best for her not to be with Lloyd, she inevitably comes back to him. Lloyd has the easiest time adjusting, because he had no preconceived plans. He simply focuses on the moment and I think thats the lesson of this movie. No matter how much you plan for your life, anything can swoop in and change that plan at any moment, so we might as well just stay closest to the people we care about and just worry about things as they come. And the closet we get to realizing that, the happier everyone's lives will be. "}{"Title":"Say Anything you want about Say Anything..., but this is a great movie!","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most of us know about that scene, that famous scene where the guy is standing in the front yard outside the house of his girlfriend (or ex-girlfriend, I should say), after she just broke up with him the day before. It's early in the morning when he's decided to pull off this little stunt, and, standing next to his car, he's holding up a huge boom-box over his head blaring Peter Gabriel's In Your Eyes.This is the most iconic and famous scene in Cameron Crowe's Say Anything..., his 1989 debut which he both wrote and directed. This is a movie I've seen in clips over the years but have never actually sat down and watched the whole thing in its entirety. I've read the critical praise (the most significant coming from the late film critic Roger Ebert), Entertainment Weekly naming it the greatest modern romance AND ranking it at #11 on their list of 50 best high school movies, and a Valentine's Day article in The Washington Post from 2006 titled What I Did For Lloyd. Now I've finally sat down and watched the movie and understood where it's all coming from.The 1980s were a wasteland of teen comedies. John Hughes (1950-2009) was behind the best of them (The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles). At the tail end of the decade, came Cameron Crowe and his Say Anything.... This film is much like any teen comedy/romance to come out at that time (and ever since) and begins as such, with a noble underachiever who falls for an ultra-intelligent, if socially unskilled, beauty who seems way out of his league. The movie also seems to at least partially pre-figure the Seattle grunge era of the early '90s (which was spear-headed by the legendary grunge band Nirvana), but the exact details of this implication are part of another discussion entirely.Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) is the noble underachiever who dares to ask out the beautiful high school valedictorian Diane Court (Ione Skye) the day after their graduation. Lloyd's ambitions are pretty slim, since the only thing he can really see himself doing in the immediate future is Kick-boxing (which at that time was still a relatively new thing). So at least he's honest about his life's aspirations he knows what he wants to do, and he especially knows what he DOESN'T want to do - which does shock some people and makes him the most truthful character in the entire film. But it's an even bigger shock when he decides that he wants to go out with the lovely Diane Court.Diane, on the other hand, has her whole life set out before her. She's worked hard her entire life to work her way up to the top of her high school graduating class. And all that hard work pays off when she learns she's been granted a fellowship to further her studies overseas in England. And she'll be leaving at the end of the summer. And then there's Lloyd, who impulsively asks her out on a date and much to his surprise, she accepts his invitation. They do go out, they enjoy one another's company, they connect, and their feelings of just being friends with potential do gradually deepen into love. While Diane's over-protective father James Court (John Mahoney) seems to like Lloyd, he mostly sees him as a distraction and someone who's going to steer her away from the future she's worked so hard to achieve.We like Lloyd and Diane both, and we want them to be together. But like any good love story, there has to be roadblocks, and these roadblocks hurt...In a major subplot, however, James, owner of an elderly-care facility, is also being investigated by the IRS for tax fraud. This subplot would be a most unnecessary distraction from an otherwise touching teen romance, but the way everything turns out and why it's even happened in the first place is just one of the many unique charms of Say Anything... and why it stands out amongst most teen romance films made before and since. A less ambitious movie would JUST be about Lloyd & Diane's relationship and nothing else, but Say Anything... has other things on its mind beside those two - even though it still hurts us when outside forces cause them to separate for a time. Say Anything... wants to show us how their relationship is affecting everyone around them, and how everyone around them is affecting them, as well.Say Anything... is a wondrously scripted, acted, and directed film; it's definitely an early indication of the skill of a writer and director with huge ideas, huge potential. Crowe knew his characters well and chose his performers even better. John Cusack and Ione Skye are the dynamic young stars playing Lloyd and Diane. Like John Hughes before him and who dominated the early portion of the 1980s teen scene, Cameron Crowe knew how to make a smart teen film one that is not filled with stupid sex jokes and even stupider characters - teens and adults alike.With that in mind, I can see how an audience so cynical in 1989 after being bombarded with teen comedy after teen comedy throughout the earlier portion of the decade can very easily write off Say Anything... as just Another Teen Movie. It's a teen film, yes, and an occasionally very funny one, too, but it's also an extraordinarily moving and compelling one, as well. So I can also see how that cynicism would wear off once the movie really begins to reveal itself to the audience - especially with its emotional honesty and maturity, and the fact that it's actually a very well-written and acted little piece of cinema.So it's really no wonder why you can Say Anything you want about Say Anything... but you cannot deny that it is not a great movie!10/10 "},{"Title":"A Teen Rom-Com That For Once is Approachable and Cringeless","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is One Smoothie Movie. It Really Goes Down Quite Well. The Characters are Just Above the Surface and Not Embellished or Exaggerated, as So Often Happens in Teen Movies. The Subtle and Sometimes Dark Humor Works, Like the Pen, the Bathtub Scene, and Relationships because it Seems Natural and Not Written.The Performances Across the Board are Also Endearing Because the Characters Seem Real, but are Painted with Just a Slight Touch of Romanticism. John Cusack is at the Center of this Gentle Storm Engulfing that Twilight Zone Between High School Graduation and The Great Unknown (the real world).Ione Skye is a Lovable Brain, with the body of a Game Show Host and Her Dad-Pal, John Mahoney, Carries the Surprising Sub-Plot with Equal Amounts of Fatherly Concern with a Greedy Side. After All isn't this the 1980's.Overall, this is a Smartly Written and Directed Debut Film from Cameron Crowe and was Ignored and Not a Hit in its Initial Release. But Hipsters and Film Critics Knew it was Something Special Right Away and the Majority of the Population has Caught Up and Now Consider this One of the Best Rom-Com's Ever and Certainly a Touchstone for those that Came of Age in that Era and a Great Date Movie for Any Era. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teenage romance masterpiece about underachiever Cusack falling for and winning the heart of overachiever Skye the summer after high school, with serious decisions arising as college approaches for the latter, possibly forcing the two to go down different paths forever. Three-dimensional characters with very relatable conflicts. Mahoney steals the movie as Skye's father, who is just so freaking awesome that it's too good to be true&#x85; which, sadly, ends up being the case. There are a few story choices that force the movie off track unnecessarily, but it's just straight-up knit-picking to say it negatively affects the overall viewing experience or quality of the film. Directorial debut of Cameron Crowe. Lois Chiles, Joan Cusack and Dan Castellaneta all go unbilled. *** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Say Anything","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cameron Crowe's directorial debut caught me by surprise. Boasting an energetic performance by a very young and exuberant John Cusack, Say anything is an interesting foray into the world of young romance Circa 1980 something.The story follows Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) as he falls hopelessly in love with Diane Court (Ione Sky). The pair meet during high school graduation and all manner of relationship dynamics come into play.Featuring a bold example of gender role reversal in 1980s U.S. culture the film chronicles Lloyd's attempts to woo the woman he loves, his subsequent continual rejections as Diane tries to stay focused on her career and the upset of the class divide between them when troubles arise with Diane's father.I found the entire film to be extraordinarily interesting and engaging, the director turns traditional romantic stereotypes on their head and reveals the tender side of male teenage head space.Say anything represents an egalitarian attitude towards romantic idealism in film, something that I consider not only to be very entertaining but also unique in its delivery . The film premiered two years after Dirty Dancing, which was a throwback to an earlier era and mindset but was hugely popular and I consider Say Anything to be a sobering antidote to the usual female Cinderella stereotype. (Uhhmmm Sixteen candles .yawn).Say anything contains THAT BOOMBOX scene and John Cusack won the Most promising Actor Award from the Chicago Film Critics Association for his portrayal of Lloyd Dobler .I highly recommend this film, it's an absolute treat, especially for those of us who endured the DIRTY DANCING craze and subsequent or previous Cinderella style stereotypes in popular culture and film.Read my reviews and join in the fun banter at filmstvandlife.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Illustrating All Kinds of Love","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything&#x85; (1989) is one of those rare late-eighties, early-nineties romantic comedies that can appeal to both men and the fairer sex. You know the type When Harry Met Sally&#x85; (1989) Pretty Woman (1990) Sleepless in Seattle (1993) et al. Yet Say Anything&#x85; is one of the few exceptionally good and mature love stories that takes place in the torrid-love-affair-overload land of high school. Well maybe not, it more takes place in the insular time between high school and college but let's not split hairs for the sake of the kids.John Cusack plays an eccentric yet well-meaning goofball whose been pining for the school's valedictorian for a good long while. His friends played by Amy Brooks and a singularly jejune Lily Taylor think she's out of his league; brains stick with brains, she says while strumming her guitar. Yet Lloyd Dobler takes a chance anyway and to his great surprise gets a yes from Ione Skye's ethereal ingnue. They then are given the summer to bond before she goes to college in England.The start of the movie lulls you into a false sense of knowing. Of course Lloyd Dobler is going to end up going out with Diane Court. Everyone including her father (John Mahoney) doesn't think it's going to work out. Their names are even phonetically at odds. Diane? Lloyd? Might as well call them Joe and Princess Ann. Yet this movie isn't about falling in love, it's about being in love and believe me there is a big difference.Dobler and Diane grow to love one another by relating to each other and have a mutual interest in learning about each other. Lloyd looks out for her and accepts the goals she has made for herself and adapts accordingly. While we do see less adaptation from Diane it's hard for her to accommodate Lloyd when his life plans are so up in the air. Yet even with his tacit inkling towards a career in kickboxing you can tell Diane would be there to support him when push comes to shove. They have a good thing going and quickly shed the clique dynamics of high school in exchange for something more real.Real and less volatile as evidenced by the juxtaposition of Lily Taylor's obsession with a two timer named Joe (Loren Dean). That single relationship informs her worldview and is the impetuous for her songwriting yet at first glance he clearly isn't worth the heartache. It's a childish obsession at odds with Lloyd's commitment based interconnection with Diane. When Diane describes her first sexual experience with Lloyd to her father, it wasn't a decision wholly based on a whim. She put thought into her adult decision and Lloyd was right there, chomping at the bit like guys would, but still being an adult about it.Diane is given abundant support by her loving father who is displeased with her choice in boyfriend. Lloyd might be sincere but his ambitions are nebulous which would concern any protective father. Yet don't think for a moment John Mahoney's Mr. Court is the bad guy, even if the subplot involving money laundering feels skivvy. The very fact that Diane could confide in him when she loses her virginity should be evidence enough of their special bond. Even Lloyd picks up on the supportive relationship saying You two are amazing, you know? The way you talk&#x85;I'm not even like that with anybody. Say Anything&#x85; is a romantic comedy in the classical sense. In one exchange Diane says Nobody thinks it will work do they? to which Lloyd retorts, No, you just described every great success story. Yet director Cameron Crowe probes deeper than frivolity. It's a love story that examines love through sacrifice, commitment, compromise and growth. There are many films that express the elation of falling hear over heals, the serendipity of forming close bonds and the promise of romance. But few ever give you the true meaning and consequence of love. Ultimately it's not about a sentimental letter or sending flowers, mostly it's about holding someone's hands and telling them things are going to turn out alright. "},{"Title":"After so many years, I finally got to see Say Anything... and I love it!","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After so many years of hearing about this movie, I finally got to watch Say Anything... with my mom just now on a Netflix disc. Part of me expected a comedy on the order of the John Hughes movies or maybe Fast Times at Ridgemont High which happened to have been written by Cameron Crowe, the same one who wrote and directed-for the first time-this one. Instead, I found out this was a drama with some subtle humorous scenes about the budding romance of Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) and Diane Court (Ione Skye), the former an underachieving high school graduate and the latter the class valedictorian. Oh, and she has a father (John Mahoney) who gave her the best of what life has to offer but turns out to have some flaws that threaten their relationship. That's all I'll mention of the plot. Now I just want to say that I love the whole vibe that went on during the movie. It's such a refreshingly candid romantic movie especially during that iconic scene of Lloyd playing Peter Gabriel's In Your Eyes on that boom box hoping Diane comes to the window to see him. Nothing more to say except Say Anything... comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"My new favorite film.. John Cusack is adorable!","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved everything about this film, the story, the comedy, the romance but most importantly Mr John Cusack.. oh my! I don't have to say much more other than I fell in love with this film, Mr Cusack character and quite possibly him himself! I usually find 80's romance films either too cheesy or they make you cringe, but this is just perfect, spot on!This is the perfect film to watch if you ever feel love isn't real or that you'll be forever alone, as this will prove love is true and will always find you! (now i'm the cheesy one!) This is the ultimate chick flick and I guarantee after you've watch it, you'll have fallen in love with Mr Cusack just as much as I have!! "},{"Title":"Forget it, I don't care...I LOVE YOU !!","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't make out why this movie has been rated JUST a 7 pointer...I guess because people don't find an honest romantic movie equaling an intriguing, exciting, intelligent, thrilling, action packed or any other brain tickling director's master piece..But to be honest, this movie is climbing the charts on being my favorite movies, and not just the romantics, of all time.Speaking of which i don't even watch too many romantic movies because however beautiful they are they almost always make you feel that the fairy land exists.That's what is so beautiful about SAY ANYTHING that it doesn't make you believe that there is a fairy land instead its so honest and assures you that you really don't need a lot of things to live happily if you've got a person for whom you have love in your heart and the feeling is reciprocated in the exact same manner!! This movie is special in the sense that it was made way back in '89 and still holds the same relevance...because LOVE is TIMELESS...Do not miss it if you wanna feel what love is in the truest sense of the word... I gave her my heart and she gave me a pen - it kills me but if you hold on, you'd find out that she gave the pen because she couldn't give him his love filled heart back !!A great and successful effort on the director's part to not try and make something special out of this movie because in the end that's what really makes it so special..A 10/10 for sure...one of the best movies about LOVE !! "},{"Title":"The summer after high school in Seattle, 1989","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first half of 1989's Say Anything is as good as any youth flick out there, including great ones like Fast Times at Ridgemont High (Widescreen Special Edition) and Dazed & Confused (Widescreen Flashback Edition). The film was shot in the Seattle area and the story involves a group of youths after high school graduation.Ione Skye plays Diane, a misfit preppy girl who suddenly comes alive upon graduation after striking up a relationship with Lloyd Dobler, played by John Cusack. Diane has a scholarship to a prestigious college in England and her Dad, played by John Mahoney, doesn't want some aimless drifter getting in the way of her success.The second half isn't as entertaining as the first half because it leaves the high school graduation antics behind to focus on Diane and Lloyd's increasingly intimate relationship, as well as unexpected revelations about Diane's father. Those who like stories about romantic relationships will no doubt appreciate the second half more than I did.A handful of things I appreciated about the film (1.) The situations and relationships all smack of real life and you can tell that the writer, director and actors all put some quality time into creating this reality. (2.) For instance, two of Lloyd's best friends are girls, Corey and D.C., who try to advise him on his new relationship. (3.) Although I'm not a fan of Cusack by any means (nor am I not a fan, if you know what I mean), his character of Lloyd Dobler is excellent and memorable. (4.) The first half is filled with laugh-out-loud scenes, like Corey playing her guitar at a party, still venting her emotions regarding a past flame. We've all seen this at some of those parties, haven't we? And (5.) unlike, say, Porky's and American Pie (Widescreen Unrated Ultimate Edition) there's thankfully no childish raunch. In other words, Say Anything is a classy teen-college flick.The film runs 100 minutes.GRADE B (Although the first half gets a solid A) "},{"Title":"Good film from the first time director Crowe.","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a good movie with a deep heart on it. Ione and Cusack gave their best. And the relation between the father and the daughter even makes this film more meaning than usual romantic movie.But a little bit drawbacks maybe, the kick-boxer profession just isn't fit with no-muscular Cusack. Maybe the script should give him another profession. Say, if Cusack character is a man who usually trains with sandbag (just like the film show), he should be more muscular than what the film shows.Anyway, if you want to see Cusack at its best, i suggest seeing this movie, because you will be satisfied by him. "}{"Title":"a simple and  feel good movie","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When i watched say anything i did not have any expectations but after watching it came out as a very nice and simple movie and i would recommend it to anyone who likes a light hearted movie.This film deals with the relationship of Lloyd (cusack ) who is basically an average guy with Diane court who is beauty + brains and out of the league of Lloyd. The way in which their relationship is dealt with is really great .Everything is done in a realistic way there is nothing in the movie which may not happen in real life except maybe the radio scene. The simplicity of the movie is which it makes for a great viewing .So if you are into teen movies or love stories in general then go watch it "},{"Title":"John & Joan....","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The two Cusack siblings always provide great, very watchable characters and here John, plays Lloyd Dobler (awful name!) a fresh-faced 19 y.o kick-boxing student, who underachieves at school and sees the military as a back-up career. He's likable, as is usual with John's characters, portraying zestful youth and who is basically a good guy.Joan plays his sister, which is a minor role but she still shines. The basic story is that Lloyd sits next to Ione Skye (who came up with these names?), a pretty Diane Court, who her father James, (John Mahoney, Martin Crane, Dad in Frasier) calls 'Prissy'.He's a bit old fashioned and understandably protective and wonders if Lloyd as Prissy's boyfriend would be any better than any of the others. There's some great chemistry between the leads, dating in cars and 'hanging out' together that reminds one of more youthful days (in my case!) and is all quietly uplifting. There's also that juicy complication used in modern rom-comes - Prissy is off to England, to study, adding dilemma and complications all round.That part works well. The sideline about James and his embezzling was a surprisingly effective one, that added meat to the bones and made the film more rounded and helped us to understand his protective nature. That it's Mahoney, a superb actor and making it look so easy, helped enormously.Cameron Crowe's film, apparently never made it into cinemas in the U.K. Heaven alone knows why not, considering the utter dross that does.Say Anything is probably considered a minor film and whilst it's not great and won't be remembered as much as some, it certainly was an enjoyable little movie. My advice is to catch it on TV, where I saw it, on Sky Movies and if you like it enough.... "},{"Title":"Great film with cusack!","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I rented this movie solely based on the excellent reviews that it has gotten everywhere. I missed it during its theatrical release (as so many others did) and had the hardest time finding a copy of it at our local video rental stores. Not because it wasn't popular but b/c, according to the clerks, people kept stealing or losing their copies...especially around Valentines Day. When I finally got my hands on a copy I was blown away. I had thought this was going to be just another in a long link of Pretty in Pinkish movies with predictable characters and a bad case of puppy love, but what I got was a surprisingly refreshing, unconventional story with a complicated and well-developed emotional depth flawlessly captured by the actors and Cameron Crowe.And talk about role reversals! I'm so used to seeing the man take the assertive and mature role while courting a woman of limited financial or intellectual means...but in this film it's the girl that's got her future together and the guy who's more than willing to concentrate his attention on making her happy. And Lloyd Dobler isn't just a shiftless man with no future. He's an eternal optimist who lives in the present and recognizes, admires, and compliments the qualities in Diane that go beyond her amazing intellect. She becomes his dare-to-be-great situation and his absolute love and devotion to her is anything but unmanly. The force of it is palatable and immensely erotic without being reduced to cheap teenage lust. The sight of Lloyd in the shadows defiantly blasting out the truth of their love through the boombox is a scene which would have seemed awkward and goofy in any other movie but this one. It's easy to understand why even the critics of the time gave Say Anything two enthusiastic thumbs up. This is one of the few films that really captures the feeling of love. "},{"Title":"Don't you want me, baby?","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you would've told one of your high school buddies that Say Anything would become a classic film in 1989 you probably would've gotten an eye-roll or a good laugh. But truthfully, it wasn't uncommon for an eighties film to do moderately successful at the box office, then become a classic in later years. You'd call that a cult classic, a film cherished by a specific group of people, but I don't think Say Anything would fit in that category. It's cherished by pretty much everyone who saw it, and I think that's larger than a cult.Our lead male is Lloyd (Cusack), an aspiring kickboxer who has just graduated high school and hopes to date valedictorian Diane (Skye). Lloyd calls Diane's house, gets her stern, overprotective father (Mahoney) on the phone, and manages to sort of charm him in a strange way.Lloyd is persistent when he finally talks to Diane, and finally encourages her to go to a party with him. They continue to see each other, much to the father's dismay. Diane likes Lloyd because he's able to see the other side of her. Not just the brainy side, but the honest, beautiful side of her.The subplots involve the struggle to maintain a healthy relationship and embrace the future since Diane is moving to England for College, and the fact the father is accused of tax violations at the nursing home he owns.The story is overall beautiful, touching, and many other things. Especially because it's honest and believable. This was made back in time when romantic comedies weren't clich stories, but had a script, a cast, and a heart. It all works here because it wants to. It wants to make a good film, and does.Even though Cameron Crowe directed this gem, I had vague images of John Hughes's name being on this film. Maybe because since he was known for every fantastic teen comedy of the eighties, he'd be a name to look for on everyone. But it turns out this was a film that jump-started two careers without having any mention of a great coming-of-age director. Say Anything is on a road all its own.Starring John Cusack, Ione Skye, John Mahoney, and Joan Cusack. Directed by Cameron Crowe. "},{"Title":"An honest, thoughtful and pleasing observation on teenaged angst and coming of age, as two disparates forge a bond around a world beginning to become fraught with change.","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything... (complete with, count 'em, three periods) begins in a teenager's bedroom as they sit there with two of their closest companions, at that stage in a conversation during which the knocking back and forth of ideas threatens to escalate into arguing. The disagreements are over words, or more specifically, words that define what it is certain actions of a romantic nature ought be labelled &#x96; there is enough pressure in these people's lives, it seems, when it comes to one's peers; maintaining reputations and the overbearing issue of studies to have to worry about without getting your words and terms right when speaking openly to high school chums. It is the first instance in Cameron Crowe's delightful little teenaged-young adult comedy during which we observe youngsters confused, bewildered and in angst over romance or items more broadly linked to romance. What the film eventually comes to do is branch out into a charming piece about a young man's feelings for another girl, as the clock ticks down to her leaving and a proverbial net of all things pressurised and unenviable appear to close in.That young man is Lloyd Dobler, John Cusak's likable; softly spoken; kick-boxing fanatic high-schooler in his final year based in a suburban America with his family. Far from a slob but a long way from what might be perceived within the film's realm as academically imbued, Dobler's somewhat happy with being an easy-going and kind young man who has penchants and interests as well as a fondness for his close relatives; a man not afraid to confront another male if it transpires he made ill of another woman's feelings for whatever reason, yet is humble enough to have to give his automobile's cassette player a good whack if required when desiring to operate it. Principally, above all else; above the university places some have and above the goal to get as drunk as possible whilst one is still able to at this delicate stage in your life, Dobler's key interest is in Dianne Court (Skye) a young woman at Lloyd's school who's mostly everything Lloyd is not.Dianne is described, whilst off screen and with we the audience having yet to observe, as a girl with the body of a game-show hostess; ear-opening when we realise these are words from the mouth of another young woman and is not a mere jibe from that of a male with nary much else but you-know-what on his mind. Dianne lives with her father, a rich rest home owner, in a large secluded home with its own gravel driveway; one of those which reaches the house and then finds enough time to spin around into a circle with a centrepiece in the middle. She has a place abroad, such is the way these things work in films such as these, a place in what is commonly used as the land of academia, in that she's on her way to a university in England for some studies of a prestigious sort. When we first observe Dianne, she is driven to her graduation ceremony by her father who's extremely proud; a leavers speech which she provides has everybody seemingly at her command, the film centralising the point of focus on Dianne without ever objectifying, as she finds the entire occasion very moving &#x96; moving in a way everybody else seemingly does not when they perhaps ought to, something that infers a person in touch with themselves and their emotions, and somebody perhaps a little above the rest of the graduates in this regard whom watch on before catching on.Through some brave and rather lucky means, Lloyd snaffles a date with Dianne; but surely, going by the opening scene of definition arguments and whatnot, it more than resembles something else close to a date but just not quite a date. He calls her house, gets put on with her father; already as nervous as anything, the insinuation that many-a male attempts as such what it is Lloyd's trying now is humorously put across when it transpires Dianne's father recalls attempted dates and so-forth by calling to mind what it is the various men drive. The night out itself is fraught with the potential of something going catastrophically wrong without anything necessarily going catastrophically wrong; a rather loud party fuelled by alcohol and large groups of youngsters huddled into rooms inside of a house that is made to look a lot smaller than it is. We don't feel as if this is exactly Dianne's scene, while Lloyd himself appears elusive; the pair of them coming together as attendees thin out and a small group of whom Lloyd knows congregates as the night draws to a close &#x96; Lloyd's role there ultimately seeing him put people straight and aid in the safety to prevent drink-driving, more than anything, in what might have been a more lewd display in more contemporary films.Say Anything... eventually mutates into a really quaint, really rather remarkably played love story between these two people whom at first seem at odds, but through spending enough time with each other, come to understand the authenticity of one another. In one scene, each party are asked on respective career and potential marital relations; neither party can give concrete answers that please the enquirers but both can reply honestly to the best of their own ability, something which binds them in this sense as Lloyd is granted deeper access into her home and her life which reveal minute flaws and such from her past deconstructing or demythifying prior perceptions he had that yet goes on to retain fondness. Crowe allows things to progress and naturally develop competently and engrossingly, a plot to do with tax evasion and the fall out that arrives with that melded into proceedings in a slick and pleasingly unassuming manner in conjunction with the primary material; the film coming to resemble a remarkably played coming of age film which works. "},{"Title":"Say What?","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why do we hold onto the 1980s music? (Or for you, yutes, the 1990s.) We think of a better time and hold onto that, squeezing tight. I do. Depeche Mode, Roxette, The Cure, Big-Hair-Bands, etc.I tell you It's happening now. Enjoy life now. For, in 20 years, we'll look back and say this was a great time. Why wait that long?I admit until tonight, December 23rd 2010, I had yet to see Say Anything&#x85; Sure, I've been cited as a non-movie critic for not watching certain movies, such as this John Cusack-boombox-wielding 1980s iconic film. I've been told I'm not in the industry for missing such classics. And yet&#x85;&#x85;I took it three whole steps further I've never read any of the reviews of this movie. I've completely and purposely skipped over the synopsis. And, incredibly, I ignored learning what song was played when Mr. Cusack held the boombox over his head in one of the most recognized scenes/posters in film history.I wanted to be surprised when I finally saw Say Anything&#x85;And I was. I was blown away at what I thought would be a VERY dated movie. It was not, indeed.What a smart and timeless movie this was. Writer/Director Crowe (Almost Famous, Jerry Maguire) is certainly known for his soundtracks and incorporating his music into the storyline. While he doesn't make the most memorable album here, it's certainly noteworthy, especially during the sex and later-boombox scenes.Beyond the tracks, Crowe writes an intelligent and post-high school movie when most filmmakers make films of that time that involve just high school'ers and their ailments. His characters aren't brilliant, but human. His dialogue is noteworthy and sharp. And he made people who watch this for the first time, 21 years later, appreciate his work for the first time. That's talent.Lloyd (John Cusack) falls hard (in the eleventh hour of high school) for Diane (Skye) who's headed to Europe for college from her divorced dad's (Mahoney) hard work. She shares everything with her dad, even when Lloyd starts dating her&#x85;and more.He's concerned about her throwing her life away on just a boy, who happens to have a self-proclaimed aimless future. All Lloyd knows is his deep fascination and love for this very pretty and extremely smart dame.Here comes the (now &#x96; 2010) clichd courtship, eventual downfall and (possible) reconciliation of the budding relationship and the victims along the way. Well, watch it, as I did &#x96; for the first time and see if there are really any victims.Back then, or 1989, it wasn't so much a clich so they can't be held accountable. Take away what might seem that way today, and you'll have a great script with Cusack (both him and his sister, as usual) carrying the movie. What a model actor he is? He's surrounded by multiple, already-established talent and future talent (SEE Piven) and yet, he's the driving force of this movie. He's the one that shows true love on screen.Whether you've seen this movie a while back or considering for a first time &#x96; like me, tonight, it's thoroughly recommended. Allow yourself to remember the 80s, its wonderful tracks and what it feels like to fall in love again.Always hold onto what we cherished in the past. And always remember, we're living in memories. As we speak. "},{"Title":"Buckle Up","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything is an excellent romantic comedy which manages to rise above its contrivances and moments of puppy love cuteness thanks to some good writing by writer/director Cameron Crowe and two achingly earnest performances by John Cusack and Ione Skye.The film is built around the usual opposites attract formula (It Happened One Night, Keith, Some Kind Of Wonderful, Pretty In Pink, The Sure Thing, A Walk To Remember etc etc) in which a sheltered but beautiful girl falls in love with an underachieving, free-spirited boy, but what's interesting here is the way Crowe uses this template as a springboard to examine the relationship between the female love interest and her own father.So though the film is ostensibly a romantic tale between Cusack and Skye, Crowe is more interested in exploring issues of parental trust, truth and security, and how a young woman copes with the news that her father is a criminal. By the film's end, we're neither happy that our couple has hooked up or sad that a young woman's father has been imprisoned. Instead, Crowe gives us something a bit more ambiguous a couple on a plane, nervously holding hands and waiting for a fasten seat-belts sign to flicker off. Their future destination is uncertain, their journey forever dependent on faith and trust. Cue seat-belt sign. Cut to black.8.5/10 &#x96; A good ending (always the hardest part of a romantic movie), deft writing and another likable performance by John Cusack, help elevate this above most 1980s teen flicks. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Say Anything...","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From writer/director Cameron Crowe (Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Jerry Maguire), I watched this film simply for being in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, but I wanted to like it too. Basically after their graduation from their Seattle, Washington high school, mediocre student and aspiring kick-boxer Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) tries to start a relationship with Diane Court (Ione Skye). She agrees to a date with him, going to a big graduation party, but he is unaware that she won a major fellowship to study in England, and she will be going at the end of summer. After this date Lloyd and Diane see each other more regularly, and to make sure the relationship works Lloyd gets advise from his sister Constance (Joan Cusack) and Diane's friends. Diane's father James (John Mahoney) has landed himself in trouble for tax violations at his nursing home Diane works at, so the IRS, run by boss (Philip Baker Hall), are on to him. Diane is worried she is not spending more time with Lloyd and not enough with her father, and James obviously doesn't approve of the dating. So Diane makes a pressured decision, not long after receiving a touching love letter from Lloyd, to end it with him. Diane finds out about her father James's money stealing, and Lloyd wins her back playing a love song on his stereo radio, and they go to England together. Also starring Lili Taylor as Corey Flood, Amy Brooks as D.C., Jason Gould as Mike Cameron, Loren Dean as Joe, Glenn Walker Harris Jr. as Jason Dobler, Jeremy Piven as Mark, Bebe Neuwirth as Mrs. Evans, Eric Stoltz as Vahlere and Dan Castellaneta as Diane's Teacher. Cusack is great as the slacker and charmer for Skye's affections, she meanwhile is nice as the well educated Miss Priss, and Mahoney gets his moments as the concerned and not very honest father. Obviously this is filled with the usual teen movie clichs and predictable moments, but with a good cast likable cast, and a reasonable love story, this is a good fun comedy drama. John Cusack was number 48 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Good! "},{"Title":"One of the Sweetest Movies I have ever Seen","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I bought this movie after hearing many times about its famous boom box scene, and I do not regret it at all. It's a lovely film with a simple plot and sincere characters. It's one of the classic '80s films that should never be forgotten.I believe the best thing about this movie is the lead character, Lloyd Dobbler. I love him; he is the sweetest movie character that comes to my mind right now. He was so well-established&#x85;John Cusack did a really spectacular job portraying him. If Lloyd were real I would love to date him. I know for sure I would not like this movie without him.His lover in the film, however, was not so impressive. I didn't really like her too much, but it seems like her interactions with other characters in the story and the descriptions of those who knew her were meant to show her as a like-able presence. To me, this is a failure. I thought she was boring, confusing at times, and annoying. I just didn't like her. I believe she is the only problem with the film, and I think she is what's keeping me from making the jump from liking this movie to loving it. Too bad.Another aspect of this film that I really liked were the extra characters, like Lloyd's friends and fellow high school graduates at the house party. They were really funny to me, and much more interesting to watch than Diane Court. His friend's obsession with Joe was really fun, haha. I loved it.The plot is simple- it's mainly the blossoming love between two teenagers and seeing if it will survive through the devastating drama of finding out a beloved father could be criminal. It's cute, easy to follow. The music is great, peppy '80s. I liked the dialogue, mainly just Lloyd's though. Everything he said felt so genuine and sweet. I loved every time he talked.So pretty much, I really like this movie a lot. Very rarely do I see a film where I wish I could date someone in it, but this is definitely one. It's a really sweet movie, a date movie perhaps. Enjoy  ) "},{"Title":"Crowe proves plot can be entirely based on relationships","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You get about an hour through filmmaker Cameron Crowe's teen romance Say Anything... and it finally hits you. Where's the conflict? There's really no drama, only the budding romance of Lloyd and Diane in their last summer as teenagers and the few complications that arise from it. While the last half hour or so adds a bit more, the truth is that Crowe gets you hooked on a film solely about a guy and a girl falling in love. That just shows the power of relationships in film.Say Anything... is about those two characters, played by John Cusack and Ione Skye, an unlikely couple that forms out of a desire to make the most of what little time they both have at home before entering the real world. Their chemistry is simply fantastic in being both natural and believable. Things aren't so straightforward in love, however, and the bright future on Diane's horizon and her very close relationship with her father (John Mahoney) complicate things with Lloyd.Lloyd and Diane seem perfect, and the secret is that Lloyd's a little neurotic and Diane is the smart girl that thinks no one cares about her and their union is representative of how both get what they want despite their self-perceptions. As viewers, we see our own relationship flaws in them and that's what makes them lovable.The relationship between Diane and her father is also an incredibly strong one that gets established so well at the beginning that when the slight conflict of the film arises, it has a very strong impact. That's really what makes Say Anything... an instant classic in ways, the strength of its very normal characters.Crowe's script is very real yet very profound in many ways. Up front it's about trying to make love work, but the fact that it's only about Diane and Lloyd and Diane and her father sets up a parallel between the two relationships to show how they're more alike than Diane thinks as she tries to reconcile them both. It's very simple, but really excellent on Crowe's part, and that really sums up the film. "}{"Title":"The title was a bit unusual, but...","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you want to be catapulted back to the first time you fell in love, this is your movie. And here, 18 years later, it stands the test of time, and is partly such a joy because it contains so many performances from actors we've all grown to know and love. I especially like the twist of how Diane's dad earns his living. But the real star of this film is the ever-so-young John Cusack, with whom I've fallen in love somewhere between this film and Ice Harvest (not to worry though - I'm not THAT kind of wacky; no restraining orders necessary). There are so many noteworthy performers and performances here; I cried a lot, and quite unexpectedly. It even has a cute ending.Hollywood seems to be very fond of the I, II and III (ad nauseum) versions of a number of its products; this film ought to have had a follow up (and if it does and I simply don't know, well then, my goof), but hey, you're all still around and it's not too late, is it??? I hope that more people will check out this film; I can't believe I didn't watch it sooner, being such a fan of the Cusack clan (Joan, your role may have been small, but you looked especially lovely in this role). Thanks to all who put their BS&T's into it!!! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever about a Sensitive Guy, Cusack and Skye had great chemistry","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw many previews for this movie, looked like it was going to be good, and it was even better than I thought! I loved the whole idea of the guy chasing after the girl, seeing as its usually the other way around. I also thought that the stereo scene was genius!! Very creative way to get a girlfriend/boyfriend back. I also thought that the chemistry between John Cusack and Ione Skye was amazing. John Cusack played Lloyd Dobler very well, and Ione Skye played Diane Court very well as well. I loved the whole 3 relationship thing going on as well. Impressive movie, definitely a good way to end the 80s, I give this movie a ten out of ten! "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved Say Anything. This is an awesome movie. I'm a fan of 80s romantic comedies anyway but this one was more sweet and poignant than it was a comedy I believe. John Cusack plays Lloyd Dobler, a free spirit with no goals in life who has just graduated high school. He falls for Diane Cort (Ione Skye), the career driven valedictorian who is about to go off to college. They begin a relationship after Lloyd calls her and they go to a party. Diane ends up enjoying herself more than she thought she would and falls for Lloyd. The movie basically showcases Lloyd and Diane's relationship during the summer before Diane leaves. They make up, break up, begin a physical relationship, have parent drama, make up, break up, and suffer much heartbreak. But just when you think it's over for good and you think that Lloyd just doesn't want anything to do with Diane even though she won't give up on him, the two find a way to bring each other back. There are several scenes where Diane is so confused about her feelings toward Lloyd but deep down you know she truly loves him. You realize that it's just her father's personal and financial troubles that are getting in the way of hers and Lloyd's relationship. The boombox scene was a classic and it was so sweet. You cannot find that particular scene duplicated in any other film. It truly stands out. And another scene that really stands out is the scene where Lloyd and Diane are in the backseat of his car. It is just precious. I love this movie and I'm glad I bought it. I had never seen it and I saw it on sale and decided to buy it. It is a great film and should be viewed by anyone who is a fan of 80s romantic comedies or fans of John Cusack, or just fans of romantic comedies in general. I think this film was just awesome and I'm happy to add it to my collection! Thank you for reading my review! "},{"Title":"Love story of respectable nature","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For the Drama and Romance that is usually on the big screens, this one hits home for those that find romance in the oddest of places. Cusack and Skye are entertaining and lively in their character roles. Some stereotypes were expected, but the level that they were played to was impressive. Two thumbs up for romances that stand up to the challenge.On the general par, the intimacy level at which these two main characters rise to is many times an ideal set by the public as unattainable and uncommon. Yet, how many times does such a true romance occur around us without us realizing it. I think that this story line shows a bit more of reality than we think.On a technical stand point, the movie could have used a bit more fine tuning and background scene development. The involved jest of what is going on is well followed, but the supporting characters are more anonymous and untied. "},{"Title":"one of my favourite love stories","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Is there any love more real than high school love? I remember what it felt like to love during that epoch of my life, and I have not been able to feel that again since...except for when I watch this movie. This film, miraculously, never becomes sentimental. How does Cameron Crowe do it? This movie feels so authentic that I think I may be in love with Diane Court for life. I was also inspired by the film to be a man rather than a guy The world is full of guys. Be a man. And that Peter Gabriel song, great stuff. As the tagline for the movie says about Lloyd To know Lloyd Dobbler is to love him. -- Well, to have seen and truly known Say Anything is to love it.....If you haven't already, get to know Say Anything and fall in love. "},{"Title":"A charming comedy about a meant-to-be romance in the 80's","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie after it was recommended to me by my sister.  It's a super movie to watch by yourself, or with a group of your best friends. John Cusack plays a convincing role of a kinda dork-ish, yet simply charming graduate, who is head over heels for the unknown super smart girl of the school. Kinda reminded me of Can't Hardly Wait, but with roles reversed. Well written, and superbly casted, this movie rivals any movie of today.  "},{"Title":"Superficiality and under-development to the EXTREME!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, I love John Cusack as an actor, but I just didn't get what was good about the movie at all!  First of all, the plot is so under-developed and nonsensical that it's impossible to take it seriously.  I'm sorry but what do people see in this flick?  The girl character is completely unbelievable...  To each his own I guess... "},{"Title":"A sleeper for years, but wonderful","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is easy to overlook in this movie are the values implicit in it.  Conrad Dobler, the hero, is a person of extraordinary character and goodness , whose virtues cast into sharp relief the more conventional good qualities that the heroine possesses.  If you are a teacher (I am), you realize that we should be producing in our schools people like Conrad Dobler, that they are worth a thousand people who are less kind, loving, responsible.  It's also a very funny movie. "},{"Title":"Say Anything... Anything","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything... 7 out of 10 Repeat after me; Cameron Crowe is a genus. Nobody wrote dialogue for teenagers as he did. In his films they talk like actual people. (I have never written a screenplay myself but from the evidence of the sheer number of filmed screenplays, that fail absolutely at this, I would gander that it is quite difficult.) While Fast Times at Ridgemont High created his reputation, Say Anything cemented it. There simply is not a false note in the entire film. All three leads (Ione Skye, John Cusack, and John Mahoney) are pitch perfect. The situations are realistic and flow well. The support cast is also excellent. The ending is both realistic and sweet.While Say Anything is without faults, it also is not very memorable. Unlike the previous Fast Times at Ridgemont High, there are only a few scenes that stick out. It is a pleasant story and certainly worth a revisit if it has been twenty years since you saw it.I on the other hand saw for the first time a few days ago. Unfortunately, I was to busy watching movies like Less than Zero in the late eighties to see Say Anything. Imagine how much better my life could have turned out if I had only allowed Mr. Crowe to guide me one more time. "},{"Title":"It's Like I'm seventeen all over again!","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I caught this movie first in the theater as a Junior in high school,Spring of 1989,and this is going to sound very trite or clichd but I feel like it really spoke to me or got to me. Of course,I'm not going to suggest I was anything near as charismatic and actualized as Lloyd Dobler(John Cusack). He,of course,the hero of the film is a laid-back high school graduate whose only real ambition is to be a professional kick-boxer. That,and to win the love of one Diane Court(Ione Skye). He sets about doing so with varying amounts of success,and along the way reaches peaks and valleys,mostly in the latter endeavor.Writer/Director Cameron Crowe constructs arguably one of the better(And for the period of the '80s the best!)teen angst/romance movies. A supporting cast that includes John Mahoney(excellent as Diane's upright-but-really-isn't dad),Joan Cusack(Lloyd's uptight sister),Lili Taylor,Pamela Segall,Jason Gould,Jeremy Piven,Eric Stoltz,Loren Dean and Amy Brooks is spot-on. I hadn't seen this film in a while before late,but when I saw it again(probably about the third or fourth time,really) it affected me in a way that pleasantly surprised me! I don't think you have to have been a teen in the eighties to appreciate the warm,natural pathos of this film. A GREAT rent or looksee on cable! "}{"Title":"This is my favorite movie of all time.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If I have to Say Anything anyone who has not seen this movie should see it. I love it I can watch it every single time it's on. It sends the message that you should never judge the book by it's cover that there is something special in everything and everyone, just sometimes you don't see it right away.. I love the song by Peter Gabriel and that she points it out to him in the car.. This is by far the best of all the 80's movies and I think it will remain that way for many years to come. Everyone knows a Loyd Dobbler and a Diane Court Not very many know a James Court though.. Bottom line is I love this movie .. So If you haven't you must see it.. "},{"Title":"It might have been excruciating, but instead it has a confidently quirky edge...","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure to what parts of this material writer-director Cameron Crowe had his heart truly behind the boy-girl teen romance stuff which constitutes the first part of the picture or the distrust and self-doubt (and self-realization) of the second half. In any case, it's a pretty good film, with John Cusack as a flip, quick-thinking, fast talking teen just out of high school who romances Ione Skye, the attractive, smart girl on her way to college. Skye's character doesn't have the usual facade we see in movies like these, but her disapproving father does, and it plays itself out quite dramatically. Some of Crowe's writing is still a little precious (as in a half-hearted joke dealing with a letter-writing pen) and he's too embarrassingly enamored of rock music as everyone's salvation. The opening moments with Cusack and friends at a party are strung together rather carelessly without much guidance from Crowe (and the affection he has for these lovelorn kids doesn't quite come through), but the movie improves tremendously and becomes a confident examination of two younger people outgrowing their doubts and moving forward together. There's a lot of talk about Ione Skye moving to England and maybe falling for a British guy, which is exactly what happened in her follow-up movie, The Rachel Papers. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Excellent Flick","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have liked this one since I was a college kid, especially the ghetto blaster scene. I used to carry a ghetto blaster around myself! Kinda weird huh. Well, John Cusak has made several movies I like, Better Off Dead being my favorite. Say Anything is not quite as quirky and thus more straight forward as a teen angst love story so it probably appeals to a much wider audience. I suppose you have to be a fan of 80's pop / college rock to really like the film on a deeper level. It is a bit formulaic as well, but the acting makes up for that weakness in the writing. I guess. Really I think I don't like the writing much and find it annoying. In fact this whole movie is annoying and reminds me of everything I hated about college. Really total rubbish and not worth renting or buying. I think I'll take my copy back to Costco and get my money back. I think I need some lunch, my blood sugar feels a bit low... "},{"Title":"A gem and a genuine movie","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How often can any of us find characters that are as real and true to life as the ones in Say Anything? This is a wonderful movie that I just don't know how anyone can not absolutely love when they see it. John Cusack leads the way in a role he was born to play, the humble, loyal, kind, soft, gentile, uncertain, young man with a heart of gold Lloyd Dobler. He is a likable kick-boxer with no idea about what his future may hold. It's wonderful to see a teenager like this one in a movie give a message that it's okay not to know what you want to do, as long as you go with your heart.Ione Skye is the sweet, smart, loving, warm, amorous, and don't forget, beautiful, Diane Court, who steals Lloyd's heart. She is the class valedictorian who wins a fellowship to study in England. John Mahoney is equally convincing as a loving, insightful, concerned, but overprotective father, James Court, who will do anything for his daughter, the latter which proves to be his undoing. He runs a nursing home and cares for people, but he has a dark secret that is revealed by the end of the movie.Lloyd is smitten by the beautiful Diane Court, he wants very badly to take her out. He is somewhat shy, and, as his friend points out, he has this nervous talking thing. He calls Diane, and his persistence pays off, as she seems to like his wit and tenacity and agrees to go the big graduation party with him.This is where the movie really begins, and also where we begin to identify with the characters fears, feelings, and pain. Diane is thrilled to finally be a part of the social life she missed out on, yet sad that she kept everybody at a distance. She sees what she could have, and perhaps should have, been a part of. Lloyd is scared and uncertain about the future, with no career plans. Diane's father is feeling threatened that Lloyd will take his only daughter away from him.Diane begins to fall for Lloyd because she trusts him and feels safe with him (pay close attention to the scene where he drops her off at her house after the all night party). Lloyd admires Diane because he finds her interesting, smart, and beautiful. The only problem is, Diane's father doesn't approve of Lloyd. He has the typical father's reaction no one is worthy of being with my daughter. What I loved about her father is that he isn't an idiotic parent who can't understand the feelings of his daughter or other teenagers. When Diane and Lloyd spend a night together, and she comes home late without calling, her father is upset and angry, but wise and caring enough to discuss the situation with his daughter.We later learn a secret about Diane's father, that I will not reveal, after the IRS comes knocking at his door. What made this aspect of the movie so insightful, was that it didn't make us hate Diane's father. It simply portrayed him as a good man who made a mistake. Sometimes good people can do bad things for a good reason. It doesn't make it right, but it makes it understandable. The movie makes that very clear.Say Anything's biggest strength, though, may be that it gives a subtle message about listening to your instincts. When Diane breaks up with Lloyd after being pressured by her father, we can see that she is going against her feelings. Lloyd seems to know this too, and makes a reference that she is just blindly following her father, and not her heart. This is one of the scenes that makes us fully aware Lloyd's inarticulate side, and how a lot of the time his words are being wrung from his emotions. We feel the pain that both of them are going through.Lloyd uses every tactic to get Diane back, from playing Peter Gabriel on his boom box outside her bedroom window, to long-winded (and funny) phone machine messages. Eventually, she has a change of heart, and realizes that Lloyd is everything she imagined, and her father is not. I liked when Diane went to defend her father, and an IRS agent she spoke with was kind enough to detach himself from the situation and give her advice. Don't let your father's business affect your life. He later tells her, very kindly, if not very wisely, if I were you, I would take that fellowship. When Lloyd finally wins Diane over, it is one of the film's sweetest moments, and we know that all will be well for this unlikely, wonderful pair. Perhaps the greatest line is spoken by Lloyd, when Diane tells him that nobody ever thought there relationship would work, and nobody gave it a chance, he replies You've just described every great success story. I loved that line, because it's the truth, and great writers can say it all with one line. Say Anything made me laugh, cry, and see what life is really about. It was released in the spring of 1989, the tale end of my high school career. This made me love it all the more because I could identify with teenagers and high school in the 1980's. How can you not love a movie like this? What a gem of a film. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) Say Anything (1989)","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's weird, but it has happened. I've been subconsciously borrowing DVDs which has John Cusack starring in them, and this time, it's John Cusack together with one of my favorite storytellers (storyteller, cos he wrote and directed his own films) Cameron Crowe, in Crowe's directorial debut with Say Anything.From this early work, you can't help but notice the foundations laid for Crowe's later works, with the loads of music incorporated and some moving the narrative forward, and the enjoyable characters he creates - some seem so ordinary, yet so real and special, the idiosyncrasies that have, the quirky situations they're put in, the character development.Ordinary, identifiable characters have become hallmarks, and in this film, it is no different. Perhaps what made this simple story endear itself, is the chameleon John Cusack. Here, he plays average joe Lloyd Dobler, who has just graduated from high school, but has no big plans for himself in the aftermath. He's at a lost at what to do, but had stunned his cohort by dating the school sweetheart, and the brainiest scholar at that. That unattainable beauty with brains, Diane Court (Ioan Skye), the object of every schmuck's desire.But then you have her overprotective father who objects to their relationship (don't they always?) and a looming corporate scandal (like NKF's) which questions morality between two different camps of thought. The bigger picture might already seem familiar given that the boy-meets-girl-love-breakup-reconciliation theme has been done to death, but what appeals is the really witty dialogue amongst characters, despite some stuff looking out of date (hey, it's a 1989 movie after all).The Special Edition Code 1 DVD comes with so many extras, check this - 13 extended scenes (those shortened to speed up the pace, so it's included here instead), 10 deleted scenes (those that didn't make the final cut, which explained in more detail certain subplots like the corporate scandal cum investigation), and 5 alternate scenes. There's also an audio commentary by Crowe, Cusack and Skye, as well as the theatrical trailers. "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Teen Angst Movie...","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SAY ANYTHING...was the surprise sleeper hit of 1989 that borough us one of the most unforgettable and utterly original characters in the history of cinema...a guy named Lloyd Dobler...a thoroughly unconventional but totally likable guy who wears his heart on his sleeve and goes after what he wants with a vengeance. The film opens at Lloyd's high school graduation where, on a whim, he asks the class brain, Diane (Ione Skye) to be his date for a graduation party and they are both equally shocked when she accepts his invitation and before the evening is over,he is head over heels in love with her. The only problem is that she's going to college in London in the fall so Lloyd has decided to win her heart before she leaves. To say more would ruin the film, but know that John Cusack gives the performance of a lifetime as Lloyd, an utterly charming rogue who no girl should have trouble falling in love with. Skye is charming as Diane and John Mahoney gives a great performance as Diane's Dad. Thanks to steady direction and an intelligent screenplay that doesn't pander to teen sensibilities, this is a warm and winsome comedy that is worth seeing again and again. "},{"Title":"She gave me a pen.  I gave her my heart, and she gave me a pen.","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Recently, I decided to rent all of Cameron Crowe's films and watch them. I already owned Fast Times at Ridgemont High (okay, he didn't direct it, but he wrote it) and Jerry Maguire, so next I rented Say Anything ....Say Anything ... begins with Lloyd Dobler, a kind, well-liked underachiever who falls in love with Diane Court, a straight-A student who has just been accepted into a college in England. Lloyd wins Diane's affections after he takes her to a late-night party - but winning the approval of her father is a completely different matter.Cameron Crowe is certainly a talented filmmaker. Say Anything ... was his directorial debut and third screenplay. It's one of those special 80's teen romantic comedies that is even more magical today than it was back in '89. As is typical with Cameron Crowe's films, Say Anything has a terrific soundtrack. The film also has a sort of laid-back, observational style of directing, with mixes well with the intelligent, funny script.The casting is superb. John Cusack is - well, awesome as Lloyd Dobler. Ione Skye does a fine job of showing the confliction that Diane feels. And John Mahoney is perfect as Diane's loving, protective father.The film has some great scenes. The second In Your Eyes scene is definitely one of the movie's greatest and most famous moments. Anyone who's seen the film will attest to the fact that it's a very memorable movie. And it has a great ending too! Say Anything ... is a marvelous movie, and definitely one of my favorites. It's well-written, -acted and -directed. It's moving, dramatic, and very funny. If you're searching for a sweet, well-made, romantic comedy, look no further than Say Anything ....(NOTE My family recently purchased a Surround system, and Say Anything ... was one of the first films I watched with it. The movie sounds FANTASTIC. If you have a Surround system, prepare for a great experience.) "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything is a Cameron Crowe masterpiece. Say Anything tells the story of Lloyd Dobler, played by John Cusack, who, Mr. Crowe takes no time to show, wants to ask Diane Court, played by Ione Skye, out on a date, with Lloyd's intentions of a long term relationship. Say Anything takes the ride of two high school graduates who both fall in and out of love. Their emotions are write on key at every point in the film. From their first kiss to their fast talking broken sentenced arguments, these actors where perfect for the role. The way Ms. Skye and Mr. Cusack seem to feed off of each other from scene to scene and seem to grow and love one another is phenomenal. It seems to me that this kind of on screen love chemistry is harder and harder to come by in theaters these days. The film is brilliantly written and directed as are others by Mr. Crowe, such as Jerry Maguire,Fast Times at Ridgemont High,etc. I look forward to Mr. Crowes new film Elizabethtown due out in theaters soon. "},{"Title":"This movie is much better the second time around!","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie as a teen when it first came out and didn't really like it, but saw again recently and loved it. I think it would have more of a commercial success if it had not been marketed as a teen movie, but it's too late for that now. The depth of honesty in the characters is amazing. John Cusack is great (as usual) and is consistent in his characterization throughout the movie. I greatly admired the way the movie was put together--no trite endings here. I thought it was oddly appropriate that Diane was so spoiled by her dad (without being a complete brat), and then ends up with Lloyd who dedicates his life to just being with her. She ends up with all the attention once again. And back to Lloyd--while success in life is defined for us by the media, culture, and unfortunately, our families, Lloyd defies it all to be a true success. Everyone likes him (even if they don't get why he and Diane are together), and he's just so real.He's thought about life and made decisions, they just aren't what anyone else may have decided for him. It's an interesting contrast to Mr. Cort, who has the material success that Lloyd lacks, but is completely devoid of integrity. Lloyd is vulnerable and completely masculine all at once. I think it was very honest the way Diane felt so betrayed by her dad and didn't even know if she wanted to see him. I can understand why I wouldn't like this at 17--I missed most of the point of it all due to my own immaturity. So glad I saw it again!! "},{"Title":"Realistic, romantic and honest movie about growing up, making choices and... first love","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything... is the story of a young guy, Lloyd Dobler, who falls in love with Diane Court. They are both 18 and haven't been in love before. He is a nice young guy who hasn't figured out yet what he's going to do after graduation. She is a pretty young girl who only has been focused on her studies and didn't had a social life. He calls her up and takes her to a party...and they fall in love.This is not a typical romantic comedy. It is a great movie about closing chapters in your life and beginning new ones, growing up, finding your way through life and...first love with all the beauty and honesty that goes together with it.Both leading actors are great. Cusack is just terrific. Although it isn't a typical feel good movie, what is it that makes this movie worth seeing? It's the honesty of it. It isn't the typical perfect story of two perfect people who meet, fall in love and live happily ever after. It is a realistic and recognizable story about two young people, finding their way through life and trying to make the right choices.It isn't a typical feel good movie, but it does make you feel good. That's what is so great about the Cameron Crowe movies They are all very honest and recognizable.If you liked this one, I absolutely advice you to see Jerry Maguire and Almost Famous, two other great movies of Crowe's hand.Say Anything... is a must see, certainly for Cusack fans. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Its a shame when this movie came out in '89 it was only a modest box office release because its better than any romantic/drama movie you will ever see today. It deals with real issues like teen love and hard choices in a serious and in a manner with which we can relate to. John Cusack plays Lloyd Dobler. He's not your typical man because most of his friends are women and he does live with his sister. Also Lloyd doesn't have any career plans except kick-boxing. His dreams all lie in a honor student, Diane Court(played by Ione Skye). Diane is a Straight A student with a scholarship to a university in England. She's very beautiful but doesn't realize it because she's so strenuously involved with her studies and dedication to her father(John Mahoney). Her father, later in this movie, will come upon hard times as he will have to deal with the IRS and being incarcerated. Lloyd and Diane eventually begin seeing each other and do fall in love but when Diane's father tells her not to have any attachments or distractions going to England, Diane breaks up with Lloyd in his own car. Perhaps one of the most engaging sayings of this movie lies after wards when Lloyd(soaking wet) is standing in a phone booth talking to his sister. I gave her my heart.... she gave me a pen... His character is so sincere we fall in love with him. We hope and pray during the second half of the movie that both of them will get back together. Every thought is carefully plotted out until the very end. Both John Cusack and Ione Skye are brilliant and if you haven't seen this movie yet go out and buy it. Yes, buy it because you won't be disappointed you did. "},{"Title":"What can i say?","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On a recent trip to the US i found this in the DVD bargain bin in walmart, what a find! Cameron Crowes first film behind the camera is a true modern masterpiece (well, 80's modern). John Cusack is by far my favourite actor and seeing his early work is a joy, it just feels so real as if he shares every moment of Lyods pain and suffering then instant bliss as he falls in love. Very much in the vain of more recent Jerry Maguire, Say Anything has love, comedy, gritty realism and a heart full of gold. I loved it and couldn't find a thing wrong with it, I'm just so disappointed its taken me so long to discover it! "},{"Title":"A great movie for all to see 0)","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie, If you love 80's movies (even though this is late 80's) It is a serious must have. John Cusack is great in this movie ( but I'm a Cusack fan hehe)He plays a guy infatuated with Diane Court, who happens to be the girl in school who isn't dating and mainly is in the books. When she says yes and decides to go out with him (Lloyd Dobler)he is overwhelmed and does everything he can to win her heart.........and doesThe movie is romantic, funny, and has emotional elements dealing with family life. My favorite part in the movie is when they are at the gas n sip and Lloyd asks If they are all so popular why are they hanging out at the gas n sip hahaA must see movie for all!~Angie~  "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Great Movie","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time recently as a new John Cusack fan. I'm sure I never saw it before because I was never a fan of the Romantic Movies -- Until I saw John Cusack in Serendipity (I still thought the movie was a bit dippy, but Cusack was fine).Anyway, the story was great with lots of undertones going on and in general the acting was great with lots of great scenes. The one scene that disturbed me, that was not done that well on Diane's part was when she and Lloyd got back together. He asked her Do you need me or Do you need Someone? and in all honesty she did not make me feel like she needed him, more like she just needed someone.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent movie about young love","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From listening to the DVD commentary track, I found out that this was the first film Cameron Crowe ever directed. So many 80s movies are seriously dated, and this one has a little of that with the clothing and cars, but the subject matter is still as fresh as ever. John Mahoney shines as Ione Skye's character's not so perfect father. The three principal actors did a great job in this one, but there are so many other good performances...Amy Brooks was great and underused; Joan Cusack played John's sister in the movie and was awesome! It was fun to watch the two of them acting together.Jeremy Piven also had an early appearance in this movie. I love the line John Cusack's character has ...I can't quote it directly, but it was something like...if you guys know so much about women, how come you're hanging out at the Gas N Sip? LOL! This is more of a drama than a romantic comedy. It felt very realistic and was a sweet movie. "},{"Title":"A perfect romantic comedy.","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SAY ANYTHING... is the story of a charming, well-liked guy named Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack), who ends up falling for a girl very different from him--the Valedictorian of his graduating class, Diane Court (Ione Skye). Lloyd doesn't even know what he wants to do now that he's out of high school, while Diane has it all figured out. She even received, and accepted, a fellowship to attend college in England. Though they both know this, Lloyd and Diane begin to get pretty serious, and end up falling in love. However, Diane's father James (John Mahoney) soon becomes wound up in financial problems, and Diane decides that, with all the trouble and her leaving soon to England, it would be best for her and Lloyd to split up. This decision devastates the both of them, but maybe it ends up being for the best... or maybe not.SAY ANYTHING... could very well be the best romantic comedy I've ever seen. It's actually more of a romantic drama than a comedy, but whatever. Instead of most modern romantic comedies that are about nothing more than puppy love, this film instead focuses on real love and strong bonds and relationships. The story is extremely sweet, almost so much so that it would have made an inevitably cheesy movie, but it didn't. It's carried out perfectly, and I literally can't find a single flaw in the execution. There are tons of memorable scenes, namely the classic boombox scene, which is incredibly sweet and touching and even made me cry.The acting in this movie is exceptional. John Cusack is absolutely perfect as the hero Lloyd, creating the movie's most likable character, and I'm sure he made many women wish they could find a guy just like him. Ione Skye and James Mahoney also put in wonderful performances, and many of the members of the supporting cast are good and fun as well. But I definitely think Lloyd steals the show.In short, SAY ANYTHING... is, in my opinion, one of the best romantic comedies made so far, and certainly the best one I've ever seen. The story is timeless and sweet, and hopefully will hold up as the definitive classic it has been regarded as. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"I recommend","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie because of the quality casting as well as the believability of the characters in the movie. This movie makes you think, laugh, and feel for the main characters. I recommend this movie strongly even though it is a movie from 1989. It is cute to see the way people lived and acted back then especially if you were very young at that time. The storyline is easy to follow and is exciting except for brief moments showing the main female actress and her father. I think most females would enjoy this movie because it is romantic but realistic at the same time. However, I think only a few men would enjoy this movie...probably the men who are very artistic and can appreciate a good film free from superficial hype (such as in high-budget films).  "},{"Title":"Takes a while to like.But then something happens","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  IMO the first time i saw this movie i thought it was okay. But then i saw it again and LOVED it! I thought that the character of Lloyd was completely sensir(sp) and John Cusack did a great JOb. His character (Lloyde Dobbler,what a name!) is a completely lovable character. I began to really care about the characters the second time around. Now IMO this is kinda of a love it or u don't really like it type of movie but if u like comedy, romance, the 80's and John Cusack i'd definitely check this movie out. Oh and who could forget the famous Scene when h'es outside her room with the boombox held high above his head and the Peter Gabriel song (In your Eyes) comes on and you see the determination in his face! Uhhh it give me chills everytime!  "},{"Title":"The best '80s movie. Period.","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What's the perfect date movie? What's the perfect '80s movie? Hell, what's the perfect romantic formula movie? Say Anything, that's what. Perfect script, perfect protagonist in John Cusack, perfect antagonist in John Mahoney, and the love interest, Ione Skye, may be less than perfect but she's still pretty good.John Cusack oozes cool as Lloyd Dobler, a smart, garrulous slacker who has set his sights on the smartest girl in school, Diane Court (Ione Skye). It doesn't take long for Diane to fall for Lloyd, and he for her. The fly in the ointment is, of course, Diane's overprotective father, played with sympathetic brilliance by John Mahoney. I was surprised to learn that this was Cameron Crowe's debut movie as director. Surprised because his direction is so deft and assured, the editing damn near perfect, and the performances he gets out of every single person in the cast so wonderful. Nods also go to Lily Tyler and Joan Cusack (but especially Lily) for their hilarious performances as Loyd's friend and sister, respectively.Sorry if I gush, but I do love this movie. If you haven't seen it, do so, preferably with someone you love. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a writer and we are the biggest whores there ever was,I must say I have to stop watching Cameron Crowe's movies.  Because I am soooooooooo jealous of him.  Crowe is the best writer working in cinema today, even his worst flick Vanilla Sky had some great qoutes.  Anyways on to this particular film the movie is about Lloyd Daubler a hopeless clueless romantic played wonderfully by John Cusak, and Dianne Court a hot acheiver babe played by Ione Sky.  The wonder of the Cusack Charecter is that he has no idea what he wants to do at the age of 19, I mean hell I had no clue about what I wanted to do at that age and no one I knew had any real idea of what they wanted to do at that age.  He is played with wild insecurity by Cusack charming funny sweet and kind of bitter.  Sky plays Court as an insecure girl still uncertain about the world.  Her father played here by John Mahoney is the overprotective father taken to a huge extrene.  He tells his daugher she can so anything to him and he doesn't even had the nerve to tell his own daughter he is an embezelling crook.  This is a wonderful movie funny sad and poignant.  To all great job, to Cameron Crowe keep writing my man you are a genius and damn I am sooooo envious of you for it.10/10 "}{"Title":"One of the Best of Its Kind","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The 90's and the early 21st century have seen an abomination in teen movies. Today's teen movies generally fall into one of two categories 1) farces that involve crude jokes, body humor, excessive sexual innuendo, and characters that exemplify the worst teen vices (think Slackers or National Lampoon's Van Wilder), and 2) chick flicks that involve stereotype boy-meets-girl, popular-falls-for-outcast types that rely on emotionally manipulative the most vulnerable of viewers, and sickening the rest of us (think A Walk to Remember or She's All That). The movie Not Another Teen Movie sought to poke fun at this nonsensical trend, and it saddened me. Because there was a time and era where likeable characters, a solid romance, real drama, and a basis in reality were the staple of teen movies, and Joel Schumacher's `Say Anything' was the hallmark of that time.The basic premise here is that John Cusack's Lloyd Dobler, a teenage kickboxer and eternal optimist underachiever who has just graduated high school, is desirous of dating the lovely valedictorian Diane Court, a girl who has never allowed herself to have any real fun outside of her academic studies. Dobler is well-liked, but he's seen as a slacker, a guy who everyone knows and can turn to, but who has no real future. But he crackles with nervous energy and a belief that he and Diane are meant for one another, if he can just get her to spend some time with him. The only major obstacle for him, aside from Diane's plans to attend college in England at the summer's end, is her overprotective father, who sees Lloyd as nothing more than a mere 'distraction.'The title `Say Anything' refers to two things Lloyd's penchant for fast-talking his way in and out of unpleasant situations (he'll 'say anything' to get what he wants), and Diane's father's motto that his daughter can 'say anything' to him, that no secrets will be hidden between them. It's a movie not just about love and confidence, but also about trust, and Diane is the central figure. Lloyd gives her absolute love and trust, and her father tries to do the same thing, so the movie is very much about the competition between the two of them. And the final resolution is both atypical and satisfying. There is no easy ending, no `father completely accepts Lloyd' or `father tries his best to foil Lloyd but ends up with his foot in his mouth.' I won't ruin the ending, but suffice to say, it will leave you content if somewhat disillusioned (you'll have to see what I mean here, but there's lots of warmth and fuzziness!).I don't know what's more memorable, the scenes (Lloyd holding a boombox belting out Peter Gabriel's `In Your Eyes') or the lines (the now famous `I gave her my heart and she gave me a pen!'). But this is a must watch, with friends, lovers, or family. I can't imagine anyone but the most hard-hearted who won't fall in love with this movie. It is, simply, put, a story as well cast as it is written and told.Grade A "},{"Title":"Stands up surprisingly well...","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  2004/02/15 I just viewed this film again and was surprised at how pleasing it is after all these years.  My wife -- who normally falls asleep when we watch movies late-night -- stayed awake for the whole thing. Obviously, the film shows the influences of the late-1980's.  Yet, it has a wonderful co-mingling of comedy, romance and drama to create a wonderful love story.  "},{"Title":"I think i'm happy","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Say Anything was John Cusack's last teen/high school oriented movie,and at first glance it seemed little more than the closer in a trilogy of entertaining but fluffy comedies, that started with The Sure Thing and progressed to Better off Dead.The first third of Say Anything,while being slightly more serious in tone than the earlier films,gave little hint of the depth of emotion that this little jewel of a film would show to the viewer as the story progressed. A story told a thousand times before in countless movies,namely boy meets girl,boy loses girl,boy gets girl back,but never before or since has a movie portrayed teenage love so sweetly or shown the degree of intensity that comes when 2 young people fall in love for the first time,and how all encompassing first love can be. The scene with John Cusack's character holding the boom box over his head as Peter Gabriel's In Your Eyes plays is obviously an all time classic, but the one scene that sums up the whole movie to me is the one with Lloyd and Dianne in the back seat of the car with a blanket wrapped around them,and Dianne asks Lloyd why he is shaking. So overcome with emotion and the intensity of how he felt for her, he can only respond  I think i'm happy  A perfect scene for an almost perfect movie. 9.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I absolutely adore this movie!!!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, i admit it... I'm a John Cusack freak! I love every movie I've ever seen him in, and this is one of the best... I rented it one night and watched it literally 5 times... its great! it never ceases to amaze me how much I enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The best )","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am so glad to see the wonderful praise and love for this movie.  I saw it as a teenager and fell in love.  With John Cusack, Cameron Crowe, the movie in general....  And that's what this movie is all about---love ).  This movie is sweet. I am a lover of romances....and this is at the top of my list.  I have dreamt of directing..and if I did,I would specialize in romances...and God-willing I would make a movie as unique, and magic as this. Cameron Crowe is one of my very favorite directors..and my love-affair with his movies all began here in 1989, the year before I graduated from high school.  There are so many scenes in this movie that are incredible. I so wish John Cusack could make another romance like this one, but I guess they are hard to come by, one in a million.  Since this movie, I have not found another movie that has brought out the incredible endearment of John Cusack.  Maybe he should work with his old pal Cameron again!!  I miss those wonderful love scenes...and the comedy!!!  I think, even myself a girl, I imitate Cusack in this movie..some of the lines...so beautiful! When the thought What is your favorite movie? comes to mind, Say Anything has a special place there in my heart next to some pretty priceless company. Sometimes magic, true love, comes in the least expected places...this movie was supposedly a sleeper, a movie not lit up in flashing lights, etc., etc.,....lovers of this movie are sort of part of a special club, people who have had the fortune to discover this seemingly regular movie...a hidden treasure.  If you have not seen it, go for it...and my wish is that you find that hidden treasure too.  Actually, as soon as the movie starts rolling, there is nothing hidden about it...it is plain beautiful.  The magic of movies.  I rarely, rarely, rarely give a movie a 10/10....perfection...what is that?...but by the mere fact of how this movie has become a part of my own life and imagination and those of so many others...(there are websites dedicated to this movie...how often do you find that?)...this movie deserves to be called great...and deserves that rare of rarest 10/10. )  Having said that about this beloved film, I can now rest in peace. )  "},{"Title":"One of the Rare Perfect Films","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's perfect.  No other word can do justice to this movie.  Anyone who has ever been in a relationship can identify with both John Cusack (Lloyd Dobbler, the greatest movie character ever) and Ione Skye (Diane Court). It rules.Five Perfect Movies1.  Say Anything 2.  Chasing Amy 3.  American Beauty 4.  Swingers 5.  Pulp Fiction/Adaptation (tie)Watch these movies.  As a film student myself, I can ask for no better cirriculum.   "},{"Title":"Ahhhhhh, how wonderful...","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Growing up in the world of sappy, formula-following romantic comedies (I'm 17), I have not given up on the genre, but I've come to expect the same basic deal from them all. Then, I watch this thing on VH1 about Awesome Movie Songs, and there's SAY ANYTHING... with the boom box song In Your Eyes. I didn't even watch the movie and I fell in love with the scene. Spent four bucks, rented the DVD from Blockbuster, and I have a new all time favorite movie. That boom box scene is so different, and John Cusack plays Lloyd with such heart wrenching passion.EVERYONE SHOULD WATCH THIS! "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy/drama out there!!!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie and have seen it many times in the past years it has been out. There simply isn't a better romantic comedy/drama out there. Lloyd Dobler is the most lovable lead male, every woman who sees this film wishes that he would materialize into her living room and be hers as he is so sweet, unique, caring, charismatic, funny, and doting. John Cusack and Ione Skye make the best screen coupling with their wonderful, perfect chemistry. Cameron Crowe's typical brilliant moviemaking is in full force here with a very charming, sweet, witty, funny, and touching storyline and writing. This is my favorite film of his. I can usually find criticism with every film, but honestly can't with this one which is why I would wholeheartedly recommend it and give it a 10/10!!! "},{"Title":"Cameron Crowe's finest moment","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is critically acclaimed and possibly the greatest teen movie of all time.  Ione Skye's performance in this movie is like the proverbial Lightning in a bottle.  Skye's portrayal of the character has a timeless glow and beauty about her that she has yet to equal in any other role since then.  Her character, Diane Court is one of the all time great romantic leading ladies in movie history and should be well remembered 50 years from now.  The chemistry between Ione Skye and John Cusack's Lloyd Dobler is unmistakable and is so genuine that in can't be ignored.  John Cusack almost always turns in a top notch performance and deserves at least one Oscar for the work he's done since his movie career began, but Say Anything is the movie that elevated him to true leading man status and one of his best performances.  John Mahoney as James Court, Diane's father, and Lili Taylor as Corey Flood, Lloyd's best friend also turn in great performances that help the movie really gel and round out a great cast that tells a great love story.  Cameron Crowe's wrote and directed film and it's apparent by the finished product that he was, as Lloyd Dobler puts it looking for a dare to be great situation.  He definitely found it, and he was.  ***The VHS version of the film also has a lost short episode of The Simpsons, just knowing a version like that exists, that's got to be a good thing, right?***   "},{"Title":"Say What You Want . . . But This is a Good Movie","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers may be here....In my early 20s, this movie was a favorite of mine with many repeated viewings.Say Anything definitely has the Cameron Crowe touch--his sense of humor and humanity.  Here are some of those classic Crowe moments  Diane's dad singing Ricki Don't Lose That Number in the car; Lloyd driving the drunk guy around town all night until he finally recognizes his house; Lloyd describing to Diane's dad what he wants to do with his life; Diane telling her dad about her first time with Lloyd; and much more.This is Crowe's transition film from teenage movies (Fast Times at Ridgemount High and The Wild Life) into real movies.  Of course, he would go on to greater things with Jerry Maguire and the classic Almost Famous.  But don't be afraid of Say Anything and not watch it because you think it is going to be a typical teen movie because it is not.There is something old-fashioned and sweet about Say Anything.  I think anybody could identify with the conflicts in it  first love, not fitting in, not knowing what to do with your life, etc.  The subplot of Diane's dad's white collar crime also gives the film a good meaningful texture and adds complexity to characters who might seem stereotypical.Say Anything is truly a feel-good movie. "}{"Title":"A Real Teen Movie","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As far as teen movies go we've all been treated to our share fair that feature attractive young actors who have marginal to non-existent talent. THIS IS NOT ONE OF THOSE MOVIES! This film is not like she's all that, varsity blues, jawbreaker, i know what you did last summer, summer catch or any other of those mind numbing teen films, that albeit a good form of escapism in some cases (varsity blues) were generally below average films that were made just to capitalize on the high marketablility of the actors featured in them (except for jawbreaker, the concept and the film itself are awful). This film is about a real relationship that anyone who was ever in a high school relationship knows, a high school relationship seems like the whole world to the people in it. That's what this film demonstrates through its outstaning lead performances and with such a well-written script it is easy to see how the actors can pull off such feats. The film also throws in the internal struggle felt by Diane's father as he tries to evade the IRS and eventually is caught for what he believes was just trying to help raise his daughter. If not for the chance to see what a real teen romance is, then I recommend this film soley for the scene where John Cusack stands outside Diane's window blasting Peter Gabriel. Maybe today's teen films could benefit from following examples such as these, who wouldn't love to see a hopeful teenager blasting Eminem into the bedroom window of his love interest. Now that would be moviemaking at its finest. "},{"Title":"9/10 Stars","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a good movie. It is not a good romantic comedy, and it is not a good teen movie. It is a GOOD MOVIE. John Cusak really does a great job with his role. His character is a lot deeper than he seems at first, and you really start to fall for him as the movie goes on. This movie also made me a John Mahoney fan. He's great, and he has a good character and script to work with. After watching it three or four times, I noticed that Ione Skye is not the best actress in the world, but it didn't ruin the movie for me at all. The story and characters are convincing and real. It deals with issues that other movies of this kind don't generally deal with. The first time I saw Say Anything I was with a group of friends, and the person who picked it was a teenaged guy with a bad attitude. He had seen it before, and it was one of his favorite movies. After that, I watched it with my father. He loved it as well, and even bought it for me as a gift. As you can see, this is not just a movie for teenaged girls. You can watch this movie with anyone you want, and you'll probably enjoy it. I strongly recommend it. I consider it a classic, and I know many others do too. "},{"Title":"Flawless Romance","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you were to ask any movie expert on what the greatest romances of all time were, they would say things like Bogart and Bergman in Casablanca or Gable and Leigh in Gone With the Wind. For me, Casablanca is the greatest romance movie of all time, but running a close second for me is Cusack and Skye in Say Anything..., a movie that walks the thin line of being a teeny-bopper romance flick, a goofball comedy, and an insightful view on the relationships between a boy and girl. Say Anything... not only walks this line, but practically dances on it the way Gene Kelly would in Singin' in the Rain, with exhuberance, style, and an overall feeling of joy.The chemistry between John Cusack as the immortal Lloyd Dobbler and Ione Skye as the envious Diane Court is unlike any romance film made with in the past fifty to sixty years. Lately, romance films have been giving us chemistry, but no reason to get behind the lovers and want to see them blossom. This task is flawlessly handled by Cameron Crowe, who gives perfect definition as to why the couple should be together. They open new worlds to each other, he shows her a world outside of books like she's been used to and she, in return, realizes that he is more than some average joe with no recognizable future prospects. Apart, they are talented, but together, they're connection is luminous.I have seen this movie nearly one hundred times and have never tired of it. Not only is this a wonderful romance for the ages, but it is also a clever teenage film, showing the teens in this movie as deep, thoughtful, occasionally exaggerated, but we were all like that at that age, that's what sets them apart from the Freddie Prinze Jrs and Julia Stiles of today. The teens in movies today (outside of American Beauty) have become charicatures. In Say Anything..., they are a world within themselves and we become the priviliged tourists to take pictures as we pass by.Say Anything... is a cult classic now, but as history progresses and movies become video discs in a library some where in the distant future, this one should stand out like Jane Austin and William Shakespeare do today in that this movie analyzes the youth of our time and treats them with the respect and intelligence that they deserve. Kudos, Mr. Crowe, for bringing such a beautiful, heart-warming, optimistic, and overall brilliant piece of art into this world. To see it is to make your life that much brighter.*ding* "},{"Title":"Best teen movie ever","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was excellent by any standards, not just the ones set by teen movies. This movie was much more smart, realistic, and deep than any movie in its genre. The best thing about this movie is that there is actually heartbreak in it and that Diane doesn't come out better than she did before. As good as this movie was, I did have a gripe with it. Everyone who saw it saw Lloyd as average. HE WASN'T AVERAGE, he just thought he was. Think about it. He is this great guy who is responsible. (Think about the party scene where he is the keymaster.) He wants to be a kickboxer and he cares about people more than most people do.(Remember when he drove around Seattle all night just to take that guy home?) He is also very loyal and dedicated. Think of all that bull-s-h-i-t that he had to put with from Diane and her dad. A normal guy would've quit on her, but not him but Cameron Crowe did such a good job writing the Lloyd character that we actually start to believe that Lloyd is average. In spite of this suckering by Crowe and Cusack who is f'n amazing in this movie, I still love it and hope that this movie is not forgotten. I'm doing my part by lending my DVD copy out to anyone willing to watch it. "},{"Title":"She gave him a pen and a movie was made","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SAY ANYTHINGSTARRING JOHN CUSACK AND IONA SKYELloyd Dobler (John Cusack) has loved Diane Court (Iona Skye) for his whole high school life. The night of graduation he asks her out on a date and the next 7 or 8 hours after that change whatever doubts Diane had of being with him. But when her father rejects Lloyd of even being apart of her life, Diane breaks up with Lloyd and soon realizes she's fallen in love with him all ready too much to let go. Lloyd doesn't let her go either.Say Anything is a great romantic-comedy;date movie;chick-flick; and every other category it could fit in to. Cameran Crowe's direction distinctly stands out in this movie, making it different from any other movie to come out in the 80s. A movie about a hopeless romantic and what he'll do to keep his love is priceless... especially because many guys wouldn't have ever thought to blast a radio of our song outside his loves window until this movie came out. Say Anything is one of those movies I wouldn't pass up the opportunity watching for the first time, 24th time or millionth time... only because it's fun to watch this first love bloom over and over again.I GIVE THIS MOVIE ***** OUT OF ***** "},{"Title":"Very feel-good.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, I thought I liked John Cusack in High Fidelity.  He was equally amazing in Say Anything as a similar awkward, love-struck, tragic character who inevitably gets the girl.  This story is simply heartwarming and turns into a great drama by the end.  In Say Anything, the characters are well developed and the story keeps pace very well.  Cusack does what he does with great ease.  I think he must have fallen in and out of love 7 or 8 times in order to play the part so well.  You can see when he looks at her that he loves her madly, but at the same time is constantly afraid of losing her.  Pulling that off is tough.  Kudos.  9/10   "},{"Title":"Classic boy mets girl date movie... but beware, it's deeper than it looks!","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Loyd, what can i say, you just gotta love this guy!. John Cusack really mails this some what strange but lovable character, which is the key to this being a great movie. I must say that to me this movie is like an onion, it has many layers, it brings back fun memories of my childhood and it played a lead part in a truly wonderful love experience in the recent past, so thanks Loyd. "},{"Title":"In some ways it's still Cameron Crowe's best","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Say Anything for the first time four or five years ago while flipping through channels. I thought it was going to be some dopey teen movie, and the only reason I watched it was because it had John Cusack and was directed by Cameron Crowe. I had no idea how perfect this movie really was. When I say perfect, I mean it is perfect. I can't think of one thing wrong with it.Upon just hearing the storyline, most people would think Say Anything was just another stereotypical teen movie. In reality, I think Say Anything is the ANTI-TEEN MOVIE. It's a love story between two characters who are completely different. The girl is smart and serious and doesn't have much of a social life. The guy is a bit of a jock, really cool, and a kickboxer. There's one thing that makes Say Anything different from all other films that seems so similar. What makes it different is how real the movie is. None of the dialogue is forced or overdone. It's all written so realistically. You could almost imagine that Cameron Crowe just set up a tape recorder around a bunch of people and wrote the script based on the words that came out of their mouth. Say Anything is totally believable as a real life story (it probably helps that part of it is based on Crowe's own life).For anyone that's a fan of John Cusack, you must drop everything you're doing and rent this movie RIGHT NOW! Cusack has never topped his performance as Lloyd in Say Anything. Cusack is hilarious when he delivers his long nervous rambling monologues. He's universally cool when he does his back and forth horse-around scenes with the young actor who plays his nephew. But perhaps Cusack's best acting in this movie comes when he doesn't have any lines at all. I'm talking about his one shot close up while holding a stereo over his head, playing the Peter Gabriel song In Your Eyes. Even after 13 years, it's still one of the all time greatest movie moments.Cameron Crowe is an amazing director, but an even better screenwriter. His brilliant script is what really makes Say Anything work. Out of a possible rating of 10, I give Say Anything 10.1.Also be sure to watch for the quick cameo of Stone Gossard from Pearl Jam. "},{"Title":"Absolutley Wonderful! One of the most romantic movies ever!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd never heard of this but I watched it with some friends a week ago because it was under the staff favorites part and I like John Cusack. At first I was like oh, just another John Cusack romantic comedy but Say Anything is so much more! It is definitley his best role to date as the scruffy but good hearted Lloyd. He may not be the smartest or most talented guy in the world, but he knows how to treat the people he loves with undying respect. The chemistry he had with the girl who played Diane was heartbreaking! The dialouge is great, as is the overall storyline, with wonderful characters and hilarious and sad moments that you'll never forget. Sometimes the looks exchanged between Lloyd and Diane were enough to make the whole experience worth while. This is such a special movie and I'm not sure I've seen anything more romantic set to modern times. 10/10 stars, go see it!  "},{"Title":"One of the best, most optimistic movies about young people ever made(minor spoiler alert)...","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You want to know why Cameron Crowe's Say Anything is such a tremendously popular and affecting film? There is a small scene late in the film, when Jim Court(played by John Mahoney) goes to buy luggage for his daughter's trip to England. Unfortunately, he can't because of a problem with his account, and after the embarrassing scene that results, the film cuts to a scene of him sitting in his bathtub, fully clothed, clearly struggling with a situation that's gotten out of hand.I mention it because Jim Court is posited as the antagonist in the burgeoning love affair between his daughter(the ravishing Ione Skye) and Lloyd Dobler, the fast-talking, kick-boxing kid who gets Diane to go out with him just by calling her up. 99 teen romance films out of 100 would go out of their way to paint a disapproving parent in the worst possible light, hoping to win our emotional support for the romance by showing what hurdles it must overcome. Cameron Crowe, though, is wise enough to realize it doesn't work like that-- love, especially young love, has plenty of obstacles of its own, and our parents might object, but they still love us, and their opinions ought to be valued. Jim Court does something very foolish, but the movie doesn't vilify him-- it paints him as a caring man who made a mistake out of love. That ability to empathize with every character is what makes Crowe such a gifted screenwriter, and that level of caring and insight into Lloyd, Diane, Jim, and the rest is what makes Say Anything one of the very best movies about young love that's ever been made. "}{"Title":"Another John Cusack winner","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack really thrives in the genre' of romantic comedies.  I don't think I have ever been dissapointed in one of his films, and this one is another winner.  This movie is a little less of a comedy than some of his others, but follows the basic formula of; having the girl, losing the girl, and trying to get her back.  No real belly laughs, but there are some chuckles in the movie.  The movie delivers on the romantic sentimentality.  The relationships are a little more mature than typical High School romances.  Lloyd isn't trying to get to second base with his dream girl, he knows he is in love with her, he is trying to get her forever.  The girl lives with her father, and of course, the father wants nothing but the best for the daughter, which doesn't include Lloyd.  But, this conflict is also mature.  Dad treats Lloyd decently, gives his phone messages to his daughter.  But, he tries to help his daughter focus her attentions elsewhere. "},{"Title":"A movie that everyone will like...","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seeing this movie always brings me back to the days of high school and makes me smile. It shows you that the unknown guy can actually have a chance at the prettiest and smartest girl in school. I love the humor and sincerity of Lloyd Dobler. I also enjoyed the sidestory with Diane's father. Too bad more movies couldn't be like this. "},{"Title":"Best of genre","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are hundreds of teen romantic comedies. Say Anything is one of the very best, perhaps THE best.  It shines for its intelligence, believable romantic leads, loveable supporting characters, memorable scenes, and truly funny dialogue.  Ten years later, my wife and I still quote lines from this film.  I've seen it 3 times now and wouldn't mind watching it again someday. "},{"Title":"Lloyd Dobler is an institution.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***Possible Spoilers***For over a decade I have watched this movie several times each year. I just can't get enough of it...it is by far my favorite. And it has developed quite a cult following in my circle of female friends. To us, this movie is not just a heartwarming, mature romance about young people. It serves as a model for how love is really supposed to be...and what we want, and deserve, in a relationship.Lloyd Dobler is an institution. As his best friend Corey would say, in a world full of guys, Lloyd is a man. In my little world, the name Lloyd has become synonymous with the perfect guy . When a friend dates someone new, I ask, is he a Lloyd? And she knows exactly what I mean.Cameron Crowe's script is phenomenal and his use of music, as always, is jaw-droppingly perfect. Thanks to this movie, In Your Eyes is now not just a great song by Peter Gabriel, but an anthem that pleads with you to believe in love for Lloyd's sake.There are plenty of laughs and well-written scenes in the depiction of Lloyd and Diane's high school peers. Who will ever forget Corey's songs about Joe (That'll never be me), or the drunk guy found in the bathroom? (Look at this gentleman here), or even the infamous Gas 'n Sip pow-wow with Lloyd's friends (THAT was a mistake). The real magic of the movie, though, is in the falling-in-love scenes (and later, in Lloyd's heartbroken despair over their unexpected breakup).In small gestures, Lloyd, with no ulterior motive other than to love Diane, comes across as a gentleman. The instances are many the scene where he points out some glass for her to walk around; when he offers her Bavarian Dutch-Style Pretzels? in his car; or, sadly, when he pulls over to give her his full attention when he knows she has something to say....only to have her break his heart with a teary goodbye that leaves him dumbfounded.I gave her my heart and she gave me a....pen, he says, and no more words are needed. We know that he has known love, he has been given a gift that was taken away and it will never be the same for him.Lucky for Lloyd, Diane realizes how wonderful he is...how rare is the gift that they have found. And they are reunited in the end, because they can't, won't stay apart from each other.Lloyd Dobler may be a fictional character...but he is also the dream of real love. The underdog who gets the girl. The boy next door who captures your heart. And Lloyd is a Lloyd, in my humble opinion.-Rosegirl (Elyse)Say Anything 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"LOVE RULES ALL","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SAY ANYTHING ... (1989) **** John Cusack, Ione Skye, John Mahoney, Joan Cusack.  One of my personal favorite films.  (I so relate!)  Cusack is Lloyd Dobler, a kickboxing, funny regular guy whose immediate goals after high school is to spend every moment of the summer with valedictorian Skye in a winning, painfully truthful way by being himself.  Kudos to writer-director Cameron Crowe for his insightful viewpoints on adolescent trials and tribulations at love and maintaining a friendship despite the odds.  Very funny and heart-warming and finally John's best role ever.  Lili Taylor is memorable as Lloyd's platonic pal with 75 songs about her ex and look for Eric Stoltz and Jeremy Piven (You must chill!) and Bebe Neuwirth as Cusack's teacher.  Best moments Lloyd getting 'advice' from losers at a gas'n'sip and his choice of Peter Gabriel's exquisite valentine In Your Eyes on a boombox.  A real winner of a film. "},{"Title":"True love movie!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually you see Teen love movies and you always see the same thing but this movie protrays as a real love story. It shows what guys do just to get a girl to go out on a date with them. There's other Teen romance movies that just doesn't show it all. This movie definately shows what true love is really about and what it does when that person hurts you. After I've seen this movie all I could think about what true love was about.. Lloyd's character is a heart warming guy who likes to hang with friends and is nice to everyone. Diane see's how he is and falls for him, no one else other than her father has ever showed those kinds of emotions towards her. After you see that break up.. all you can ask is why and wonder if they will get back together in the end. Of course I felt that they would get back together but I also knew that Lloyd's character would go through some difficulties and you really get to see how it will affect him. Everyone's acting was great in this movie and I love how they protray the movie from the beginning till the end. The best part of it is how guys get nervous to meet the girl's parents and it's true.. guys do get nervous when they meet the girl of their dreams parents.. This is a definately true love story and I will always remember it! The best scene's with the boom box and how he makes sure she doesn't step on the glass is so great! Everyone should watch this if they haven't seen it!  "},{"Title":"This is a true love story!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually you see characters fall in love and one of them have to die at the end of the movie... Like Here On Earth, A Walk to Remember, Titanic, all the characters end up dying at the end just to show how much their love tore them about after they died. Don't get me wrong, those movies are good too. This is a true heart warming film that has teached me about love. You see how just a look on the characters face says it all. How he struggles to move on with his life without her standing beside him and making him happy. You see how Lloyd is nervous when he meets her cause thats what guys do when they meet that girl who they've been having a crush on. Then it totally shows what guys do when he meets the girls parents. How nervous he is through the whole movie. She's a sweet typical girl who wants to succeed in life and all he wants is to love her and continue the life he's always been living but with her there,will pull him through. To me this movie is very great and tells us what real love is about and what guy's do when they get heart broken. It has affected me in a good way after I've seen the movie cause it taught me a lot about love. Everyone in the movie did great! I will always charish this movie and share it with my friends!! "},{"Title":"A Fine Romance","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is the perfect romantic film. I love John Cusack, and all my friends who wonder why me a teenager would be crushing on this guy who definitely won't be on MTV anytime soon, never wondered why after seeing this amazing film. Lloyd Dobler, we all want a guy like him, he's great, charming, unassuming, sweet, every pleasing adjective he is it. Guys should take note. Say Anything... has everything a great cast including the likes of Joan Cusack, Lili Taylor, John Mahoney, Eric Stoltz, Ione Skye, everyone else is great; a great director, if you don't like Cameron Crowe movies there is something wrong with you and you need to have it checked, he just happens to be the next Billy Wilder; which makes me think that John Cusack could be our next character actor in the style of the late great Jack Lemmon; the sense of teenage romance and rebellion is pitch perfect. I highly recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"A must see for all John Cusack fans...his best!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nick's your friend, Nick's your buddy!, as Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) says in Say Anything.  You'll want to be his friend too, he comes across as so warm and true, as does his forever-hurting guitar-playing friend Corey (Lili Taylor) and of course, Diane (Ione Sky), the *love interest*.  The image of Lloyd holding up his ghetto-blaster playing the hauntingly lovely In Your Eyes by Peter Gabriel will stay with you for a long, long time. "},{"Title":"The quintessential teen romance","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a sea of slow, drippy, formulaic eighties romance flicks, this movie stands miles above the rest.  The basic storyline is not uncommon, but it is executed with style and feeling.  John Cusack is at his heart-melting best as the loveable Lloyd Dobler.  Ione Skye manages to make her bland character at least mildly entertaining, though one gets the feeling that it should be her who is working to gain the affections of Lloyd, who is so hopelessly sweet that his closest friends are all female.  Is Say Anything... predictable?  Yes.  Sappy?  Of course.  Entertaining?  To a degree not often equaled by recent movies. "}{"Title":"Close, But Not Quite","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Say Anything... is an above-average film about two young people who have graduated high school (John Cusack and Ione Skye).  Cusack is going nowhere fast.  Skye is going off to school and will likely become a huge success in life.  Cusack decides to take a chance and ask Skye out right after graduation.  She accepts and they slowly fall in love, but there are major problems that are going to come up during their relationship and their happiness together is not a sure thing by the end.  Writer-director Cameron Crowe shows some real potential with this film, but he never does quite reach the mark.  His screenplay is just a little bit too smart for its own good and his direction lacks pace and conviction at times.  The cast makes the film enjoyable for the most part.  John Mahoney is especially good as Skye's father who has a secret.  Above-average overall.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Cameron Crowe's best film","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Writer/director Cameron Crowe now makes big-budget by-the-numbers Holloywood films (Jerry Maguire).  This is (I believe) his first film and shows how talented he once was.  It's a simple teenage love story between Cusack (great--as always) and Skye (vapid--but OK).  The difference between this and thousands of other films like it is the script and the acting.  The characters sound and act like real people.  Not one line rang false.  Also the film is romantic without being mushy--the scene with Cusack holding the boom box playing a Peter Gabriel song on the outskirts of Skye's house is just beautiful (and unlike anything I've ever seen in a film).  This film wasn't a big box office hit but has gained popularity over the years.  Well worth catching...one of the best films of 1989.  Also it's a treat seeing Joan Cusack (in a rare dramatic role) and John playing what they are--brother and sister. "},{"Title":"Cusack is brilliant","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Say Anything&#133; is a well-written romantic drama-comedy (it's kind of hard to label a movie like this). Of course, the best thing about it is John Cusack. He simply is brilliant. Ione Skye is good as well, but without Cusack's charm I don't know if I would have liked this movie as much as I do. Personally, though, I prefer another Cusack-film from the 80s The Sure Thing, I guess it's not fair to compare two so different films, but I really like that film and Say Anything... is simply not as good as it. (6/10) "},{"Title":"I am a man, not a guy...","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  to use a line from a movie. I truly love this movie.  I doubt anyone will see this comment but I just had to leave this.  I have to bow down to Cameron Crowe.  Along with his other movies he is so in tune with relationships and how friends, family and lovers interact.  Every word of the script is so perfect.  I can relate with every little situation.  You can identify with the unsure, but confident in himself Lloyd.  He captures so many of those little moments that you never forget in important relationships.  Things that you can't think of, but happen spontaneously. The music in this movie were so important.  In every Cameron Crowe movie the music is like another character.  Say Anything just leaves an incredible impression on me when dealing with people.  I can't say enough about seeing this movie or any others from Mr. Crowe!      "},{"Title":"Cusak was 22 years old during the filming. Mild Spoiler.","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" They used a 22 year old to play that dopey, misfit character. I mean really, to watch that flick, seeing Cusaks face, how old he looked, it was like watching a nasty man raiding the girls locker room at the HS. Seriously, I've seen the flick, it's nothing special. It drags, has an odd story line and has an ending that makes you fear for the future of the characters.And that whole boom box thing? LAME.If you're looking for some nostalgia, do yourself a favor, pass this.In my opinion, this movie is so overrated. It really should be exiled to the VHS graveyard. That's where it really belongs. Watching Cusak do the whole emo thing with his goofy wardrobe is more comical than quality romantic drama.Watch Unforgiven or Miller's Crossing instead. "},{"Title":"charming but confused little story","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can appreciate trying to work outside the boundaries of a genre, but it appears that Crowe meant for this to be a comedy of sorts, then thought better of it, or couldn't quite make up his mind, and ended up with a rather confused style. Still, as confused films go, this is one of the better ones. Perhaps I am being too critical, and the problem is not so much with the style as with my expectations. I was looking for something rather silly (in the vein of Sixteen Candles or Better Off Dead). What I found was dramatically different. The pacing is different, as is the film itself (by which I mean the actual type of film on which the scenes were recorded) with the outcome seeming rather like a disorganized British television program. Not what I expected at all. In any event, if the goal was comedy, the movie is a colossal failure in that respect (a la Silver Streak, The Frisco Kid, Being There), but there is one particularly funny line in the movie that bears emphasis. Cusack's character has had his heart broken. We see him driving around alone, speaking (notes to self) into a tape recorder and trying to make sense of it all. He decides to seek advice from the guys who hang out outside the Gas N Sip. They dispense their advice, and the whole interaction turns out to be a waste of time. Then we cut to Cusack back in the car and speaking, deadpan, into his tape recorder, That was a mistake. The editing and the delivery of the line are perfect, and this is clearly the biggest laugh in the movie, but the line could also have been referring to Crowe's decision to have three of the (very white) guys in that scene do a rap. This was very big in movies in 1989, but that was a mistake. More generally, the music in the movie is very bad, or at least the original music is. It's hard to ignore. But Take Five and In Your Eyes are both very good songs in my opinion, and are featured (the latter quite unforgettably) in the film as well. The use of rain during the crying scene is a bit tired Hey, let's try In Cold Blood. All the critics loved that, but maybe it was the best thing to cover up Cusack's weakness at acting very sad. And Ione Skye is just not a particularly good actress, period. One other thing &#150; Cusack plays one of these characters who speaks like he's under the balcony with Cyrano at his ear. Naturally, this detracts from the plausibility of the character, but if you can suspend your disbelief about that little detail, it's very easy to enjoy this movie. It's not great, but it's worth a look. It's a little charming, rather quirky, mostly disorganized, but not bad &#150; the overall quality is par for the course for a directorial debut from a talented filmmaker such as Cameron Crowe. "},{"Title":"Say Anything Says Basically Nothing **","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A very beautiful Ione Skye and a teenage-like John Cusack try to bring life to this rather lackluster 1989 film.Cusack is really a step above the rebel without a cause here. He falls hook, line and sinker for the outstanding graduate Ione Skye.Love does happen between these 2 unlikely candidates. Jack Mahoney is credible as the father who seems to be ever doting on his daughter, so proud of her when she wins a fellowship to study in England and dedicated in serving the people of the nursing home he runs. The man appears to be a saint. Go know that he has been embezzling from those under his care. When this is discovered, the movie takes a turn and I'm afraid it's not for the better.That scene with Mahoney in red suit in jail smoking a cigarette nervously while visited by both teens does not evoke any sentiment whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Cusack not at his best","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like John Cusack &#150; but this teen flick about two graduating teens `finding love' is a waste of time. The subplot of Cusack's girlfriend's (Ione Skye) father who cheats elderly people in order to make enough money to give his daughter all the possibilities stinks. The open dialogue part between daughter and father is remarkable and deserves some mentioning. Else `Say Anything' doesn't say much and is utterly boring. (2/10) "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boy meets girl. Boy loses girl. Boy gets girl back again. This formula for a romantic comedy is all right when all you want to do is pass the time watching a mildly amusing movie. But when it is one of the movies listed in Steven Jay Schneider's 1001 Movies You Must See before You Die, you expect a little more. I suspect it is the fact that Cameron Crowe wrote and directed this movie that mesmerized critics into thinking it was something special.In addition to the formula noted above, this movie also employs the standard Hollywood device of having a woman forced to make a choice between love and something else, and then when she chooses love, as the formula requires, she ends up getting the something else too. Usually, the woman's choice is between a boring but respectable man whom her family approves of and who will be able to provide for her in comfort, and a charming man that she loves but who is poor and irresponsible. But when she decides to marry the poor guy, it turns out he has all the money. The movie French Kiss (1995) would be an example of this.In this movie, the woman is Diane, and she herself is the boring but respectable person whom her father, Mr. Court, approves of and who will be able to provide for herself in comfort owing to the fact that she is on her way to having a successful career after she gets out of college. This constitutes a slight variation in the formula. In any event, she must choose between her own education/career and Lloyd, the poor and irresponsible guy she loves whose idea of a career is that of being a kickboxer. Of course, there are movies in which a woman must choose between a career and a husband, but it is usually a glamorous career like show business, as in Imitation of Life (1959), not the kind of respectable career that Diane is pursuing.Actually, Lloyd's charm wears a little thin. He is living with his sister, who is a single mom, and he gets on her nerves with his antics. She makes a mark for the volume knob on his boom box, beyond which level he must not go, because it disturbs the neighbors. But he apparently does not care about that, because later in the movie, he takes the boom box and plays his and Diane's song at volume ten near her house in the middle of the night to prove his love for her, probably waking up all the neighbors on the block. It is one thing to be irresponsible. It is another thing to be an inconsiderate jerk. One wonders just how long Diane is going to put up with him, especially since his plan seems to be to just let her support him, as when he tells her father, What I want to do for a living is be with your daughter. I guess you could say that in this movie it is the man who chooses between having a glamorous career like kickboxing and just being a house husband.Presumably as a way of avoiding the obvious formulaic nature of this film, a little trouble for Mr. Court with the Internal Revenue Service is added in. It begins rather melodramatically, with a couple of IRS agents showing up at his house at night. In real life, an auditor would begin his investigation by showing up at Court's place of business, which is a nursing home, and asking to see the books. In a subsequent scene, an IRS agent does show up at the nursing home and asks ominous questions like, Your income, Mr. Court, hasn't changed substantially in seventeen years&#x85;. Why would you stay so long with an operation that is clearly not a growth enterprise? Wow! Isn't that incriminating!By this time, we are starting to think that the IRS agents are absurd caricatures, and that Court will be vindicated in the end. But it turns out that Court really is guilty. However, if he has been stealing money from his patients, then it would seem he is in more trouble than just not paying his taxes. There should still be fraud charges to deal with. But the movie glosses over that.Once we accept that Court is guilty of defrauding his nursing home patients, there are further incongruities that the movie presents without explaining. For example, Court goes to a store to buy some luggage, but all his credit cards are rejected. At the same time, Diane discovers thousands of dollars in cash squirreled away in a drawer. So, why didn't Court use the cash to buy the luggage? Cash leaves no tracks, and even the IRS would not have been aware of that purchase.Beyond that, the movie seems to at first to suggest that Court was stealing all that money in order to provide for his daughter, and so we are supposed to like him for that. But then it turns out that he was using all of his ill-gotten gains to buy collectibles, like a nine thousand dollar juke box. In other words, he's an idiot. The function of this IRS subplot is to break the excessive attachment between father and daughter so that she is free to leave him for Lloyd. But calling in the Feds so that a girl can leave home and marry the boy she loves is a bit much. "},{"Title":"An Okay Teen Film, But Uninspiring","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not see this film during its first release, but I have heard it referenced many times, especially regarding the iconic scene where Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) holds the boom box over his head.After watching it, I have to say I am underwhelmed. It's a nice film, but certainly not a significant film or a very memorable film. After analyzing it, I think I know the main reason why.Lloyd is infatuated with, and then falls in love with, Diane Court (Ione Skye). For this film to work well, the viewer has to feel that this love is memorable, if not amazing. Lloyd is a nice guy. He has little ambition. But he has this idea that it would be a dream come true if he could get the beautiful, intelligent Diane to go out with him.Diane, as the object of Lloyd's obsession, has to be worthy of that obsession. And this is where the film falls short for me. She is a nice girl. A good girl. A dutiful daughter, academically successful in high school, blah blah blah plain vanilla. I don't see how she justifiably inspires the passion that Lloyd feels for her. Why not? Because she displays little passion herself.Think about it. She has some big issues to contend with. Her valedictorian speech. Life after school (that she is afraid of). Going away to college. A future career. But do we hear her talk passionately about any of them? She is rather docile and meek.When it comes to her feelings for Lloyd, that is where the passion should be apparent. Maybe she was intentionally underplaying it, but the first time she admits she loves Lloyd it is almost an aside, a throw-away line. And he calls her on it. Later, a montage of kissing scenes shows us that they are getting more involved. But do we ever see her proclaim her love the way Lloyd does with the boom box? Speaking of the boom box scene, it is an iconic image, but it falls flat within the story. It starts to sizzle, but fizzles.I can see how this film might appeal more to women. Lloyd is a nice guy they can feel something for. Some guys probably look up to Lloyd as a guy who goes after what he wants. But I feel the object of his desires should be an amazing girl, not just a nice girl.The message boards contain some differences of opinion on this topic. It is a matter of personal opinion, based upon one's personal outlook.The film does a good job of veering from the fairytale path that some teen romances take. And it has a wonderful cast, filled with interesting appearances--like Bebe Neuwirth in her film debut. Unfortunately, it feels like the rest of her performance hit the cutting room floor.This film is okay, but for me it does not evoke universal feelings like most films by John Hughes. "}{"Title":"Good But Not As Great As It Seems","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only great thing going for this movie (and it wasn't all that great either) is the famous scene where Lloyd holds up a boombox playing a familiar song beneath Diane's bedroom window. This is a pretty good and interesting movie to see with not necessarily predictable outcomes. This just seems flat. Good, but almost average &#x96; especially in the 80s. It sort of goes back and forth between the two unlikely-coupled main characters. But I would still recommend this to anyone because of the message it gives never give up and go for what you believe in. Men like Lloyd Dobler are rare in this day and age. It's good to see the possibilities of hope, if you care enough. Almost inspiring. "},{"Title":"young love in the 1980s","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Former Rolling Stone journalist Cameron Crowe thinks he has his finger on the pulse of America's youth, and on the evidence of his debut as a film director he certainly shows a gift for capturing all the arcane nuances of modern teen language and manners (circa 1988, at any rate). His film pulls the rug out from under most examples of its kind, presenting a High School romance with genuine emotional appeal and with two believable characters an ambitious valedictorian worried about her image as a 'priss' and a hyper-tense but gallant kickboxer (the sport of the future, so he says) with no clear idea where life is taking him. It's as close to an honest depiction of first love as you're likely to see from Hollywood, but the real heart of the film is Ione Skye's trusting relationship with her father (John Mahoney), who may seem too good to be true (because he isn't). Skye's choice between loving father and loyal boyfriend is ultimately made for her by the IRS, but otherwise the film is a welcome relief from the empty packages usually sold to teen moviegoers these days. "},{"Title":"This one's got heart and a few great lines, that's good enough for me.","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For starters, it's not the prequel to Gross Pointe Blank...it starts off with Lloyd's graduation day (Martin Blank ditched Debi on prom night in that movie, so we can assume he never made it to graduation).This movie contains some great scenes and natural dialog in it. It's worth watching if only to watch a few of these scenes alone. Lloyd, our main character, is an atypical leading man. Even more so if you consider the movie's setting. He's not quite total geek, loser, yet he's not quite total campus stud, jock, rebel. He's kind off on a totally different tangent. That's what makes him interesting. And so Cameron Crowe gives those of us, who were also never on either extreme in the high school social food chain, someone to relate to.Can't say the same for Ione Skye's character, however. She's a beautiful valedictorian, but Crowe keeps it realistic.Don't expect a strong story line...watch this for the characters and intimacy between them, and the lack of predictability. "},{"Title":"Don't be a guy, be a man","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think by now I've seen Say Anything about 20 times and every time I watch it I find something new that makes me love it. The film by Cameron Crowe is an enduring, romantic piece that can make even the faintest of heart believe in all the possibilities that love has to offer. This all begins with the acting.John Cusack and Ione Skye give fantastic performances, and bring these characters of Lloyd Dobler, and Diane Court to life. Many women still believe in finding a guy like Lloyd Dobler, and that's because John Cusack and Cameron Crowe created a character filled with depth and sensitivity. A character that has his flaws, but still believes in finding something, something that will give him direction and a place in this world, and that something is Diane Court, played by Ione Skye. Although, her character makes questionable decisions at times and the fashion choices show all the big hats we dread to think of today, as ever wearing, the character still isn't one dimensional. She is conflicted not knowing how to break away from her overprotective father and create a life for her own. A father, that is played by John Mahoney, who creates a great portrayal of a man who wants to be everything to his daughter, because he fears that in any moment, she could stop being his, and he would be left alone. Although, the character does not always act honorably, well neither does anyone else in this world. The Boombox scene is infamous by now, being parodied constantly, and spoofed in random unfunny comedies. Although,considered a stalking type of behavior now, watching Lloyd Dobler hold a boom box up to Diane Court's room is easily one of the best romantic moments of all time. It could have easily been cheesy and stupid, but the facial expressions by John Cusack, made us feel for Lloyd and want him to hold that boom box playing Peter Gabriel's In your eyes, one more second Say Anything is a movie for the ages. When Lloyd's friends tell him not to be a guy to be a man, in that moment it was clear that this movie would stay throughout time as a classic '80s movie. A movie that didn't need to resort to sex to make it a staple romantic film. Instead, it was well written, and beautifully acted and deserves to be remembered. "},{"Title":"john c. rocks","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No matter what movie he's in, John Cusack is such a lovable guy. He's just so perfect at making you fall in love with him and making you feel that he is the sweetest guy out there. He's just so likable and cute, how can you not like him? I'm a big fan (my personal favorite being High Fideltiy), and will forever remain one. And I don't agree with you people saying that he's so unrealistic in Say Anything... I think, no matter how annoyed your neighbors/father would be, most of us girls would like a guy (excuse me, a man) to play a radio outside our window. Maybe not exactly THAT, but something sweet to show that he cares. Although it may be unrealistic to fantasize about such a perfect man, it doesn't matter, because that's what movies are about, right? They were made to have fun - not to remind you of reality. John Cusack movies are perfect! "},{"Title":"Not A Teen Romance Film....","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...in the sense that we have come to know. Let's face it, this movie perfectly defines what it's like to fall in love with someone. You don't have to be a lovesick teeny-bopper to relate to this film.What's so wonderful about this movie is that it's that rare romantic film that appeals to GUYS. At least to guys who are honest about themselves. Guys want what Cusack's Lloyd Dobbler wants, in this film. It's not about racking up the names & numbers for real guys....& if that is your M.O., then you will have zero appreciation for this film.I will not say Cusack's performance is the greatest of all time, but...it is absolutely perfect. It's a flawless portrayal of a young guy who is flawed in the eyes of mainstream thinkers....but a young guy I would hope my own son(s) would be like.It's a standard story...but one that is made beautiful by terrific, memorable characters who are all played wonderfully by an outsatnding cast.John Mahoney, as the father of Cusack's love interest (Ione Skye), is the true standout of the supporting cast. His character is the reverse of Cusack's Lloyd. Lloyd has outward flaws (lack of ambition, direction) that really don't matter because he is, at heart, as great a guy as a guy can be. The Mahoney character is outwardly wonderful - a self-made success & doting father, who hides a dark secret that betrays the trust of those he cares for- in his business & the daughter he so thoroughly dotes on.On a scale of 1 to 10...this movie is unquestionably a 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is close to my fave all time film and definetly my Favourite John Cusack film. Just recently I bought the R1 DVD for Say Anything- all I can say is that I won't be selling it for anything and it is part of my DVD collection. I first remember seeing this film 11 or 12 years ago when I was 18... One of my fave scenes in it(and there are heaps of them in the film) is the scene where Lloyd is holding the getto blaster out the front of the Old people's home where Diane is staying and you hear the peter gabriel song In your eyes playing- powerful stuff!! If you haven't seen this before- please do your self a favour and grab a copy(even if it is a crapy,worn out VHS copy at your local Blockbuster).10/10 for me!! "},{"Title":"In love with John Cusack","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie that made me love John Cusack (this and Better off Dead). I think the scene with the radio is one of the greatest love scenes in film... If you like typical brat-pack '80s movies, check this one out...it will probably surprise you, because it is much better than most '80s romances... "},{"Title":"I'm still holding up the boombox","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is PHENOMENAL!! how could anyone NOT like this movie, it is pure perfection, it's my favorite movie of all time, I aspire to be Lloyd Dobler, as I think most guys do, John Cusack RULES in this movie, this is his best performance ever, Ione Skye is fantastic, and John Mahoney is at his finest, he is one of the most underrated actors working today, I LOVE Lili Taylor to death as Corey, I am now a fan of EVERYONE who was in this movie, it is THAT good, Cameron Crowe is one of the greatest directors working today because he paints real characters, he writes teens as they really are, not stupid- drunk - Like to party all the time deadbeats, but as real people, and thats a hard task, I cannot say enough great things about this movie, everything I say would be an understatement, SEE THIS MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"What happened to films like this?","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After finally seeing this, I am both satisfied and left longing for something more in film today. This film is great - partly because of its realism and its avoidance of stereotypes. John Cusack's character is different and less ambitious than Ione Skye's, but he's not a deatbeat; Ione Skye's character is the perfect girl, but she doesn't feel satisfied; John Mahoney's character (it was refreshing seeing him in a role other than Fraser's dad) is not stereotypically protective of his daughter, doesn't immediately consider Lloyd a deadbeat, and actually has his own problems. From looking at the synopsis (high-schooler seeks unattainable beauty, but overprotective father gets in the way), it doesn't seem very different from other films. But, as I'm sure others have said, it is in its realism that this film succeeds.I'm seventeen, and have grown extremely annoyed by the films targeted to teens that incorporate themes of love (maybe it's just me, but my experiences in this area haven't exactly been the most light-hearted). I have yet to see one that does not take this subject matter lightly, and present it seriously and sincerely. Say Anything has its humorous moments, but they don't devalue the sincerity of what the film is about.  "}{"Title":"a great goddamn movie","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You look back at the eighties and you think of Molly Ringwaldputting on lipstick with her breasts and Rob Lowe as a badass. Say Anything is kind of left behind, like a diamond in the rough. It isthe best romantic comedy of all time.  John Cusack is socharming, so purrrfect.  Girls see Lloyd Dobler and they say man,if his name was something other then Lloyd Dobler, he would bethe perfect boyfriend. the ultimate man.  He's that great acharacter. Guys are like, that Diane, she's a fox.  This movie hasthe memorable dialogue, a wicked soundtrack and a story thatkeeps you going.  So what if I was seven when the eighties ended,I still know what I'm talking about.  Say Anything is a necessity.  Soeat that, John Hughes.  "},{"Title":"A film that dares to show regular folks","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of Writer/Director Cameron Crowe.  He was handed an OSCAR for the equally profound script (original) for Almost Famous (2000) at the Academy Awards this past March.  This film is also praiseworthy for showing regular folks' pitfalls, setbacks, and persistence.  The film actually shows a Designated Driver as needed and fitting in the social circle when Lloyd is drafted as Keymaster.  The two lovers in SAY ANYTHING both have their rough edges but are committed to each other, regardless of the Dollar $ign$ that most people have as the ultimate bottom line.  The parents of teens are shown as best bud- wannabe or out in distant left field which leads to joys and frustrations on both sides of the parent-child relationship.  Crowe catches a great song IN YOUR EYES as performed by Peter Gabriel and uses it to maximum potential in the film.  I've never been to Seattle but seeing it as a backdrop in this highly memorable work was quite an enticement.  Taking a risk with life means that you dare to lose a lot, but the open-ended conclusion allows us to view the couple as just getting a start from that summer of true love.  Spread the word about this film to young people who believe that academic achievement is just as important as sports/cheerleading.  10*'s out of 10 !!! "},{"Title":"Holds up after more than ten years ...","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film shortly after it came out, and remembered it as insightful, with excellent performances by all.  I just saw it again after more than ten years have passed, and like it even more now.  There are elements of the story that you notice when you are younger, and different elements that you notice when you are viewing it from the perspective of ten years and the experiences that come with time.  This is an excellent movie. Each character is finely drawn, well written and sensitively acted.  The kind of love this teen romance movie depicts - friendship with potential, a companion who both completes you and extends you - is a truer and more lasting emotion than the cardboard Valentine romance many adult movies of the nineties rely upon.  Rent it some rainy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Definitly One of My favorites","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this is one of my favorite moves BECAUSE A. John Cusack is one of the greatest actors in the world and B. Hasn't it always been every girl's dream to have a guy love you so much that he holds his boombox above his head, IN THE RAIN, blasting that song that gives us ALL chills IN YOUR EYES...come on -- that scene has made all of us cry -- I have to say that this is one of John's better movies (well we can't forget BETTER OFF DEAD of course!)  "},{"Title":"Not your ordinary 80s teen flick","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that had potential to be a brat pack reject....but was so much more.John Cusack gives his best performance ever as Lloyd Dobler, the love sick nit-wit in love with the school brain, Diane Court, played by Ione Skye. As D.C. says, a brain trapped in the body of a game show hostess.  Diane and Lloyd's relationship is rather odd ad first and you wonder why they are together...much less why she agreed to date him in the first place.  There first date, which takes place at a huge graduation party shows Diane what she's missed out on the past four years.  From that point on, her character grows.  You see why Diane needs Lloyd and not just the opposite.  This is a funny poignent film that doenst expose teens, but shows what theyre really thinking.  My big problem with teen movies is that they totally turn teens into these non-thinking sex-crazy stupid individuals...and they think that thats what most teens identify with.   Say Anything doesn't do that.  Its a great film to watch again and again.Great performance by Lili Taylor and John Mahoney too!!!! "},{"Title":"A GOOD teen romance","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a teenager, I'm supposed to like teen romances, right? Unfortunately, they are often done so badly that it's hard to enjoy them.One of the best exceptions is Say Anything. It hardly deserves the term teen romance because it goes far beyond that. You fall in love with the characters and really want to see them succeed, these are true people who you actually like. This includes not only Lloyd and Diane (played wonderfully by John Cusack and Ione Skye) but also Diane's father (John Mahoney from Frazier) and Lloyd's sister (played by real-life sister Joan Cusack). All of the other characters are real too - unstereotyped and un-cliched, even the ones who appear for only a few seconds give you a glimpse into their lives and leave you wishing for more.And it's not just a teen film, either, there's a lot of depth. Diane's father is having problems with the IRS, and the part where he goes into a store to buy luggage for her upcoming trip to England and all of his credit cards are refused is heartbreaking. It is also a poignant message about what he's done with his life.It's a great film, certainly deserving my 10/10. "},{"Title":"A lovely film.","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is, I think, the best Cameron Crowe film. Well, maybe Jerry Maguireand Fast Times too. I even liked Singles! But I do fear that he'sbecoming more and more like James Brooks, that is bloated with his ownsuccess. His newer films are BIGGER! and have LOTS OF GREAT MUSIC! andHOT YOUNG ACTORS! but seem like sell outs compared with Say Anything.This movie has HEART, it has a great story simply told, and Cusack andSkye are both perfectly cast. The supporting roles almost steal themovie- John Mahoney (Frazier) as the father, Lili Taylor (Who Shot AndyWarhol?) as the manic depressive friend, and Eric Stoltz (The House ofMirth) as The Keymaster who dresses up like a chicken in one scene.There is not one false note in this movie, and I simply loved it. It's agreat date movie, and there are lines and moments that will stay withyou for years to come. "},{"Title":"One of Cusack's best...if you liked the 80s you'll love it","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though I don't comment on movies unless they REALLY strike me, this movie definitely deserves it.  In fact, it has taken the place of Secret Admirer as my all-time favorite 80s movie.  C. Thomas Howell just doesn't have what Cusack has, and for those not in the know, you get two Cusacks for the price of one in this movie, as his real sister Joan plays his sister in the movie, albeit an uncredited appearance.  For those astute watchers, you may also notice that James L. Brooks produced the movie, which explains a lot of why it is so great (he is one of the masterminds behind The Simpsons).  In this movie Cusack plays the punk who doesn't know exactly where his life is headed, but he is ready to follow a great girl anywhere and do anything for her, and that is what he does.  He goes straight to the top, getting a date with the smartest girl in school, and, in typical Cusack fashion, winning her over.  What really makes this movie is the great combination of music, great acting all-around, a good, surprising plot, good dialogue, and, of course, an amazingly classic scene which I won't spoil for you.  Suffice to say it involves a boombox (how 80s can you get? ;).  There is no excuse for not seeing it, even if you have to watch it alone (which is what I did).  Great movie, and one of the last of the 80s.  My one question is, where is my Diane Court?   "},{"Title":"Cameron Crowe proves his greatness.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget Almost Famous, forget Jerry Maguire- this is the film thatCameron Crowe should be judged on. (That, and the classic Fast Times atRidgemont High) This is a touching, simple, lovely, and very funny filmthat you should see with someone you love. John Cusack has never been sogood- he keeps his smirking to a minimum, and Ione Skye (where'd shego?) is terrific too. On the surface a simple love story, but it goesmuch deeper and deals with keeping your heart and hope alive in the faceof difficult times with family, something we can all relate too. Filledwith wonderful cameos, including Jeremy Piven and Joan Cusack and LiliTaylor and Eric Stoltz (an alum from Fast Times!), this is one of thefew heartfelt studio films made in the last 20 years. Almost Famousand Jerry Maguire appear bloated and over-produced compared to SayAnything. Rent this for your first date for a real interesting evening.A great film! "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THIS MOVIE RULES!!!!!!!!!!!! IT KICKS ASS!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Even though the film was made in the late 80's almost 90's It will be remembered FOREVER! I have seen it 2 times and I could still see it again. Its one of those movies that you don't mind seeing more than once. So I think that if you haven't already seen this movie SEE IT!!! It's worth EVERY minute! "}{"Title":"Affecting Film","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, but it hits too close to home. One reviewer mentioned that everyone will have something to relate to in this movie, and I believe they were right. I myself related to Lloyd Dobbler. The intentions, feelings, and reactions of the characters are dead on, and Mr. Crowe has written a wonderfully honest story, but I didn't like the ending. I won't elaborate for those who haven't seen it. Blame it on Hollywood I guess. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It happens to me every once in a while, I sit down not expecting to watch anything too fabulous and fall upon something completely unexpected; a great movie.  That's how i stumbled on a modest little film called Say Anything... I walked into it expecting to just be one of the movies I watch for a few minutes and then flip to a different channel. However, the characters of Say Anything... drew me in.  It reminded me of the innocence of high school and how the relationships that people say don't have a chance end up thriving into new dimensions.  The movie stars Ione Skye as Diane Court.  Skye presents the perfect portrayal of a young, beautiful and intelligent girl that hadn't had much of a social life due to the intimidation over the young males in her class, and John Cusack as Lloyd Dobler, the kind of geeky, nice guy that is not necessarily good looking, or athletic but interesting. The two carry the movie as they are forced to deal with situations that burden their own relationship and their pure motivation to beat the odds.  I recommend this movie to anyone that has the power to believe that anything is possible. "},{"Title":"Fond memories of teenage years.","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's because of the age I am now, remembering when I first saw this fine movie at 17, that it unleashes fond memories of a special time in my, and I'm sure most peoples, life, when the things that now seem complicated were so simple, and the simple things today then seemed do complicated. A movie with a pure soul, Say Anything boasts standout performances from the whole cast, who really seemed to 'get' what the film was about. "},{"Title":"Lloyd, lloyd all null and void!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just a great film, no two ways about it. Thoughtful and funnyand interesting, filled with great performances, this movie rocks andshould be required viewing for anyone about to enter into arelationship. Filled with funny supporting actors and cameos too. Cusackgives his most winning (and least 'cool') performance to date, and JohnMahoney as the father is just right. Ione Skye is a joy to watch- whyhasn't someone captured that fire again? and on down the line. Watchthis with your date, you will not be disappointed. It's not too long (ifyou want that, rent Almost Famous) and it's not too glib (if you wantthat, rent any teen film made since 1999) and it offers a lot of heartand soul. Well worth it. I own it!...... "},{"Title":"my favorite movie!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have often tried to find a comedy that touches me as much as Cameron Crowe's Say Anything. His story not only touches on such delicate teenage subjects as love and deception, but portrays the hardships of growing up with light humor and a colorful script. With so many teenage-type films coming out, Say Anything beautifully captures the essence of the young without the common stereotypes we often see. This movie is a must have for any John Cusack fan, or for any person who truly loves a film about life. "},{"Title":"Sooooo Cute!!!!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie! Lloyd Dobler is the one of the best lead male characters ever. Cameron Crowe is a genius I love all of his movies! He has a real talent for developing every character so that by the end of the movie we feel like we know everyone. He also knows how to make wonderful leading men. They aren't a bunch of jerks they have real feelings they didn't start out with bad intentions and then do a 180 like so many of the leading men in the movies today. My favorite Cameron Crowe leading man is definitely Lloyd Dobler who is not your normal teenage boy in a movie who hangs out with a bunch of guys, is really mean, and gets drunk all the time. Cameron Crowe is smart enough to know that just because these characters are teenagers doesn't mean they're idiots. He doesn't make them stereotypical jerks the way they do in most movies. He makes Lloyd and Diane two intelligent people who are interested in each other because of their differences and can appreciate each other because of those differences. I'd have to say my favorite line is what I want to do for a living is I want to be with your daughter I'm good at that. My friends and I freak out every time we see Lloyd standing outside Diane's window holding up the jukebox playing In your eyes. There was question about that on Who wants to be a  millionaire the contestant got it wrong but afterwards Regis called it one of the most romantic scenes of all time and I'd have to agree with that statement.      "},{"Title":"This movie helped define me...","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In high school, I was Lloyd Dobbler. I was into martial arts, had mostly female friends, and I loved a girl who people thought deserved better than me. This is one of the best films I've ever seen, and it's in my all time top three with 'Casablanca' and 'Pulp Fiction'. "},{"Title":"I remember this.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Throughout the entire movie, that's what I was thinking. I remember this. Not the exact situation but I remember my life feeling like this. Confused, uncertain, poignant . . . but not that melodramatic. That's it's only flaw; this movie is completely unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Truly enjoyable","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Say Anything... is certainly not a perfect film though it excels in almost all aspects. Driven by unique direction and an exceptional script from Cameron Crowe, the film had more of an emotional affect on me then any other in a long time. John Cusack has a distinctive personality that he adds to most of his roles and it is one that is so easy to relate to. Lloyd, Cusack's character, made me smile and admire his honesty, devotion, and compassion.  Crowe stayed away from the many cliches that doom teen flicks and instead kept his film unpredictable.  I can honestly say that I was feeling incredible about everything after watching this film, from my mood to my life to my relationship with my girlfriend. I wanted to have fun and just smile for hours when it was over, at a time when I was feeling quite down, it lifted me up and made me realize that many of lifes treasures are brought about through utter honesty. Grade A- "},{"Title":"I've seen this movie at least 100 times ..","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" .. and I really hope they put it out on DVD soon as my VHS copy is wearing thin.This is my all-time favorite movie.  I don't know if it's cause I can relate to Diane and her falling in love with somebody that wouldn't normally be part of your circle .. or if it's the soundtrack (did you catch that Depeche Mode snippet during the kitchen conversation between Corey and Joe?) .. or if it's the fact that first love is something that you never get tired of seeing ?Whatever the reason, this movie has no faults .. though I have seen tons of little goofs .. I just have to say to you RENT IT NOW.  Yeah, it may be a love story .. but it's THE love story all of us probably can relate to at some point in our little lives. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest all-time movies","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Certainly the best love story in the last 20 or 25 years (my life span). People will probably dismiss it because it's about teenagers and doesn't star Anthony Hopkins and Meryl Streep (no offense to that great actor and actress), but as a directorial debut by Cameron Crowe, you can't get much better. He only equalled this movie when Almost Famous came out in 2000.  "},{"Title":"One of the best romance movies ever!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie recently, and I knew going in that I was pretty highly regarded.  I must say that I agree with all the good things that I had read about it.  First, I love all of the scenes in it between Ione Skye and John Mahooney.  The idea that you can tell your parent anything, and they'll listen to it as long as you're being truthful is great.  And, of course, the scenes between John Cusack and Skye are great!  They just have great chemistry, and they both put in such wonderful performances.  And, this film contains one of the most romantic moments ever in a movie.  I don't want to give it away, but it involves a boom box and the song In Your Eyes.  Please watch this film with a boyfriend or girlfriend.  "},{"Title":"One of my All-time Favs","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this film no fewer than 40 times.  It's a priceless depiction of high school life and young love.  It also benefits from some timeless dialogue.  There are so many quotable lines from this film.  Finally, it has John and Joan Cusack (playing siblings no less)! "},{"Title":"Aghhh!!! This can't be... its so... icky.. but... great!!!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure what the F is going on here but this is one of the most cleverly crafted pieces of work i have seen in a long time! It SHOULD be the kind of film that makes one of my disposition sick!! Typical plot boy, girl, completely different, fall in love, strange family life keeping them apart, forced apart and end up together..... But something else is going on here.... Firstly, there is the clever little sub-plot going on involving the father character played by the talented John Mahoney. Then there are the amazing performances given by not only the main cast (Mahoney, Cusack and Skye) but by the vast supporting cast. Joan Cusack is bitterly sweet as our hero's sister, while Lili Taylor is hilarious as Lloyds best friend! And to top it all off the film's ending leaves you feeling like the last hour and a half of your life has just been spent enriching yourself!!  "},{"Title":"if you were diane court, would you fall for lloyd? ....YEAH...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  what an amazing movie.  who would have thought that something out of the 80s actually lasted!  john cusack is so easy to watch on screen, anyone who watches this ends up with a crush on him.  one of my favorites, and definitely a classic. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time..","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was 11 when this movie came out, I loved it then, and I still love it every time I see it. John Cusack is one of my favorite actors and this is his best performance ever. The plot and cast are perfect, and it is funny in addition to being witty and original. The love story is one of emotion, pain, longing and desire. Not only one of the best movies of the 80's, one of the best movies ever. Watch with your boyfriend/girlfriend or friends for a great time.  "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic movies of all time","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The central character, played brilliantly by John Cusack, is unique, honest, and true.  He is simple and complex at the same time.  It is this character, and John Cusack's portrayal that put this film at the top of my list.  I truly feel connected to the emotional struggle of the character and his perspective on life.  His values are probably closer to what most of us should have as values. There is so much to admire about this character and so much to learn from.  I love this that this movie can be viewed on many different levels.  From a love story to a commentary on materialistic society the film has much to say and says it well.  It does this while still having much to laugh about and a little to cry about to. A great performance is turned in by the supporting cast as well.  It is a shame that more people don't see this movie for how great it is. "},{"Title":"a great film, funny and heart warming.","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful film. The story is about John Cusack who plays Lloyd Dobler a guy who almost everyone knows. He is in love with with a Diane Court a brainy girl who doesn't even know he exists. The film deals with the theme of how love doesn't always run smoothly but how it will conquer over all. The plot sideline involving Diane's father does drag on but is none the less important. Lily Taylors character and her obsession with a guy named Joe brings some humor but overall the best person/character in this is John Cusack as Lloyd. he brings an energy with him that only he has. this is one of his best films and it was also nice to see several 'big' actors in smaller roles (Ellen's Jeremy Piven, Cusack's own sister Joan, Philip Baker Hall). Long before JERRY MAGUIRE and SINGLES, Cameron Crowe dealt with the subject of love and youngsters. He created endearing characters that you cannot help but fall in love with. I first saw the film on T.V and was so enthralled by it that i rushed out to buy i it! I really do recommend this to anyone who isn't having any luck in love and even to those who are. the film will make you smile and because of it's touching, funny and heart warming plot you will want to watch it over and over again! "},{"Title":"I'm Lloyd Dobbler.","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Teen angst movies don't get any better.  Lloyd Dobbler (John Cusack) is everyman.  Everyman on a mission, that is.  That mission is everyman's dream - a brain trapped inside the body of a gameshow hostess - Diane Court (Ione Skye).  With superb performances by the leads, John Mahoney and Lilly Taylor, Say Anything never lets its audience guess where it is going next, nor does it disappoint them when it gets there.Teen age love with grown up brains.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was never expecting to enjoy this film as much as I did.  I was at home watching TV not too long ago at 3 in the afternoon.  Everyone seems to love John Cusack movies and I'd never seen one myself.  I didn't know what to expect from the movie as it just unexpectedly popped up.  This film was great.John Cusack is touching and funny as a guy who isn't just one of the guys.  A great example of the cliche that the nice guy finishes last but in this film he doesn't.  His determination to win Diane's affections is impressive.The father of Diane was well portrayed too.  He isn't an unreasoning jealous monster.  The relationship between him and his daughter is very realistic.  It was hard for me to get the image of his character on Frasier out of mind for a while but he did a good job in Say Anything.Lloyd's love interest was portrayed a little weakly though.  The movie sets her up well as a sheltered daughter but doesn't really give her a huge amount of depth.By the way, I love the comic relief characters.  Lloyd's friends are hilarious.  One of them wonderfully foreshadows Alanis Morrisette's powerhouse of the woman scorned You Oughta Know with the 65 songs she writes about her old boyfriend.As always in 80s movies, the fashions can steal the show.  I wonder if someday we'll see movies like American Pie or Can't Hardly Wait and laugh at what we used to wear, like Tommy Hilfiger, or 1990s wannabe punks, etc. "}{"Title":"Lloyd Dobbler...  all right!!!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are few characters that are as fully realized as Lloyd Dobbler in the history of film.  Lloyd is a 19 year old without a career path, but with an unflinching love of Diane Court, a beautiful genius.  It is John Cusack's ability to turn a well written character into one of the most empathetic and enjoyable characters in recent film that has made this such a wonderful movie experience.  Ione Skye is almost as strong as Diane Court, who doesn't overplay her intelligence, naivet, or caring nature.  And John Mahoney is wonderful as Diane's father, a flawed man who loves his daughter, perhaps too much.  Overall, this is an intensely likable film about characters we care a great deal about, and in a story that is true and honest to its characters. "},{"Title":"The finest coming of age movie ever","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Any guy who ever wondered why girls in high school would go out with jerks and not nice guys like me will relate to Lloyd Dobbler. Any guy who ever wasn't certain what he wanted to do after high school beyond be with the girl he loves will relate to this movie. Any guy who ever had to face down a critical father will relate to this movie. I guess what I'm saying is, any regular guy will relate to this movie "},{"Title":"Like it every time I see it.","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've just watched this movie again and enjoyed it just as much as I did the first time in the early 90s.  The characters have depth; the story feels real; the romance is wonderful; and some of the scenes are classics - there are parts of this movie I recall every time I hear a certain song, word, or phrase.  I especially enjoy John Cusack in this role and think/feel he plays an especially tender, loving, genuine part. "},{"Title":"One of the saddest sweetest films I've seen in ages...","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would recommend this movie to any hopeless romantic, any hopeless cynics, and even those who have been 'dumped' as it definitely restored my faith in relationships. Like earlier comments, I agree....while watching it, you tend to appreciate the dialogue and such; but it's not until later that particular scenes stick in your head. There's one scene which was really sweet and at the same time incredibly sad-I won't reveal it here; but you'll know which one I mean if you see the movie- which really reminded me of my ex....yet rather than start crying, I just thought 'awwww!' That's how good the characters are. After seeing this and 'Fast Times at Ridgemont High', I'd love to see more of Cameron Crowe's movies. (And I defy anyone not to get a crush on Lloyd Dobler by the end of the movie...) "},{"Title":"Does it get any better than this?","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Geez, could this movie have been any better?  John Cusak is just completely endearing as Lloyd Dobler, John Maloney makes a perfect over-achiever's father, Ione Skye is equally attractive and infuriating as she agonizes over loyalties to Lloyd and her father...  There are achingly realistic moments, (such as the break-up scene in the Malibu and the losers talking about women at the Gas n' Sip)and scenes from drunken teenage fantasy (the whole graduation party).  Not to mention this movie has some of the funniest and most memorable dialog of any movie I've ever seen.  And finally, an early performance by Lily Taylor that is just priceless!  (I love her That'll never be me! song.)  Demands repeat viewing, and if you or the person you're dating hasn't seen it, rent it right now! "},{"Title":"enough to give you a warm fuzzy feeling","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this was the film that revealed john cusack to me, and what can i say--i fell in love with him along with the heroine.  Apart from his remarkable talents, this film also has the advantage of having john Mahoney, one of the best character actors around.  Let me recommend this film to teenagers of all ages, to remind you (or forwarn you) what that time of life is really (or should really be) like!!!!! a great film, which would not get made nowadays, thank god for the eighties (or at least, some parts of the eighties--NOT the clothes!!) "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When ever someone asks me of my all time favorite movie, I tell them Say Anything.... I've watched this movie more than any other. It's timeless. Cameron Crowe (Singles, Jerry McGuire) is a great director and John Cusack is my favorite actor. Wasn't everyone like Lloyd Dobler in high-school? "},{"Title":"Favourite film of all-time","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is easily my favourite film of all time, and a large part of the reason John Cusack is my favourite actor. Cusack offers a brilliant performance, making the character of Lloyd Dobler gawky without being geeky. He makes it throughly believable that a brain like Diane Cort would go out with Dobler. With Say Anything director Cameron Crowe created the sort of teen film John Hughes wished he could make. Crowe showed that films about young people could be about more than getting drunk and getting naked; they can also be intelligent and sensitive. I NEVER get sick of watching this film. "},{"Title":"I am searching for my Lloyd Dobler","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most wonderfully sweet love story ever.  I usually hate love stories, for they are usually so sweet and simpering that I need to projectile vomit directly afterwards, but Cameron Crowe's masterpiece is a delightful exception.This is his third step in his series that chronicle the maturity of love and infatuation.  Fast Times at Ridgemont High meaningless sex and puppy love; Say Anything first true love; Singles maturing and finding yourself and someone to love along the way; Jerry Macguire holding on to a meaningful relationship while attempting to raise a child.While this film is supposed to be about an ordinary guy and an extraordinary girl in extraordinarily ordinary situations, it ends up being about an amazing guy...no, a man.Lloyd Dobler is what every man in a relationship should be.  He should be consumed by his adoration and the object of his affection.  He is romantic, devoted, basic, and attentive.  He realizes the meaning of everything that happens between the two of them.  He realizes that he is only as good as Diane believes him to be.  In Your Eyes is a perfect song for him.Every male over the age of seventeen should be required to watch this film -- and take notes!However, Lloyd is who he is because of the way he is portrayed by the incomparable John Cusack.  In the hands of a lesser actor, Lloyd would have been a directionless, goalless, stalking loser.  Cusack, in his portrayal of Lloyd, couldn't make  this further from the truth.  Lloyd is everything that Crowe wrote him to be, and more.  Cusack did such a great job, that he has caused me to search for Lloyd Dobler with the eyes of Paul McCartney!Fantastic for everyone!!  15 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"The most romantic movie ever.","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this film.  It is just so amazing because it's sweet without being gaggy, and that's hard to do.  I loved the scene where Diane and Lloyd are in the parking lot and he kicks the glass out of her path.  My vote for the all-time best date movie.  Plus, it has John Cusack, and I LOVE John Cusack.  He's a genius. "}{"Title":"best romance movie i've ever seen","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Say Anything is by far the best romance movie that I have ever seen. Every time I watch it, I love it more and more. My heart goes out to Lloyd and anyone in the real world just like him.  In Your Eyes is one of the best songs, and it fit just perfectly.  Now if I could only find my own Lloyd Dobler, life would be perfect  "},{"Title":"A very real, touching film","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Much as I hate to admit it, this movie really resonated with me. It pulled all the right strings and pushed all the right buttons. I'll likely remember it for some time to come and the emotions it provoked. I only rented it because of the consistently high votes it received on IMDB and I wasn't disappointed (although it was rather different to what I'd expected). Classy acting from a fairly youthful ensemble, fine scripting and direction, and just some incredibly memorable scenes combine to give this movie some incredible emotional pull. One thing 'though, I'm no psychologist but I've watched my fair share of talk-shows and I'd have to say that Lloyd and Dianne's relationship, while beautiful, appears far from healthy. "},{"Title":"This is what it's all about","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best love stories I've ever had the pleasure of seeing. It doesn't condescend, it doesn't over complicate, it doesn't become more dramatic than is necessary for the film- it's simply a good love story. More writers should have this much respect for the genre. And how can you not love Lloyd? "},{"Title":"The best love story of the 80s","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Say Anything is probably the best love story of the 1980s. Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) is the boy that every girl wants to fall in love with, and Ione Skye is too good to be true, except she really is. The plot itself involves an unlikely love story and a father who would keep them apart, but there are scenes in this movie that are mentioned over and over by people who have seen this movie. Everyone who sees it remembers the scene with the radio (which is all I can say, so as not to spoil it for others.) This is THE movie for anyone who has ever broken up not because the two weren't in love, but because other people thought it'd be the best thing for them.   "},{"Title":"The *best* teen comedy/drama ever","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt, the *best* teen comedy/drama ever made.  Through only a 140 minute movie, I felt like I had known these characters forever.  The depth of the relationships is amazing.... "},{"Title":"Say Anything...","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A gem of a picture from Cameron Crowe that stars Cusack, in a perfectly suited role, as a lovable fellow who catches the eye of beautiful Ione Skye. Their love is strong, binded together by what they feel in their hearts. It features one of the great love songs ever made in Peter Gabriel's In Your Eyes. Mahoney is quite good also as Skye's understanding father.  "},{"Title":"A teen date flick that's easy to please.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? SAY ANYTHING is still another modern-day boy-meets-girl spectacle, and it's more than a simple date flick. Thankfully, it delivers some much needed chemistry between the two in relationships, John Cusack and Ione Skye. Both love each other, and both are plagued over the tough times that follow. Above all, their acting performances are generally acceptable, with some admirable plotting involved, but it's got that sudden shift from being a funny comedy to a heartfelt drama all along. It is highly noted for an unforgettable scene with Cusack holding a boombox over his head when the Peter Gabriel song plays. Don The Dragon Wilson appears as a sparring partner. There are strong feelings and emotions to cherish in this fine pre-Gen-X teen film, so hold on to your girlfriends for love's sake. Don't call me Cupid, though!  "},{"Title":"As true as it gets","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie possesses qualities and characteristics lacking in common movies today.  The writing and directing are super, especially the shots in the rain and park.However, the acting also should be noted, especially that of John Cusack.  He plays Lloyd so convincingly that I will always associate that connection in any future movies featuring Cusack.The fact that upbringing and education don't matter gives every human being the hope of falling in love with anybody, no matter what differences.  As with Shawshank, this movie gives one a certain hope that can be used outside the home, and elevate our attitude toward life.  It's a ten! "},{"Title":"Couldn't see what all the fuss was about.","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy meets girl. Boy gets girl.  Boy loses girl.  Boy gets girl back.  I think I've seen this somewhere before.  Of course we've all seen this before but sometimes with some chemistry between the boy and the girl.  I didn't see any here.  I did see a lot of clich.  You know, rich girl and boy from the wrong side of the tracks and many others I won't mention.  It was interesting to see political correctness already entrenched in a film made that long ago.  There is the ubiquitous teen beer party, (boring!) with our hero collecting all the car keys so no teens will drive drunk.  What planet did this take place on!Beam me up Scotty... "},{"Title":"Disappointing schmaltzfest","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main problem with the film is that there's no real sense of conflict, especially when the storyline is packed with opportunities for drama. The geeky loser Lloyd falls in love with the unobtainable dream woman Diane ... and he gets her almost immediately. Her father is over-protective and reluctant to let her date ... but he lets her this time. And so on. Constantly, we wait for the real action, but it just never happens. The characters overcome their obstacles too easily.The drama is supposed to hinge on the fact that while Diane shares such a close relationship with her father that she can `say anything' to him, he is holding from her the deepest, darkest secret of all. But again, when this secret is finally revealed, the effect is anti-climactic rather than bracing. The languid pace, which worked better in Crowe's earlier film 'Fast Times at Ridgemont High' (qv), makes the film seem leaden and episodic, and bring the tone perilously close to `After School Special'.John Cusack wanders around with very little to get his teeth into. Ione Skye is a perpetually dazed and listless heroine, reciting her lines as if from an autocue. There are some funny and interesting incidental characters, but the fact they are so inessential to the story and have no well-developed character arc makes it difficult to care much about them (much the same as 'Notting Hill' (qv) ). Lili Taylor as the lovelorn guitarist Corky is the best of these, which makes it even more of a shame that her part seems so tangental.After the edgy and funny 'Fast Times at Ridgemont High' (qv), this is a real disappointment. The dreadfully dated late 80's hair band sound-track doesn't help matters at all. Unlike many teen films of a similar vintage, such as 'Heathers' (qv), 'Ferris Bueller's Day Off' (qv), and John Cusack's 'Better Off Dead' (qv) it hasn't weathered the years well.Go and watch Crowe's excellent 'Almost Famous' or his uneven but entertaining 'Singles' again instead.  "}{"Title":"Didn't get my interest","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is too light. I mean, REALLY light. Which isn't a surprise, by the way, because we're talking about a movie by Cameron Crowe, the maker of movies like Jerry Maguire or Almost Famous, well made films, but I don't know, his movies do nothing on me. They're too trivial. To give you an idea of the main problem of this film, let me tell you I didn't watch it to the end, but not because it was too boring, I was watching it on TV, and on a commercial, I started checking other channels; my original plan was to return to the original channel and watch the rest, but I found something more interesting and completely forgot about the movie. Get it? This movie is too harmless, too mediocre, and by the way, I can't believe a movie of this nature can get so many good reviews and be included in several lists of classics (like Ebert's, for example). I mean, come on, it's pretty dull.  "},{"Title":"FILM anything... !","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I expected to really like this movie and I found myself surprisingly disappointed by the end of it. I would have thought there would have been more layers to a script that Cameron Crowe turned out...What's puzzling is that when events have no possible motive aside from the obvious, when characters aren't illuminated well enough to make them all appreciably different from the norm, then one would have thought that there isn't a reason to tell the story.I like the colour red. No particular reason why, I just do. There would seem little point in making a movie about my preference though unless there's some kind of interesting rationale behind it.There are tons of guy meets girl stories out there. If anyone had a mind to, they could tell the exact same story over and over again, changing only the names and faces of the people concerned. Generally though, any romance movie tries to have a different element to its story that makes it stand out. The reason this felt so bland is that, if you took away the pleasing efforts of the actors involved, there weren't enough quirks in the tale - and that's because the people it was happening to were all too ordinary and sensible!It's not that what transpires is at all unbelievable, it's just that if I'm watching a work of fiction and I feel that I know people who've said and done EXACTLY the same things, then the entertainment experience becomes ordinary - and I want to see something different in a way that justifies the large-scale expansion of being developed for the big screen. "},{"Title":"Say something","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Say Anything is one of those interesting movies that I can't quite put my finger on. While it almost held my interest it seems to lack the 80's teen movie charm of many of it's peers. I understand it was going for a more understated (aka less cheesy than the usual absurd 80s cinema) and realistic tone but to me it felt...flat. I couldn't vibe on the chemistry between Lloyd and Diane.I can't quite put my finger on it but it doesn't really resonate with me the way it seems to with other people.That being said, it has it's moment and there were some stand out moments from side characters your an inspiration Lloyd...you should go on the 700 Club and the Gas N' Sip guys.Watch just to say you did. "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible stuff....","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like a bad car accident, every time this movie turns up on TV I am compelled to watch it and revel in its awfulness. I originally saw this one in a theater in 1989, and what I remember most from that experience was laughing hysterically at the dad sitting in his bathtub with his clothes on, sobbing about his credit cards getting cut up. I actually thought that was supposed to be a comedic moment until I realized I was the only one in the theater laughing and my friend who I went to the movie with was looking at me like I was deranged. But I couldn't help it, it was too damn funny! Now lets cover some of the more obvious plot-holes and blunders... Wasn't it oh-so-satisfying to see these teens being so concerned about drunk-driving that they give all their car-keys to a 'keymaster' at the party, which they aren't allowed to get back until they've spent the entire night getting blotto, because as we all know at the crack of dawn everyone automatically sobers up. Yeah, wouldn't want anyone to drive home at 1am, after having a couple beers, better to confiscate their keys until 7am when they've had 15 more beers....Now here's the biggest problem.. why, oh why, would a cool trenchcoat-mafia-type like Lloyd Dobbler have any interest in the stuck up puritan girl, and why does everyone else seem to think she's out of his league when in fact it's entirely the other way around? Lloyd is supposed to be the 'loser' because he 'doesnt know what he wants to do after highschool'? Here's an idea, Lloyd, why don't you spend your post-highschool life hanging out with people who don't have cardboard-cutout personalities, and haven't spent their entire highschool lives trying to please their dad and their teachers and every other adult in the world... you know, like Jeremy Piven and the 'Gas and Sip' crew, and thanking your lucky stars you never have to fraternize with any more status-quo worshipping WASPs like 'Diane Court' ever again?! I still can't figure out what was with the Dad and his subplot of ripping off old people. Were we supposed to feel sorry for him, or be mad at him, or not give a crap one way or another? Because the latter is how it affected me. In the end Dobbler actually accompanies Diane to England where you can be sure they will spend all of their time sipping tea and admiring fancy doylies, rather than catching a raucous footy match... As the audience we're supposed to be satisfied with that and happy for poor Lloyd who's coming directly out of highschool and aspiring for a life in which every drop of personality has been terminally squeezed out of him. Lloyd, you'd be better off selling something processed than running off to some bizarre Mary Poppinsesque fantasy with your chronically frigid girlfriend. Seriously, what kind of guy in his right mind would relentlessly stalk such a boring girl? And why would everyone else in the highschool, sporting the latest in new-wave and nascent grunge fashion, bow down to the supposed superiority of the illustrious valedictorian Diane Court? The movie establishes that through their highschool careers they hung around in different cliques, but can't seem to explain why that would be, since now that Lloyd is acting as middleman, Diane isn't just accepted in the cool crowd, she's revered, and considered to be TOO GOOD for the cool crowd! Maybe if Lloyd and Diane had smoked a joint and got silly with the Gas N Sip crew it would've been enough of a shoehorn for this to work, but as it is, it's just a mess. The moral of this story seems to be that unless you're a glad-handing junior republican, you are a misfit and a loser who deserves to have low self-esteem, and your only hope for redemption entails a full-time commitment to wholly embracing your potential for sheer whiteness. I liked Fast Times, although it has its share of problems, and I especially liked Wild Life, but it seems like with Say Anything, Crowe wants to compete with John Hughes by offering something 'meaningful'. He fails miserably in that, probably because the material he's trying to copy isn't any less contrived than this knock-off. When I read that Kirk Cameron was originally considered for the role of Lloyd Dobbler, the whole thing finally made sense to me. This movie was supposed to be a bland Christian allegory, but the lead was tragically miscast in John Cusack. "},{"Title":"you had me at say...","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In one of the many '80s teen movies, Seattle teens Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) and Diane Court (Ione Skye) fall in love the summer before she goes off to college. Although Say Anything... isn't any kind of great movie, Cameron Crowe brings the same interesting aspect to everything that he brought to Jerry Maguire. If nothing else, the movie is a look at Seattle. Still, I wonder just how many movies about relationships there can be (obviously, so many that a few years ago, we had Not Another Teen Movie). But either way, this is worth seeing. Also starring Lili Taylor and Jason Gould.NEVER, EVER, EVER. Hmm... "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Say Anything...has to be one of the 5 best movies ever made in my opinion. Crowe did an excellent job making the main characters believeable and interesting, making it very easy to get caught up in their emotions.  This movie brings tears to my eyes every time I see it as it is extremely easy to relate to Cusack's character, especially if you have ever gone through anything similar to the events that transpire between Lloyd and Diane. Everyone always talks about the famous scene involving the Boom Box, but to me the most memorable part of this movie can be narrowed down to one line She Gave me a pen.  I Gave her my heart and she gave me a pen.  I recommend this movie to absolutely everyone, if you can't relate to it right now, you will someday. "},{"Title":"Anything.         (HA!HA!HA!!!)","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A big, furry young actor fest. Notably Eric (Ginger) Stoltz as Bloke who dresses up as chicken. John is at his youngest, but you can already see definite signs of the patented 'John Cusack Spin' and 'mouth open in desperation/confusion, then talk really quickly until run out of breath' that we've all grown to love. I KNOW it's a romantic comedy, but do try not to think of anything with Hugh Grant in. This is actually worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Convenient Ending","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie recently to see what all the hoopla was about. I heard it was a tear-jerker, but it certainly didn't work that way for me. Never during the movie did I doubt they would get back together after being separated... what surprised me was how the movie was resolved. The father was too easily turned into a villain at the end. Maybe not a villain in the sense of a man in black, but it still made the final resolution a little too easy. To see the real conflict between Diane and her father as she's torn between him and Lloyd dissolve was disappointing. I was expecting a more Romeo and Juliet type ending but I should have realized that Cameron Crowe movies never turn out bad. Despite my qualms, here were a great many touching moments and scenes. I just didn't like the way Diane's father was pushed aside.  "},{"Title":"This movie kicks me in the junk until I beg for mercy","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is the undisputed master at playing the everyman.  His performance as Lloyd kicked so much ass, I still can't sit down.  His characters are always so human that anyone can relate to them.  He's Mr. Nice Guy and I have never been disappointed in any of his movies.  He's also underrated, dammit.  It's hard to get an audience to identify with your character, but he does it all the time and makes it look really easy.  Oh, and Ione Sky was cool too and so was John Mahoney.  This was the best thing to come out of the eighties. "},{"Title":"One of the most romantic films ever . . . . .","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How they feel together in the whole movie is absolutely wonderful.  I love how they get together and how they argue about how the relationship is going to work.  I've seen a lot of movies in my lifetime and this film is one of the best ones ever. "}{"Title":"The best relationship film I've seen so far","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film about relationships that helps me to believe there is such a thing as true love.  For one hour and forty minutes, the viewer is allowed to step into the lives of a handful of very interesting characters. Strangely enough, one of the most interesting characters turns out to be the father of the lead female character.  In most boy-meets-girl flicks, the girl's father is merely an obstacle between the young lovers, but in Say Anything... we are shown a real person who is completely developed.  In short, this is a great film that will live on despite whatever it has been dated by.  At its core are some universal truths that will never be dated.  "},{"Title":"say anything (SA)v. the sure thing(TST)","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time a few days ago,and the sure thing also for the first time last week . I felt that the sure thing was a much better and more interesting movie. SA just lacked depth,and the dialogue was not up to the level of TST.I also felt that Zuniga was far better than Ione.Cusack was Cusack. SA gave us no indication of why or where Cusack's desire to date Ione came from-and why suddenly now that school was over?Ione also did not show any real depth of feeling.Want to see depth of feeling-watch Zuniga storm out of the party in L.A in a jealous rage shouting out a list of all the things that annoy her about Cusack!Or when she cringes in horror as the English Prof starts to read out loud to the class Cusack's essay called the sure thing.Or when they fight and really go at it at the punch bowl and so on. Ione is just not capable of really putting across the difficult emotions. So,while I thought SA was a nice movie,I wouldn't watch it over again.Whereas I would watch TST over and over no problem. "},{"Title":" You stole from them!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ione Skye is awesome as Diane in this great teen angst flick. The remaining cast is terrific. The costumes are sophisticated. One of the good farces in the genre, Say Anything... will lure the viewer into a world of romance. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I barely made it through this film. After reading such a great review of it, I was expecting something decent if not great.Instead I found it to be one of those films that feels like it goes on forever. I didn't feel anything for the characters, good or bad, there was no chemistry between the love interests.There is only a very general plot, but you sit there asking yourself what on earth has happened in the last 2 hours? Nothing. It simply misses the mark at every opportunity.Save yourself from two hours of monotony and misery and pick something else to watch. "},{"Title":"I Grew up in the 80s and I've NEVER seen this film.  I hope it's good","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No I wasn't born in the early 80s. I'm a guy that's 38 and I was born in 1975. In 1989 I remember being so excited for movies that year. Batman, Karate Kid Part III, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Ghostbuster 2, Honey I Shrunk the Kids, License to Kill, Back to the Future Part II, Christmas Vacation, The Wizard, there were many movies that year I really anticipated. My friends and I spent hours on our Nintendo, Sega and even that ditzy early Gameboy system.Say Anything..., was not one of the movies I looked forward to or even remember hearing about. I don't even remember any of my friends talking about this flick. Now granted I was a young kid, but not a little kid, I was in 8th grade and 13 through most of the year, turned 14 in December. I started high school in the fall of 1989 and I don't even remember *anyone* ahead of me talking about this movie. Not. One. Single. Person. What happened? Why did I miss this supposedly great teen movie? Flash forward to the 2000s when 80s nostalgia is rampant, suddenly this film is on the top of everyone's lists as some sort of life altering game changer. Huh? Why didn't this pop up on my radar? I remember Weird Science, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, The Lost Boys, License to Drive, but Say Anything...,just wasn't one of them. I even remember adult romantic comedies like When Harry Met Sally, but again not Say Anything...Is there anyone else close to my age that never saw this movie? I've spent years avoiding this supposedly great film from the last year of the 80s b/c I've always felt like some super weirdo for being old enough and being in the right demographic to know about Say Anything...but never watching it or never EVEN HEARING ABOUT IT till the early 2000s when 80s nostalgia documentaries would air on VH1 or something.OK I finally picked this up on Blu-ray and I'm going to finally get around watching this long admired film that slipped past my radar in a popcorn movie obsessed year of 1989. Just by the clips I've seen over the years and the cover art, there was no way in hell this film could have competed with any of the other flicks I mentioned for the person I was at that time. Go to the arcades and play the Ninja Turtle game or watch a movie about people in college in a sappy chick flick? And yes I did venture out of my usual circle of friends occasionally back then too, in the fall of 1989 and the spring of 1990 I took some classes with people older then me and did a summer camp in both 1989 and 1990 with people even 4 or 5 years older then me. NOBODY back then talked about this film. Not even the girls. It almost feels like around the early 2000s everybody decided to retcon what they watched and voted Say Anything... as THE movie that changed their lives in 1989.Plus look at how dead this message board is. If this was truly a beloved 80s movie, it would be as jumping as Back to the Future, Ghostbusters, or Karate Kid. So if you're currently a kid of the 2010s reading this, just remember this movie is way over-hyped, not everyone watched this or even heard about this little chick flick. "},{"Title":"A fun rest stop for channel surfers","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Say Anything... is a cute, fun little romantic light-drama which focuses on a boy/girl couple (Skye & Cusack) between high school graduation and college. A worthwhile stop for channel surfers in the mood for a teen flick which features several young actors in the early days of their careers (Piven, Segall, Taylor, Stoltz, etc.) "},{"Title":"Not really that good","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm something of a fan of breezy romantic comedies, and I rate John Cusack highly as an actor with the ability to carry a film (something that he does in many of his films). I was therefore very much on course to find a new favourite in this product of the 80's, but unfortunately I didn't. This film sees John Cusack before he gained the abilities as an actor that would later go on to make him a much-loved presence. His performance, though not bad, isn't what later films would prove him capable of. The film itself is soaked in a sentiment that feels like it's trying to be warm and friendly, but it never quite captures that which Cameron Crowe so obviously wanted it to be. Crowe appears to have a fascination with teenage coming of age tales, which he showed with his earlier 'Fast Times at Ridgemount High', and the later 'Almost Famous', and though those films worked rather well; this one doesn't. It gets irritating quickly and by the hour mark you'll no doubt be begging for the credits.Cusack plays typical high school graduate, Lloyd Dobler. Dobler is a young man that hasn't yet decided what he wants from life. Other than a date with fellow graduate, Diane Court. It is the characters that are the best thing about this film; the central character especially is very well observed, and most people that have been through high school will most probably see something of themselves in him. John Mahoney plays the loving father of Cusack's crush, and delivers a fine performance with it. Again, many people will be able to see something of their own father in him (though hopefully not too much!), and this character is another example of Crowe's triumph with creating characters. He doesn't follow up on this with the character of Diane. As she's a main character, you would expect her to be well done, but she isn't and that is some of the reason why the film falls down. Rather than giving her a believable and interesting character, Crowe has decided to pretty much give her no character, and the performance by Ione Skye doesn't exactly help matters either.Say Anything certainly isn't all bad. Fans of this sort of film will find lots to like about it, it's just a shame that Crowe wasn't able to deliver a good film with the premise. It could have been on course to be a classic if he had... "},{"Title":"The Most Romantic Movie of All Time","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If someone's not sure whether or not they've seen this movie, I always say, It's the one where the guy stands in the street playing music for the girl.  That reminds people every time.  If you haven't seen it, I don't think that will spoil anything--there's probably a picture of the scene on the movie box.  But I won't say anymore about what happens, only that Lloyd Dobler is one of the most endearing characters in any movie. "}]