[{"Title":"Go buy this DVD right now!","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"50 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's very telling that I had to look 15 pages deep into the user comments to find one negative review of this movie. And the negative reviews were from insufferable snots.This movie made me laugh as a teenager, but it also makes me laugh as a fully grown adult. Does that mean the humor is dumb or sophomoric? Not necessarily. What exactly is adult humor anyway? Does it necessarily need to contain graphic depictions of sex and generous uses of profanity to be considered sophisticated and adult?? I contend that it does not, and I cite UHF as an example.The laughs here are genuine, and they come from lack of pretentiousness and an honest feeling that one need not take oneself too seriously at any given moment. Al lets us know that it's OK to make fun of yourself as well as the rest of society. Much of what he does is self-deprecating, and UHF is no exception. He doesn't stand around making fun of others and establishing an air of superiority over the rest of society. As George Newman, he becomes the everyman, infusing much of his own personality along with his on-stage comedic persona. And he's not afraid to kick himself around and then proceed to pull himself up via his own bootstraps. Nobody else has to be hurt.Plot has never been a big necessity in these spoof/parody movies. The Naked Gun, Airplane, Top Secret, Johnny Dangerously, and many others have had the most skeletal of plots. Cop must find and bring to justice bad guy who shot his friend. Burned out ex-pilot must save aircraft when crew dies. Rock and roll star must overthrow Nazi plot. Mobster must overcome those who wish to take him down. And in UHF we have Loser Man must save TV station from evil network exec. The plot is not important; it's just a vehicle to get us from laugh to laugh and set up the next joke.UHF's comedy, though basic, rings true, and if you'll drop all of your pretentious airs, you'll get it. (We all know you're not nearly as sophisticated as you think you are anyway.) Who among us can keep from laughing while Raul teaches poodles to fly? Who can stifle a chuckle when Stanley is doing... well... doing just about everything he does in this film? Al admits in his commentaries and interviews that UHF is no Citizen Kane. But that's the beauty of it. There's nothing complex here. It's all about the laugh, and there's where this movie really scores. "},{"Title":"Comedy at it's best!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is probably, by far, the only movie I've seen that really makes me laugh more and more every time I see it. It's one of the only comedies that has good, clean humor. The whole movie is just a joke itself, a mix of original jokes, and many parodies. Michael Richards is perfect as Stanley, the Janitor. Weird Al is his usual comedic genius, who is also perfect for his role as the manager of 'U62'. For anybody who's in for a night full of laughs, UHF is definitely for you. A comedy masterpiece, 10/10!  "},{"Title":"This is an absolute must-see for all Weird Al fans, and anyone!","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF is, to me, one of the greatest comedies ever. So many great scenes, so many awesome quotes, and best of all, a chance for Weird Al Yankovic to show off his talents, both as an actor and as a singer. Also, it's so much fun to see if you can pinpoint all the references to famous movies that Al puts into this film, such as the Raiders of the Lost Ark parody at the beginning, and many others.The film is the story of George Newman, a young man who has trouble holding a job (and frequently gets his best friend Bob in trouble too) due to his overactive imagination. When he is given ownership of a local TV station, UHF, his imagination can finally be put to good use, in inventing the most bizarre show lineup you can imagine. When a network owner gets jealous of UHF's success, George and his friends and fans must unite to stop him and keep UHF on the air. Michael Richards is also quite excellent as the optimistic, not-too-bright Stanley.Though it can be somewhat difficult to find, it's definitely worth the time and effort to buy UHF on DVD, so you can enjoy Weird Al's movie again and again and again... "},{"Title":"Programming for all to enjoy, and it ain't even sweeps","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Weird Al Yankovic's only excursion into film  making proved to be a solid effort on his part.  With an off-beat story such as this, the frizzy  haired patron of pop polka proves his acting  is adequate enough to carry a film such as  this. While I feel there could have been more  Weird Al songs, the comedy wasn't lacking.  Michael Richards had his best role ever as  Stanley Spadowski the janitor. All of the  children's show sequences were hilarious.  While this film isn't for all, it was certainly a  movie which I can enjoy on many occasions. 6.8/10 "},{"Title":"'Weird Al' - Harmless Fun","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For some reason, I never pictured myself watching a film starring Weird Al Yankovic. He just looked too weird or too stupid....but he was okay. In fact, he was pretty likable in this fun-but-unmemorable film. He's actually more like Jim Varney''s Vern character that was so popular in the '80s a lame but super nice guy.That's what Weird Al plays in here, a Mr. Nice Guy who prevails against forces of evil against him, in this case a TV station owner Kevin McCarthy, who plays a totally over-the-top villain.Yankovic will never win any Academy Awards for his acting but he suffices in this no-brainer comedy. Some of the bits are actually quite clever and some are a bit raunchy (hence the PG-13 rating) but there is almost no profanity in here. Michael Richards was funny as the stupid janitor. Lots of jokes in this movie. You just pick out the ones you like. "},{"Title":"A disturbing peek into the mind of one of the world's wackiest entertainer Weird Al Yankovic.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Richards battling a gang of mobsters with a mop and a staplegun. A clown being smashed with a frying pan, then force-fed dog biscuits.  Emo Phillips accidently slicing off his thumb with a tablesaw.  And Fran Drescher.  Yup, I think it's safe to say that this movie has everything, folks!Weird Al Yankovic's first (and only) movie is everything you would expect from this underappreciated comic genius.  It has the same goofy charm as a Weird Al record, and works as an effective visual representation of what Al's music is all about.  As you would expect, UHF contains plenty of movie parodies, all of which are spot-on and generally harmless.  Die-hard fans can also look forward to seeing a wide array of Al-isms like Twinkie-Wiener Sandwiches, detailed rants about bizarre nonsense, usage of the word weasel, et cetera.Casual viewers will find the good (U-62) vs. evil (Channel 8) story a bit ho-hum and the humor a little too...  Well, a little too weird.  But let's face it this film wasn't made to tell a captivating love story or to inspire us with biting social commentary.  It's an excuse for using a new medium to show Al doing what Al does best being himself.  And, as all of us devoted fans can agree, we couldn't possibly ask for anything more!  LONG LIVE MR. YANKOVIC! "},{"Title":"it's got Weird Al Yankovic, so you know what that means","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al Yankovic once admitted that UHF was just a big excuse to be goofy, and you'd better believe that it is. Containing every wacky gag imaginable, the movie tells the story of slacker George Newman (Yankovic), who inherits a defunct TV station, and creates a bunch of loony shows, thereby becoming the most popular station in town, and then has to fight off the vampiric corporate CEO R.J. Fletcher (Kevin McCarthy), who owns a typical TV station and doesn't like competition.Like Yankovic said, it's an excuse to be goofy. Whether it's Gandhi II, Conan the Librarian or Wheel of Fish, UHF is truly one movie that could only come out of Weird Al Yankovic's mind. The only scene where Weird Al sings is the Beverly Hillbillies sequence, but the nonstop sight gags will have you dying of laughter guaranteed. "},{"Title":"Hilariously stupid!! I Loved it!!!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"      You really have to be in the right mood for a movie for this to work. Get home from work, and rent this and try to get yourself away from reality, and enter the completely stupuid, dumb, funny world of Weird Al Yankovich.. Al plays a loser who is fired from his job(along with his best friend) so they go off and start a tv station called UHF, in which they make fun of some of shows and movies. Like, Conan the Librarian...That and the Rambo one are some of my favorites. Or how about making fun of the nature shows and the Bozo the Clown Show...wheww this movie really has you cracked up at the end. 3/5 stars, it was hilarious and is definitely on my list of must sees. "},{"Title":"fun--just pain stupid fun","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At times we all can be dreadfully serious when it comes to movies. I know I can be--based on many of my other IMDb reviews, it's obvious I can be critical and occasionally too serious.Because of this, I am glad there are really funny and stupid movies like this one. While not as sophisticated as The Producers or as wacky as Monty Python and the Holy Grail, it is one of the best turn off your brain and just have fun movies.The movie can be very amateurish at times and some jokes fall flat. However, the incredible energy and originality of the film make it very endearing. Unfortunately, it is too often just tossed aside as a dumb movie by many who just don't give it a chance. So my advice is to sit tight--don't turn it off! Allow yourself to wade through the slower first 1/4 of the movie so you can get to the GOLD, such as Gandhi 2, Conan the Librarian, or the commercials for cut rate funerals or for Spatula City! Feeling depressed or in a funk? See this film to cure what ails you! "},{"Title":"Makes Real T.V. Look So Boring!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  UHF is a story about a man who gets to have a Television Station. It is hilarious in most of the scenes. The villain is also so funny, and never really gets credited most of the time people watch this film.Weird Al stars as a wacky guy who always has many funny ideas for television and movies and many other things. The real show-stopper in this movie is Raul's Wild Kingdom, you have to see it for yourself. The bad-guy works for the competing station, which had higher ratings.Some parts of this film are not that funny, but stupid. If you are a big fan of Weird Al you'll love this film. And if you aren't then you will still love it. This film is for everyone.Rated PG-13What I think it should be rated and why PG-13 for some crude and sexual humor, brief language, and some comic violent images. "}{"Title":"Not as good as I remember, but not THAT bad","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The 1989 Weird Al Yankovic vehicle is good for some chuckles but far from brilliant. I must admit it was fond childhood memories that led me to unburden myself of the $9.99 that my local Circuit City was asking for DVD. I remembered Conan The Librarian, I remembered Gahandi 2, I remembered laughing my 8-year-old butt off, but would this film stand the test of time.When they jokes and parodies hit well in UHF they hit very well, and as always Michael Richards is wonderful. The overall impression of the film though that it is a 97 minute Weird Al video. If over an hour and a half long weird Al video is your idea of cinematic ecstasy then by all means buy this film. However, if you are looking for a smart comedy avoid this fill at all cost. Personally I like a good dumb comedy and that coupled with my nostalgia makes the purchase worthwhile. If you lack either you might not be so pleasant following you purchase.Keep an eye out for Emo Philips though in his amazing part as a sedated shop teacher that segment alone is pure comedy.  "},{"Title":"This movie changed my life.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie taught me that absolutely nothing is sacred, and that anything is fair game in the pursuit of comedy.  This is an incredible movie, on the same level as Return of the Jedi or any of the Indiana Jones movies.  The short clips in the movie are reminiscent of the comic genius of the early Saturday Night Live skits.  The homage paid to MAD magazine in the form of Uncle Nutzy's Funhouse is another selling point... anyone who praises MAD magazine in as subtle a way will always get my vote.  Go see it immediately if you haven't before, or even if you have. "},{"Title":"Love the film, and here's why you'll love it too.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  UHF is a fantastic movie. At first glance a cliche ridden poke at 80's TV and film but on further examination it is an original and skillfully made satire that ranks as highly as anything Mel Brooks or Monty Python have ever released. It stars Weird Al Yankovic, the man responsible for Eat it the famous parody of Michael Jackson's Beat it and it is clear from the outset that he loves the things he makes fun of. The movie outline provided by IMDB is sufficient as regards the plot and I'm not about to blow it for you, but there are one or two things I need to draw your attention to. The film starts with a parody of the opening sequence of Raiders of the Lost Ark and the attention to detail is staggering. The scene in which Weird Al Attempts to steal the golden idol is a perfect ape to the original scene in Raiders right down to each stroke of an unshaven chin. It's clear that that this parody is not done to poke fun but instead to add comedy to a familiar and formulaic piece of action, and it is with this in mind that the rest of the movie connects with your head as much as it does with your funny bone. It's not just a series of parodies though. There is a well defined plot pitching hero against villain (enthusiastically played by Kevin McCarthy) and the story meanders perfectly between George Newman's (Weird Al's character)imagination and his reality giving the perfect platform for Weird Al to put in a terrific comedy performance. There is as much original material as there are references to other famous films (Blazing Saddles, Close Encounters and Rambo to name but a few..) and the whole thing adds up to a genuinely funny movie. If you've seen all Mel Brooks's films or you need a change from Monty Python and Jim Carrey doesn't quite do it for you, this film is a must. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie for humans of all ages!!","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the single greatest movie ever made.  It has everything you could want in a movie  a stellar cast, music, romance, suspense, and hilarity, hilarity, hilarity!!  Weird Al Yankovic leads a brilliant cast of stars in this tale of a guy whose overactive imagination unites a town when he becomes manager of a small UHF station and invents new and innovative programming.Michael Richards (Kramer from Seinfeld) is amazing as Stanley, a sweet but simple janitor who turns out to be the perfect kids show host.  Such luminaries as Gedde Watanabe, Victoria Jackson, Kevin McCarthy, Billy Barty, and Fran Drescher co-star.  The music is so great, you'll want to order the soundtrack (you should!)  The movie is entertaining enough for adults, but wholesome enough for kids, and they'll love its messages of putting your creativity to productive use and being a good friend. "},{"Title":"When imagination gets all mixed-up","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of Al, and so are my friends.  Most of them are also big fans of this movie, and so I had it built up quite a bit before I finally saw it. Wow, what a disappointment.  The humor was sophomoric, the jokes were crude, and the ending was childish.  I never wanted to see it again.Fortunately, it played on cable at school, and so I ended up watching it during several long nights of homework.  Once I had lost sight of the glorious hopes of a quintessential work of comedy, I was able to see this movie for what it really was.  Particularly, it is Weird Al doing what he does best  spoofing pop culture and giving fractured takes on the simple things in life.  From his take on Indiana Jones (perhaps one of the truest, funniest parodies of another movie found in film, with the crowning irony of reaching for the Oscar that Al and this film could never win), to Stanley's love of his mop, this movie is full of the kind of parody of art and life that has been Al's trademark.  Only Al would use a twinkie as a hot dog bun. Only he could include the remorseless sketch about launching animals out of the window.Still, the movie also had its dull moments.  Most irritating of those was his dream/music video about the Beverly Hillbillies.  While the computer graphics were pretty good for a  low-budget film of its day, it was a pretty lame song to include.  That brings up another of my frustrations with the movie.  The soundtrack included The Biggest Ball of Twine in Minnesota, which is perhaps my all-time favorite song by Weird Al, but it was not found anywhere in the movie (I listened to the end of the credits for it).  The fact that I wasn't listening for it any more was probably a key reason why I could enjoy the movie the second time.  And, of course, it was entertaining to see such well-known performers as Michael Richards and Fran Dresher in this early role.After all else is said and done, Al Yankovic delivered a movie that was just good, clean fun.  You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll buy a spatula (Nothing says 'I love you' like the gift of a spatula).  "},{"Title":"Don't change that dial!","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Veteran music parodist 'Weird' Al Yankovic makes his feature debut with this engagingly silly comedy. Granted, not all of its jokes were terribly funny for this viewer, but there were some that worked quite well. In his inimitable style, 'Weird' Al sends up TV programming, music videos (naturally), movies, movie trailers, and commercials. The story (Al co-wrote with director Jay Levey, a frequent collaborator) relies on that comfortable old device of a misfit making good.Al plays George Newman, a fairly immature man who can't hold down a job because of his daydreaming and penchant for thinking up goofy ideas. Well, finally, as luck would have it, he finds an outlet for his creativity. His uncle Harvey (Stanley Brock) comes into possession of a nothing UHF TV station, and George is hired as a manager. Things get off to a rough start, but take off once George decides to put dim witted but well intentioned and lovable janitor Stanley Spadowski (Michael Richards) on the air.UHF does travel far on Als' likability and irreverent sense of humour. Among the programming that he devises are parodies of Phil Donahue like shows ('Talk Time') and game shows ('Wheel of Fish'). For this viewer, the brightest moments include the opening Raiders of the Lost Ark spoof, the Conan the Librarian sequence (Don't you know the Dewey decimal system?), and the extended mocking of Sylvester Stallones' Rambo movies (with Als' body makeup created by the guys at KNB).It also benefits from a strong villain, in this case Kevin McCarthy, who's perfect as nasty and domineering network affiliate boss R.J. Fletcher. The supporting cast features a rich variety of familiar faces in addition to those already mentioned Victoria Jackson as Als' fed-up girlfriend, soap opera veteran Anthony Geary in an interesting oddball part, and the late Trinidad Silva (to whom the movie is dedicated) as an unconventional wildlife program host, as well as Gedde Watanabe, Billy Barty, John Paragon, Fran Drescher, Sue Ane Langdon, and David Proval. Director Levey appears uncredited as Gandhi. One of the biggest laughs in UHF comes from comedian Emo Philips, as the unlikely shop teacher Joe Earley.Good fun overall, and guaranteed to send its fans away with smiles on their faces. As a bonus, Als' rocking theme song is pretty catchy.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Shockingly underrated!","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I started watching UHF I thought to myself Why am I doing this to myself, the movie bombed at the box office, so it's probably a gigantic cow turd of a comedy. But it proves once again that the masses are often wrong. I've read that it failed because there was too much competition at the box office at the time, and also because the critics disparaged it. Maybe that has to do with many critics looking down on comedy, that Weird Al was too closely associated with MTV at the time for them to give him a fair deal.UHF is a hugely enjoyable comedy. If you like Weird Al Yankovic or just the Saturday Night Life-type of lowbrow humor, then you've struck gold. I've seen classic comedies from the same era that were a helluva lot less funny. It's got a solid plot, lots of very funny scenes, and an amazing bevy of great actors (many of which were still relative unknowns then -- such as The Nanny Fran Drescher, Seinfeld's Kramer Michael Richards, or that guy from The Sopranos). Other actors didn't do too well later on in their careers but are still great here, I especially liked Al's girlfriend, Victoria Jackson).I appreciate that the makers really put some sweat into this and took it seriously, wanted to make a great comedy, rather than just a moneymaking vehicle for Weird Al (The kids seem to love this guy, so a movie with him should be a safe investment.) Anyway, two thumbs up for UHF! "},{"Title":"Funny as heck!","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you love Weird Al Yankovic, you are going to love this film. It makes fun of most of the major films of the era, and has a good storyline to boot. No matter how many times I see it, I can't believe that Kramer is in it. He is funny too.The advertisements are quite funny If no one buys a car from me in the next hour, I'm gonna club this baby seal. That's right, I'm going to club a seal to make a better deal. or Spatula citySome of the lines are a bit cheesy, like Supplies! but still, this movie should appeal to most people. There is nothing in it that is sexually offensive or suggestive.I do wish Al had made another movie. Not a sequel mind you, but other films. However, I don't mind if he just keeps making songs too -) "},{"Title":"Simply the best movie I own.","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, this movie is amazing. This movie easily has 10 times more memorable lines than any other movie, honestly!  CHECK OUT THE MEMORABLE QUOTES PAGE NOW!Michael Richards (Sienfeld's Cramer) is brilliant other stand outs are Wierd Al, Kuni, Raul (from Raul's Wild Kingdom), and Joe Earley (the shop teacher).The first time I saw it I was crying with laughter, now, two years later I own the DVD and still watch it regularly with a bunch of other UHF freaks. I don't know what else to say, there is just too much insanely funny stuff to isolate bits will not do it justice - just watch it in a silly mood and you will know what I mean.The DVD has cut scenes and commentary by Wierd Al and the Director plus a brief appearance by Michael Richards and a few others from the cast. "},{"Title":"It's worth the 90 minutes of your life","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Do be in a silly mood when you're about to watch this movie. It isn't exactly a movie that will change you from sad or mad to laughing happy. You need to want to laugh, and if you do you will. It's silly and fun. You really don't have much to lose. You don't need to be a fan of Weird Al to like this movie, but it helps. What's even better is watching the movie all the way through once, and getting the DVD and watch it with the directors commentary. Truly it doubles your movie fun. I wish I was older when this movie was released, I would have gone to see it in theaters. "}{"Title":"A hilarious Tour-De-Farce","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most underrated comedies ever! I have been a fan of Weird Al ever since I first heard My Bologna on the Dr. Demento show. The parodies in the film are peices of inspired geinus! The extras on the DVD are worth the wait. BTW according to Al's website he is in the studio working on his next album. If you haven's seen the movie yet, it is a great work of comedy. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Weird Al may not have set the box office on fire with UHF, but it has definately proved itself on cable and video.  Al is George Newman, a moronic loser with a big heart, and when he gets control of his uncles dieing tv station, he creates whacky shows that send the ratings to the top!Good performances from Al, Michael Richards, Victoria Jackson also help. And definately go pick up the new dvd release, the extras are awesome.  Im glad it wasn't a bare bones dvd release. "},{"Title":"This is a must see for Weird Al fans!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really funny! The cast is excellent, especially Michael Richards *of Seinfeld fame*. He practically steals the movie. Billy Barty, Fran Drescher, Victoria Jackson and Kevin McCarthy also put in great performances. Weird Al himself does a pretty good job. Emo Phillips has a small role that is hilarious! There are lots of great gags and spoofs of popular movies and tv shows. What more could you ask for from a pop culture icon like Weird Al Yankovic? There's even a music video, which is great! The DVD release of this movie is a real treat! Lots of extras, like behind the scenes, deleted scenes, foreign language options, and running commentary make this DVD a lot of fun! You will not regret purchasing this movie! "},{"Title":"Badgers?","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We don't need no stinkin' badgers!!This is, quite easily, one of my favorite movies.  Very rarely am I treated to a film that makes me laugh every time I watch it.  Weird Al is perfect in his role as George Newman, and I can't think of a better choice to play Stanley than Michael Richards.  David Bowe is also great as George's sidekick Bob.  This is a must-see for anyone who loves fun, silly movies such as the Airplane! and Naked Gun movies.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly Funny","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Weird Al's 1989 movie UHF is really funny. Weird Al Yankovic, Michael Richards (pre-Kramer on Seinfeld) and Kevin McCarthy are top-notch. The many parodies are really well done, and many of the jokes are just great. The only problem, however, is some people think that this movie is just stupid, so if you're not a fan of Weird Al, you might hate it. But it's worth a watch, because you never know. "},{"Title":"Ah, memories...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember when this movie came out, I was about to turn eight and I was absolutely in love with Weird Al.   I seriously thought I was going to marry him.  So, imagine my dismay when I wasn't allowed to see UHF in the theater because it was PG-13 and my mom wouldn't let me go.   When my sister and I finally rented it years later, we probably messed up the tape because we watched it so many times.   This movie is brainless fun.  It makes me laugh when I think about it.   Weird Al is just wonderful.   Yeah, UHF!..way to be a great movie.... "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  zany, showing its age but still good","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF is a good parody film, although the movies that it parodies are all now a little dated, as is UHF itself.A good parody can't just go from skit to skit.It has to have its own plot, and its own characters we can empathize with. UHF pulls that off.But only regular filmgoers who are familiar with 1980s films will care.Who should see this film-- comedy lovers with nothing better to do on a rainy day,or if you've a fondness for 1980s filmsI'll give UHF a giving-in-to-nostalgia 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I fisrt saw this, it was pretty stupid, but after thinking about it, I realized it was probably the funniest movie I've ever seen (since Monty Python ik den Holi Gralen German Subtitles) and after watching it again, counted 43 times that I laughed for more than two minutes straight (I count these things sometimes).  I definately recommend this movie to anyone who needs a good kick! "},{"Title":"Change, Mister?","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't think of anything I don't like about UHF (heck, even Fran Drescher is good). The scene where George is serving punch to the dog--and then drops the doggie into the punchbowl--always cracks me up.The best lines went to Lance Colvig (the bum). Change, mister? You got change?...eighty-five, ninty-five, ONE DOLLAR. Thanks a lot, mister.; you're the guy that gave me that double die Denver mint penny. I bought some shares and got me a REAL neat watch...it's a Rolex.Can't wait 'til it comes out on DVD! "},{"Title":"Great movie, I would recommend it.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a hilarious movie, probably the funniest I've seen since Monty Python.  Everyone fit their part perfectly, and Al's humor cracked me up as always.  As a fan of him, I enjoyed this movie a bit more than I would have, so if you're a fan of Weird Al, you should go out and rent this right now. "}{"Title":"Watch with all your friends!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I worked as an usher when this movie was released in theatres.  I also almost lost my job over this film.  Of course, they would have had to fire half of the staff for lying on the floor in the back of the cinema gasping for air.  This was one of the funniest films ever made.  Weird Al took parody over the top with this one.  Raul's Wild Kingdom is, to this day, a must see classic skit!  It's one of several that caused me to rate this movie a perfect ten.  I personally recommend seeing this with as many people as possible.  That is the way I remember it most fondly, anyway. "},{"Title":"Absolutely funny and amazing","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when i was a child and ever since then everytime i watch it i laugh until my sides split open. I reckon that Weird Al Yankovic is an absolute comedy genius. This film is well acted and just the best film i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest and most enjoyable movies I have ever seen.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the funniest and most enjoyable movies I have ever seen.  UHF is a movie of continuous laughs both high and low-brow.  The rediculous toils of George Newman (Weird Al) and his constant day-dreams are a laugh themselves, in which he parodies many other characters.  Along with a great cast of Soon-to-be-stars including Michael Richards and Fran Drescher.  Each time I watch the movie I laugh at something new that I have found funny.  This movie has become sort of a cult movie among my friends, as we quote lines from it in every day life.  Just voting on this has projected me to put it in and watch it.  I hope everyone finds this as good as I have. "},{"Title":"A REALLY good movie.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you don't like this movie, SHAME ON YOU! SHAME ON YOU! This is definitely the best clean humor EVER!! Weird Al does a pretty good job playing George Newman, a jobless day-dreamer, who finally gets to express his creativeness when he attains the ownership of a dying UHF station. Micheal Richards does an awesome job playing Stanly Spadowski, a janitor with an obsession with his job and an obsession with his mop (now we know were Saturn got his gimmick, wrestling fans only.) who turns out to be an ad-libbing genious when given the spotlight. This movie is definitely suitable for all ages.Very few people know this, but the turtle is nature's suction cup, watch this.... mexican guy licks bottom of turtle, hurls the turtle to the ceiling, you hear a suction noise see, it STICKS!  "},{"Title":"Unforgettably funny, probably underrated","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At the time of this writing UHF has only a 6.5 rating, which seems very low considering the user comments are amazingly close to being unanimously positive. I echo the sentiments of the other comments, this movie is hilarious from start to finish. Not a particularly cerebral movie, but then again, it's much cleverer than the dreck that passes for comedy these days, in that it lacks the following Fart jokes; people falling into vats of stuff; an old granny singing a rock song; chimps in diapers.Many of the snatches of TV shows in UHF are self contained and will stick with you for a long time. I'll avoid any spoilers; so should you. Check this movie out if you can. I await the DVD eagerly. "},{"Title":"Comic Perfection","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at a slumber party when I was thirteen, and my life has never been the same since.  It's more than a film, it's an identity.  It is a cult film in its purest form.  Like Christians drawing a fish in the sand, muttering I'm thinking of something blue, to the right person will create an everlasting bond.UHF= watch it, know it, live it. "},{"Title":"it gets funnier every time!!!!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  UHF is the kind of movie that does not get boring. Weird al was exellent and the rest of the cast was to. Even though it had a very low rating I think it is one of the funniest movies ever to been shown on a screen. I think the poeple who do not like this move does not know what real comedy is. And one other thing it is clean comedy so I like that to . "},{"Title":"Insane, but then again, so am I!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think Weird Al should rerelease this on video and DVD.  This film,  particularly the opening sequence, is classic Al, and is so funny, I have really enjoyed it every time I've seen it.  Michael Richard's Stanley is a hoot.  I loved his role as an inept, but loveable janitor, who is so interested in playing his janitor, he wants to stay on even after he receives his starring role.  The best part of the film, in my opinion, is the end when Kevin McCarthy's R. J. Fletcher loses his network licence after losing U62, then he gets kneed right where it counts by an offended granny.  If Weird Al doesn't rerelease this film, he should at least make another of the same quality. Don't forget to look for Dr. Demento's cameo role, which is fine closure. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Possibly the strangest cast ever assembled in a movie. Weird Al Yankovic, Victoria Jackson, Michael Richards and Fran Drescher. That in itself is pretty funny, right? Weird Al plays a man who gets control of a television station (which was won in a poker game by his uncle). He's been fired numerous times by different jobs, and is about to quit looking.  He is at risk of losing his girlfriend, and he's just going insane. The movie is one of those where when you're bored, it will always make you laugh. What's funnier than bad TV? The movie has a few of those great scenes like Uncle Nutsy's Clubhouse, where it's impossible not to laugh when you know what's going to happen.  Richards was far from Seinfeld fame at this time, and he is great in this as well, playing a janitor that comes out as the hero in the end. And, you can't forget the cameo by comedian Emo Phillips! "},{"Title":"A laugh a minute. . no, wait a laugh a SECOND!!!!!!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this film.  It's so funny.  I've been a fan of Weird Al for a while and have seen this movie a thousand times.  I absolutely love the Wheel of Fish part.  Ahhhhhhh, Red Snapper, veeeeeeeeery tastyyyyyy.  My friends and I laugh so hard during that part, heck, during the whole movie!  From Town Talk to Conan the Librarian to Spatula City, we bust out in laughter.  The one complaint that I have is that it's been out of print so long!  If you are in the mood for a silly movie, try to find this one at the video store.  You'll be laughing til you cry! "}{"Title":"STUPID!STUPID! And I wouldn't have it any other way.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have always loved this movie for its willingness to be just plain dumb. A friend of mine owns a copy and we were watching it @ about 1 in the morning. I was laughing so hard, my sides hurt. Some may complain about Al's acting, but doing so is like complaining about Jerry Seinfeld's acting; these guys are not actors and have never claimed to be. However, pair them with the right supporting cast and the results are side splitting. My personal favourite would have to be Anthony Geary as the whacked out guru-type engineer; who knew soap opera stars could actually act? And I, like others, was impressed by the lack of potty humour in this one. As a father of three small children, it's nice to know that I can still raise my kids to have the same warped sense of humour as I have without polluting their minds at an early age.Finally, I have some good news for all the fans out there. I was on thedigitalbits.com. where they interviewed the DVD department head @ MGM, and it looks like this one will be coming out on DVD and VHS in 2002. The wait is almost over! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on the shelves at my local video store and thought what the hell, I'll get it and it was really worth it. I've never seen it on TV though, unfortunately.The scene where he's playing Rambo with the plastic muscle suit is the best. OMG I never laughed so hard. Can't remember much else, but it was really funny.Also, if you liked this, make sure you see The Kentucky Fried Movie which is very similar, and almost as entertaining. "},{"Title":"'Badgers?? We don't need no steenkin' Badgers'!!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the one film I return to for a damn good laughter! No summary can explain the appeal of this film, but quotes?'Did you know that turtles are natures suction cups?'And when Stanley are chased by the hoods and runs past a 'supplies'-locker, up goes the door, and a lot of japanese karate-experts rushes out, yelling 'supplies!' Some surprise!!!And Stanley Spadowsky's clubhouse 'Ooh, free toy, free toy'? And Al playing Rambo and just kills like 150 people. Or Stanley 'My mop, my mop'!!!Can't really figure why this one wasn't that succesful? It should appeal to all us 9-years olds!!7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Makes Me Proud To Be Human","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has everything from a grown man tripping over an old lady to a kid being shot with a fire-hose. It may not be classy but it sure is damn funny. Even if you aren't a fan of Weird Al you should still like this movie, especially if you're a fan of low budget comedy. "},{"Title":"Sophomoric?  Dumb?  YOU BET!  Ain't it GREAT?","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When the creator of a film actually has the word WEIRD right in his NAME, nobody is going to expect The English Patient.  This is the attitude you must assume when viewing this borderline-cult psuedo-classic.  Sure it's a vehicle for the over-developed mind and imagination of Al, and sure it's an excuse to get people to watch some zany music bits, but the cast, which includes then-obscure/now-mainstreams like Fran Drescher and Michael Richards (BRILLIANT in his role) and b-movie mainstays like Gedde Watanabe (16 Candles) and David Bowe, the thinking man's midget Billy Barty, even the calculated blandness of Victoria Jackson and General Hospital thespian Anthony Geary (TV's Luke of Luke and Laura fame) all add to a ridiculous high school production of goofy one-liners, stretched-to-the-breaking-point sight gags, and just-long-enough-to-get-annoying parodies of movies and TV shows.  All things considered, if you want to see a movie where you can just shut off your mind and be a kid again, SEE THIS FILM.  If you want to be truly affecting by a motion picture, one that DOESN'T have Emo Phillips losing a thumb on a table saw, by all means rent Sense and Sensibilities, whatever THAT's about.. "},{"Title":"My all time Favorite movie Ever!","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A star studded cast of actors (some before they were well known)adorn this movie of slapstick comedy that will keep you rolling on the floor laughing your head off. You'll laugh so much that you have to see it again just to catch all the jokes and Site gags.  To quote Haydes in Disney's Hercules Two thumbs way, way up A must see for all ages! Thanks for Reading! "},{"Title":"Clean and engaging humor","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A great classic, filled with Al's unique brand of humor -- suitably offbeat, without extending too far into the world of the bizarre.  And the DVD extras on this movie are among the very best ever!It's a bloody shame that this movie didn't do better at the box office. Al's humor is riveting and engaging, without resorting to crude sexual jokes or disgusting bodily functions.  Among today's brand of so-called comedians, that is truly a rarity.And of course, Michael Richard's performance helped make this movie.  How could it not?  Al also managed to inject just enough of his musical performance into the movie, without overwhelming either the plot or the humor.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Unfortunately this movie is becoming far less relevant in the digital age, because television is a slowly dying invention, fading away behind that god-awful Netflix and Amazon Fire TV crud. But in its time U.H.F. was a laugh riot, and those who remember it from childhood or watched it when it first came out thankfully still appreciate it for its nostalgic value and comedy.It's a Weird Al movie, so yup, it's WEIRD. REALLY WEIRD. It follows a group of oddballs who decide to start up their own U.H.F. (ultra high frequency) station, which quickly becomes more successful than they ever could have dreamed. Accompanied by bizarre music videos, colorful characters, cool music and some of the most hilarious comedy I've ever seen, this is one movie I'll never forget any time soon! Watch it with friends, it's the best way. Pool your cash, order a few pizzas and 2L bottles of soda, gather around your living room or basement with your best friends, family and coworkers and have a blast watching this wonderfully funny movie. Make some popcorn, sing along to the songs, it's a retro and much more fun way to enjoy U.H.F.And tell your guests, NO CELLULAR DEVICES ALLOWED. That way you won't have to worry about turning around only to be disappointed to see your friends' downcast, zombified gazes as they drool over their Smartphones and I-Pads.U.H.F. - Unbelievably Hilarious Film! D "},{"Title":"'Weird Al' stars in this movie with a high frequency of great gags.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ahhh, good old 'Weird Al'. Personally, pretty much anything he does makes me laugh so it came as no surprise that I enjoyed UHF. What was surprising was just how much I enjoyed it and how much I immediately wished that more people knew about it. It holds up as a hilarious comedy.The thin story sees Al playing George Newman, a daydreamer never in any one job for too long who's about to lose his girl. It looks like this could all change when an uncle gives him a small public TV station he won in a bet and, after a rocky start, the ratings start climbing higher and higher, thanks in no small part to a janitor named Stanley Spadowski (Michael Richards) who becomes a hit with audiences when he gets a chance to host his own TV show. There's a big, nasty, rival TV station (with the great Kevin McCarthy in charge) and a rush to make money during the last half hour but it's all really just an excuse for a load of great gags and fun parodies.This is not a movie to watch if you love nothing but classics of cinema. It's a movie to watch if you like 'Weird Al', enjoy seeing Michael Richards do his jittery, manchild act and can have fun with Indiana Jones parodies and adverts for Spatula City. There's also a gag here that may very well be the funniest dumb gag I have ever seen on screen, it had me crying with laughter for a good few minutes afterwards.Nobody in the cast is all that great (with the exception of Richards and McCarthy) but they all do what has to be done to move things along in between the moments of hilarity. Director Jay Levey does enough to keep things looking decent but, again, this is all really just about the gags and everything is done to serve the material, making it all work brilliantly. One of my new favourites.See this if you like The Groove Tube, The Kentucky Fried Movie, Anarchy TV. "},{"Title":"Weird Al ...a weird man in weird times","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al is considered by some (ok maybe three ) to be the Hendrix of accordions and his songs radiate an aura of sublime oddity that would be truly disturbing if the real world was in fact the way he sings. That being said, UHF is one of the funniest movies you are likely to watch, if you accept the fact that A WEIRD AL is in it (as the main star...duh) B WEIRD AL influenced the script C WEIRD AL wrote songs for the movie and that D WEIRD AL did not write this reviewyou will understand the humor...mostly. While it's not exactly the most intellectually stimulating film masterpiece of the last century (Monty Pythons Holy Grail gets that one) UHF is a good time film. It's the type of film you tape yourself watching while drinking milk so when you laugh milk shoots out your nose and you post the results on you-tube...(maybe that's just me) Is it stupid? Let's put it this way, if you don't like WEIRD AL Songs, your opinion is not likely to change after watching this loving crafted film. Everyone in it seems to be having a good time (on film at least) It's too bad there was not a UHF2 or even UHF3...though I'm not really sure where they could have taken the plot other than WEIRD AL (aka George) taking over a national network or becoming head of the FCC. Watch the movie and you will believe poodles can fly. "}{"Title":"A Gem That Gets Better With Age","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I originally saw this as a first run in the theater. My girlfriend attended with me, and she sat there, through the whole thing, silent as a stone while I guffawed and chortled my way to the very end, about to the point at the end where ***SPOILER CHARACTERNAME*** morphs into a ***SPOILER THING*** and ***SPOILER EVENT*** through an excellent piece of animation by the Chiodo Brothers. She turned to me as the lights came up and said, Whattsamatta wit you? Dis a movie for children. You 30 years old! I knew at that point that it was over between us. If she couldn't get Weird Al, then we had no future.If you want to see more Chiodo Brothers stuff, definitely see Killer Klowns From Outer Space, and Pee-Wee's Big Adventure has a nice three second long sequence when Large Marge, the truck driver lady turns into a monster and scares the bejeezus out of Pee-Wee.I can't rave enough about THIS movie, meanwhile. It's silly, it's stupid, it's funny. You either love it, or hate it. I find I'm having to explain to young people what UHF is or was, though. They've never seen a TV set with those two big knobs on them. There are actually real American-type people alive today who never surfed the empty expanses of static on the bottom knob from channel 14 to 88. Occasionally bumping into an island of reception, usually kinda fuzzy or snowy. It usually showed reruns of Ultraman and Gilligan's Island and Speed Racer. If you taped a metal coat hanger to the rabbit ears, you got rid of just a little bit more snow. You had to wait for the TV's tubes to warm up properly, to get the best reception.It's a shame that this movie wasn't more of a success as anything other then a bad girlfriend filter. Al had a movie career calling and we might have seen good things from him. Might still. Hollywood! Give Al another chance! "},{"Title":"badgers? we don't need no stinkin' badgers!!!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i still laugh to tears years later when i watch this movie.From Stanley Spudowskis Playhouse to the wheel of fish to Animal Kingdom...it just doesn't get any better than that,absurdity included.With the exception of Kung Pow and Im gonna get you Sucka,its probably one of the best parody movies out there.In my opinion it never deviated away from the comedy of weird Al Yankovic and solidified his brand of comedy to the mainstream.The movie is textbook silly with characters that just fit perfectly into their roles.I have a hard time believing anybody could just hate this movie.To quote the karate instructor turned game show host..ohhhhhhh you won red snappa....very tasty. "},{"Title":"Very strange and funny","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to get too complicated here.  This is pretty much everything you'd expect from a Weird Al movie.  If Better Off Dead is your favorite movie, this one's for you.The scary thing is, this is exactly what I'd be doing if I had my own TV station. "},{"Title":"a cult classic","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I own a copy of this rare classic. I got it from a local video store for $1.00 I loved this movie & I'm a big fan of Weird Al. I got all his cd's & his other rare video - Complaet Al. If u r looking 4 a great comedy, look for UHF-its the perfect comedy! It is a must see & worth keeping if u r a Al fan, or Michael Richards fan as well. "},{"Title":"Non Weird Al fans (and other snobs) might be surprised","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Start to finish, this is a very entertaining and funny film that is still worth watching after several viewings.  Almost all the TV show ideas that U-62 (the film's TV station) come up with are side-splitting.  Sure, the acting is mostly bad, and perhaps the (very Al) Dire Straits parody should have landed on the cutting room floor. But overall, it is a perfect movie to watch when entertaining a room full of morons, and all will have a great time.  I personally don't care for Weird Al's music, but I am desperately hunting for a video copy of this one.    "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I have EVER seen!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I die laughing every time I see UHF.  I know a few people who disliked it, but they have no imagination and apparently lack a pulse. This is the kind of movie I love to watch in sweats, eating Oreos, and drinking a 2L bottle of Coke with or without a couple of my closest friends. My favorite thing about this movie is Weird Al playing poor George Newman. He is the saddest person you've ever seen - this guy cannot get a break!  That added to the crazy programming at channel 62 gets me rollin' every time!  "},{"Title":"The plot isn't the point","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a real shame this beast didn't do better at the box office; thank heaven it has found its niche among cultish Weird Al fans and 9-year-olds everywhere.I saw this in the theater when it first came out. Although I've seen more cerebral and highbrow comedies I have never laughed so hard in my life as I did at UHF. From the sight gag at the very beginning with the tiki head giving a raspberry to the karate guys bursting out of the supply closet in the denouement (SUPPLIES!) this movie is a consistent howler. It's less a coherent whole than a series of set pieces which are almost entirely extremely funny.Interesting also are the before-they-were-huge-stars performances, notably Fran Drescher and Michael Richards, who is vaguely disturbing as kiddie-show host Stanley Spedowski.The PG-13 rating is very harsh. There's a lot here that younger kids will get a real bang out of. I'd say anyone over the age of about 7 will flip over UHF, unless you're an insufferable snob.  "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie rocks.  I saw it in the theaters when it first came out.  (we made a double feature with Star Trek 5...another comedy of sorts)  This movie had me laugh back then.  (I was 8)  Now that I have seen most of the movies that the movie makes fun of, and know all of the situations that happened in television, I laugh so hard that I am in tears today.  (I am 18) This is a great movie.  This movie has so many satires and just plain retarded moments that you have to laugh at the stupidity of it all.  My favorite scene is not in Comedy Central's version. (boo hoo) That scene is Raoul's Wild Kingdom.  It has to be seen to be believed.  (It's also not the turtle bit in the scene).  I think that this is a movie that some distribution company needs to pick up, and release on DVD, as well as VHS.  This is a classic that will go down in the history of time with Airplane and Kentucky Fried Movie.  In fact, it is better than KFM because it doesn't have a dull moment.Signs that this is destined to be a classic 1)people are looking for it on video.  2) it is frequently checked out of my video store.  3) my fraternity shows it regularly.  So, what are you waiting for.  Go rent it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"OHMIGOD THIS IS THE BEST","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie from Indiana Jones parody to Rambo parody! The plot was good, I think Al and Jay brought out what to do in a comedy. Have a mop and have it make Lightsaber sound. Am I right? I also liked the character Kuni. I mean, how many people want to yell STUPID!!! YOU SO STUPID!!!!! to someone they know? Or surprise them by saying SUPPLIES!!!? "},{"Title":"A classic, in my eyes.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was literally born into a world of Weird-Al. Being born in '83 and having an older brother who listened to quite a bit of Weird Al tapes and watched uhf countless times, I was needless to say exposed to his work very much. So, obviously I'm a bit biased when I rate this movie. Of course I gave it a 10.. this movie is literally a part of my heritage; every scene in it has associated with it some fond childhood memory of mine. Whether it was listening to the uhf soundtrack on a long car trip and laughing hysterically at the tough-guy Gandhi bit (Give me a steak, medium rare, HEY, BALDY! *BAM BAM BAM*) or watching the drink from the firehose scene on the screen.. this movie is a part of me, for better or worse (I'd say for better).Can't recommend it enough.. though I'm not sure how it will seem to the first time viewer. Oh well, you'll love it or you'll hate it I guess. "}{"Title":"It's The Tick","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Weird, I know.  But some of Michael Richards' dialogue and actions (most about his mop) sounds just like the Tick on one of his weird rampages.Oh, the movie itself?  I'm a Weird Al fan.  UHF is pretty good, as Al demonstrates he can parody movies and TV shows just like he can parody songs.  He's not going to be some big romantic lead, but he surrounds himself with a decent cast (except a wasted Victoria Principal), does some funny stuff, and generally ends up with an enjoyable flick.  If you don't like Weird Al, you probably won't like this movie.  If you do, you will.  It's that simple. "},{"Title":"This one sticks with ya......","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like eating a bowl of raw pancake batter that you know will stick to yer ribs, this movie will remain ingrained in the memory of all who watch it. Of course, being a child of the '80's (and a child IN the 80's), I was weened on Yankovic's musical shananigans for years, getting a good chuckle every time.  What's  more, I never got tired of watching UHF!!!!  It's one of the funniest films out there.  If you haven't seen it, you haven't lived, my friends!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"More fun than a drink from the firehose!","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What I love the most about UHF is its offbeat humor.  What other comedy would show a man teaching Poodles how to fly?  Or a gun-wielding Mahatma Gandhi?  Also, the film has a sort of silly, low-budget charm to it.  The critics, though, wrote pretty scathing reviews of it.  Roger Ebert wrote that Weird Al has bad posture and an indistinct speaking voice(?!).  If that's true, I was too busy laughing to notice.    "},{"Title":"Man Damn It","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember watching this film on TV one day when i was ill, i read the Tv Guide description and just decided to watch it, i went in expecting some kind of light comedy thing, but within the first 30 seconds i knew which room i'd be stuck in for the next 90mins. During the Rambo II scene i literally laughed so much i spat my sprite out and started to choke, i'm sure other reviews have highlighted the best parts, inc. M.Richards. My only complaint is, why damn it can't I get a copy?, and why is it never repeated? I've only seen it once and i know it's one of those films that's better he 2nd time round, and i so want to watch it again, man damn it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my most favorite movies of all time. This movie does not deserve a PG-13 rating either. I would give it a PG. This is a movie that has parodies of several major films some parodies are egregious while others are obscure. I highly recommend this movie for nearly all ages there are few scenes which parents may find offensive. In one scene dogs are taught how to fly by being thrown out of apartment window. Another has some mild simulated violence. Simulated= happening in a daydream/imagination. There is absolutely no profanity is this film either. but two scenes where a particular word sounds similar to an offensive one. Quote RJ what is this piece of trash  Uncle Harvey Blow it out your ear scuzzbag I think that this film although unsuccessful in the box office is still one of the funniest movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Al's a master of pop culture.","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For years, Al has lampooned pop music with his offbeat parodys and unique sense of humor. This film, celebrating its 10th anniversary, shows Al is a true master of manipulating pop culture. Those who look for a plot line should go elsewhere. That isn't what this movie is about. It's about looking at the state of movies and film and TV and all the other parts of our modern media. Al tears them to pieces as only he can, with his sick, twisted sense of humor. And he also brought us the culinary advance of the Twinkie Wiener Sandwich (they are actually quite yummy!)Here's hoping for a re-release to video next year! "},{"Title":"Ignore the plot and you'll love it","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very funny movie. Not the best movie in the world, but as Al himself said in his Behind the Music, Critics cited the hackneyed plot, but it really wasn't about that, it was just an excuse to goof off. The plot's been seen before Everyman needs $75,000 in x amount of hours in order to keep heartless tycoon from buying out TV station. What makes the movie, though, are the Mad Magazine-esque movie parodies, the dark TV parodies (although some, such as Emo Philips sawing off his thumb, or Corpses 'R' Us, are not for all tastes), the oddball dialogue (What's the matter? Don't you like Bonanza?), the Dire Straits send-up, and the winning performances by Al Yankovic, Mike Richards, and the rest. An interesting sidenote is the before they were stars quality Michael Richards before he was Kramer, Fran Drescher before she was The Nanny, John Paragon before he was Jambi the Genie, and Philo (Anthony Gearey's role) was originally intended for a pre-MST3K Joel Hodgson. Say what you will about the movie, it's a cult film in every sense of the word, and it's one of my faves. "},{"Title":"Better then most people give it credit for.","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I feel that I should preface this with the fact that I am a big Weird Al fan.  That being said, this is still a good movie.This movie starts off with one of many movie spoofs and turns into George Newman's ('Weird Al') daydream.  Soon after George and his friend, Bob (David Bowe), are fired from their jobs as burger flippers.  George's uncle wins a UHF station playing poker and agrees to let George become the station manager.  The station that George inherits is failing fast.George meets up with the station manager of a local network affiliate. R.J. Fletcher (Kevin McCarthy), is a hard-nosed station exec who enjoys yelling at those below him.  Fletcher dismisses George as something not to be bothered by.For a while George and Bob try to run the station and fail.  Bob figures that the station will be broke by the end of the week.  At the same time that Bob tells George this, George remember that he forgot his girlfriend's (Victoria Jackson) birthday.  George is dumped and hits rock bottom. During the taping of Uncle Nutsy's Clubhouse, George walks out and leaves the show in the hands of the janitor (Michael Richards).  George and Bob go to the bar and find out that people love Stanley Spadowski.George and Bob race back to the station and create many zany shows to put on the air.  These shows range from Wheel of Fish to Conan the Librarian. Eventually the station becomes number one in the market.Then George's Uncle Harvey racks up $75,000 in gambling debt and has to sell the station.  George offers to come up with the money so his station doesn't have to be sold.  The station holds a telethon and sells stock in itself.The acting in this movie is weak at best.  Al is definitely a better singer, but Michael Richards shows many of the traits that made him a star on Seinfeld.  The writing is hilarious, however the movie is choppy.  It seems like the movie is just a bunch of bits thrown together.Overall this movie is a classic.  I think that everyone should see it once, even if you don't like 'Weird Al.' "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  UHF is one of the funniest movies I've seen.  Weird Al is wonderfully entertaining in every medium (music, TV, concerts) and movies are no exception.  I sure hope they re-release this movie on video and dvd...it's a classic!!! "},{"Title":"Good laughs, it grows on you","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dang, he's good What keeps me renting this almost a cult-flick classic, is the craftsmanship of the humor and the development of the characters. In this world of exhausted, uninspired Mad TV/SNL , it's hard to find good yucks these days (Whose Line Is It excepted). In everything he produces, Weird Al consistently hits the mark when he aims at our funny bone. I don't always care for every target or the way he shoots his arrow, but whether the result is a half-snort or a full belly laugh, the source is a form of art.It depends on how old you are In many ways, this film is a vehicle for the spoofs, which are spliced in. Most are pretty juvenile, and I have no qualms about hitting the 'fridge during them. The exception is the early MTV era Bev-er-ly-Hill-bill-ies version of the I-Want-my-M-TV music video.To each his own What engages me are the vibrant, goofy characters. Like The Princess Bride, the characters make the movie work. Like any good flick, UHF will transport you to a different world, where the bad guys get what they deserve and the Everyman (played by Weird Al) triumphs (with a little help from his/her friends). The favorite characters and  lines are certainly a personal thing. My daughter likes The Wheel of Fish guy, and the way he says You so stup-id!. For some reason, my favorite scene has the bad guys open the closet door marked Supplies and out jump the martial arts rescuers, whose cry of attack is meant to be Surprise!, but sounds exactly like Supplies! (There, I only ruined one visual joke, don't hate me.) I can't explain why it's so funny to me, it just is.The plot thins The content is schlock, but dang it, it's *good* schlock. I admit, my heart gets tugged when Stanley's beloved mop is wrenched from his arms. And maybe the real reason I rent the video, is to hear his pep talk about taking a toothbrush to the stubborn dirt spots in our lives. So take the pickle out of your butt, close the blinds if you don't want the neighbors to see, and be a kid again.   "}{"Title":"What can you say about Al?","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A lot of people just dismiss Al as a novelty act. But ask yourself, would someone who was just a novelty act have been making music and videos for 20 years? That's right, 20 years! UHF is a classic, if only for the video and song parody of Dire Straights' Money For Nothing. Who else would think to use this tune as a way to retell the Ballad of Jed Clampett? The various movie and TV parodies are a hoot, and, of course, there is Michael Richards in the role that made him into a household name (at least at his parents' house, anyway), Stanley Spadowski!  "},{"Title":"Terribly funny!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are a fan of Naked Gun, Monty Python, and, of course, Weird Al, you will love this movie.  Very zany, very funny, and very unpredictable. Michael Richards steals the show as a janitor and Fran Dresher is fun to see pre-Nanny.  If you like silliness in movies... check it out!  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Weird Al is great in this movie!! I am one of his biggest fans and I think he should star in more movies as well as sing. This movie was created from pure talent. If you love funny imaginative movies this is the one to see! "},{"Title":"Silly Fun","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you're a diehard Weird Al fan, you shouldn't take this movie seriously. So there isn't much of a plot.  Who cares?  It's Weird Al!  What, you want Gone With The Wind?First time I rented this movie, my brother and I played it over and over again.  Then my brother bought it, and whenever we get the chance to put some silliness into our lives, we play this movie.  One of my favorite scenes is with the blind guy trying to figure out the Rubix Cube, and the homeless guy helping him out.  First time my father saw that he couldn't stop laughing!Take my advice -- if you want to have some fun, rent this movie.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"A good Yankovic movie!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I personally like this movie a lot. It has a lot of funny acting and a delightfully well-written script. Anyway, I  particularly like the spoofs, such as Conan the Librarian (where the Conan, posing as a librarian, grabs a patron by the hair and screams Don't you know the Dewey Decimal System!?) I also really liked the spoof of Spatula City, where this one customer (obviously reading off a card) says plainly, I liked spatulas so much, I bought the company! A great film to watch if you have a bag of Doritos and a hour-half of free time! "},{"Title":"Hilarious in parts","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As one of my 3 favorite line movies, this one is definitely the dumbest of the group, but I still love it.  The plot is negligible, the dialogue strange-but the parodies are awesome, for the most part.  Plus, you get to see a pre-Kramer Michael Richards break loose in a really wacky role, and a pre-Nanny Fran Drescher...uh, well, maybe that's not a good thing.  There's too many great spoofs here to list-Gandhi II, Wheel of Fish, Raoul's Wild Kingdom, and who can forget Conan the Librarian! (Don't you know the Dewey Decimal System? in full Ah-nuld accent!) A must-own, and a great stupid party flick.  8/10, because it's a little too totally 80's at some parts, but a great movie, if you don't take it seriously. "},{"Title":"Lousy Movie, A Must See","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  UHF is a bad movie.  Yankovic cannot carry a movie.  However, I must recommend it to everyone.  It has a great cast with a lousy story.  Who cares about the story anyway this movie is about the spoofs.  Conan the Librarian. Gondi II and he's mad.  Spatula City.  Need I say more? "},{"Title":"a few laughs in this one","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love weird Al's records, and videos, but the movie he did wasn't as good as his other stuff. The movie has laughs few, and far between. It doesn't sustain any momentum.  There are a few laughs that are very funny, but there's just too many that are stupid and lame. But I do still watch this movie from time to time to see the few laughs in that are very funny. I give UHF ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Admit it. You laughed.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really stupid. I mean really stupid. It probably will lower your intelligence. It's no wonder that it's been panned by each and every critic.I still loved it, though. I laughed a lot. No matter how retarded it is, I dare you to watch it and not laugh.So pan it. Go ahead. It's still gonna be a lie. You laughed. You know it. You wanna see it again to see what you missed. I know it's true. Don't deny it. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks ) Go Weird Al!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you would love to see actors in the early stages of their careers, you can spot some well knowns... Weird al is wonderful and fun... I have watched this a million times.. highly  recommend! A laugh every time. "}{"Title":"Completely retarded, perfect movie","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this stupid movie, I was hooked for life.  I have no idea how may times I have seen it, but it's enough that I can pretty much recite the entire script.  The plot is weak, the jokes are often corny, but this is still a great movie.  It's a good kinda retarded. Also, Kramer sucks, STANLEY SPEDOWSKI FOR PRESIDENT!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Hell YES!!!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is AWESOME. NOW, you will watch it NOW!This just had so much wacky random funny stuff in it, it's unbelievable. My favorite scene is the REVENGE scene where weird Al is all buffed out and shoots a giant bow and arrow at POINT BLANK, and of course it makes an explosion. Helicopters, 30 , that was awesome, then even better, they blow up random images (Channel 7 CEO, Statue of Liberty, etc. etc.) what's in the box??? NOTHING!!!! STOOOPAAADDDD!!!! That was THE BEST!!! Michael Richards is in this!Just watch it, OK???? "},{"Title":"A great way to combine all the funny elements of Weird Al","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a laugh-out loud movie with more quotable lines this side of Army of Darkness.  Since the movie is set at a TV station, it allows them to throw out a series of quick jokes (e.g. Spatula City, Ghandi II) which is really the movie's, and Weird Al's, forte. Rent it with a bunch of friends NOW.  "},{"Title":"UHF= Uproariously Hilariously Funny","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a HUGE Weird Al fan and if I were to be stranded on a desert island with a choice of either all his albums to listen to or his masterpiece of a movie to watch, I'd honestly choose to take UHF with me.  I've seen this movie countless times and I still crack up whenever I hear lines such as I'M THINKIN OF SOMETHIN ORANGE!  SOMETHING ORAAAAAAANNNNGE!!!!  GIVE UP?! IT'S AN ORANGE!!! uttered by the crazy but lovable Stanley Spadowski. The movie and tv show parodies are very funny, although not as hilarious as the ones in the much raunchier Kentucky Fried Movie.  The best thing about this movie is the characters.  The actors who play them all fit their roles perfectly. The most underrated character in the film is the nameless homeless guy who bugs the crap out of the evil and hotheaded R.J. Fletcher whenever they run into each other.  This movie deserves the title of Best Comedy Of The Decade "},{"Title":"The BEST!!!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie really is one of the best movies ever made. It is so dumb it makes you laugh every time you see it.  It is Michael Richard's first movie so as Fran Dreshcer and Wierd Al's Only one.  It is so funny I've seen it over 100 times and I'll see it again any day.  RENT IT IF YOU CAN!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Lovely.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I thought it was hilarious. The more I watch it the funnier it gets. I would definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Better than Titanic","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Basically, this film just kicks serious butt.This movie is the sad depressing story of a pathetic coyote who spends every waking moment of his life in the futile pursuit of a sadistic road-runner who MOCKS him and LAUGHS at him as he's repeatedly CRUSHED and MAIMED! Hope you en-JOY IT!!!!It's why, every time I have some mashed potato, I now carve it into a Close Encounters style hill and murmur This means something. It's why me and my brother play the I'm thinking about something orange.... it's an orange! game. It's why I can't watch Seinfeld because Michael Richards will never be as good as he was in this film.Good God, I just love it.  "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard I spit soda all over the carpet.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the Raoul's Wild Kingdom bit in this film, I laughed so hard I spit Sprite all over the place.  That's not the only moment in this film worthy of that accolade.  UHF, starring and largely conceived by musical parodist Weird Al Yankovic, is the story of an American dream-owning our own low-powered TV station, and putting whatever the hell we want on it. Weird Al is an effective protagonist as George Newman, an unsuccessful, single male who along with his friend Bob, gets fired from darn near everywhere.  George is also having romantic problems with Teri (Victoria Jackson, direct from SNL), who wants him to get a real job.  George's uncle Harvey wins the deed to U-62 in a poker game, and instead of giving it up, his wife convinces him to let George run it.  Wackiness ensues.  The TV show parodies in this film are mostly hilarious, with sight gags courtesy of a midget cameraman and a big, coffee-guzzling tech guy.  But perhaps the greatest performance in this movie is by Michael Richards (yes, Kramer), as very inept janitor/kid's show host Stanley Spadowski.  Bumbling, mumbling, yet warm hearted, he's also really darn funny.  I swear you'll never think of oatmeal the same way again.  Yeah, the plot sucks, but if you're renting a film with Weird Al on the cover and expecting Pride and Prejudice, you have some major problems.  UHF is one of my favorite movies of all time, and it will be one of yours, too. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie of All Time!!!!","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so cool; I love this movie...I have seen it over 70+ times, and know all the words to the movie!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Hillarious!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have numerous Weird Al albums and I love them all. This movie is my favorite of all Weird Al parafanalia( god knows if I spelled this right). (paraphernalia!).  I love it Al and Michael Richards are great. I love this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11 "}{"Title":"Hilarious when you were 13, Still funny in your 20's!","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has Weird Al written all over it! It is filled with parodies and slap stick comedy and proves to be geared toward the immature humor that lies in all of us. This is exactly the type of movie that you would expect from Weird Al based on his songs a lot of immature humor and random comedic jokes about society/life/Hollywood.Despite great comedic work by Yankovic, the movie is actually stolen by a pre-Seinfeld performance by Michael Richards. The physical comedy that he brings to his clueless character, Stanley Spadowski, is a type of premonition of his future Cosmo Kramer character. Richards does a great job in his portrayal of Spadowski as a dumbfounded janitor who's goal in life is reacquiring his mop! There are some other great performances by Victoria Jackson of SNL and Fran Drescher (in a role prior to her getting her big break in TV).The movie's story is a great lead into the Yankovic's various comedic skits. Commercials and shows such as Conan the Librarian, Spatula City, Town Talk - with Lesbian Nazi Hookers, Wheel of Fish, and Uncle Nutzy's Clubhouse. Yankovic's dream sequences of Rambo and Raider's of the Lost Arc are nicely done as well! This was truly one of my favorite movies growing up and to this day, I will still watch if it is on TV. It is great, mindless humor that helps you forget your troubles for a couple of hours! However, if you are not in the mood for immature humor, this movie probably isn't for you. "},{"Title":"How to get fired from a job","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a how to movie of how to get fired from a burger joint and then next week run a television station. Really that actually happens. Also we learn how to spike punch with poochie, how much the citizens of Tulsa Oklahoma are worth in units of dog snot, and that poodles do not fly without some training. Never accept pizza from the pizza guy, especially if you didn't order a pizza! Also if you are the charitable type, you may find that homeless panhandlers can find small fortunes in your generosity. We get to see Fran Drescher in one of her earlier roles before she hit it big. There are also many references to other movies and odd knowledge history if you can catch it. The deleted scenes on the DVD are quite cool. This DVD is also loaded with easter eggs, have fun finding them. It seem that my work here is done. Now if you will excuse me I must return to my home world. Stu-Pod! Yo so stu-pod! "},{"Title":"So Stupid, it's Genius","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't think I've ever laughed so hard in my life. But it's not a normal laugh. It's a laugh of confusion!What the f*ck was that!? I keep asking myself. Did that just happen? Is my favorite. What does that mean? Is another.The comedy in this is ridiculous to the point where you wonder how anyone could have made something so ridiculous. The plot was very simple, but it really did facilitate the tangent humor of Weird Al. Tangent humour is something used a lot by amateur, unorganized film makers. I think one of the reasons I enjoy this movie so much is that it reminds me of my high school film class.myfriend_mike "},{"Title":"One of those movies released at the wrong time.","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an okay comedy for me that has become quite the cult classic in its own right. Released in the summer of 89 a year of many big hits, this movie just got lost in the shuffle, but found a home at the local video store. It follows Yankovic's character as he gets to run a television station and turns what should be just a filler channel into one of the top rated networks on television on the back of a wacky children's show host. Al is rather good in his performance and Michael Richards is good as the janitor turned star, and the movie has some really funny parody scenes that I found to be the highlight of this one. There are problems though as the movie bogs down here and there a couple of times and there is not all that much going on. Still it is worth a look as it has some very funny stuff in it as well. So if you want to watch poodles learn to fly, a hilarious Raiders and Rambo spoof, a janitor trying to fight for his freedom from some goons then check it out. "},{"Title":"supplies!!","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al is the new owner of an Ultra High Frequency local station. To counter the abysmal rating that the station had before he got there. He attempts to come up with wacky original programming. This mostly fails until Micheal Richards in his second funniest role ever fills in for Al on one of his shows one day. But that's only the beginning. This film is hilarious when it's doing the parodies, and merely OK when it's not. As stated Micheal Richards steals the film in my eyes, in fact pretty much everyone is funny except Victoria Jackson, whom I never liked, she was even horrid when she was on Saturday Night Live.My Grade B+MGM DVD Extras Both widescreen & full screen versions; Commentary by Jay Levey, Al Yankovic,Emo Philips,Michael Richard, and Victoria Jackson; Behind The Scenes featurette;Deleted scenes (one of which is a TV parody 'Those Darn Homos', and nearly a decade later Will & Grace is on the air, coincidence?? I think not!!); UHF music video ;Photo gallery; Teaser trailer; Theatrical trailer;TV spots; and 5 Easter Eggs "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie Ever","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To sum-up UHF is an ultra-hilarious romp through the underground world of retarded television capers, featuring a cast of wild characters doing some seriously stupid stuff and of course Weird AlPro's & con's+ I laughed every other half-a-minute+ Yankovic has an awesome film presence+ Michael Richards as Stanley, ha ha!- It was very low budget (but this really isn't a big deal) "},{"Title":"Once Al dies, then people will be calling him a genius!!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie kicks ass! The storyline is way cool, Al runs a T.V. station as only Al can. Check out the cast. Half these people are mega stars now. The movie parodies are pants peeing funny! Too bad Al doesn't do more T.V. He's a natural.  "},{"Title":"Give us another movie AL!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you like Naked Gun, Top Secret etc. you will love U.H.F! if you are a fan of Weird Al Yankovic as a person, music artist etc. you will love this movie.U.H.F is a great comedy with Al's type of humour taken from his lyrics onto the screen.I just say.. Al pls.. Give us another movie! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Be there","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though a little lame at times, UHF is still funny. It just seems as if Weird Al had a problem translating his humor into a 97 minute film. I imagine anyone on a high roll could have made a few of the same mistakes. Overall, UHF is more of a hit than a miss. It was however, a bit of a box-office failure. Fortunately, the film did acquire a devoted cult following. And that's all that matters.Aside from Yankovic playing a majority of the characters in the film, David Bowe (who played the wimpy commercial executive in Made in America), Victoria Jackson (of Saturday Night Live fame), Michael Richards (Seinfeld infamy), Fran Drescher (brilliant star and creator of the terrific The Nanny series), and Kevin McCarthy (who played in the memorable Joe Dante film The Howling) appear.6/10 or 2.5/4 "},{"Title":"Critic's Wind","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A well known Washington movie critic said that you would only laugh at this movie if you were the kind of person who wore a bib, and laughed at a sudden gust of wind.  Well wind has a touch of life to it.  And that makes me laugh.  And this movie has great energy to it.  And IT made me laugh.  So what if I tend to drool.  UHF is one one of those mood shifting films.  Leave your brain behind and you'll go from depressed to high and happy.  Bring it with and you might end up suicidal.  Oh well.  That's weird Al for you. "}{"Title":"Wacky. Better than Hot Shots (8/10)","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot. From Conan the librarian to the Dire Straits parody song, it's one big look inside Weird Al Yankovics head.Ever since I found the Even Worse Album (that is even worse than Michael Jacksons Bad -) I have been a fan of Al Yankovic. The best part is, that you can actually see, that it wasn't meant to be a Hollywood blockbuster. The jokes are genuine, not like all those Naked Gun/Hot Shots stuff. This is real. In short If you like to laugh see it. I gave it 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Best parody film ever","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  UHF is a hilarious look at everything (movies, music, TV, Conan the Librarian) and it is led by a great cast.  The crazy cast includes Michael Richards (this was his first movie that got him known) Kevin McCarthey, Fran Dreschner, and leading the cast is Weird Al Yankovic.  Yankovic has created a cult classic (cult because it was released in the block-buster summer of 1989) with as much hilarity as The Naked Gun.  Kudos to Al and all the others that worked to make this film funny as hell.  Or, if your too serious and believe this film is ridiculous well, you are STUPID, YOUR SO STUPID!  A++ "},{"Title":"this movie is the best parody movie of all time.","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i remember when i first saw this movie i was already a massive Yankovic fan but this movie just shows his genius on a whole new level. its hilarious! there's so many guest stars too. lets not forget Kramer from spin city as Stanley the hilarious janitor and when i saw one of my favourite comedians EMO PHILLIPS make an appearance as the tech teacher i almost wet myself. if your looking for non stop laughs that are suitable for children but still not babyish at the same time then this is the movie for you. buy this movie...BUY IT NOW! I liked this movie so much i have borrowed it off of someone six times! if you don't find Yankovic funny then you have serious problems good sirs and Madames. if your a parent make sure your kids see this movie.its only a parental guidance certificate and it beats your kids seeing some utter crap such as shark boy and lava girl or something. "},{"Title":"Borderline insanity!","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fans of the Weird one will love this. The plot is shocking, the jokes are rubbish (in a good way) and the acting average at best but this is a great way to spend an hour and a half without your brain! The best thing about the film is when Yankovic does what he does best - parodies. Gandhi II, Conan the Librarian, Indiana Jones, Dire Straits videos and Rambo segues are p*** your pants funny.However funny Yankovic is, the film is really a comedy showcase for the bloke who plays Kramer in Seinfeld.Available from petrol stations and car boot sales for less than a quid usually!! "},{"Title":"It's Weird Al's work","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've always been a big fan of Weird Al. He is so funny. His music is on the floor histerical. My mom bought me UHF saying that if I liked Weird Al, I would probably like this. I'm sorry to say that I didn't. I enjoy Weird Al's humor. But this was too in your face kind of material. The humor was a little dry. Sometimes also a little too strange for me. For Al in fact. And I couldn't get into it. I do think other fans could though. I can see how it is at a 6.6. To fans of Weird Al, it's a classic. But I'll stick to his music. That's his best work in my opinion. But since I still love Al, I'll be nice and give the movie a6/10 "},{"Title":"Silly but fun...","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF is a comedy that you can watch again and again with a couple of years in between. It is a silly movie which includes elements of spoofs in the likes of Hot Shots and Scary Movie.The story is about George and Bob whom are fired from a fastfood restaurant and end up running a small local TV station. As they come up with wacky TV shows their station grows in popularity, a thing that does not sit well with the TV mogul of another TV station. And with the threat of being bought out, George has to raise a lot of money in order to stay on the air.Now, there are better comedies available for sure, but UHF does offer some good laughs in the company of Weird Al Yankovic, Michael Richards, Fran Drescher and Kevin McCarthy.The spoofs on other movies were quite hilarious, especially the one made on Rambo.If you enjoy comedy, and have nothing else to watch, give UHF a chance, it might just be what you are looking for. "},{"Title":"A dated, yet timeless comedy classic","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is unquestionably a product of its time. UHF TV stations, Weird Al at the height of his popularity, and parodies of popular movies/shows from 80's. The movie is filled with things that should date it to the point of being unenjoyable, yet that doesn't happen. The movie works, even today 26 years later. It doesn't just work. It works really, really well. It's almost baffling that it does. But therein lies the beauty of UHF, you don't need to understand the references. You don't need to know who Weird Al is. The jokes are funny despite this.This movie wouldn't work if it was made today. No one would bother trying to raise $75,000 to run a UHF station when they could make a channel on YouTube for a fraction of the cost. But the UHF station is just a framework to parody a wide range of shows and movies, including the best Rambo parody of all time. But because of that there are a few movies like it. This has kept the movie relevant after all these years. UHF is a must watch classic. If you're a comedy lover, do yourself a favor and watch this film. "},{"Title":"80's comedy classic from Weird Al!","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al Yankovic lets his imagination run wild in this mad, but mostly wholesome comedic vehicle. When his crazy ideas get in the way of pumping out the orders at the burger joint, his boss Big Edna kicks his ass to the curb. He finds a new employment opportunity via his crazy uncle who owns a UHF station that has no one to run it and is about to go under. Weird Al and his slacker buddy David Bowe start to turn the station around with some truly insane, oddball programming. Things really start happening for them when they give the janitor, Stanley Spadowski his own show. Stanley Spadowski's Clubhouse, a kids show similar to Pee Wee's Playhouse is an instant hit with kids and adults alike and becomes Channel 62's flagship show. They become instantly successful and really tick off the owner of network Channel 8. The owner of Channel 8 is an evil corporate boss that treats people like doormats and will stoop to any level for ratings domination. Kevin McCarthy is great as the evil corporate tyrant opposite of lovable underdog Weird Al. In my opinion Michael Richards(best known as Kramer on hit sitcom Seinfeld) nearly steals the show as janitor superstar Stanley Spadowski. He is truly at his best here. There are a lot of TV and movie spoofs. Some of them work and are real funny and others are less funny and don't work so well. Weird Al was really cooking with this insane feature and UHF is real funny, off the wall and creative. "},{"Title":"hit-and-miss stupidity","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Daydreamer George Newman (Weird Al Yankovic) can't hold down a job and gets his best friend Bob (David Bowe) fired as well. Their friend Kuni (Gedde Watanabe) runs a karate school. His uncle Harvey Bilchik wins a rundown UHF TV station Channel 62 in a poker game. His aunt convinces Harvey to make him the manager. He and his girlfriend Teri (Victoria Jackson) go to the station and find the weird engineer Philo (Anthony Geary). Receptionist Pamela Finklestein (Fran Drescher) wants to be a reporter. He goes to meet R.J. Fletcher (Kevin McCarthy), rival owner of Channel 8. Evil Fletcher throws him out. As he leaves, he hires weird janitor Stanley Spadowski (Michael Richards) who was just fired by Fletcher for Fletcher's own mistake. George decides to put on original programming instead of the endless reruns of old shows.This is an excuse for Weird Al to make spoofs of movies and TV shows which he jams into the script. It also allows Michael Richards to go nuts in one of the many crazy TV shows. The comedy is generally at a pretty silly level. The stupidity gets a few laughs but it's mostly hit-and-miss. It's reminiscent of SCTV. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF is very light-hearted and it isn't complex at all. Visual gags come fast, and it's impossible to catch them all! I thought UHF was cute and not bad at all. Filled with charm, innocence and satire -- a nice mix. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The effects are very good for 1989. Yankovic is also a musician who pokes fun at other musicians by rearranging the lyrics to their songs, I am told by friends and family who insist he's a funny guy. "}{"Title":"Nutty Spoof","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Weird' Al Yankovic stars in this comedy based on his wild spoof songs and music videos that made him a cult favorite. He plays George Newman, a daydreaming(and chronically unemployed) man who nonetheless has a beautiful girlfriend(played by Victoria Jackson) who gets frequently upset by his ineptitude. One day, George is given the chance to manage a near-bankrupt UHF TV station that shows old reruns. He hits upon the idea of wild new programming with names like Wheel Of Fish and so on. He even enlists the aid of his janitor Stanley Spadowski(played by Michael Richards) to host a children's program, and is a smash hit! Trouble is, a rival affiliate manager(played by Kevin McCarthy) wants him off the air for good... Wildly uneven spoof comedy has brilliant gags like Gandhi II(a classic) or a very funny performance by Michael Richards. On the other hand, some stuff falls utterly flat indeed, and film isn't strong enough as a whole to make up for it. "},{"Title":"Not bad.  Better fit for its time period than today.","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al is funny. He's also smart and generally respectful to audiences of all ages. Yet he succeeds in light cynicism aimed at those things that annoy us-like commercials, cheesy TV shows and exaggerated scenes in movies. Back in those days, we still had two band selections on the TV and VHF was where all the good programming was. UHF had a lot of channels but only a few were used and people did not switch to UHF often unless they wanted to watch a community channel, church service, foreign language show or some other oddity. You need to understand this before you watch the movie so ask someone older if you are young. Given that, it is a pretty funny idea for a movie and the mock commercials and TV shows are a laugh. True to name, Al finds lots of weird people to play parts in the movie and work with him-some with a touch of late 80's nerdity about them as well. It had a few stretches-like I cannot see a whole bar captivated by a low IQ person lecturing the value of character over a mop. But heck, just like a bum who asks you for change and then gives you back an equal amount of dollars to the coins you gave him, UHF will return your money's worth. "},{"Title":"Silly, Irreverent and Gaudy in All the Best and Worst Possible Ways","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like a living, breathing Weird Al album, this has plenty of highs and lows. I can think of a dozen reasons to hate this movie, but it still inexplicably holds a warm place in my heart. The paper-thin plot, for example, is really only there to serve as a vehicle from one skit or song to the next, like the host of a feature-length variety show. Al must have mingled with the right circles on the comedy scene, though, because an odd blend of before-they-weres fill out UHF's cast Fran Drescher, Victoria Jackson and an especially hyperactive, scene-stealing Michael Richards would all go on to bigger things later in life. It's a cult comedy in the same vein as The Kentucky Fried Movie, in that it does its thing without a care in the world, but outside of a few outstanding, timeless gags and a huge spoonful of heart, it's not really all that good. "},{"Title":"One Laugh After Another","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is just one outrageously funny movie. It moves at a fast pace with one gag after another.Not only that, there's the satires of famous movies -- satires which were long overdue in some cases! The Rambo spoof is worth the price of admission alone!Not only a funny script, but the movie has a great cast. No one but Weird Al could play Neuman and the rest of the cast is excellent. Especially, the casting of Kevin McCarthy as the power mad TV exec was a stroke of inspired genius. His performance alone will have you laughing until it hurts.All in all, this movie is a real gem and a must see. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHFThe hardest part of running a TV station is finding shows offensive enough to incense viewers into tuning in every week to disparage them.Fortunately, the bulk of Channel 62's programming is odious enough to keep viewers shaking their fists at the screen for hours. After his friend (David Bowe) and him, are fired from yet another dead-end job, George (Weird Al Yankovic) finally gets a break when his uncle (Stanley Brock) hires him to run a dilapidated television station that he won in a card game.Given carte blanche with the channel, George makes some immediate changes, including promoting the secretary (Fran Drescher) to reporter, and the janitor (Michael Richards) to children's show host.Weird Al's surreal parody of the visual medium, UHF bends comedy in preposterous ways, with beneficial results.However, it's unnerving to be watching television shows without having advertisements creeping across the bottom of the screen. (Green Light) vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Have Fun with Weird Al","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Imaginative daydreamer Weird Al Yankovic (as George Newman) and pal David Bowe (not Bowie) lose their jobs flipping burgers. Fortunately, Mr. Yankovic's uncle Stanley Brock (as Harvey) wins the deed to UHF TV channel 62 and Yankovic takes over as manager. He decides to switch from reruns of Mr. Ed to weird, all-new programming. Yankovic's original scheduling is a surprise hit, which irks competing station manager Kevin McCarthy (as R.J. Fletcher). Goofy janitor turned TV star Michael Richards (as Stanley Spadowski) is a hilarious highlight. Weird Al and director pal Jay Levey telegraph some very funny physical comedy. And, like the dramatic Network (1976), some of the satire herein is dead-on...******** UHF (7/21/89) Jay Levey ~ 'Weird Al' Yankovic, Michael Richards, David Bowe, Kevin McCarthy "},{"Title":"Don't Worry About Your Laundry, Forget About Your Job, Crank Up The Volume And Yank Off The Nob, We Got It All On UHF.","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Is By Far The Dumbest Movie I've Ever Seen, 2012, Transformers And Armageddon Don't Stand A Chance Anymore, Why Did I Give This 8? Because What The Hell Would You Expect BESIDES The Dumbest Movie Ever Made.Channel 62 Is The Lowest Rated TV Station In Town, Harvey Newman Decides To Hire His Over Imaginative Nephew As The Manager, A Man So Desperate He'll Put Anything On The Air.To Name A Certain Point That Was Considered The Dumbest Part I Could Never Be Able To Fully Justify That Answer, The Add For Ghandi II, Stanley Playing Games With His Kidnappers When They Want To Put A Bullet In His Head, Jason Vorhees On Channel 62's Version Of Jerry Springer, SERIOUSLY I Would Love More Comedies To Be Made Like This, Weird Al Is A Comedic Genius In Both Movie And Music Entertainment.Overall This Is Right Up There With Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back, Monty Python's Life Of Brian & Harold And Kumar Go To White Castle(To Name A Few) As Being The Most Idiotic Movie I've Ever Seen. "},{"Title":"A fun film and Weird Al's only one","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just finished watching the film today for my first time and i have to say it was an enjoyable film. I have been a fan of Weird Al since I was 11 or 12 years old and I consider him one of my favorite actors and singers. I was very excited to finally see Al's only film and I wish he could have done more. Of course he could still do movies today but if UHF had become popular Weird Al could have been in many more films afterwards. Anyway, let me get to the review.So this film is basically a comedy film that tries to parody popular movies throughout the film. It is kind of like a classic Epic Movie or Scary Movie but much, much better. I didn't find everything funny, in fact some of the comedy was just stupid. Thankfully, there were funny moments that I will never forget. The oriental karate guy was hilarious and the spatula city and the buzzsaw scene were pretty funny. The first Uncle Nutzie scene made me laugh because Weird Al and the clown made me have a genuine feeling of sorrow for them because of how bad they failed. Of course, that scene was hilarious as well. There were of course absurd scenes that absolutely was unneeded and there was some below average acting but overrall this was a good movie that i will probably be watching again and again. If Weird Al was not in this film it would have been complete garbage, just saying. "},{"Title":"UHF in German - You Gotta Try This!","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recently bought and watched the DVD of UHF, which I had not seen since its initial release, and my partner and I had such a fun time watching the stoopid antics of Weird Al and gang. As if that wasn't enough, we switched over to the version dubbed into German and watched the whole thing again. Neither of us speak German, nor did we need to. Jay Levey's direction is so well-executed that even without the dialogue, its clear what is happening. I played the film in German at the video store I work at it got a huge response. Pretty much EVERYONE wanted to borrow a copy. YOU MUST TRY THIS! IT'S HILARIOUS! The German actors who lend their voices seem to really understand the comic style of the film because their intonation and emphasis is side-splittingly spot on and even funnier than the original English! Yankovic is no actor and it shows, but hearing his voice dubbed by a professional actor really lifts the material. The DVD also contains versions dubbed into French, Italian and Spanish - which are fun, though not as funny - but this perhaps gives audiences a better indication of the broad appeal of this film. Buy it. Watch it. Laugh out loud! "},{"Title":"The first half is great, the second half loses it.","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF is a riot, and there are parts that will stay with you forever. Weird Al is a great comic talent, all the scenes with him are golden. He even does a music video about the Beverly Hillbillies. Awesome! The movie opens with him doing the best Indiana Jones parody of all time. This is worth buying for that scene alone! So he plays George, a man who's given control of his own TV station by his uncle. George has a few ideas for shows, but none of them are successful until a slow-witted janitor named Stanley (Michael Richards) becomes a character on a kids' show that everyone loves. As the station becomes more popular, you see very hilarious segments such as Wheel of Fish, Conan the Librarian and Ghandi II, just to name a few. They have to be seen to be believed. Pretty soon, the station is #1. And that's when things go downhill... You see, a rival station wants to buy them out, and it's run by an evil boss who has henchmen that carry guns. It's so stupid. So George and Stanley have to raise enough money to save the station, and things start to get unfunny. Kevin McCarthy is annoying as the antagonist, and he puts a stop to all the comedy. Michael Richards is also annoying. His character Stanley is just plain bad, and he gets more screen time than he deserves. After some painful scenes that have zero comedy, Stanley is captured by henchmen, and George rescues him in an excellent Rambo parody, which is funny and refreshing. So as you can probably guess, George's station is eventually saved, but then the movie ends. The plot about trying to save the station has feel-good moments, but it's not funny at all, and the segments stop. I feel that the second half of the movie gives the first half a big middle-finger. So overall, I would recommend this film, but keep in mind that once the station becomes #1, things get disappointing. "}{"Title":"Kind of fun","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is this guy George and he fails at all the jobs that he has (just like me) so then he inherits this old, rusty TV station and brings it back to life. At first it isn't easy taking control of the station until the janitor appears on TV. Then the station blossoms and the rival station doesn't believe it at all.I thought that this was quite a funny movie. It had a lot of things that I wouldn't imagine on TV like the spatula store or the silly game shows. Then there was the love story about George's girlfriend who couldn't take George not having a job. I don't blame her at all. It's a rough economy and hard to get a job even if you have your own mop in hand. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies ever!!","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This one of the best movies ever and when i saw it at my friends house I just had to go out and buy it myself. Weird Al was GREAT in this movie and he was the best person to play Gorge. When Stanly was saying how life was like a mop and some times you have to get down on the floor with a tooth brush and get that stain... that was the best ever. This is really one of the best movies ever and if you had a choice to watch UHF watch it because you will laugh so hard!!! Why wouldn't anyone watch this because I highly recommend this film. I give this film a 10/10 for its greatness and how it was awesome. Greatly done and some of the best actors and actresses in this movie. It is a great movie if you want a laugh. "},{"Title":"Thank you Al!","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF is a great example of what scholars call post-modern entertainment. This kind of stuff you see in South Park, and The Simpsons, but UHF is virtually free of th nasty sarcastic humor which puts off a lot of parents. The real reason to see UHF however is for comedic genius Weird Al Yankovic. For those of you who don't know, he writes parodies of pop songs. His best hits of the 1980's include 'Like a Sugeon', 'Eat it', and 'Fat'. Al plays George Newman, your average loser who can't seem to function in any job he gets, until one day his rich uncle offers him a chance to operate his UHF TV station. At first things don't go so well, until an unlikely turn of events leads to it becoming the #1 station in town. Suddenly there is trouble. George's uncle decides to sell the station to pay off a debt to his nasty boss, George must find a way to save the station with the help of his buddy Bob and TV star/ Janitor Stanley Spedouski.There are so many kinds of jokes in UHF ranging from Monty Python type absurdities (ex. Wheel of Fish), to film parodies, including Blazing Saddles, Gone with the Wind, Raiders of the Lost Arc, and Star Wars.UHF is practically a family comedy, except for some occasional mature humor, which might not be suitable for little kids. Ages ten and up is probably appropriate for UHF. Whether you are a Weird Al fan or not, you may find this a lovable film. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny and I mean actual funny not fake funny","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Boy this is stupid comedy, ideal for beer, pizza, and a real no brainer evening.The surprise is that is works. It's kind of like Airplane in its approach lots of little sketches around the theme of TV. It even gets satirical in places, but always remains as stupid as it can be.Wacky without being crude this is a surprisingly fun watch and honestly stands the test of time pretty well.It should be much better know than it is - perhaps it's just because it stars Weird Al that it's been passed over. A whole host of stars that went to much bigger and better things makes this a fun watch.All in all weird, eclectic, stupid, and yes, laugh out loud funny, a very very dumb movie - and that I say with a smile on my face... "},{"Title":"Leave It To Weird Al...","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Leave it to musical parody genius Weird Al Yankovic to come up with this wildly crazy and funny send-up. Yankovic is George Newman, a likable enough guy who just hasn't quite gotten his act together. Then out of the blue he and bud David Bowe are given the chance to turn around a low-rent local TV station. Humorously (and predictably) the ratings go through the roof with odd creations like Conan the Librarian, Raul's Wild Kingdom and Stanley Spadowski's Playhouse, the latter complete with a pre-Seinfeld Michael Richards playing a Kramer-like goofball.Yankovic is terrific in this, his starring debut, and shows a natural knack for a wide range of comedy that he should really bring to the big screen more often. The film is ripe with memorable parodies and great visuals (Richards pulls a foot-long booger from his nose and Yankovic is flattened into a pancake during a RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK parody). Some of the humor is stupid, like the sight of Conan the Librarian chopping an overdue-book holder in half; while some of it you may have to watch twice to catch or fully appreciate.In a lot of ways, UHF is like one of Yankovic's songs. You can watch it time and time again and still laugh, even if you're not always sure why. "},{"Title":"Typical 80s Humor","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A movie where Weird Al Yankovic is the star? Yea, thats what happened in 1989s UHF. Weard Al stars as a rather stupid guy who inherits a television station, and then turns it into one of the highest rated networks around.At first, he was working in a fast food joint, but daydreams too much and he is fired, along with a friend. But after he inherits UHF, he develops and redevelops TV shows that are insanely funny and sometimes raunchy, but in the end, are top rated.Who knew Weird Al could ever star in his own movie. Much like the humor from Mel Brooks and the Monty Python gang, he keeps us laughing throughout. He even wrote some of the music used in the film! After great consideration, I give this film an 8. "},{"Title":"I still watch cable access...","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sure, it's a dumb farce that looks like it was made on a shoestring budget, but heck if this isn't a fun movie to watch. The more people in the audience the better. Dozens of film and TV parodies are sprinkled throughout the movie - stand outs are the Conan the Librarian bit and the Wheel of Fish.You can trade your red snapper for what's in the box. Let's see what's in the box! NOTHING! ABSOLUTELY NOTHING! STUPID! YOU SO STUPID!It's just scene after scene of ridiculousness, and it comes so fast you don't care if some jokes fall flat because there's something right after it to pick up the slack. This was Weird Al Yankovic's big shining moment in Hollywood and while a part of me wants to see him back in the movies, there's also a part of me that wants UHF to stand on its own. The writing is only as good as it has to be to create opportunities for more movie parodies. THere is a plot, but it's largely unimportant. Come to see Weird Al as a mustachioed Rambo, stay for Michael Richards' insane, mop-toting children's show host.http//www.movieswithmark.com "},{"Title":"King of the skit","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al Yankovic's feature film debut is basically a spoof of the more popular action movies of recent times, such as Rambo First Blood Part Two and Indiana Jones. The plot meanwhile (co-written by Weird Al himself with director Jay Levey) turns out to be fairly weak and it is only the send ups in between that will keep a smile on most viewers faces.Watch for the opening Raiders scene and 'Stanley Spudowsky's Club House', the definite highlights from this Vidiot from UHF! Keep a look out also for Victoria Jackson, Kevin McCarthy and some other big names from television.Saturday, November 2, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated Stupid movies ever!","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just about everything about this movie is just plain stupid/hilarious. The only reason this movie tanked in theatres is because it came out the same week as Indiana Jones & the Last Crusade, The original Batman movie and another blockbuster, (don't remember which is was) and it just got crushed by those films. This to me goes in the same class of movies as the classics Strange Brew, A Christmas Story, Dumb & Dumber, and The Jerk. If you like those sorts of movies you will love this film. There is really just a dumb plot in place in order to spoof all sorts of films, and make really funny plain ol' ridiculous situations. Granted Weird Al ain't much of an actor, but it doesn't make much of a difference. You also get to see how Michael Richards really got his start before his role as Kramer in Seinfeld came around. I think that all that enjoy really stupid yet funny movies, with cheap budgets, and pretty dumb pointless plots, will think this is just great. Granted maybe the first time you see this you might not think it's all that funny, but if you see a few more times, especially with friends and others that have your sense of humor, you will get this film and laugh at it every time you see it. Just like people watch It's a Wonderful Life, every Christmas, this can be watched every year as well. Enjoy this corny classic, I know I do every year. "},{"Title":"Some where along the lines of Pee  Wee's big adventure","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'll start by saying I'm a fan of Weird Al Yankovik. Now to the movie. I liked this, it's funny in a way that you can't really put your finger on what's so funny. The acting isn't the best but it's a comedy so in a way acting isn't that big a deal (at least in my mind). It's not bad acting, just kinda standard. Yes, Micheal Richards stars in this. I have to say he adds a lot. There are some really funny moments in this, like one part with Richards and one that mocks Rambo (that was really funny). Some of the laughs seem a little cheesy, but some (including me) may find them funny. There's music videos in the film, that you may or may not find funny. To be honest, if you like Weird Al's music you will probably laugh at must of this stuff. It's good for the kids and adults may even find themselves laughing. If there's another Weird Al movie I'll be out to see it. "}{"Title":"UHF is a sweet movie.","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF is Weird Als only movie that he starred in. It is about George Newman who gets Channel 62 from his Uncle and that leads to a funny movie that has everything a spoof needs like making fun if dialog, making fun the movies plot holes and the number of spoofs there is enormous and very funny. Weird Al Yankovic is a funny guy in this movie and seems to know what he is doing being a big screen star and should have done quite a few more in my opinion. Overall I think this movie is hilarious and if you happen to see a copy of it some place then you should get it and you will not be disappointed as long as you like Weird Al Yanovics songs and hard core spoofs. So 84% "},{"Title":"One Of the Funniest Films I Ever Seen","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm a fan of Weird Al Yankovic, and I never heard of him having a movie until my friend saw it and recommended me to see it, so I rented it, and let me tell you, it's one of the funniest films I ever seen. The second most important thing you need in a comedy is timing, and that's what good, funny, comedy's have, like Klay World or Abbot and Costello, well, with good jokes, timing was perfect most of the time, the only thing that had bad timing was the Rambo First Blood 2 parody, which should have belonged in the middle. It's not the best film I ever seen, but it's one of the funniest. It's a perfect bored-Saturday-night film. It's just plain hilarious. "},{"Title":"We Got It All On UHF!","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first heard of UHF, I had become so unbelievably obsessed with Weird Al Yankovic that, as I watched it, I just wanted, really wanted it to be good. So of course I was ecstatic that UHF was everything I was told it was and more! Weird Al delivers every joke brilliantly as George Newman, the daydreaming man who goes from job to job, failing miserably at everything because he is, well, just too creative. However, when his uncle gets hold of a UHF TV station 'U62', he needs someone to run it. And, of course, George is the man to do it! However, the station's existing programmes aren't doing so well. Could George save the station by starting a show involving a clown and some dog biscuits? Well, frankly, no, but could a workaholic, child-trapped-in-a-man's body janitor save the day? Well, you'll have to watch UHF to find out. And if you're a fan of modern comedy, spoofs such as Scary Movie, you'll definitely love UHF - Al got here first! Plus, George's daydream sequences are too good to be missed! Watch Al skulk around as Rambo, see him transformed into a perfect pixellated image during the Beverly Hilbillies sequence! We got it all on UHF! "},{"Title":"great movie, would have been better with larger budget","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think this movie was good, i mean i actually think it sucked but i ruined all the funny parts with youtube so when i add them together it was really good, i think a better budget would have made this movie 50% better. I think people in the late 80's had no sense of humor, i showed this at school and just like the detailed graph of ratings the guys really liked it, most of the girls didn't but it was still really good.P.S. it seems a lot like Napolian Dynamite which was really popular considaring it budget and acting, it was all just haha retarded funny, just like UHF, does anyone no which had a larger budget? "},{"Title":"Good fun and original","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not a lengthy review here. But I really enjoyed this film when it first came out - it had me in tears. I watched it recently and it's still funny. Although a little dated, it's originality probably keeps it watchable. What I really noticed in this film is that it's possible to be funny a) without having every second word begin with F b) without being crude c) without being worried about political correctnessand most importantly, it's possible to make a wacky film that isn't stupid, pointless and eye-rolling-ly moronic provided that you have originality. Gets a thumbs up from me - a person who believes that, since the turn on the millennium, very few good comedies have been made. "},{"Title":"Sit back, shut your brain off, and enjoy","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only reason I never saw this movie in the theater was because I was too young to drive. However, when I was finally able to see it on video, I thought This is stupid. The second time I watched it, I liked it more, and the more I watched it, the more I liked it. When I saw it available on DVD, I snatched it up right away. UHF is one of those movies that you can simply sit down with a bag of popcorn and a soda and and have some fun while your brain shuts down. I've always enjoyed movies like this, and being that I'm a big Weird Al fan made this movie that much greater. Full of sight gags, slapstick, and hilarious parodies, this is a movie for those who know how to not take themselves seriously. "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a Weird Al fan, I was dying to see this movie - now that I have, I was not disappointed! This movie is very cleverly produced and for only being an hour and half, it's well-paced and rarely boring. The humour is original and clean, with a variety thrown in. It has the right balance of mostly laughs with a little touchy feely parts. Each actor was perfect for their roles, too! Being that Al is a musician, you might think that the movie is a musical with his hilarious songs every fifteen minutes - but only three of the actual songs from the original soundtrack are used.So I stress, it's a great movie and I will definitely watch it again and again! "},{"Title":"Weird Al's TV Station","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes this movie tanked at the box office, and yes it was panned by critics, but I still found this movie hilarious! I have been a fan of Weird Al Yankovic since the beginning and he never fails to disappoint. The premise of the movie is simple, George Neuman (Yankovic) is a daydreamer who goes from job to job until he becomes the manager at a UHF TV station owned by his Uncle Harvey who won it in a poker game. With the help of his buddy Bob(David Bowe) and janitor turned TV star Stanley Spadowski(Michael Richards) The TV station becomes number 1 in the ratings. This does not make R.J. Fletcher of network affiliate channel 8 happy as he is losing money and ratings because of UHF channel 62, but because of Uncle Harveys gambling debts he attempts to buy the station and turn it into a parking lot. So its up to George, Teri(Victoria Jackson) Stanley and Bob to find a way to raise the money to save the station. George runs wild with ideas for new shows which are some of the funniest scenes in a movie, such as Wheel of Fish, Stay fit with Mike and Spike, and my personal favorite Rauls Wild Kingdom. The movie's cast includes legendary actor Kevin McCarthy and the late great Billy Barty. Also, be sure to catch a cameo by comedian Emo Phillips in an extremely funny scene. UHF is one station to tune into. "},{"Title":"I love this film!!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a fan of Al's.I was unable to see this film in the theater in 1989 due of the death of my grandfather.Would have loved to have seen it there.Loved it from start to finish.First, the Raiders of the Lost Ark parody. Love, love, loved it!! Gandhi 2. I will play that over & over as well.God cast, all of these C list actors in it.Was glad to get it widescreen/letter box on the DVD.Will always watch it when it comes on TV.Find the marble in the oatmeal. Wheel of fish.I would NOT surprises if a network would put these type of shows on their networks. "},{"Title":"Weird Al takes his hilarious humor to the big screen","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie stars Weird Al Yankovic as George Newman a person who can't keep a steady job because his wacky imagination keeps getting him fired. When his uncle wins a deserted UHF channel station in a poker game he gives control over to George. George has to compete with a rival station run by R J Flecther played by Kevin McCarthy. When the station janitor Stanley Spadowski played by Michael Richards (Kramer of Seinfeld) get on camera it turns out to be a success along with whole bunch of other interesting shows such as Bowling for Burgers, Strip Solitaire, Mud Wrestling with Celebrities, Wheel of Fish, Conan the Librearian and Rauls Wild Kingdom. When George's uncle loses a lot of money on a horse race he needs money to pay his gambling debts. RJ Fletcher decides to buy the land that the station is on and shut it down. Now George has to get the money to his uncle before RJ Flether shuts down the station by running a pledgeathon. This movie is very funny. It is even funnier if you buy the DVD and listen to the commentary done by director jay Levey and weird Al himself. The movie spoofs many films such as Indiana Jones, The treasure of sierra madre and Gone with the Wind. The movie also stars Victoria Jackson, David Bowe, Fran Dresher and Billy Barty. Good Movie! "}{"Title":"gimme a steak, medium rare.....","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" George Newman is a normal man. Problem is, he's also a daydreamer, who can't keep hold of a steady job.His uncle decides George will be the perfect man to manage Channel 62, a station which is losing money and viewers fast.George's imagination is put to good use and he starts thinking up bizarre shows such as Wheels of Fish and Raul's Wild Kingdom.The ratings start to soar again, but not everyone is happy...The first time I saw this movie, I thought it was genius and very ahead of it's time.Twenty years later, whilst I still enjoy it's child like, inane humour, it grates on me just when the Beverly Hillbillies song is performed.I'm not denying that Yankovic is a genius, he really is, but some of this film drags so much, you are at times itching for the remote.Performances are average of the eighties, as is the hair.Maybe it's me, i'm getting old, but it just didn't have the same effect as it did back in 1989.Wish I had those rose tinted specs. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Fun Films Ever Made","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Generally I rate a film on its technical merits, acting, directing and so on... but here I am giving the film an 8 despite the fact the acting is cheesy and there is nothing really amazing about the directing or effects.This is just a good, fun movie that spoofs a lot of old movies and tells a lighthearted tale at the same time. Michael Richards -- before Seinfeld  -- makes a fascinating character out of Stanley Spadowski, and Weird Al is just being himself, which is all he has to do.I think the film is a bit funnier if you get the references... there are obvious ones like Rambo and Raiders of the Lost Ark, but a surprising amount of older references (such as Treasure of the Sierra Madre) that many younger viewers may not aware of. "},{"Title":"Typical Yankovic Fun","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF (1989, Dir. Jay Levey) George Newman is a normal man. Problem is, he's also a daydreamer, who can't keep hold of a steady job. His uncle decides George will be the perfect man to manage Channel 62, a station which is losing money and viewers fast. George's imagination is put to good use and he starts thinking up bizarre shows such as Wheels of Fish and Raul's Wild Kingdom. The ratings start to soar again, but not everyone is happy.It must be noted that 'Weird' Al Yankovic is one of the few comedians at the moment, who do not include filth as entertainment. His songs he creates are perfect for any age, and this film, even after 18 years, still include the zany humour that Yankovic is well known for. The acting isn't Oscar nominated acting, but still good and fits in with the tone of the movie. Some scenes could be cringe worthy but there are some clever jokes made. His movie spoofs which are included in the film are the highlight. You just wish for more to appear. I don't think it's everyones taste in comedy, but you should give it a go. If you haven't heard his music before, i do recommend you give some tracks a listen, as it is very smart music making.Hey Stanley. How would you like your own TV show? - George Newman (Al Yankovic) "},{"Title":"A comedy by Weird Al Yankovic, in his style directed towards his fans","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a comedy by Weird Al Yankovic, in his style directed towards his fans... for better or for worse. His particular brand of hilarity makes for a real treat for any fan of his... however, unless you submerge yourself entirely into the mind-state of it, you'll find yourself moaning almost as often as laughing... and for some people, the moaning will be constant, probably followed by simply turning the film off. This is not a film for everyone; despite my having been a fan of Al for about a third of my life, I was bored watching this film more often than not. There are some of the best moments of movie parodying in this... unlike many spoof flicks, they are not marred by the implication of low-brow humor and overdone gags. Most of the humor works perfectly. Only few jokes and gags are overplayed or don't work. Of course, again, it requires that you enjoy Al's humor, so many won't like this film at all. The plot is pretty standard stuff... underdog fights to make something of himself. The plot develops like you'd expect it to, no real surprises. Of course, neither director nor writers are veterans at this... since they are basically Al himself and his manager. That ensures that the film is full of one thing... Al. There is so much Al in this film that it's bursting with Al. It's an Al-bomb. There is plenty of Al for everyone. Anyone who likes Al should get this movie for that very reason. I dare any fan of him to watch this and not laugh. No matter how bad of a mood you're in. The acting is pretty good. The characters are well-written, though most of them are essentially stereotypes. The comedy is mostly very good. The many tiny Al-moments, many of them barely involved in the actual plot keeps you viewing. Sometimes just to see what he comes up with next. This is one to watch for every fan of Al. Put it on, sit back, laugh, cry, find yourself wondering how he ever got allowed to make such a movie. I recommend this to any fan of Al, great or small. Go watch it right now. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Good Movie","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al Yankovic did a great job in UHF for never acting in a movie before in all his life. He has had successful songs and a great musician career. Michael Richards appearing in this as the weird, yet funny Stanley Spadowski. Fran Drescher was a surprise in definitely. Weird Al with that perm is really hard to attract a women. So it is hard to see how Victoria Jackson played his girlfriend in this. It must have been hard to act like you like him. But she was put in the role and she wanted to cast for it.It was stupid but I liked it a lot. I was only 18 when it came out and I didn't see it right then. I think I saw it in 1991. "},{"Title":"Feel-Good Hilarity for the Whole Family!!","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Serious Weird Al fans should view this film weekly (and usually do). Casual fans, at least yearly. Not familiar with Weird Al? I'd recommend listening to his Greatest Hits CDs, then screening this fine film for a crowd of your loved ones. Appropriate for all ages, this movie parodies nearly every genre of TV, some big-hit movies, and one Dire Straights tune, but it's more than just parodies. It's a true feel-good film...great characters that you care about getting in over their heads and then triumphing over rotten bad guys by using their imaginations and working together. The cast is extraordinary... Michael Richards, best known as Kramer from Seinfeld, is utterly perfect as a lonely man-child whose natural silliness makes him the perfect kids-show host. Weird Al Yankovic stars as George, a chronic daydreamer who's given one chance to run a small UHF TV station, which allows him to, as girlfriend Teri (SNL vet Victoria Jackson) puts it, let that overactive imagination work FOR (him) instead of against (him). Fran Drescher puts in a charming performance as an amateur anchorwoman, and Gedde Watanabe is inspired as a karate teacher who is a friend and neighbor to George as well as a really handy guy to have around. The rest of the cast fill their roles flawlessly in this broad comedy. If you enjoy the random silliness of Monty Python, UHF is likely to crack you up. "},{"Title":"A hilarious classic. The most underrated movie of all times.","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF has, i think, a 1.5 star rating. When you watch this movie, you have to have a mindset that its a cheesy, low-budget film written by a guy that does parodies of modern, hit music. People that are rating movies nowadays (or in this case, 1989) look at how professional the film is. How it meets Oscar's standards. The people going out and watching UHF need to be watching it with a more open-mind. Look at a more recent classic, Napoleon Dynamite. It's written by the same kind of people with the same kind of ideas as the ones who wrote UHF, but barely anyone cares, or cared about this movie, which, to me and many people i know, rated higher on our scales. Also, this movie is very clean other than some random, mildly violent scenes. If there was a PG-9 rating, UHF would get it. "},{"Title":"A Comedy that is always a hit but people always miss","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al Yankovic's first and probably only main starring role in this comedy is a great one. His look on TV is more twisted than most of the crappy reality shows we have today.The music,the parodies, the acting..it's all here on UHF. Watch poodles fly,people get cut in half, and even watch a little girl take on Satan on a talk show..yes you can't see anything else like that on any other movie.Really can't say much more about this...except go watch it..and laugh yourself silly...it's one very funny movie and you most likely won't be disappointed (unless you fail to have a sense of humor) "},{"Title":"A parody that parodies itself","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nobody who's a fan of Weird Al Yankovik will be at all surprised by this movie - he does what he does best, which is parody.What may surprise is the wide spectrum of movies, television, and music that he parodies here - some vidiot gave Weird Al a platform that was longer than 4 minutes, and he ran with it. He mocks television shows, but sidesteps into movie parodies, music video parody, even classic movie line parody (Badges? We don't need no stinkin' badges gets the treatment as well) gets Weird Al's treatment.If you don't like his songs, you won't like this movie - if you do like his sense of humor, you'll love what he can do on the big screen. The plot is okay, but pretty much immaterial - you'll laugh. "},{"Title":"It's not your usual comedy!","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My brother used to be a big fan of Weird Al Yankovic. So when this movie came out, Thinking it would be another long skits of videos and such. But minus the accordion, it's nothing out the ordinary. Here's George(Weird Al) a down and out dreamer, very reality challenged, and most likely a moaner. When he buys a UHF station, he thinks he hits the jackpot. Indeed he does, getting all the right people, his station is a hit. The goofy janitor(Michael Richards, before he was TV's Cosmo Kramer on Seinfeld), Fran Drescher(Saturday Night Fever, and before The Nanny), the late Billy Barty, and everyone else in between. There you have Kevin McCarthy, the tyrannical Mr. Fletcher. He runs his local station with an iron fist. But when his popularity runs south, he'll go to extremes to get back his status. So when this two-facer tries to air his special report, the real Fletcher is exposed. And when the $75,000 is made, think its over for Fletcher? WELL THINK AGAIN! The FCC axes his on-air privileges, and a viewer gets him in the jewels. Nobody likes two-faced person here. This movie is all the way funny, and parodists should get into the comedy and enjoy the raucous comedy. 3 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"UHF changed my sense of humor and outlook on movies!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  UHF was incredible! Weird Al dominated in the movie and made me want my own TV station! Michael Richards AKA Cosmo Kramer played an Oscar Winning role as Stanly the janitor and caused the American people to fall in love with him and his incredible acting skills! I watched the movie one night with my friends and I'm proud to say it brought many laughs and tears of joy to our living room and to our lives! I give this movie 2 thumbs up, 5 stars, and a 10 on any movie scale! I don't know how this movie isn't more talked about in our society! If you have any doubts in buying/seeing this movie I hope my truthful thoughts and opinions well secure those feelings! Have a great day and remember; Jesus Christ saves!!  "},{"Title":"A *real* feel-good movie","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a standard start-to-finish comedy, UHF may disappoint and/or be overtly cheesy for some.  This is probably why all of the critics went out of their way to pan it.  Their loss.This film is a hilarious pastiche of zany sketches and humour.  It's not one of those watch it start-to-finish films but it's a must purchase for the best scenes (the TV show parodies in particular) and the director's commentary (Weird Al is both hilarious and insightful in this role). What's more, UHF is a comedy that is rare in today's time  it knows it's a comedy and doesn't take itself seriously or try to appear hip.  It's unapologetically goofy and that's why it never ceases to make me smile when I watch it.  It doesn't matter how cynical I get towards life or TV/movies in general, I watch UHF and laugh & smile.  So the critics can go on frowning at this all they like but I'll keep laughing and waiting for something on television to match the hilarity of Uncle Nutzy's Clubhouse.Time to take a trip to Spatula City... "},{"Title":"UHF","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the funniest underground films ever made finds day dreaming lunkhead Weird Al gaining control of a UHF station and, with a little help from his friends (most notably a pre-Kramer Michael Richards), he turns it into the hottest station in town! But will he be crushed by the evil tyrant who controls the main station, RJ Fletcher (Kevin McCarthy, hero of the 1950s cult movie Invasion of the Body Snatchers)?Full of great gags about the world of TV, films and miscellaneous off the wall humor, this is a gem of cult film-making. Everyone is pretty much funny and Victoria Jackson is most cute. Best bits include - Conan the Librarian, Rambo parody, Raiders of the Lost Ark parody, Ghandi II, and the ballad of Jed Clampett (from the Beverly Hillbillies).  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film like 12 years ago and laughed my hiny off. Since then sadly I've been unable to find it anywhere, which is a big pity since I would really like to have it on DVD - or even VHS for that matter..Weird Al did a parody which even other parody films like Naked Gun and Scary Movie in any way can like up to. I sincerely wonder how come his career never became bigger than it did. The man is without a shred of doubt of the biggest comedic geniuses in the world. A hilarious film from start till end, back then I watched it like 20 times and never grew tired of it. Definitely recommend it!8/10  "},{"Title":"A different kind of funny, not for everyone, but one of my favorites!","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is Weird Al's first foray into video besides his many music videos, and it shows, but if you don't mind a mindless, irreverent comedy then you'd better pick this up! Spirited parodies abound in this movie about George Newman (Yankovic) getting his own UHF(Ultra High Frequency) TV station, U62. Sure, the storyline is hackneyed and a little dry, but it's a parody so that's the point, it pokes fun at all of those 80's Save our business/team/station movies. This movie also sports an all-star cast including Micheal Richards (Seinfeld), Fran Drescher (The Nanny), Trinidad Silva (who sadly died during the filming), and David Bowe (NOT David Bowie). I would recommend this to anyone with a sense of humor that can take it a couple steps down the IQ ladder. I'd especially recommend this to weird al fans. I hope you enjoyed my first review.  "},{"Title":"Still fun after all these years...","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that i loved when i was younger and so i was afraid that i wouldn't like it at all when i saw it again. Luckily that wasn't the case and i still think it is really funny. Weird Al plays the deadbeat but good at heart Georg Newman who can't hold a job to save his life. He gets the chance to try and save a tv channel and this is where the movie begins to take off. Michael Richards plays the role of Stanley Spadowski who gets fired from the evil tv station led by Kevin McCarthy. The thing i like about this movie is that it spoof other famous movies. Also they have some crazy tv shows that i would like to see in real life ) Favorite memorable quote George Newman Lesbian nazi hookers abducted by UFOs and forced into weight loss programs---all next week on Town Talk. I rate this movie 7/10 "},{"Title":"Totally Al-riffic","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Many folks find themselves laughing out loud at Al's latest song or video -- at least, the first time they experience it.  They might later claim he's stupid or not funny, afraid possibly of being labeled a fan.  They might avoid UHF in the belief that it's just an extended Al video.Their loss.'UHF' is one of those movies that had a miserable, worthless existence in the theater, shunned by the masses.  The recognition of its genius was slow to arrive, but the movie did eventually find cult status on video and cable. The reason, simply It's hilarious.Part Naked Gun and part Al video, with plenty of sight gags, this is the kind of movie that only Al could make.  Wheel Of Fish and Conan the Librarian are funnier than they have any right to be, and just wait until you see Raul's Wild Kingdom.The cast of 'UHF' seems almost prescient in retrospect; Fran Drescher and Michael Richards made memorable co-stars before they struck gold on network TV.  Richards, especially, is hilarious as janitor-turned-TV host Stanley Spadowski.  He's brilliant, better than anyone else in the movie and better even than the material he's given.Although ostensibly a dig at TV, 'UHF' actually lampoons movies and commercials far more effectively, with hilarious send-ups of 'Raiders of the Lost Ark', 'Ghandi' and 'Rambo First Blood Part II'.But enough.  I've already wasted too many words describing a movie that just needs to be seen.  If you absolutely hate Al, or 'Airplane'-type movies, then avoid 'UHF'.  Anyone else who just wants to laugh (a lot) needs to give it a look. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This comedy tells the story of a not so good tv station. It is failing. When it is they are going to pull the plug,they get a janitor brillantly played by Michael Richards to fill in in a childrens show. He is a complete sucess,and they soon get other crazy shows. Wheel of Fish,Conan The Librarian Lol. But the bigger station will have nothing to do with this,so it is war between them. Which leads to some hilarious scenes.3.5/4 "},{"Title":"UHF is an unsung masterpiece, NOW ON DVD!!!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For many, this film is not funny, interesting or worth the time to watch, though for the roughly ten percent of us out here who hold the opposite opinion, this film is a real treat, made even sweeter on DVD. I had taped this film off cable back in 1990, and honestly I must of watched it fifty times in the interim between then and now, laughing my head off with each viewing, of course. I must know half the lines by heart, and could improvise the rest with some cueing. If you like spoof movies this film is an absolute must see! I personally think this works better than every spoof-movie that has come out since, including Scary Movie and the Naked Gun sequels. The reason I think it works for me is that it was done by two Hollywood outsiders on a shoestring budget with no pretensions in the film whatsoever. Say what you may, but in his prime Weird Al was a comic genius and to this day he can make me laugh, even if I only have one CD of his (UHF soundtrack, OF Course!), as a kid I had stacks of tapes featuring such classics as Christmas At Ground Zero and Yoda, which I of course wore through by about the time I taped this film in 1990. This movie is made so much more exciting on DVD due to Al's running commentary with his friend/producer/UHF Director Jay Levey. Commentators should all be this entertaining. 9/10 stars, folks "},{"Title":"You can't say it's not original!","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Call it crazy, call it low-brow, but you can't call it unoriginal.  Weird Al co-wrote and stars in this offbeat comedy which showcases a lot of his offbeat humor.  I'm glad it became a cult classic.  My friend and I love to quote lines from the film, especially You're so stupiddddd!!!!  Michael Richards is very funny in one of his earlier roles.  It's a way different character than Kramer, and he's just as great as Stanley Spidowski.  There are a couple of memorable, though weird (they don't call him Weird Al for nothing), gags that are enjoyable even on repeat viewings. UHF is not a hilarious comedy, but it's funny, original and inspired. My score  7 (out of 10)     "}{"Title":"Almost-smart fun","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" How to take over a TV station, lose your girlfriend and succeed in business without really trying?  If the phrase Weird Al movie doesn't put you off completely, there's lots to enjoy in this, including a parody of the Money for Nothin' video so good that even Mark Knopfler participates.  If you don't like the joke, wait a minute and there'll be three more for you to choose from.  It's aged well.A special note for DVD fanatics - if you're tired of directors not putting any effort into their commentaries, Yankovic floods you with details about every performer, every set and sometimes the history of each punch line.  He also mercilessly taunts the director for poor camera angles, odd cuts and continuity errors - as Jay Levy takes it without complaint.  There may be too much detail, but at least he's working hard to please, as usual - starting from his lyrics for the old Orion logo.  "},{"Title":"Kick off your sneakers, stick around for a while!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the funniest movies ever made. Period. (Attention I might spoil without realizing, so consider yourself warned.)Alfred Matthew Yankovic ('Weird Al' to ye plebians *grin*) turns out an unexpectedly good performance, dramatically.  We all knew he could be funny, but UHF showed that Al could act too!Victoria Jackson entertained us, then irritated us, for years on SNL. In UHF, she plays her part without annoying the audience, and there was much rejoicing. Yay.I'd never heard of Kevin McCarthy before this film, but I wish I had.  He plays R.J. Fletcher perfectly, almost like a comic book villan or something!Michael Richards. If you say Kramer, I will have to hurt you. Richards IS Stanley Spadowski! That is all, thank you!Some may consider the plot of UHF 'cheesy' or 'cliched', to which I would have to quote Weird Al, who said, It wasn't really about that, it was just an excuse to be goofy!  Amen, Al. Amen.  Goofiness is this man's business, and business is good.Just clearing things up for a few people, the plot is about a TV station, not a radio station.  Al's character doesn't take it over, he's hired by his uncle, the owner.  The shows aren't lame, they're just weird.  Stanley wasn't put on TV arbitrarily, he was put on desprately.  UHF isn't terrible, it's hilarious.  Of course you'd have to be weird to like this movie, it's 'WEIRD' Al Yankovic!  To those to whom that paragraph applies, YOU SO STUPID!To everyone else, sorry about that. Now, let's go teach poodles to fly, okay?(Note to self Try a Twinkie-weiner sandwich sometime soon.) "},{"Title":"The greatest movie ever made.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No dirty sexual reference. No bloodly, objectional bathroom humor. What it is, is FUNNY. You wouldnt hesitate watching this one with the kids, despite the PG-13 rating. Fans of Al's musical satires (like myself) will enjoy the hell out of it. "},{"Title":"A nice, fun, warm and good parody-film","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my favourites. I usually watch it when I'm sick. (I can't count all the time I watched it.)The story may be a little traditional, and the women may sometimes not be as modern as I would like (but hey, this is an american movie, so what do you expect? -). But I like it because it is a good parody film, and you tend to like all the persons inside it. Your really do. Very much in fact.Some scenes are so good they still makes me laugh...It makes you feel glad and it makes you happy. I love it. "},{"Title":"UHF 9/10","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before I begin, I have to say that I love Weird Al Yankovic and his parodies. I have most of his CDs, and they're a hoot. With that said, let me begin.UHF was released in 1989, but went out of print around 1996, making the VHS version very hard to find. I had to buy one from eBay for around $40. And now, the DVD is out where you can get it for less that $10! A lot of critics don't like it, but I find it very funny.UHF starts off as a funny parody of Raiders of the Lost Ark with Al going into a cave for a hidden treasure (an Oscar, as we see). That turns out to be just a fantasy sequence; we see Al as an employee of Big Edna's Burger World. He, along with his friend Bob (David Bowe), get fired Al's character George Newman burns fries and insults Big Edna.We then learn that Al can't keep a job and his girlfriend Teri's (SNL's Victoria Jackson) relationship with him is strained. George's uncle Harvey (Stanley Brock) gives him a small UHF station, channel 62, that he won from a poker game.Basically, the rest of the movie is about UHF's zany hi-jinks and shows. Kevin McCarthy gives a great comedic performance as the president of network Channel 8, that feels threatened, because with U62's wacky shows, they're getting more viewers. Some of U62's shows include Conan the Libraian, Celibrity Mud Wrestling, and The Volcano Worshipers Hour. Along the way, Michael Richards comes in as janitor Stanley Spadowski, who is the funnies part of the movie. Stanley is just a big kid himself, telling Mr. Coyote to watch out! while watching cartoons.Stanley gets his own hit show, Stanley Spadowski's Clubhouse, that everybody loves. Along with Stanley, George gets some other people to do shows, like his friend Kuni (Gedde Watanabe) who hosts Wheel of Fish, and Raul, who hosts Raul's Wild Kingdom, where he teaches poodles how to fly! All of UHF's humor is basically in the shows that U62 produces. But Channel 8 is very funny with R.J. Fletcher's (president of Channel 8's) son Richard's relationship to U62 cameraman Noodles MacIntosh (Billy Barty, who you may remember as a munchkin from The Wizard of Oz), and the hobo is memorable.So if you want a laugh-out-loud-and-you-can't-stop movie, rent, or better, buy, UHF. The commentary by Al and director Jay Levey is great, maybe the best commentary I've ever heard. Al knows tidbits of the addresses of the locations to every cut scene. A few guests come into the studio during the commentary; it's worth a listen!My rating 9/10Rated PG-13 for cartoony violence. "},{"Title":"Weird Al has that name for a reason!  Great Fun!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films that I saw back when I was a young kid and have such fond memories of.  Even now, the film still stands just as well as it did back then.  The film is absolutely hilarious!!!  There are so many great scenes in this film I don't even know where to start, and a great deal of film nods and spoofs.Weird Al Yankovic and Jay Levey did a fantastic job with this film!  I have to mention Michael Richards, in one of his best roles ever, perhaps even better than Kramer, you be the judge.  David Bowe, Fran Dresher, Victoria Jackson and Bill Bary deserve some special notice, but the rest of the cast is great as well!If you're a fan of slapstick comedies (although, there isn't a great deal of slapstick comedy in this film) or just a fan of strange and bizarre comedies, then this is the movie for you.  Like I said this is one of those films that has a special little place in my heart, so I truly hope that you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Weird Al + Michael Richards = Genius","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Probably one of the funniest comedy's ever. Weird Al Yankovic's crazy humor makes the transition to the silver screen in a perfect fashion. This is most of the time work of pure genius. And on top stands Michael Richards with the best performance I've ever seen him do. Sure, Kramer is the main reason I watched Seinfeld, but his Stanley Spadowski-character in this movie is even better! This is a true classic! Maybe not for everyone, but you should try it out! "},{"Title":"Weird, wacky, bizarre.  Great fun.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is Weird Al's only film.  Hey, who needs a plot when you've got Al, a plethora of characters, a lot of spoofs, craziness, and a whole lotta laughs! (at times, unintended too)Al's pretty much himself in this one.  I think his best parts are when his voice squeals in a high pitch from out of nowhere!  How can you not love Raul's Wild Kingdom?  Billy Barty as the cameraman!  Emo is the  Bob Villa of UHF!  Kuni as a game show host!  Fran Drescher with a much diminished accent!  TOPS goes to Michael Richards whose Stanley Spadowski steals almost every scene he's in!  He is nuts and this was way before Kramer.  Who else can have so much fun getting a cereal toy?  WACKY!!Don't forget about the many show spoofs!  From Indiana Jones (watch for Al's part here- it's disARMing), to Spatula City, Secrets of the Universe, Wheel of Fish, Rambo (always a laugh for me - come to think about it, all Rambo did was shoot a lot and cause big explosions), Gandhi 2, this is a whole compilation of jokes, gags, subtle (at times obscure) humor, and probably a lot of inside jokes.  Try not to analyze it and just experience it.  Trust me, it hurts the brain way less.  On a note, this DVD gets a 10.  For a cult film, Al really rewards the fans with animated menus (with Al himself), easter eggs, behind the scenes, a UHF music video whose song I cannot get out of my head (watch for awesome Axl played by Al), deleted scenes (hilarious!) and full commentary mostly from Al and special guests.  This is like watching UHF new again and trust me, Al is not shy about poking fun at his own movie.  The DVD extras, plus the movie is worth the price alone.UHF is a movie that just gets funnier and funnier to watch! "},{"Title":"Perfect Silliness","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is like a classic issue of Mad Magazine brought to film. There are sight gags, film parodies, music satire and tons of laughs.This is one I had to own when it came out on DVD. The commentary on it is fantastic as Al tells so much about the making of the movie, it seems that he knows what we would want to know and shares a lot.Michael Richards, pre-Seinfeld, post-Fridays, geeky and hilarious as ever. Tony Geary in a GREAT stretch for him as Philo the station technician... so many great people here... the always incredible Gedde Watanabe is excellent as a game show host.You gotta watch this, it will take you back to your teen years, reading Mad magazine under the covers with a flashlight when you should have been sleeping. "},{"Title":"Still funny after all these years!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it was first released and laughed out loud in the theater. Over the years, I've watched it repeatedly and it has never failed to make me laugh. Just bought the DVD on my lunch hour and can't wait to end the workday to watch all the extras! After reading some of the other reviews I'm saddened by those who can't appreciate a good old fashioned comedy - maybe too many video games have caused them to lose sight of just how rewarding a tonic simple but effective comedy can be. The older I get, the nicer it is to find something to genuinely laugh out loud about, like this film!   "}{"Title":"They don't have it all on UHF, but it's still funny.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  UHF features Weird Al on the big screen in a starring role and features a story that would benefit his talents. There are many great spoofs in this movie and some of the other comedy works very well. One character that shows moments of brilliance is that of Stanley Spadowski as played by Michael Richards (Kramer on Seinfeld.) Stanley has a touching storyline as a janitor who loses his mop. Watch for some moments with him. There are some dull moments in this story though. It is one of the few movies where the plot is actually a deterrent from the movie.  "},{"Title":"Magnifico, Excellente, Marveloso...","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best comedy films I have ever seen, and I've seen a fair amount of comedy films. It's on par with Monty Python And The Quest For The Holy Grail. It's on par with The Princess Bride. There is no bathroom humor, little swearing (there's use of Hell in a moteavational speech by Stanley Spadalski (How do you spell his last name)), and lots of weird stuff. There's some pop culture references that you might not get (references to Close Encounters of the Third Time and Geraldo Reviera opening Al Capone's vault for starters). However, the film is still marvelous. My opinion of the film can be summarized as followsI laughed, I laughed harder, I laughed so hard I spat out my mocha, I laughed so hard I laughed mocha out my nose, I laughed so hard I wet myself, and then all of the above.As the movie is out on DVD, and I found it for basically $10 at Fry's Electronics, run, not walk to your nearest video store and buy this movie!!! You will not regret it. "},{"Title":"Al 4-ever","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From what passes for the mind of the thinking man's thinker, Weird Al Yankovic, we have a film that was prophetic in that it showed us a world where anyone could have his/her own station. And it showed a station that is no worse than many of the real networks and much better than most.Tell me that we don't need U-62 more than we need four home shopping channels or C-SPAN 3. The funny part about this whole movie is that somehow, I thought that as the movie went along, Al was thinking maybe that's not such a bad idea. Had this riot not been released in the same summer as Batman, Indiana Jones and other blockbusters, this would have been considered on a par with The Naked Gun, Monty Python and National Lampoon. Instead, it remains a wonderful, insane little secret for those of us who have seen it and were lucky enough to own a copy on video or now DVD.And I thought it was great that Al offered a cameo role to Dr. Demento, who helped put him on the map.I honestly don't know what's keeping them from making UHF-2. "},{"Title":"A Must See. Very Funny.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Weird Al's movie UHF is a very funny film on par with the Naked Gun series or Airplane!. It's a laugh a minute movie that is very hard to stop watching.Weird Al is an everyday loser with an over-active imagination who can't seem to stay at any job for too long. When his Uncle Harvey puts him in charge of a nearly-bankrupt TV station, it becomes a success with shows like Wheel of Fish, Conan the Librarian, and Strip Solitare. Parodies can be found everywhere, including a Money for Nothing knock-off in the middle of the film.UHF opened in 1989, along with Batman, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Do the Right Thing, and Lethal Weapon. Based on the quality of the competition, critics slammed UHF at every oppertunity. That's unfair. Now that the movie is being released on DVD, it deserves a shot. I urge any fan of good comedy to see this movie. You won't regret it.  "},{"Title":"One funny movie!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a classic for me as a kid growing up.  Stanly Spadowski is hilarious with his quirky humor.  I'm thinking of something blue.  This might be my favorite part, just a genius attempted at comedy.  I give this film 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A Scream","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"      I laughed hysterically through this movie!  I've always been a big Weird Al fan.  I was greatly disappointed, however, when Comedy Central edited the movie when they aired it.  It's very goofy, and Michael Richards' performance in this movie was the funniest I had ever seen him (next to his role as Kreamer on Seinfeld).  And the movie parodies are a scream.      The  movie may have gotten some pretty lousy reviews by critics, but everybody I know (including me), who has seen this movie thinks it's funny.  I say it's worth watching (if you lucky enough to find it). "},{"Title":"marvelous","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow, I thought I was going to have to fight the other comments, but it seems that everyone else loved this movie as much as I did. This is a fast-paced, hilarious, well-acted cult classic. Huge laughs in this very funny (and very tasteless, just how I like it) film.For fans of Weird Al, for people who've never heard of Weird Al, and for haters of Weird Al (maybe this will convince them that Weird Al is a comic genius). "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's nice when a movie can be genuinely funny without resulting to either biting sarcasm or crude jokes.  Those both have their place too, but this movie is a welcome change.  It's also a big trip into randomness, so be prepared for that.   "},{"Title":"Indeed great comdey writing","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was surprisingly an unsuccessful film. I never stop lauging when i see Stanley(Michael Richards) give a kid a drink from the fire hose on Stanley Spadowski's Clubhouse. This is one of the greatest comedies ever, but unfortunately, i can't find it anywhere on video. if y have this movie on video, DO NOT TAKE IT FOR GRANTED. i give it a 5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Comedy for particular tastes.","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My public library has a nice, shiny, new copy of the DVD of UHF. In the past I have been a fan of Weird Al Yankovic, but I didn't enjoy this movie very much. I found it a chore to watch, such was the ongoing silliness.The movie has a very clever beginning, a close parody of the beginning of Raiders of the Lost Ark. Yankovic is the Indiana Jones character, going into the web-covered cave entrance to harvest the gold statue. But this statue is not an antiquity. No, it is an Oscar!! He even has to escape under the closing stone door and outrun a giant round bolder. But the scene ends with more silliness as the bolder chases him all over the world and finally squashes him.All that was a daydream as Yankovic, as George Newman, is on his job as a burger and fries cook. He of course gets fired. But, at the same time his uncle is winning a dilapidated UHF TV station in a poker game, channel 62, and his wife gets him to make George the station manager.It is interesting to see Michael Richards (Kramer of Seinfeld) as the dim-witted janitor Stanley Spadowski, who gets fired from a rival TV station and goes to work for channel 62. He gets an opportunity to go on air, becomes a hit with a children's show.We also get to see the diminutive and great Billy Barty as Noodles MacIntosh, cameraman. Also Fran Drescher as Pamela Finklestein who also worked for the station. Really a fine cast of actors, I just didn't find the whole movie very interesting, just a bit weird and silly. "}{"Title":"Just As Bad After All These Years, But I'm Not Sure If That's Good Or Not...........","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was about thirteen, or so, when I first saw UHF on that crazy thing called videotape. It was a more innocent time then, when words like spatula and fish were funny. When the music of novelty act Weird Al Yankovic seemed fresh and original. Lamentably, those days are gone now. It is impossible to view UFH and obtain the same reaction as I had then. Seeing it now only brings me to the conclusion that it is an uneven comedy with some amusing gags thrown in.The story is fairly thin and functions mostly as a clothesline to pin jokes on. Weird Al plays George Newman, a day dreaming half-wit, who inherits a failing television station from his uncle. He is helped along by his friend, and fellow dunce, Bob (David Bowe), as well as the mixed bag of oddballs who work at the station There is Pamela Finklestein (Fran Dresher), the abrasive news broad; Noodles (Billy Barty) the dwarfish cameraman; Philo (Anthony Geary) the station's engineer who also hosts a science show and explains how to make plutonium from common household items, amongst other things. George also enlists his neighbor, Kuni (Gedde Watanabe), for the gameshow 'Wheel of Fish', and who verbally assaults the contestants when they lose. There is also a subplot involving George's long suffering (how long depends on the length of time she has been dating George) girlfriend Teri (Victoria Jackson). When George decides to turn over 'Uncle Nutsy's Clubhouse' to the spastic janitor, Stanley Spadowski (Michael Richards), the show becomes a smash hit in the ratings. This raises the ire of the local network affiliate headed by requisite lout R.J. Fletcher (Kevin McCarthy). Wackiness ensue as R.J. orders the kidnapping of Stanley during a desperate fundraiser to save George's station from ruin. Will George triumph over adversity, or will the big/evil network seize his assets and drive him to suicide? I will personally send $.37 (US) to anyone who cannot answer this question correctly.The outcome is of little importance anyway, it's about the jokes. The humor in UHF ranges from painfully obvious to sophomoric. There are few real laughs in the film and most of those are from the quick asides or transitional material. A good example of this is the 'Wild Kingdom'-esquire program where Raul Hernandez (Trinidad Silva) shakes the ant farms and teaches poodles how to fly. There is still something funny about throwing dogs out of a window (I can't explain it) and these scenes are helped along by Silva's delivery. The 'Conan the Librarian' sketch and the GANDHI spoof are both funny (if on-the-nose), accented by Monty Python type bloodshed. The overlong RAMBO sequence near the end has its few fleeting moments as well. In fact the jokes seem to work best when they do not involve Yankovic at all. His performance here conjures about as much humor as watching someone have a seizure in a public place. I still have a special space in my heart for Weird Al, but he is hard to take for an extended period of time. This is not helped by the flat camera work. The director, Jay Levey, seems to just turn the camera on, leaving the room afterward, perhaps for noon cocktails at the catering truck.But enough talk; it would seem nearly impossible to write a serious review of UHF. The film has achieved somewhat of a cult following and the DVD presentation is lavish. I figure this is because there will always be fourteen year old boys (and girls, though less of them) who will like UHF. Weird Al is still out there doing his thing, which means that this film will be perpetually rediscovered. Looking back, I don't find as many things as funny as I once did, but if UHF is on I'll watch it. It will also remind me of a time when I didn't demand so much from a movie; when stupid charm and ridiculous characters were enough. Those were the days I guess. 5/10 "},{"Title":"In the Eye of the Beholder","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" UHF is a movie that one either likes or dislikes. The comedy is what I describe as so-bad-it's-brilliant. I myself enjoyed the film, although it's not a film I could tolerate watching every week, or even every month. One needs to be able to tolerate and enjoy the occasion stupid and pointless joke to enjoy the film. There are also many reference to other films in it. This, of course, is due to the facts that 1.) It's Weird Al Yankovic we're talking about; and 2.) The main characters own a television station and they need something to air, even if that something is a parody. Tolerate of parodies is also recommended. Parodies include Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark, Wheel of Fortune...et cetera. "},{"Title":"UHF Usually Harmless Fun.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wild and wacky little production has Weird Al Yankovic taking over a struggling television station from his uncle (Stanley Brock) who happens to have a serious gambling problem. Yankovic, a daydreaming loser who cannot hold any job, soon unwittingly makes the station a huge hit by allowing moronic janitor Michael Richards (of Seinfeld fame) get up and share his distorted views to the public ala Peter Finch in Network. Naturally the public loves it and soon more crazed programming starts to take off. Could the station give the networks in town a run for their money by generating dominant ratings? Strangely, it could happen. However gambling problems for Brock mean that evil network bigwig Kevin McCarthy could claim the station for himself. UHF is not really sure what it wants to be. It is pretty much a parody for the most part, but still there are some clever little ideas here. Yankovic is one of the strangest actors to ever grace a silver screen. He has an odd enthusiasm to his persona that makes him fun to watch. Of course Richards is nearly always a joy to behold, but honestly he is more at home on television than in movies. Some funny concepts and situations early on get over-shadowed by a sophomoric script, unsteady direction and a ho-hum resolution. Fair at best. 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Very funny 80s comedy with McCarthy in a great bit","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wacky, morbid humor manages to score as novelty record star Yankovic spoofs films and television from Rambo, Geraldo, and Conan to Gone With The Wind and The Beverly Hillbillies.  Michael Richards steals the movie as its most appealing character, a station janitor turned children's TV show host.  Al and his TV misfits are up against evil network TV man McCarthy, who's hamming it up in great style as the petty sadistic villain (he loves to make fun of his sons at board meetings, give one penny to a homeless guy, etc.). The mini-spoofs are all pretty stupid but mostly funny, and the story has just barely enough substance to keep things moving -- but what really makes this film a winner is that Yankovic, Richards, and Jackson (as Al's comically frustrated longtime girlfriend) have created appealing true-to-life characters we can care for.   "},{"Title":"I Expected Better","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just saw UHF and I must say I expected a whole lot better.There were some really good jokes like the whole Indiana Jones opening spoof, the small t.v bits like Ghandi II and Conan the Librarian, Raul's Animal Kingdom,the karate instructor who loves to say stupid  Stuuuuppppiidddd!, and Michael Richards playing the janitor. But every movie has it's down sides as it's up sides. I thought that Richards performance as the janitor got a little annoying after a while, some of the characters were really unneeded like Philo, some of the jokes fall flat like the mashed potato mountain and the cheek pulling, and I did not like, no...I HATED Weird Al's dream sequence with him singing about the Beverly Hillbillies. I came into this movie to experience a laugh riot but instead I came out a little disappointed. It's not as funny as people say it is, it's just mediocre. "},{"Title":"Al can be MUCH funnier than this","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Weird Al Yankovic can be an EXTREMELY funny person when he's firing on all cylinders.  Unfortunately, this film has way too many misfires, and was a big disappointment to me.  To be sure, there are a few moments of sheer hilarity, but they are few and far between, and so we have to be distracted by the plot.  Problem is, the plot is practically non-existent.  This is a film that depends almost entirely on the TV parodies being funny.  Not very many of them are. "},{"Title":"Didn't Get It","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK so over fifteen pages of out of the park reviews. er Why? Maybe this movie just doesn't age well or something. I am a fan of Mr Yankovic, he is witty and his parodies are, usually, quite clever. I am a fan of stoopid humor (AirPlane, Police Squad, Top Secret the list goes on). But although I had high hopes for this film I really just didn't like it. Maybe it's the poor acting (er, nope), maybe its the poor plot (er, nope) - the thought of a leftfield chancer getting his mitts on a TV station is actually a great sounding plot. I think that the problem is that every significant single pun/joke/plot device coming can be spotted about a mile off. Unlike some of the other reviewers on here then I managed to watch the entire film through without laughing out loud once. Yes admittedly I did crack a smile once or twice, but this was far outweighed by the fact that I was also forced to wince a good few times. Watch it certainly. But don't expect too much. The visual equivalent of pulling a Christmas Cracker. "},{"Title":"Clichd, unfunny and such a waste of talent.","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al Yankovic is famed for his brilliant song parodies, working in countless clever lines within the restrictions of an existing tune and featuring hilarious videos to accompany them. It is difficult to watch the likes of Smells Like Nirvana or Aamish Paradise without laughing out loud. Surely, then, having him write his own film, and feature the likes of Michael Richards (Kramer from Seinfeld) Fran Drescher (The Nanny) and Victoria Jackson (Saturday Night Live) would be a recipe for comedy gold? Unfortunately, nothing could be further from the truth.UHF is simply an unfunny, formulaic, clichd and utterly bland experience. It follows an incredibly well-worn path - no-hoper gets big chance, succeeds against all odds by being totally unconventional, is threatened by the powers that be and eventually wins the day and the girl, with the corporate powerhouse enemies getting their just deserts. It offers no parody, no spin, no originality. The film has a total lack of memorable lines, in such stark contrast to Al's songs, and the humour comes from either low-grade comedy (kicks in the groin, dogs being thrown out a window, etc) and over-the-top characters. Acting seems to consist of mugging for the camera, with only David Bowe and Kevin McCarthy making any real attempt at being remotely normal.Perhaps the most remarkable thing is the lack of songs in the film. Elvis at least had the sense to do a few numbers in his films. While the film does contain movie parodies, they are certainly not up to the standard of Al's songs. A single Al music video is far more entertaining than the entire film.Budget problems are blamed repeatedly in the commentary, but it doesn't take a huge budget to come up with a decent plot or funny lines. Indeed, the parodies of films like Rambo and Indiana Jones actually look reasonably good, though far from original, entertaining and anything less than self-indulgent. The few laughs come from the commentary track, and then the best ones are from Al reading out horrible reviews. Jey Levey contributes so little in the commentary that it is perhaps no surprise the film he co-wrote was so unimaginative. Drescher, Richards, Jackson and Emo Phillips make random cameos in it as well.Perhaps the most startling feature of the DVD is the deleted scenes, which feature so many astonishingly bad, unfunny moments that it is incomprehensible how the original script was ever approved, let alone how they were filmed. At least somebody had the sense to cut them out, though they aren't that much worse than the dross that remains.The only real entertainment value in looking back at the film is watching several actors in roles before they were stars. Perhaps the most remarkable is David Proval as head thug, well before he became known as Richie Aprile in The Sopranos. Considering that he plays the roles almost identically, it's very hard to watch season 2 of The Sopranos after watching UHF... "},{"Title":"Uneven and Unfunny (Unless You're 12)","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Growing up in the 90's, Weird Al Yankovich was the king of spoof. I remember that as a kid would hear of his latest spoof and how hilarious it was. To every twelve year old boy, it seemed, Weird Al was just awesome. I was never much of a fan of the mop-topped accordion playing musical comedian but I enjoyed Amish Paradise. As I've grown up I've realized that Weird Al is a staple of every kids life, from 9 to 12, you listen to his juvenile parodies and then move on. The very same applies for his movie UHF. It's a hodge podge of parodies loosely linked together by a plot so thin that it makes you wish they'd focused on one or another. Maybe I'm getting older or maybe it's just what I've come to realize that UHF is not a funny movie. It isn't. It has moments when you manage a chuckle and yes, the puppy shoot was one of those moments, but other then that it's substandard comedy. You have stock characters placed in an uneven film, peppered with somewhat funny spoofs, and pitched as a feature length film. Weird Al Yankovich should of created an out there kind of comedy that was a unique spin on the genre. Instead, he gave us a predictable film. And predictable is boring. UHF creates a huge crime in comedy, it bores us. When it was over, all I could say was eh. "},{"Title":"Weird Al, You Tried Your Best.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of Weird Al Yankovic. I've got all his albums. I think he's a great guy! Then I heard about his movie, UHF. I saw it, and it was the worst movie, well one of the worst movies I've ever seen. But that's okay, I'm sure they weren't going for any awards there, they just wanted to see what a Weird Al movie would be like.          There's big name stars here. Michael Richards, Fran Drescher, Billy Barty--whom had nothing better to do. Now the movie started off pretty good. Al in an Indiana Jones parody then cut to him working in a burger joint. The first half of the movie focuses on Al's character, while the other half focuses on Michael Richards's character, Stanley Spadowsky. That video of Weird Al in the Beverly Hillbillies was cool and I love the UHF song, but the movie blew like Hurricane Fredrick.But don't worry, Al, you're still cool with me. You tried your best. My recommendation watch something else!- "}{"Title":"From a Weird Al Fan...","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let me start off by saying I am an AVID Weird Al fan. I have all his albums, I know most of his songs by heart, backwards and forwards. I can name every member of his band and I sincerely cried the day his parents were found dead in their home.THAT said, let's discuss UHF.This movie is AWFUL. It's not funny, it's poorly written, and it seems to go on forever. The best part - by FAR - is the guy who throws poodles out his window in an attempt to make them fly. There. Was that funny? Not really? Of course not. Because it's not funny. Michael Richards isn't funny either, in fact, he's hard to watch. I can only stand seeing a grown man act like a retard for about... well, three seconds, tops. And he's in this for what feels like hours upon hours.I love you, Weird Al. You're a good man and a truly talented comedian. But UHF absolutely sucks balls. "},{"Title":"Geek dreamin'","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al Yankovich is a structural genius! He managed to make a movie about public access television that is just as bad and hard to watch as public access television! Form fits function here...But in all serious, I think the real issue with this movie is simply that most of the gags and references are tired. Indiana Jones, Rambo, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, all movies that have been parodied again and again and again, in usually zanier and better paced farces. This whole movie feels rather slow, with too much dead time between gags and barely enough of a plot to keep going.On the other hand, just like the never-ending series of teacher-fixing-dysfunctional-schools movies, UHF manages to appeal towards the underdog sentiment with at least some amount of sincerity and benevolence. It's a geeks dream and for that alone it's not worth trashing. Nevertheless the only lasting legacy it has is its box office failure and Yankovich's 80s curl.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"What happened, Al?","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was excited when this movie was released back in 1989.  I was ten then, and I thought Al was God.  I initially enjoyed the film, but as I grew older, I realized how mediocre UHF was.  Yes, it did have its moments, but overall, the picture was unfunny and difficult to watch.UHF, you receive *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Why did I rent this?","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was slightly above awful.  Michael Richards and the Beverly Hillbillies video kept me from ranking it a 1 so I gave it a 2. I am not sure why this was released on DVD.  "},{"Title":"UHF Unusually Horrid Failure","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird Al Yankovic is a comic genius, which makes it all the more puzzling that he starred in and WROTE this movie. Why? I absolutely do not know what he was thinking. I do know that his skills are completely wasted in this dreadfully unfunny disaster. This is one of the least funny, flattest, most contrived and absurd comedies I have ever seen. You can almost hear the jokes fall off the screen with a loud thud. Nothing in this movie works. Nothing. I don't think I laughed once.The plot revolves around Weird Al winning an old public-service television station and trying to turn it into a family-friendly comedy network before -- you guessed it -- an evil mogul snatches it out of his hands. I sure hope you won't report me to the spoiler police for revealing that highly original plot point to you. Along the way, Al comes up with several gimmicky shows for the station, all of which are showcased in a slow, tedious, unfunny way. First is a spoof on Wheel of Fortune entitled Wheel of Fish, in which the winning contestant wins his or her weight in fish! Tee hee. After this introduction, we are forced to watch a five-minute clip of Wheel of Fish in which everyone involved desperately tries to squeeze giggles out of this dreadful gag. No such luck. Equally unsuccessful is a vignette involving a children's show hosted by a retarded janitor named Stanley Spadowski (played by the same guy who played Kramer in Seinfeld), in which the aforementioned janitor runs around acting like ... himself. Like Wheel of Fish and all of the other segments, this scene isn't funny, it's just forced and embarrassing to watch.Before you reply that I just don't get it, let me assert that I do. Like I said, I'm a big fan of Weird Al. His parodies of popular music leave me in stitches. But his talents obviously do not extend to the realm of movie making, as UHF has taught us. Stick to the Jacko parodies, Al. "},{"Title":"I like Weird Al but didn't like This Movie","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is kinda weak on entertainment value.  It is overly stupid and not as good as some of Weird Al's later videos.  It's mainly a bunch of overacted stuff thrown together.  Parts of it are funny but the other parts that are stupid outweigh the good stuff.  I'd give this a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was not worth watching.  I thought it would have at least a little humor but not even the dark humor of it was funny.  I would like to recommend to anyone who wants to watch this movie to stay away from it! One of Fran Dreschers first movies "},{"Title":"I did not like this movie at all.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well I saw this movie at a friends house. He told me the movies was totally hallarious but when I saw the movie it was terrible. I think you have to be really weird if you want to call this comedy. It's about a  guy who tries to take over a radio station but it doesn't go well for him at first but then he has lame shows and tries to hire anybody even if the person has no television experience. It goes on an on because later they have to raise $ $ $ to save the station and eventually they do but I consider this movie for a kid that is under the age of sixth grade. Personally I didn't enjoy this movie. "}]