[{"Title":"Based On A Real Life Incident","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is worth watching for two reasons. First, it is based on a tragic, real life event. As such, an enhanced credibility sustains the film's underlying premise, and thus renders a much greater potential for viewer impact and depth of meaning, as opposed to a work of fiction. Second, quite aside from its autobiographical roots, the film has entertainment value, expressed mostly as snappy, funny dialogue, delivered competently by an ensemble cast of likable actresses. Attention to detail in costumes and production design, and adroit film editing, further amplify the film's overall technical quality.Steel Magnolias is a story about the close knit relationships between six ordinary Southern women, living in a small town in Louisiana. The film has a homespun, unpretentious feel to it, rather like Fried Green Tomatoes.The plot alternates between humorous, small, everyday events and good-natured quips, on the one hand ... and on the other hand, the seriousness and heartache attendant to life's unexpected crises. Through the laughs and tears, the six women learn to endure hard times, and thus emerge from their struggles with grace and dignity.Finding something to criticize here is not easy. I can think of several changes that I would have made, to satisfy my own personal preferences. But the film is solid and substantial, as is. I suppose one could zero in on the acting. A couple of the cast members overact their parts, at some point or another in the film.Overall, Steel Magnolias is technically well made. And the content engages our interest, as a result of its true-to-life theme, its all star cast, and some very clever dialogue. "},{"Title":"Laugh Till you Cry...","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"42 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Another movie that is part of my permanent video collection and never get tired of watching, STEEL MAGNOLIAS is the beautifully expanded version of Robert Harling's play about the relationship between six women who frequent the same beauty parlor. I am pretty sure the first phrase that comes to mind for most people when this film is mentioned is Chick Flick, but, as a male, I happily admit to loving to watch this movie over and over again, not just because of the six charismatic performances by the actresses, but because this film also has one of the funniest screenplays ever written. Claree The only thing that separates us from the animals is our ability to accessorize. Truvy Ruth Robeline...now there's a story...her whole life has been an experiment in terror...first her husband was killed in WWII and then her son was killed in Vietnam... I tell you, when it comes to suffering, she's right up there with Elizbeth Taylor. Claree well, you always know what I say...if you can't think anything nice to say about anybody, come sit by me. Ouiser I'm not crazy...I've just been in a bad mood for the last thirty years. And just when you think your sides about to split open from laughing so hard, the film takes a tragic turn and you're reaching for the Kleenex. The scene in the cemetery is riveting, thanks primarily to a flawless and raw performance by Sally Field, who climaxes what is already a beautiful and commanding performance in the film, with her rage against God as her only outlet of grief at the moment. This scene makes me cry every time I watch the movie. An appeal to the gentlemen out there who have never seen this movie Give it a chance. I did and I have never regretted it. "},{"Title":"Southern Charm served on a Movie Reel","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  O.K. The film is labeled a Chick Flick and it is, but there is no reason a guy couldn't enjoy it. I'm a guy and I found it quite enjoyable. With strong performances by everyone and a wonderfully written script, both hilarious and heart wrenching. The cast is completely star studded. First Sally Field plays M'Lynn Eatenton a southern mom with a golden heart. Dolly Parton plays Truvy Jones owner of the local beauty salon and favorite gossip hang out for the women of the film. Shirley MacLaine plays Ouiser Boudreaux the woman you love to hate whom proclaims herself richer than God. Daryl Hannah plays Annelle Dupuy Desoto the shy girl hired by Truvy because of her wonderful work on hair. Olympia Dukakis plays Clairee Belcher a wonderful southern charmer and one of the thorns in Ouiser's side. Julia Roberts plays Shelby Eatenton Latcherie the central character of the film that is plagued with medical problems. Tom Skerritt plays Drum Eatenton, husband of M'Lynn Eatenton. Also there are a couple of smaller parts played by Sam Shepard and Dylan McDermott.One of the many funny moments in the film occurs when Drum (Skerritt) ask Ouiser for a slice of wedding cake that is shaped like an Armadillo. Drum asks Ouiser, can we call a truce long enough for me to get a piece of cake? (Ouiser slices him off the tail section) to which Drum replies Thanks Ouiser, nothing like a good piece of ass!Sally Feilds performance as the woman letting loose during the cemetery scene seems like Oscar material, but she does not even receive a nomination. Julia Roberts however does receive a nomination but does not win. She does manage to take home a Golden Globe for best actress in a supporting role. As I said before there were some great performances by all the ladies. So Chick Flick or not I think many guy's will also enjoy this film.  "},{"Title":"The flavor of the South","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every time I see this movie,  I want to eat a plateful of jambalaya and smell the sweet aroma of a magnolia.  No other movie I've seen quite captures the essense of southern living like Steel Magnolias.  This movie has everything,  hysterical comedy and satisfying drama.  Everyone was great  Sally Field as M'Lynn,  a mother who still worries about her very grown up daughter;  Julia Roberts as Shelby,  a special young woman who feels that having a baby is worth risking everything;  Dolly Parton as Truvy,  a lonely beautician who brightens like a light bulb when her little shop is full of hens  )  ; Olympia Dukkakis as Clairee,  the town bigwig who loves to gossip;  Daryl Hannah as Annelle,  a very religious young woman who drives her friends crazy with her sudden fits of prayer;  and of course who can forget Shirley McLaine as Ouiser,  the grouchy old wretch who tows her pathetic dog around and mercilessly cusses out the equally obnoxious Drum (Tom Skerrit)??? A very satisfying movie for comedy and drama lovers alike.  A totally feel good,  yet very real movie. "},{"Title":"Six sympathetic magnolias bend but don't break","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This wonderful comedy drama romance tells the tale of a close knit group of six Southern women (of varying ages) in a small Louisiana town. The film gives us a glimpse into their daily lives over a period of several years, their laughter, their joy, and their tears, all through the lens of their enduring friendship.Here are the six magnolias...M'Lynne (Sally Field)...perhaps the steeliest of all the magnolias, who has a bittersweet relationship with her grown daughterShelby (Julia Roberts)...everyone's favorite girl next door, M'Lynne's endearing, diabetic daughter; we see her planning her very pink wedding (wait till you see the groom's cake!) and charting a difficult path, given her medical history Truvy (Dolly Parton)...the married but lonely hairdresser with the heart of gold, who owns and operates Trudy's Beauty Parlor, center of social life for these ladies, site of gossip, teasing quips, and comfortOuisser (Shirley MacLaine)...the sarcastic spinster and cantankerous comic relief who is frequently seen carting her little dog around and exchanging barbs with her Old Nemesis, M'Lynne's husband, Drum Clairee (Olympia Dukakis)...the charming, gossiping widow and town bigwig Annelle (Daryl Hannah)...the shy, awkward new girl in town, who has a mysterious past and lands a job at the beauty parlor, under Truvy's mentoring Through these six, we see the strength that lies behind the legendary Southern lady's charm (well, maybe Ouisser's not that charming!) and supposed flower fragility, their humor, their optimism, their faith, and above all, their banding together and supporting each other in the face of adversity.I understand that this movie is based on a well known play by a famous Louisiana playwright. The women depicted in the film are by and large good Christian, church going folk, which is laudable. My initial reaction was to blame Hollywood for mocking Annelle's newfound deep faith and having her act as though she hadn't a clue in her dim witted Southern head. The playwright may have intended to cast her as going overboard and being too judgmental. If so, I personally don't consider this a kind or necessary depiction, and find Annelle to be very sincere and kind hearted.However, otherwise this is simply a funny tearjerker and a great movie. "},{"Title":"One of the Best movies I have ever seen!","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always loved this movie. My mom and I watch it all the time and never get sick of it. It also never fails to make me both laugh and cry. It's amazing how real it is. I cannot relate to the events or the whole southern aspect to it, yet the movie is still easy to connect with. That is not only due to the incredible writing, but the acting is phenomenal. The characters feel so real. I have a hard time picking who I like best because everyone is so incredible in their own way. Even the more minor characters. But like I said, the impeccable writing is impossible to ignore. My mom and I can't seem to stop quoting it to each other. Although, yes, it is a chick flick, it is actually a good one. It's meaningful and powerful. And it's always nice to see a movie about women that does not revolve around them trying to get a man. I can't think of anything that is wrong in this movie. I really can't find a flaw. Every women, adolescents and on, should see this movie. I love it! "},{"Title":"Probably my favorite movie...","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although there are several films that I would rank in the top ten best of all time, this is probably my favorite, and is a good past time to watch that never lets me down. As many times as I've seen this film (and it's a lot), it never fails me; with tears, laughter and excellent acting and reality. Julia Roberts, as I recall was nominated for her portrayal as a young woman with diabetes, and in my opinion, should have won for this and not for Erin Brockovich. But, the real gem and overlooked one in the movie is Sally Field. This is by far and away, her best role and performance she ever snagged, and nailed, and I rank her performance in this as one of my top five best performances in motion picture history of all time.All the characters and performances in this are excellent, including one such, by Daryl Hannah, who I don't care for, but love in this movie. In fact, her character Anell, is the only role I've ever liked her in, and applaud her work in it.Among the cast there are very few men, but my favorite is Tom Skerrit, who plays Sally Field's husband, and father to Julia Robert. Shirley MaClain, Olympia Dukakis, and Dolly Parton are the other three co-stars, that follow behind the three previous, and all make their characters unique.The basis of the film, is a beauty parlor, and although it might sound hokey, it's really not. Some might call it a chick flick, but I have to say that I know men have even gotten teary-eyed from this film. It's wonderfully directed, only in that, it makes you feel apart of the never ending friendship that's between this group of women. The experiences that they have and the trials and tribulations they go through. Although not the whole movie is set in the hair salon, a good portion of the film is, but it is done in just the right amount, and is written very well.I recommend it for girls of all ages, and men who want to impress their girlfriends with a great flick for a Friday night. It is one of the best films of all time, and if for no other reason, you should watch this merely to see the performance Sally Field gives, because it is amazing. "},{"Title":"Flawed But Extremely Entertaining Mixture of Comedy and Drama","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An extremely episodic story of several smalltown southern women whose social lives revolve around meetings in the local beauty parlor, STEEL MAGNOLIAS' script and performances are dogged by an aura of artificiality--but it scarcely matters, for the film is a tremendous amount of fun.Some of the performances are more successful than others, with Shirley MacLaine, Olympia Dukakis, Julia Roberts, and Darryl Hannah coming out on top (I am greatly surprised that so many other reviewers dislike Hannah's performance, which seems to me considerably less artificial than many others--but perhaps since I'm actually Southern I have a different perspective). Sally Fields and Dolly Parton are less successful, but not in any sense that actually distracts from the fun. Perhaps most surprising in a film which focuses on women are the brief but impressive performances from the male supporting cast, which includes effective performances by Tom Skerrit, Sam Shepherd, and Dylan McDermott, and which serve to ground the film with a sense of the broader community in which the women live.The script abounds in zinging one-liners (If you can't say something nice, come sit by me!) and often hilarious situations (imagine Olympia Dukakis surrounded by naked men in the highschool football team's locker room); it also contains some very touching segments sure to choke up all but the most heartless viewer. And although the story is extremely manipulative and rather predictable, those factors don't actually get in the way of its effectiveness. While probably not a great film by any serious standard, it is tremendously good-natured, well-intended, and extremely entertaining, and most people will find that it lingers pleasantly in mind and holds up well under repeated viewings.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"A 'Chick Flick' Men Can Enjoy, Too!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With Julia Roberts the superstar she is today, it's an excellent time to enjoy the film that contains her best performance, Steel Magnolias.As the doomed but optimistic daughter of Sally Field and Tom Skerrit, she holds her own in a cast of movie divas, including Shirley MacLaine, Olympia Dukakis, Dolly Parton, and (in her best film work, as well), Darryl Hannah.The film is basically a warm, upbeat character study of a group of women friends, played out in a beautiful Louisiana bayou town. The story begins with Roberts' wedding, then carries on through the ups and downs of the friends' lives. The men in the story are secondary characters, and occasionally come across as a bit selfish (Roberts' husband), or buffoons (Hannah's boyfriend), yet one of the joys of this movie is that you come to love the women so much, you don't mind the men's shortcomings, and start liking them, too!The standout performances of the film are from Roberts, and MacLaine, as a spinster with a sarcastic tongue, and, ultimately, a heart of gold. Her scenes with Dukakis are hilarious, yet full of the warmth that makes this film so special!A couple of things usually overlooked, but worth mentioning; the enchanting film score (I wish the soundtrack would be re-released!), and a bit part by Janine Turner, before 'Northern Exposure' made her a star.This is a very special film, for both Roberts' fans, and anyone who wants to believe in the healing powers of friendship. Yes, this film can be defined as a 'chick flick', but guys, you'll end up enjoying it, too! "},{"Title":"Inside a small circle of friends.","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel magnolias is a chronicle of a small circle of friends .The actresses get the lion's share ,which has become unusual ;that alone is cause for celebration,mainly when the cast includes a grumpy sullen Shirley McLaine who overplays as hell,Sally -never without my daughter-Field,A holier-than- thou but good -hearted Daryl Hannah wearing horrible glasses ,a very young Julia Roberts who was more endearing than she is now in such parts as Brockovich and of course Dolly Parton -too bad she does not sing-.The dramatic plot -Shelby's illness- is kept to the minimum,at least in the first hour.Then when the tragedy strikes,Herbert Ross avoids pathos and melodrama (it's not the return of Douglas Sirk).And the last scene  is wonderful,Easter meaning a renaissance .As usual,Georges Delerue's score superbly enhances the film he's so good a musician that even when the movie bores you (Godard's le mépris for instance,as far as I'm concerned),his tuneful work survives. "}{"Title":"Some Interesting Southern Ladies","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on Robert Harling's screenplay from his own play, STEEL MAGNOLIAS is one of those films that remind us that the average Southern lady is not a fading flower type like say Blanche Dubois, but more like a strong willed Scarlet O'Hara. It is an irony that both those seminal film parts were played by the same actress (Vivienne Leigh) for they color the image of southern womanhood we have - except that Leigh's Scarlet is actually totally ruthless far more so than we are willing to tolerate. Yet if one recalls, Scarlet witnesses the destruction of her family and way of life with the Civil War, and her ruthless streak is strengthened by her experiences. We may not be able to tolerate a real Scarlet, but a watered down one is possible.In STEEL MAGNOLIAS the story deals with six southern ladies and the men in their lives. Sally Fields is married to Tom Skerritt. They have two sons and a daughter (Julia Roberts). As the film starts we watch the preparations of the marriage of Roberts to her lover (Dylan McDermott). Among the guests are the local beautician (Dolly Parton) and her husband (Sam Shepard) and her new assistance (Darryl Hannah), and two wealthy townswomen (Olympia Dukakis and Shirley MacLaine), Each of these women are strong types - Parton is very friendly but she is a hard working woman and a support to Shepard (who is worried about his business); Hannah is coming out of a shattered relationship with an undesirable lover; Dukakis is the widow of the town's richest man and mayor - and is fun loving; her closest friend is MacLaine who has had two failed marriages and three kids who she says are ingrates - she is the town's sharpest tongued person. The six intermingle throughout the film, centering most of the action on the deadly problem of Roberts life and marriage - she is a serious diabetic, and should not have children but insists on having a baby because she wants to be a mother.The film swings well between the comic segments frequently handled by the banter between Dukakis and MacLaine, with the born again religiosity of Hannah (much to the despair of her new boy friend/husband (Kevin J. O'Connor)) as added spice, and Tom Skerritt's occasional collisions with MacLaine also adding to the fun. But there is the growing tragedy of Roberts' health and the effect of it on her mother Fields. All the ladies are strong, and all equally fragile in their ways (particularly where family or their men are involved). It all works well as we see the events unfold over four years. The film is a good example of ensemble acting, and for a change the emphasis is on the female actresses rather than male ones. A nice reminder of how independent and strong those southern ladies really are...bless 'em! "},{"Title":"Character flaw","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As much as I enjoyed watching this film and reading the reviews; I'd like to comment on one aspect of the film that I haven't seen touched upon. The character of Shelby is meant to be portrayed as an optimistic, strong willed individual, determined to buck the odds to have the baby she longs to have. However, I can't help but see the character as incredibly selfish. Even though she knows that going through a pregnancy will put undo strain on her weakened system and potentially threaten and shorten her life, she resolves to get pregnant anyway; just so she can have a baby. Apparently she hasn't given a thought to either the child or her husband for that matter. She intentionally puts her husband in the position of probably losing his wife and raising a child as a single parent and whatever child she has, of losing its mother. Not exactly the behavior of someone who has a child's best interest in mind. All the character illustrated was that her husband was just a means to an end. "},{"Title":"Overly sappy and predictable","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, just because I'm a girl doesn't automatically mean that I'll like this film because I hated it. It was just far too predictable--you know what's going to happen before it does. The whole story centers around a bunch of crazy Southern women and their banter sounds like the clucking of chickens with Louisiana accents. Also, I get so sick of listening to Julia Roberts go on and on about how much she wants a baby, despite the fact that it'll kill her. Brilliant...sacrifice your husband's love and break your mother's heart just to get pregnant. The lines were clichéd and sappy and made me want to bang my head on a wall. Overall, a horrible flick and not really worth watching, unless you enjoy predictable plots, annoying characters and syrupy dialogue. "},{"Title":"Schmaltzy saccharine Dragnolias","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a strange piece of work; when you're watching it you can't help thinking what a natural the roles of the women would be for dragqueens! These characters do not seem like real women at all...they exist in some bizarre netherworld between seventies TV sitcom and pure camp. Easily the worst offender has to be Shirley Maclaine, absolutely embarrassing and unwatchable. It's as if she's doing an imitation of the old Ruth Buzzi spinster with a purse routine on Laugh-In. It's an excruciating performance. The movie is poorly written, with Southern clichés in abundance, and that sort of fake life-affirming friendship-conquers-all ending straight out of a TV Disease Movie of the Week. The one bright spot in this muck is the acting of Julia Roberts in an early role; before she was effectively branded as America's Smiling Sweetheart, there was a sweet, natural charm to her. Awful. "},{"Title":"Play probably better","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film, and always cry when Sally Field does, but would love to see the original play on stage. The film has opened up the play way too much. It shows us things we really don't need to see, and slows the whole thing down. I'm a long way from the Deep South here in Hackney, London, England, but only Dolly Parton's voice really convinces. The cast is wonderful, but they do overact. I feel the director didn't know how to treat Olympia's character. She's the wise-cracking one, which is telegraphed by constant close-ups of her smiling quizzically. Wisecracks are supposed to be thrown away! And sometimes the cast say funny lines as if they were wondering what they meant. Someone should put it back inside the hairdressing salon, move the location to Manchester and get Victoria Wood to direct it. Two things brand this film as a product of the 80s all that female bonding and the idea that the best thing a woman can be is strong. Strong - pah! Give me happy any day. "},{"Title":"An effective enough weepy if you like that sort of thing","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In a smalltown America town, the lives of a collection of friends revolve around their regular meetings at Turvy's Beauty Parlour. When we join them M'Lynn Eatenton is preparing for her diabetic daughter, Shelby, to be married to lawyer Jackson Latcherie. Meanwhile Turvy takes on a new girl at the saloon in the shape of the religiously uptight Annelle, while the bickering Ouiser and Clairee continually argue in the background. Everything is happy until Shelby decides to have a baby despite the risks that her condition pose &#150; needless to ay M'Lynn is nothing but disapproving and concerned.I always struggle to write a review when I dip into a genre that I'm really not fond of &#150; I know that my criticisms could be unfair because it could be brilliant but be lost on me. I only watched this film because I read a commentary on Julia Roberts where it noted that she had made it to be a massive star but had a questionable collection of films behind her, without the quality you would expect from her &#150; specifically it mentioned Steel Magnolias so I thought I'd give it a stab to see if that was a fair dig or just a comment by someone who doesn't like the genre anyway. Needless to say that fans of heavily sentimental weepies will be pleased with this star studded affair that never misses a chance to squeeze a laugh or a tear out of you, even if it has to do it with the most forced of devices. The plot can be seen coming a mile off and it never once tries to do anything out of the ordinary. I won't spoil the film but suffice to say that it has fights, making up, love worries, births, death, laughs and tears all in the mix. None of it really engaged me because I felt it was going through the motions but, like I said, if this is your type of thing then by all means.The characters are also pretty by the numbers &#150; female friends including the bickering ones, the serious one, the hopeful one, the uptight one etc; they are acted well enough but that is basically what they come down to and none of the cast can do enough to make them more than that. Despite this, the cast are pretty good even if they really pander to the material and tone of the film. Roberts made her name in the film with a fairly par for the course performance that is matched by Sally Field just pushing all the emotional buttons at the right times. I didn't like Hannah or her character but Parton is better albeit she just does the same gutsy Texan broad she always does. Dukakis and MacLaine are both enjoyable enough with plenty of amusing lines to reduce the sap. The male actors are all put to one side for the vast majority of the film but support is good from Skerritt, McDermott and Shepard.Overall I didn't like this film and can understand why the TV networks have taken to running it in the middle of the afternoon, because it fits perfectly with the unimaginative weepies and melodramas that fill those slots. The all star cast do well enough and make it a bit more interesting but generally the material is just too bland and unoriginal and the film relies less on this and more on emotional music, weepy acting and easy action to draw emotions out of the audience by force. I know this stuff has an audience but Steel Magnolias just proved to me that I'm not part of it. "},{"Title":"The crossing of a comedy  with a typical dramatic TV-movie","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reading the tag line for this movie really made me curious. The funniest movie ever to make you cry. What can you possibly expect when reading a line like that? Will it be a comedy that is so funny that it will make you laugh so hard that you cry? Will it be a tragic movie that brings its message in a funny way? I really didn't know, but I sure was curious, so I gave the movie a try.Everything in this movie revolves around a beauty parlor in a small parish in Lousiana. A close group of friends meets each other regularly in this salon. These women do not always seem to have much in common, but they are friends and here they share all their good moments like for instance marriage, pregnancy, a new start of life... and bad moments like for instance the death of a dearly beloved, together.If I think of the different characters, than I must say that I loved Shirley MacLaine as Ouiser Boudreaux most. She was excellent as the grumpy old lady who seems to hate everybody and everything in that little town. In my opinion the other characters aren't as great as MacLaine's, but are OK to watch, although they don't exactly feel 'real'. At first I even thought that this entire movie was some kind of parody on the Southern culture and more in particular on the people that live in Louisiana. But after reading some posts in the forum of this movie, this is apparently how the people over there really are. It's supposed to be in present time, but it feels like time stood still 50 years ago and never started running again. The way they look, act and think certainly doesn't match with my idea of a more modern United States...All in all this is a movie that seems to balance somewhere in between a typical dramatic TV-movie and a comedy and to be honest, it didn't convince me much. It certainly isn't the worst movie ever, but it is a typical chick-flick. Normally I don't have any problems with that, even though I'm a man, but with this one I did. That's why I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Plastic snapdragons","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An overblown film version of a a small, one set play that proves that less IS more. Set entirely in a beauty parlor on 3 separate days, the play had no locker room scenes, weddings, funerals, birthday parties, state fairs or men. Everything was told through the dialog and the men were seen through the eyes of its female characters. It was a women's world the men where not privy to. Unfortunately, opening up the play destroys its spirit, and dissipates its power and intimacy. The best lines from the play are now blasted by assured Hollywood divas and overemphasized by director Herbert Ross. The characters seem to be quoting bumper stickers.The male characters feel gratuitous because they have nothing of consequence to say or do. Darryl Hannah never lets you forget she's cast against type, and Dukakis, Parton and Maclaine never let you forget they're acting. Roberts who has the most sugarcoated role comes off better while Field manages some impressive emoting. The dialog still gets laughs, and Field may move you to tears, but overall it reminds me of The Golden Girls(TV). "},{"Title":"Classy cast in a preconceived weeper","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" All the characters in this storybook Southern town have storybook names like M'Lynn and Truvy and Shelby and Clairee. After awhile, it gets a little sickening--one longs for a female character named Margaret. Steel Magnolias is so smooth it's starchy. I admired some of the actresses (Dolly Parton and Daryl Hannah in particular), but the script is just stale bread soaked in soap suds. The movie does play better on television than it did in theaters simply because the material is more suited for the tube, but that doesn't excuse Herbert Ross's lethargic pacing and staging, the rat-rat-a-tat rhythm of the screenplay dialogue, nor the constant overacting by 80% of the women. You certainly can't expect monumental emotions from a picture set in a small town beauty parlor where gossip, romance and lives are played out, but, since this is aimed at Terms Of Endearment fans, some actual, heartfelt feelings might not be too much to ask. Steel Magnolias doesn't have them. It's got the frosting all right, but the cake is a fake. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Good movie but too wordy","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Shirley Maclaine as the wry, eccentric Ouisa is the best thing about this movie. She lights up every scene she is in, and has the best comic role. This movie means very well and it's good to see six women as the stars. The male support actors such as Sam Shepherd and Tom Skerritt are excellent. The trouble is that the film's roots as a stage play are too obvious. Scenes are packed with dialogue and people standing around emoting. And there's not enough plot. All the female cast are likable but sometimes they just stand and deliver their lines rather than act them out. Which might be a direction problem. The movie is too long, but I love the small town setting and the fact the friends are from different generations. "}{"Title":"Pure Hollywood Magic Always Timely Always Touching","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 28 years after its megahit release the ten versatile leads seem as strong a closely knit ensemble as ever and the story as deep and timely as ever. In a small southern town in Louisiana not far from the Texas panhandle border Sally Field struggles with daughter Julia Roberts' unwillingness to recognize the lifestyle restrictions of her type 1 dabetes and makes time every time she schedules Dolly Parton's beauty parlor to dish gossip with the other two very rich town ladies of leisure, Olympia Dukakis and Shirly Maclaine. A story possibility with potential depth and meaning comes alive from Herbert Ross with equally brilliant performances by Daryl Hannah, Sam Shepherd,Kevin J. O'connor, Dylan McDermott and Tom Skerrit. Magnificent sets and wardrobe and magnificent photography and editing make this brilliant, timely work of art one for posterity. Not a slow or dull second of dialogue or of editing from opening to closing credits. "},{"Title":"One of my absolute favorites!","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steel Magnolias (1989) tells the story of a group of southern women, including Sally Field, Dolly Parton, Julia Roberts, Shirley Mclaine....... And more! They all gave fantastic performances, Julia even got an Oscar nomination for her supporting performance, and should've won in my opinion, I also think Sally Field should've gotten a nomination as well, and a win! Shirley Mclaine was also a great joy to watch, she really had a funny, charismatic, deep character to dive into, and it was a joy to watch! The plot was so delightful and well executed! Also, the dialogue was so smart and really worked well in the scenes. People tend to believe this is a film strictly for women, a big chick flick, well in some ways, yes, it is a chick flick, but the men will enjoy this movie as well! This is very touching, emotional, well done 1980's southern flick! 10/10 "},{"Title":"The story depicts a southern family living in a small town in Louisiana and demonstrates life in many ways.","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steel Magnolias is a film that in my opinion is well worth watching. The story depicts a southern family living in a small town in Louisiana. The film has the viewer engrossed in the preparation of the daughter's wedding with the involvement of family and friends so typical of a southern community. Just as things are going wonderfully, life takes a terrible turn for this family. The movie has you laughing and crying as it is filled with humor and heartbreak and the story of the Eatenton family unfolds.Truvy's Beauty Parlor is the happening place where the women of Chiquapin Parish come to gather to share life's events. Truvy Jones (Dolly Parton), the owner of the parlor is the person who offers advice on dealing with life's problems. M 'Lynn Eatenton (Sally Fields) and her daughter Shelby (Julia Roberts) visit the parlor often in preparation for Shelby's wedding. Truvy has hired an assistant, Annelle Dupuy (Daryl Hannah) who is an interesting character who is very religious as well as very mixed up in her marriage as the viewer is unsure if she is married or not due to legal issues. Other women in the community also visit the parlor and give their input into the wedding and the gossip of the town. Ouiser Boudreaux (Shirley MacLaine) is a character that is ill tempered, negative and tells everyone exactly what she thinks; she is not well liked by some of the other characters in the movie, especially Drum Eatenton (Tom Skerritt) as they are constantly bickering and making cross remarks to each other. The only person who seems to like Ouiser is the character Clairee Belcher (Olympia Dukakis) who has been recently widowed; she is a friend to Ouiser but loves poking fun at her.Shelby's wedding occurs in the back yard of her home. Her father Drum is always into something from shooting birds out of the trees in preparation for the wedding to bickering with Ouiser. The wedding occurs and several months pass when Shelby announces that she is pregnant. The town is happy with the announcement except her mother who worries because Shelby is a diabetic with frequent episodes of illnesses and her body is showing signs of kidney failure. Shelby delivers her son Jackson but not long after, her body does go into kidney failure. M'lynn donates a kidney to her daughter but shortly after Jackson turns one, Shelby's body rejects her kidney and she falls into a coma. Shelby loses the battle and her family has to remove her from life support.The movie takes you through emotional ups and downs of all of these characters as their lives intertwine. The heartbreak of a family as they journey through the happiness of their daughter's wedding, the birth of her child and then the struggles of her disease as it takes her life and leaves young Jackson without a mother. By the end of the movie, you have laughed so hard at the bickering between Ouiser and Dunn with Clariee and her smart comments. M'lynn mourns the death of her daughter and the other characters support her with love and at the same time humor that takes the viewer from crying to immediate laughter.Steel Magnolias was released in 1989, written by Robert Harling and directed by Herbert Ross. The movie kept the viewer totally engrossed as they laughed and cried with the characters. It allowed the viewer to see life unfold through the good and the bad and showed how life goes on with the love and support of others and allowed the viewer to relate to different circumstances in life. The movie ended with M'lynn finally accepting her daughter's death with a new focus on life, her grandson Jackson. As the characters all gathered at an Easter egg hunt on Easter morning, Annelle goes into labor and is rushed to the hospital with the quick reality that life does go on and new life begins. "},{"Title":"Excellent Players, Wonderful Story","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" STEEL MAGNOLIAS ****1/2 Everyone can fall in love with 'Steel Magnolias', the character-driven story that peaks into the lives of six women living in a small Southern town. It starts off with a humorous tone and slowly evolves into something more on the lines of drama before it reaches a tearjerker ending. The ladies frequently meet together at Dolly Parton's beauty salon where many subplots are planted the typical madness and joyfulness Sally Field and Julia Roberts share in light of a wedding taking place, Daryl Hannah developing self-confidence amidst a trial, the apparent solidity in Shirley MacLaine and Olympia Dukakis's friendship. "},{"Title":"It always never fails to make me cry","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I dont know what it is about Sally Field in this movie. However her shpiel over you know who dying...(dont want to give it away) Is so heart breaking. My friends and I always watch it when we are all together, and everyone one of us are left in shambles by the end of the movie because it is so movie. The acting is what i think make it so strong, and of course the writing. I loved Sally Field, and Julia Roberts/ And Wheeza or however you spell her name...lol. So please those who haven't seen it, just rent it and get some kleenexs, "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE RULES!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For many years my mom told me this movie was great but I never wanted to watch it and just thought it was another Chick flick but one day I was bored out of my mind and it was on tv and I forced myself to watch it and I LOVED IT! Never before was there a movie that made me laugh and cry at the same time. My father got my a DVD player for my birthday and my mom got me Steel Magnolias to go with it. I watch this movie alot and if you think you won't like it GIVE IT A CHANCE! Steel Magnolias is my all time favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Laughter through tears is my favorite emotion.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only thing I regret about having seen this movie is that I can never experience the joy and wonderment of watching it for the first time. Anyone who says this movie is just a bunch of chicks blabbing in a beauty parlor must be totally lacking in sensitivity.  I was deeply touched by this movie and it has taught me a lot about life.  I feel I am a better person for having seen it.  I think that is the highest praise one can bestow on a movie.  I didn't analyze the plot or the performances of the actors (even though most were superb) I just let myself enjoy it. "},{"Title":"# 1 chick flick","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias is the definite chick flick but that doesn't make it bad. This is one of my favorite movies of all times. It can make you cry and laugh at the same time.  It should be in every ones home. Sally Fields is great in it. Her break down scene at the cemetery was so incredibly sad. Steel Magnolias is a great movie. I give it a 9.    "},{"Title":"It's a Chick Flick","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Shelby Eatenton (Julia Roberts) is getting married to Jackson (Dylan McDermott). Her parents M'Lynn (Sally Field) and Drum (Tom Skerritt) are getting ready. Things revolve around Truvy Jones (Dolly Parton)'s beauty parlor. Truvy takes pity on the bumbling Annelle Dupuy (Daryl Hannah) hiring her. Next door neighbor Ouiser Boudreaux (Shirley MacLaine) is angry at all the fuss. Clairee Belcher (Olympia Dukakis) loves to crack jokes at Ouiser's expense. Shelby is weak with diabetes. She suffers attacks. She shouldn't have children, but some time after the wedding, she announces that she's pregnant.Sure it's a chick flick. But it's not a frivolous chick flick. There are big emotional melodrama. It's overwrought at times. The impressive cast is able to tame this beast. The best part is that these chicks are good friends. It's a chick flick in the best sense. There are some cute fun moments, some big lines, and some down right sharp jabs. Then there are the big cry moments. It's all there. "},{"Title":"A good damn reason to move to the South","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steel Magnolias is one of the best films i have ever seen. I am surprised that is is not in IMDb's top 250, and if it was it would be #7 at the most. This film is a wide range of comedy and drama. It has great performances by some of the most beautiful and most talented actresses including Sally Feild, Dolly Parton, Olympia Dukakis, Shirly MacLaine, Daryl Hannah, and the lovely Julia Roberts.The film is about a group of southern women who are the best of friends who all have different personalities. They use these personalities to get through life as one strong person. These personalities run from silly to sensitive and from sad to strong. This film makes me want to move down south and find a wonderful women like one of those 6. I highly recommend this film. "}{"Title":"Steel Magnolias","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know the meaning of the title, I guess it's something to do with all the women in it, but this film is based on the play by Robert Harling, who wrote the screenplay, and directed by Herbert Ross (The Sunshine Boys, The Secret of My Succe$s, Boys on the Side). Basically the film sees many female friends, living in Louisiana, and the whole way through the women all support each other in whatever difficult or emotional situations they are taken into. Shelby Eatenton Latcherie (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Julia Roberts) is getting married to Jackson Latcherie (Miracle on 34th Street's Dylan McDermott), and getting help from mother M'Lynn (Golden Globe nominated Sally Field) and hairdressing friends Truvy Jones (Dolly Parton) and new recruit Annelle Dupuy Desoto (Daryl Hannah). Then there is loads more chat about marriage, men, the menopause and manicures, before all friends, Ouiser Boudreaux (BAFTA nominated Shirley MacLaine), Clairee Belcher (Olympia Dukakis) and the others are brought together for the tragic death of Shelby, which M'Lynn obviously can't handle, but don't worry, there is a happy ending when all of them rush to help Annelle get to hospital to have her baby. Also starring Alien's Tom Skerritt as Drum Eatenton, Kevin J. O'Connor as Sammy Desoto, Sam Shepard as Spud Jones, Bill McCutcheon as Owen Jenkins and Ann Wedgeworth as Aunt Fern. You have to remember that this is based on a play, so it is obvious why there isn't a whole lot of plot or point to the film, it is literally just a load of women, many sassy one-liners, and some compassionate, slightly too sentimental emotional moments, happy and sad, but good entertainment never-the-less. Very good! "},{"Title":"Watch this while your wrapping your christmas presents !","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ultimate feel-good movie. Guaranteed to make you feel better. Some cracking one-liners, love Shirley Maclaine declaring that she's just been in a bad mood for 40 years. Watch this at Christmas !  "},{"Title":"A Diabetic's Sweet Treat","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Please forgive the cuteness of my title, A Diabetic's Sweet Treat, by allowing me to demonstrate why it encapsulates the message of Steel Magnolias.Twenty five minutes into the movie, earlier comedic moments turned into horror as I watched Shelby shaking uncontrollably in the beauty shop chair, resisting those attempting to help her. The scene was terribly accurate, reflecting my personal experience under insulin shock. Introspective though I am, I find it arduous to describe one's feelings in that dire situation, but as a picture is worth a thousand words, Julia Roberts' dramatic performance is priceless in conveying the diabetic's plight.The director's DVD commentary reveals how he wanted the actors in this pivotal sequence to appear upbeat despite their characters fearing Shelby's wedding might endanger her fragile health everyone was supposed to be hoping otherwise. But the mechanics of filming this emotional mixture proved incredibly difficult and after countless takes, the cast began feeling anxious, unintentionally adding the necessary realistic undercurrent.This upbeat anxiety promotes a saccharine quality to life instead of a natural sweetness, similar to consuming sugarless and tasteless low fat stuff to maintain a healthy diet. So Sally Field as Shelby's mother M'Lynn conceals an anger with God that bad things happen to good people. Daryl Hannah as Annelle prays to Jesus by rote. Ouiser, played by Shirley MacLaine, behaves obnoxiously, frustrated by her failures with men. Dolly Parton as Truvy avoids loneliness by busily working. Olympia Dukakis as the grieving widow Clairee gossips and spars with Ouiser. All find focus on Shelby, who has the toughest journey.A fascinating paradox is that conventional movie flaws don't detract from this film. Some events are boring, some characters exaggerated, some situations underdeveloped. But these are real life occurrences. Based on a true story, Steel Magnolias blooms with authenticity. Unlike a documentary, we're spared the technical medical details, and we're given no answers to the psychological, philosophical, and theological quandaries posed. Leave that to medical journals or Bible classes.What we're offered by Shelby is a model for life. At the point she has her beautiful flowing hair cut short to make things simple, you know something really bad is afoot. Rather than feel sorry for herself, she faces what life offers and makes the best of it. Ironically, as a diabetic, she's the sweetest person. Slowly but surely, the others discover that if you cheat a bit by not eating the right food, by not praying enough, or by letting your hair down socially, you'll fare better in this short tough life. Most importantly, support your fellow human beings and they'll support you.So you see, my title is appropriately cute, inasmuch as Steel Magnolias serves everybody, including diabetics, a sweet treat! "},{"Title":"A shallow cartoon of a movie.","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Does anyone really enjoy this type of manipulative drivel, with lines like I'd rather have thirty minutes of wonderful than a lifetime of nothing special?  Bright-eyed Julia Roberts, in her first major film role (some may hate the movie on that count alone), is the spirited young bride, tragically cut down in the prime of her life.  Sally Field, as Roberts' grief-stricken mother, has a howler of a graveside scene.  We're meant to weep for them, and gain some kind of uplifting message from the strength that carries them through this tragedy, but there's not a believable moment in the whole movie.  Based on the Robert Harling stage play, and adapted by Harling himself, the film features Shirley MacLaine, Dolly Parton, Olympia Dukakis and Darryl Hannah in the other principal roles.  None are particularly impressive.  The title refers to the emotional steeliness that lies beneath their proper Southern Belle facade.  The men, represented by Sam Shepard (one wonders what drew him to this tiny, insignificant part?), Dylan McDermott, and Tom Skerritt are, typically, presented as lazy, selfish and useless.  All in all, a shallow cartoon of a movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is based on a true story!","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an excellent movie, one of my favorites. It is also based on a true story. Robert Harling, the playwright, who wrote the play had a sister who had diabetes. Her's was just like Shelby's. It was very serious and having a child was life-threatening. However, though she went right ahead and had one anyway because she was afraid she would be denied one through adoption. Susan was her real name. He wrote the play for her of course. It was so good that it was turned into a movie. I have the DVD of it. I used to rent all the time before I got it. I love Julia Roberts, and all the others. Kudos to the filmmakers, cast and crew. Two Thumbs Way Up! "},{"Title":"the worst, most predictable piece of garbage ever","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" there has never, NEVER been a more predictable, dull, boring piece of garbage ever made. not funny for a second, and even less moving, this movie has nothing to say. this is the very worst kind of chick flick, and that is about the worst thing you can say about any film.it is difficult to imagine anyone dull enough to find this entertaining or interesting enough to even keep on as background noise.worthless...a note...i had to put a spoiler warning on this, because i commented that i knew julia roberts would die the second her image was on screen. thing is , thats not a spoiler. if you know anything about movies, you should be able to tell the second she appears, in fuzzy, blown out closeup, and the music swells to a sad, nostalgic teary-eyed movement, that there is something 'tragic' about that character. hmmm. i wonder what it could be...esp a few moments later when she has an attack of 'brain fever' or whatever the hell she has...and men? yeah. men are just good for sitting around and watching TV and eating. according to this film, no man has ever made an interesting comment or had an original thought. they are all just dumb, cold hearted boobs...like dgos, but less cuddlyavoid...or better yet, destroy every print of this worthless piece of garbage and erase it from memory.negative 10 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Best movie for role models","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The greatest thing about Steel Magnolias is how dominated the plot is by female characters. Granted that is one of the basic reasons for the title, but it's true. The plot line includes the death of a central character which is powerful but tricky. When deciding to remove a central character for a dramatic point in the plot, you first have to give the audience an opportunity to establish a relationship with that character. This movie successfully does that so that her death causes a major sense of tragedy for the audience. In the process, the film tells a story about the infamously tough southern women. It portrays women in a real-life superhero type of role which is something that doesn't happen nearly enough on screen. "},{"Title":"Where has this breed of women gone ...","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Embracing women's eagerness to spread and comment about gossips, Steel Magnolias is extremely fertile in witty one-liners and wisecracking exchanges, yet the simple 'life goes on' emerges as the most powerful line, summarizing the very spirit that drove the six ordinary heroines of a small Southern town. You know these towns, where handy jobs are the rule, where rituals and ceremonials regularly punctuate the daily routine, towns with postcard-like charms associated with folk songs and country music, French sounding names for Southern belles and plain monosyllabic ones for guys.The set is tone through the setting Steel Magnolia is a woman's movie, where men (more an observation than a critic) are foils, or tender non-entities highlighting their women's wisdom, patience and endurance. Tom Skerrit does pretty well though given the small role he has, stealing the show as a lovable buffoon of a husband. And closing the man's parenthesis, I wonder if the films most emblematic line what differentiates women from animals is their capability to accessorize didn't include men as parts of these accessories. Still, this is feminine speaking, not feminist, and the difference is huge.Indeed, if one thing, Steel Magnolias is an ode to female bonding, contradicting the myth of friendship as exclusively masculine. Still, it fairly deals some inconvenient truths notably women's adoration for gossip and benign superficiality. After all, isn't it significant that the arena of their fullest expression is a beauty parlor? The place is owned and managed by the sunny and lively Truvy (Dolly Parton), who hires a newcomer in town, a shy and lanky girl with eyes hidden under a pair of heart-rimmed sunglasses and whose reluctance to answer basic questions immediately label her as a 'girl with a past', and while you'd expect her new circle to respect her discretion, they surprisingly display more curiosity.The rest of the group includes Julia Roberts as Shelby and her mother M'Lynn played by the quintessential strong-willed and hard-working mother Sally Field. If the six women represent the community-within-the-community, the group's heart lies on the mother-and-daughter bond. When Shelby is victim of a diabetes attack, she's immediately healed by her mother; M'Lynn knows the process and doesn't panic while giving her orange juice. The signal is clear this is the part of the story that will matter, starting with the new chapter on Shelby's life her marriage, a convenient opportunity to introduce all the protagonists -a never-failing plot device since The Godfather.And Steel Magnolias cleverly uses rituals and holidays as narrative check-points. During Xmas, Shelby announces her pregnancy to M'Lynn, which comes as a shock because of her health condition, pregnancy was medically frowned upon. Yet Shelby can't do without experiencing motherhood, especially since adoption didn't rhyme with option. M'Lynn is immediately confronted to a heart-breaking paradox as a mother, while she doesn't understand her daughter's action, she understands her motivations. I don't know what I want is the most sincere answer she, and any mother, could have come up, with. Anyway, the news are celebrated by the titular magnolias in a sort of Que sera sera resignation.Yet the health threats keep us on-guard, even after moments of reliefs. Shelby has a boy, but as we expect, her health keeps worsening. Steel Magnolias remind of Terms of Endearment on that level, and driven by a similar spirit, it effectively compensates these dramatic moments by comedy, incarnated by the Laurel-and-Hardy-like duo of Olympia Dukakis and Shirley MacLaine. Both are widows, MacLaine twice, one embraces life with a theatrical joviality, the other is your typical grumpy old women, MacLaine even borrows some mannerisms and mimics from her Aurora role in Terms. The two elderly women are the salt and pepper that give the film its unique flavor.So You'll laugh, and cry... and meditate about life, sounds like the predictable premise of Steel Magnolias. And it works because Herbert Ross, the director and Robert Harling, the writer never cheat with this premise through over-elaborated plot devices, even I, was surprised by its straight-forward path to the tragic conclusion. It doesn't cheat either because there are many moments that could have easily drown in sentimentality. Not that every comical effect didn't feel awkward, but it takes some guts not to insist too much on emotions in a woman's film. Naturally, the Terms of Endearment comparison indirectly reflects the film's lack of narrative ambition, but from my own experience, since the night I saw it 20 years ago, I can't look at Steel Magnolias with cynical eyes.Yes, the magic still works, and the poignancy is amplified by genesis of the play that inspired the screenplay. I learned from the DVD features that the writer wrote the play to cope with the loss of his sister, who died in the same circumstances as Shelby, which makes the film's context and truth-to-life more palpable. Another reason to appreciate the film is to wonder, how differently handled it would have been today. The film is set in the 80's, and whatever it means, at least, we don't have a struggling wife trying to awaken the sexual beast, the mother courage with five kids, including a Gothic teenager who wants a Scorpio tattoo, no lesbian kiss or pot-smoking scene either. Steel Magnolias rise above these target-appealing considerations it's about a breed of women that doesn't exist anymore, so much more appealing than the likes of Sex and the City or Desperate Housewives.Steel Magnolias is about the joys and pains inherent to women, giving life being their greatest blessing and curse given the circumstances, and the film deals with both. It's about the exhilaration of being a woman capable to transcend its innate toughness despite their vulnerable facade. And I guess, I remembered the Life goes on line more than any other because it sums up what being a mother means transmitting life's precious sparkle, the same that inhabit their hearts, their eyes, and in some cases, their talkative mouths. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Comedy Drama","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Six brilliant casted actresses brought this heartwarming Southern tale to life. Set in the South, the film is a study of a group of female friends' relationships with each other and their individual experiences in life, love and death.Sally Field, Dolly Parton, Shirley MacLaine, Olympia Dukakis, Darryl Hannah and Julia Roberts are beautiful and exceptional in their roles, playing off of each other like they were all best friends. Dukakis and MacLaine get most of the big laughs in the movie as a pair of wacky elderly women who share a love hate relationship, and Julia Roberts shines as Shelby.The musical score to this film is beautiful and each scene and story is as wonderful as the next. Although heartbreaking, the conclusion is beautiful and the film is clever, with strong performances and a wonderful, witty script. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a real classic. Everyone in the film from Shirley MacLaine, Sally Field, Julia Roberts, Olympia Dukakis, Dolly Parton, Daryl Hannah, they are all so good. The scene that always makes me cry is the Why scene with Sally Field after she loses her daughter. She gives a heart-wrenching monolgoue about why things have gone so wrong. It is an unbelievable performance. I think it's funny that guys call these films Chick Flicks when these films have some of the best acting and writing you can get. Also, Shirley as Weezer is a dropdead funny performance. I didn't know this film was based on a true story. When I watch it it always reminds me of my family. "}{"Title":"Chronology confusions...","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoy watching this movie for so many reasons, but here's a nagging question Is anyone else confused about the timing of Annelle's pregnancy? My mother and I have obsessed about this for years, and we chase around and around and never solve it.The movie starts at Easter time, let's say in 1980. At Christmas 1980, Shelby announces her pregnancy. Jack Jr. is born on the 3rd of July, 1981, and his 1st birthday is celebrated in the movie in July 1982, in the days before Shelby's kidney transplant. Annelle is not visibly pregnant when she comes running out with the pot of beans for Shelby's family. Then Shelby has her rejection scene at Halloween, when Annelle has her wedding shower (we can't see her well enough to know if she's already visibly pregnant); Jack looks like he's no more than 15 months old, so it's probably still 1982. At Shelby's funeral, it's autumn and Annelle suddenly looks pregnant and talks about the baby (she'd be 3-4 months along at this point), and Jack Jr. still looks really little when M'Lynn picks him up from Aunt Fern's. Annelle's baby is then born at Easter time, at most 6 months after the funeral; in those final scenes, Jack Jr. looks a LOT older than 22 months, which is what he would have to be at that point. I think in the credits it even refers to him as Jack Jr. (age 3) or something.So, one of two things could be true A. Shelby stayed in her coma for an entire year and died at Halloween in 1983, and Annelle's baby was born at Easter in 1984, in which case Jack Jr. should have been a lot bigger when M'Lynn went to pick him up but would fit his appearance in the final Easter scene.OR B. Annelle was already pregnant when she got married. Given that she was so religious that she wouldn't let Sammy keep beer in the fridge and got really embarrassed over the kinky underwear from Ouiser, I have a hard time believing that. It's also not as if seriously religious people don't get pregnant before getting married, but it is not really consistent with her character, and they don't say anything about it, leading me to believe that it was just an oversight.Clearly I've thought about this more than the people who made the movie, which is to say I've thought about it way too much! The movie is not about Annelle, so it doesn't really matter, but the inconsistencies bugged me.I saw the stage play, and I don't think Annelle even gets pregnant in that script, so no resolution there. Any theories? "},{"Title":"Add me to the list of men who like this film!","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like other reviewers have said, this film is in my personal collection and I love it. This story of a group of women and their relationships with each other and the others in their lives as portrayed through the seasons of Nachitoches, Louisiana is like chicken soup - familiar, nourishing, and always there when you want to reconnect. It starts with getting ready for a wedding at Easter. Actually, it starts with a newcomer to town (Anelle, brilliantly played by Darryl Hannah) getting a new job at the most successful beauty shop in town. Truvy's (played by Dolly Parton, giving her best performance) has become the gathering place for the group of women this movie will focus on. Meanwhile, at the Eatenton household, M'Lynn (Sally Field) is preparing for her daughter Shelby's (Julia Roberts) wedding. We meet this family and then get to see the next door neighbor, Ouiser (Shirley MacLaine) crossing swords with M'Lynn's husband, Drum. Back at Truvy's we also get to meet the former First Lady of Chinquipin Parish, Claree (Olympia Dukaukis). The story unfolds through Shelby's wedding and our discovery that she is a diabetic which will create problems later on, to the Christmas Festival, to a summer Independence day where we learn Shelby has had a baby boy, and see what having that baby has done to Shelby's health, to a Hallowwe'en that starts well but ends in a tragedy, to Eater again and the rebirth of the circle of life. The stories range from hysterical to touching and the interplay and dialog of the actresses are wonderful. My personal favorite funny part is Ouiser unknowingly walking into Truvy's during a discussion of how to tell if a man is gay (I still laugh till I cry during that scene). How are the performances? Sally Field as the matriarch of the Eatenton family is a tower of strength, and then shows her strength through tragedy. This is Julia Roberts' finest performance ever, the most natural and genuine part she has played. (If you were wondering, I hate Pretty Woman) Just watch the scene at Christmastime between Sally and Julia and you will understand. Dolly Parton gives a performance instead of playing Dolly, and she may be my favorite character. I have read people say they felt Shirley MacLaine overplayed Ouiser, but I understand it. Ouiser is a larger than life character and is well served by Shirley. I have never been much of a fan of Darryl Hannah until I saw this movie. I thought she brought life to what could have been a cardboard character. Olympia Dukaukis is great as Claree, showing that life needn't end because you are a widow. I think of these women as friends and regularly enjoy seeing them when I watch this wonderful film. "},{"Title":"A Great Collection of Actors' Moments","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything came together for this one. Even though many of the drawls were make-believe, the following actors had shining moments here (the much-overlooked) Tom Skerritt, Olympia Dukakis, Dolly Parton, Shirley MacLaine, and (perhaps the role that demanded the most) Daryl Hannah. Julia Roberts had one heck of an introduction, too. Yeah, I know, it wasn't her first, but it's the one that got her noticed. Another unfortunately overlooked actor, Sam Shepard, was his usual quietly excellent self too.This movie was a joy to watch, and I'm an Oklahoman who normally detests Californians attempting to talk suthen. It's been called the king (queen?) of the chick flicks, but I (a dedicated fan of Blazing Saddles, the penultimate anti-chick flick) beg to differ. This is an intriguing look into the world of the Louisiana beauty shop, a place off-limits to males. It makes you laugh, cry, laugh, laugh, cry, and laugh, in that order.Guys, go rent this one and watch it with that special lady. You'll get full credit for being sensitive, yet have a few honest belly laughs in the process. Who could ask for more? "},{"Title":"Dramatic MASTERPIECE, Nearly perfect (cinematography is forgettable)","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most fantastic dramatic movies I have ever seen. The way it gives voice to the fierce and loving bond between women, the love and anger between mothers and the daughters they cherish, the humor and spice of southern life, is simply SUPERB. The script is one of the finest I have ever seen brought to screen. Funny, sad, real, natural and yet more condensed into the essence of meaning. The whole movie is infinately quotable.  But warning you must be willing to cry because it is one of the most tragically beautiful character-driven movies I have ever seen.The story of a group of small-town southern women who are tied together by their honest understanding of each other's flaws, their shared sense of the absurd, their fundamental goodness, and their fierce love for one another. It is a story of a luminous and charming young woman, named Shelby (played by an impossibly beautiful young Julia Roberts--who got the part on her dramatic talents alone, the casting directer considered her freakish-looking or at least not at all pretty enough to play Shelby) who marries the man she loves (an unarguably handsome young Dylan McDermott). Shelby is loving and loved and wants nothing more than to have a child, a simple enough desire for some but considerably more of a challenge for Shelby, who has an extremely weak body and severe diabetes.Although not explicitly referred to in the movie, Steel Magnolias seem to be the southern women themselves-- both beautiful and resilient. These are women who have grown up together, their lives and personalities intertwined.The cast is pitch-perfect and uniformly superb. Olympia Dukakis, Dolly Parton and Shirley McClain are FANTASTIC-- embodying their flawed and loveable characters with fiery warmth. The luminaries are too many to list-- both Julia Roberts and Sally Field deserved oscars, and I am usually a harsh critic of both of them. (Field is frequently too 'cutesy' for my taste and her eyebrows quivver like a hound dog, and although I think Roberts has talent she has frequently made nearly unforgiveably poor choices such as Runaway Bride, Pretty Woman, Conspiracy Theory and the like). However, both Field and Roberts are simply OUTSTANDING. If this movie doesn't make you weep, you should get your tear-ducts examined.My only criticism, (and as someone who really really loves the art of film, this is a biggie) is that the cinematography is forgettable. In terms of setting dramatic mood it does a good job of pretending to let you eavesdrop on key moments. It is not intrusive. But in a movie of this dramatic scope, there were times when I wished the camera gave a more intimate angle, peered into people's faces and followed their gestures or symbolic details. In other words, the literary or artistic dimension of the way the film was put together seemd somewhat flat to me. This was the ONLY thing that detracted from what was otherwise one of the most moving and well-done dramas I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Excellent twist of drama and comedy!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this movie numerous times and love it  each and every time!  Everyone in the movie gave a  wonderful performance.  This is the only movie where two emotions can be expressed at the same time I  think I have ever seen, i.e., sadness and laughter. I absolutely loved Olympia Dukakis's part, I felt  she did a wonderful job with her comical yet  sarcastic witty remarks.  The end of the movie is  definately heart wrenching but the scene in the  cemetery where Sally Fields let's loose is  wonderful, I too have felt that kind of anger over a death, and it was nice to see the town grump  Shirley McLain express a different emotion over  M'Lynn's loss instead of being cold and sarcastic as she is in the rest of the film.  I think this is a  must see for all, I'm not sure why it's labeled as a chick flick, I think men and women both enjoy this movie.  I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of writing and acting.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best character-driven films ever made.  The writing is excellent--if Robert Harling does nothing else the rest of his life, this semi-biographical play/film will sustain his reputation.  Being from the South, and north Louisiana in particular, I feel qualified to comment on the authenticity of the characters.  Watching this movie is like visiting old friends or going to a family reunion.  The best part of the film, for me at least, is not the drama around which the storyline is based ( Julia Roberts' character, Shelby, is a diabetic who has a child against the advice of doctors, ultimately causing serious problems for her state of health), but rather the witty barbs and delicious asides that the women throw at each other and anyone else within firing distance.  Perhaps the best line of the movie can be attributed to Olympia Dukakis' character, Clairee, who says, Like I always say, if you can't say something nice about somebody---come sit by me!  The most moving scene of the movie, however, does fall into the drama category.  Sally Field gives the performance of her career as a destroyed mother close to the end of the film.  I'm not ashamed to admit that, even though I've seen this film probably more than twenty times, her performance brings tears to my eyes and a lump to my throat every time I watch it.  I dare any guy to watch this movie and not get choked up--if you can, you don't have a heart!  All in all, though, the melodrama is balanced very well with the humor, which, along with the performances of an outstanding cast (not one of which gives less than an excellent performance), makes for one hell of a movie! "},{"Title":"The ultimate chick flick","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias is one of the most moving movies I have ever seen.  Based on a true story (written by one of Shelby's brothers), Steel Magnolias is set in a small southern town which is very realistically portrayed (I know I used to live in the town where it was filmed).  Steel Magnolias is the ultimate, pardon my french, chick flick.  The laughter, tears, weddings, funeral, births, parties, and deathbed scenes all come together to form this moving film. "},{"Title":"Just superb","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most historic films of all time.  The cast is one of the most perfect ever.  Sally Field gives the performance of her life and should have received the Oscar for her moving portrayal of a grieving mother.  But in this film there are tears through the laughter, laughter through the tears, it makes us all aware of how precious we are to one another. Probably my favourite film second only to Titanic. "},{"Title":"Really A Chick Flick for All Generations!","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How can you not like this movie. One of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. As it focuses on a mother-daughter relationship played by Sally Field and a then unknown newcomer played by Julia Roberts. As Roberts character choose happiness over her health problems with diabetes. Despite Field's misgivings.As Roberts character is going to be married to a then unknown Dylan McDermott. As they have a child but Field's friends come to her rescue and try to make the most of it. Since she is going to be a grandma.Dolly Parton is the owner of the beauty shop is a hoot that the movie revolves around. Daryl Hannah as the unrecognizable apprentice and Parton's protégé who is shy at first but really blossoms out during the film. Shirley MacLaine as the grouchy two time widow who has been in a bad mood for forty years. Olympia Dukakis as her only friend and finds a cheerful thing about things and people. Despite thick and thin situations.Really a funny, sad, and dramatic film all rolled up into one. Love it a little over twenty years later! "},{"Title":"The saddest movie that'll make you laugh.","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are a couple reasons why everyone should watch this movie.First, Steel Magnolias is led by a strong female cast whose snappy and comedic dialogue are enjoyable to watch. Their performances are so raw and believable that it's a shock to learn that only Julia Roberts was nominated for an Oscar.The supporting cast is full of wonderful characters from Dolly Parton (Truvy) (she's so cute!), Olympia Dukakis (Clairee) and Shirley McLaine. McLaine was my favorite as Ouiser, a sarcastic, grouchy, two-time widow. Daryl Hannah was the one weak point within the tight group. Hannah's performance was spot on, but I found her character exhausting and annoying at times. Roberts was lovable as Field's daughter Shelby, whose Type One Diabetes casts a somber cloud over the otherwise cheerful movie.Second, the story is adapted from the play written by Robert Harling (The First Wives' Club). Harling's inspiration for the story came from his own tragic real-life experiences of dealing with his sister's sickness and eventual death.Third, Sally Field. Field is fantastic as Robert's strong and overprotective mother, M'Lynn. Field's monologue at the end gave me the chills, it was perfect representation of what M'Lynn was going through. It's enough just to watch the movie for that one scene. I have not seen many of her movies so I didn't realize how incredibly talented she is. I really really like her, I really do.Throughout the movie, I got confused with the time jumps and what was going on during some scenes. Sometimes the next scene jumps ahead a couple of years and I wouldn't realize it until the next scene. Other than that issue, I really have no complaints. The cinematography, hairstyling (the southern big puffy hair), and the acting by everyone (even the men) was perfect for this chick flick.A heartwarming and charming tearjerker, Steel Magnolias is a movie that everyone has to see at least once. Highly recommended. 8 out 10. "}{"Title":"This movie will make you laugh and cry and love every minute of it.","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. The performances are superb and the emotional range of these women is incredible. I rarely laugh out loud when I'm watching a DVD alone at home but this movie had me laughing out loud and for so long my sides were sore and I had tears rolling down my face and this happens every time I see this film. And at the other extreme, Sally Field's performance throughout was wonderful but her portrayal of the insanity of such loss and grief in the scene at the cemetery is gut wrenching and explores the whole insane range of emotions that are experienced with such profound grief. I was sobbing and even after repeated viewings - I do watch movies that I really like several times over a period of weeks or months and even years - her portrayal of this grieving mother has me first crying and then laughing every time I watch it.The lifelong bonds between these women are wonderful in their depth and complexity and their acceptance of each others idiosyncrasies that are so well portrayed by these amazing actresses is heartwarming and funny and very real. These women portray friendship at its best.I highly recommend this film, chick flick or not, it's fun and funny and gut wrenching and heartwarming. I laughed until I cried until I laughed again.Why at least some of these women did not receive Academy Awards for their brilliant performances of this amazing script, I'll never understand.I must also give high praise to the use of silence in this film. So many moments are given such importance and impact by the use of silence especially those very long moments in the hospital around 'the decision' spoke volumes.I do hope it is not possible to wear out a DVD because I might just watch it enough to wear it out! "},{"Title":"Tough Southern Belles","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steel Magnolias is a comedy drama that stars Sally Field, Shirley MacLaine, Olympia Dukakis, Dolly Parton, Daryl Hannah and Julia Roberts. It is about the bond among a group of women from a parish in the Louisiana area. The film is based on a play Steel Magnolias which in turn dealt with the playwright's experience with the death of his sister.It was written by Robert Harling,who also is the playwright; and it is directed by Herbert Ross. The title refers to those seemingly frail Southern belles who survive any and all deprivations through whims of iron. This is about the story of an all-female cast of characters laughed, cried and compared menfolk.It expands the playing field by including scenes at picnics, hospitals and the like, and by visually depicting the males who never appeared in the stage version. Truvy Jones is the goodhearted beauty-shop owner, while Louisa Ouiser Boudreaux is the cantankerous town eccentric, decked out in grungy overalls and speaking fluent Trash. Well-to-do M'Lynn Eatenton bravely endures several assaults to her sensibilities, not the least of which is the illness and subsequent death of daughter Shelby Eatenton Latcherie. The movie is a prime example of ensemble film making and it is lovingly coordinated.The performances are first-rate, with the possible exception of Daryl Hannah's over emphatic portrayal of her character.It was a good character study plot which unfortunately had a clichéd and formulaic conclusion.Overall,it was an entertaining film that can make the viewer laugh and cry as he/she relates to the characters. "},{"Title":"Barbershop Sextet","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Difficult to find fault with this feel good chick flick. Even Shirley MacLaine can't louse it up but it is a young Julia Roberts who crawls away with it despite strong competition from Olympia Dukakis and Sally Field. I was fortunate enough to see the play before I saw the movie, albeit an English production of an American play set in the Deep South which meant it had two strikes on it going in but the quality of the writing overcame that handicap and is evident in this fine adaptation. Friendship is the theme that runs through it and the fact that in this case it is female friendship is more or less irrelevant. There's a nice symmetry in that it begins with the wedding of the Roberts character and ends, to all intents and purposes, with her premature death following a kidney transplant. Films about the South tend to get it wrong as often as they get it right but when they do get it right, as in To Kill A Mockingbird and this one, they really get it right. A winner. "},{"Title":"Steel Magnolias","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steel Magnolias,full of laughter, pain, joy, and sorrow is a must see movie for all women. It is Based on Robert Harling's, experience with his sisters tragic death. The story of a close group of friends convey the relationship we have in our lives. the struggles and triumphs the women go through will have you emotionally attached.The meaning behind the title comes from the meaning of women from the south. The Magnolia flower is a beautiful scented and dainty flower much like the gentile women of the old South. In addition, the word steel comes from the women's strength and stability through their troubles. After seeing this movie many times, the obstacles the women go through especially, M'Lynn whom defines the fragile but also strong heart of women. I have learned that life can be hard at times, and even though we may not accept such instances like death, we have to be strong and strive for the best. The women in this movie can be defined as delicate as a magnolia but though as steel. "},{"Title":"Comedy and Tragedy","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The setting of Steel Magnolias is in a small town Louisiana. The movie mainly takes place in a beauty parlor owned by Truvy (Dolly Parton). Some of Truvy's regular clients like to come into the parlor to gossip, just like women from the South. Truvy does Shelby's (Julia Roberts) hair on the day of her wedding, making her look so beautiful that it causes Shelby to almost faint, but really she almost faints because of her diabetes, so they give her a glass of orange juice to make her feel better. Truvy hired a woman, Annelle (Daryl Hannah), to do M'Lynn's (Sally Field) hair. M'Lynn is also Shelby's mother. There are also two other women waiting at the beauty parlor to get their hair done. Ouiser (Shirley MacLaine) who is the wealthiest/meanest women in Louisiana and Clairee (Olympia Dukakis) who is a nice widowed women. All of these six women become very good friends throughout this movie. They have obstacles to face, for example, a major event that happens is that Shelby has diabetes and then gets pregnant which M'Lynn objects to because it can cause major problems to her body. It causes one of Shelby's kidney's to fail. So M'Lynn gives Shelby one of hers, but in the end it doesn't turn out good. Throughout this movie no matter what happens, the women all stick together and help each other through hard times.Steel Magnolia's was released on November 15, 1989 and directed by Herbert Ross. This movie is about six women who become best friends who have times of happiness and sadness. The women make funny jokes and laugh with each other, but when something terrible happens they are always there for each other to make each other feel better.The reason I like the movie Steel Magnolias so much, is because it is such a good movie that makes me laugh, but at the same time makes me cry. I believe that Steel Magnolias fits the title just right. The women are tough like steel, so they can face any obstacle that comes there way, but as gentle as a magnolia flower. "},{"Title":"A beautiful celebration of friendship","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about the friendship of a group of middle aged women in a small town in Louisiana.An all female leading cast with lots of gossips usually means terrible boredom, but Steel Magnolias is a nice surprise that engages me throughout. Despite all the gossips, fights and even hurtful exchange of words, it can be seen that they have friendship as strong as steel. This celebration of extraordinary bond is delightful to watch, and is almost inspirational to the modern world where people do not really talk to each other anymore. The plot also reminds us that there is something beautiful even in the most tragic circumstances. "},{"Title":"A chick flick with backbone--from a guy who hates chick flicks","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Both Gregory the Movie Cat and I loved this movie. (Gregory gave it just short of a complete purr. Like me, he knows that this is a film with Julie Roberts before she really learned to act.) To get one central issue off the table--Julia Roberts is largely irrelevant here. She's beautiful, she's doomed, she dies young. She is largely uninteresting but for what surrounds her--and that is what makes the film completely enjoyable.To begin with, this is the real South, not warmed over Scarlett O'Hara. And what comes with the real South is a very creative use of language. The real strength of the film lies in the screenplay, which rarely if every hits a wrong note. Truvy proclaims that Smiling through tears is my favorite emotion, and the screenplay captures that complex of emotions extremely well. And is extremely funny, from throwaway lines like My personal tragedy will not interfere with my ability to give good hair to the denouement of the emotional scene right after Shelby's funeral--Hit Ouiser!! In addition--and this is really rare--all the casting is good. Even Julia Roberts--she really can't act, but she looks completely right. I have to single out Shirley MacLaine. Much as I like her, the fact is that for the last twenty years she has been giving performances that, charitably, can be described as trainwrecks--you have to watch them, but they are horrible. Ouiser is a trainwreck as well, but a really, really interesting one.Finally, Steel Magnolias was filmed in one of the most beautiful towns in the US, and that certainly shows.This film is a comedy with a serious interlude. It is virtually impossible to dislike. Guys, it is a chick flick that you can enjoy without mental damage. In short--perhaps not the very peak of the cinematic art, but a really funny and enjoyable evening.Highly recommended to all. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film despite its flaws","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is without a doubt one of my favorite films of all time--and I dare say the only chick flick that I truly enjoy. Steel Magnolias had an even mix of drama and comedy, all interlaced with the theme of friendship and love. The acting was beautiful, and each of the six leading ladies had their shining moments (*brief spoiler* particularly Sally Field in the cemetery scene after the funeral*, not to mention the periodic humorous exchanges between Olympia Dukakis and Shirley MacLaine and Daryl Hannah's changing personality throughout the course of the movie).Granted, this film does have its flaws. Cinematography was so-so, and there were plenty of continuity errors. Olympia Dukakis's accent sounded ridiculously forced at times, and Julia Roberts's accent faded in and out. Overall, though, the movie's good qualities far outweighed the bad, and I highly recommend Steel Magnolias to anyone who needs a good laugh...as well as a good cry. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully sad","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best ensemble casts ever assembled. It follows the lives of 6 women in a small town, showing us the fights, the feuds, and the friendships. We see them rejoice at weddings, and births, we worry with them when one of their own is sick, we cry with them when one dies.The best part about this movie is that it shows us two things.1. True friends are always there for us. That even when you don't like the person very much, you still love them and will stand by them.2. Even though they are considered the weaker sex, it's usually the woman who ends up dealing with life's trials and tribulations, while the men avoid the pain.It's a great movie to watch, just remember to have plenty of tissues available. "},{"Title":"Excellent tearjerker which is also very funny at times","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" STEEL MAGNOLIAS, in my opinion, is an excellent tearjerker which is also very funny at times. I thought that Shelby (Julia Roberts) looked very pretty in her wedding dress. When she went into diabetic shock, I got really scared. One reason I got scared at that point was because I was afraid she was going to die. If you ask me, Ouiser (Shirley Maclaine) was a pure b****! When I saw this, I didn't cry at all. Despite the fact that I didn't cry, I still enjoyed this movie. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent tearjerker which is also very funny at times to any Sally Field, Dolly Parton, Shirley Maclaine, Olympia Dukakis, Daryl Hannah, or Julia Roberts fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for lots of laughter and tears, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with someone close to you, and watch it. I guarantee you you'll thoroughly enjoy it. "}{"Title":"This film is a definite must-see!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is sad, funny and sweet all in one go. I would highly recommend this film to everyone and anyone.I have never laughed and cried at a film at basically the same time.The main characters act fantastically, especially Julia Roberts. Ousier is a wonderfully spiteful character, she made me love to hate her, with her witty comments, sarcasm and pessimism, although she did reveal a slightly more caring side at some times!I was very shocked when i learnt that this was a true story. The parish is so close and friendly, that it made me feel all of their their sadness and joy. I felt that i knew these people personally, by the end of the film.I would definitely class this film as one of my favourites and i'm sure you'll see why, if you see it!! It is excellent and perfect in nearly every way! "},{"Title":"Just my opinion.","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Throughout my lifetime I have seen many movies, this one is one of the best. I have seen it many times and have my own copy, and as I learned early on, you must see it a time or too before you really hear all the things that are said and done. I was very impressed by the cast, and the way these woman came together from all different backgrounds and melded so well together. I must confess that I cried like a baby at the last scene. It must have been the knowledge that another little Shelby was on the way into the world. I am sure I am not the only one that noticed that I LOVE YOU was never spoken out loud, but you knew that all the persons in this story deeply cared and loved one another. I for one would love to live in a community just like the one they lived in.  "},{"Title":"Southern Fried Delight!","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What the world needs to know right now is the South is run by the woman!  Enough said.  This movie, set in Louisiana, is a testament to how things really are in the south.  Small towns, and groups of southern woman who are honest and forthright with each other, and don't need to embellish the storylines of their lives.  An amusing note about these movies is the way all scenes take place on a backdrop of an event or holiday.  They come full circle to Easter....a sign of rebirth and redemption.  That should be noted.  The cast is just stellar....Julia Roberts in the early years, the ever resilient and awesome Sally Field, staunch and blunt Shirley MacClaine, and the dignified and distinguished Olympia Dukakis.  This movie is Dolly Parton's best acting effort in my opinion.  Add to the cast and solid background and plotline, and palpable evolving character lives, and you have a wonderful and all time classic that time will never diminish.   "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  1989 seemed to be the year for quite a few good movies, from Steel Magnolias to Parenthood to Driving Miss Daisy.Steel Magnolias was definitely an emotional roller coaster well worth it's weight in gold. The mega-star cast worked very well together and brought out the characters and their lives for all to enjoy.I do think the movie was way better than the stage play, as it  is with most movies based on stage plays, in my opinion. At least with a movie, they can get it right and save it to film.I would be tempted to add this movie to my DVD collection, one day, eventually. It's worth saving, for prosperity.  "},{"Title":"Bring the Kleenex","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If there is any chickflick that can be enjoyed by both sexes it is Steel Magnolias. This is a charming yet powerful movie talking place in a small town in the south, it's sort of become legendary as one of THE tearjerkers and also one of Julia Robert's best roles.I saw this so long ago but really liked it, normallly NOT my kind of movie but this was enjoyable from start to finish. Obvously it is a weeper of a movie(bring the Kleenex) and tragic at times, can't really explain why some tearjerkers get it right and some just seem to typical, contrived whatever. But Steel Magnolias got it right. I actually know men, who hate films like this, who like Steel Magnolias. This seems to be the rare type of chick flick that can be enjoyed by both women and men. I do remember when I first saw it, thinking in the theatre, I might not wanna see it again because it was just to MUCH of a tear jerker. I mean sometimes, no matter how much one likes dramas, a movie can just be a bit to heavy. But I've since changed my mind about this, I actually probably would watch it again, It's a great movie that still makes me smile all these years later. I'd recommend it if by chance someone reading this has yet to see it, but I'll say it again-Bring The Kleenex! "},{"Title":"A testosterone infused thrill ride.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The high anxiety action sequences were like none other I have ever witnessed which is saying a lot. The adrenaline! oh oh I can't take it anymore! This is definitely not for the squeamish. STEEL MAGNOLIAS offers the viewer a strong social commentary on the grisly violence we face in today's dog-eat-dog society. Will we choose to pick up the sword and fight or will we stand back and allow nature to take its course? I was disappointed it wasn't ten hours long. Daryl Hannah never looked more attractive. I only wish this movie will continue to play in heavy televised rotation since my ex live-in girlfriend took the VCR when she left. "},{"Title":"enjoyable but typical feel-good movie","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias  A great play with a tepid film adaptationRevolving around a group of Southern women in modern-day Louisiana, this very typical feel-good movie where the acting, plot, and setting are all aimed right at the heart not the head.  Granted, this doesn't necessarily make it a bad movie.  Anyone who grows up with an inkling of experience in the South can identify these women and their stereotypes instantly; born-again Christian, idealistic young daughter, dad of steel yet made of tissue paper, hair-style beauty queen, elegant rich widow, disgruntled eccentric elderly divorcee; the list goes on and on.Sally Field's typecast role as the overconcerned mother is heartfelt, but again, typecast.  However Shirley MacLaine was refreshing as the catch phrase-laden eccentric Ouiser; her antics with Tom Skerrit's Drum were entertaining and nostalgic.  Julia Roberts begins her major film debut here with the first of many interpretations of.... herself.  I'm sorry, but Roberts' Erin Brakovich is her real acting debut.Not without charm, Steel Magnolias is a die-hard chick flick guaranteed to make you snicker a few times, even if you're a purist.  Not the greatest adaptation possible for a superb play, this movie still does a good job at filling in gaps in the play's storyline-- from an embellishing point of view. "},{"Title":"The Best Chick Flick for Men Ever Made","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have no idea how I came to see this movie in the first place, but, even though it has to be considered a movie for women, I'm glad I did.  I believe that the term Steel Magnolias refers to this thing that southern women allegedly have that allows them to bend when need be but also to be strong in times of need.  It really isn't a southern thing though; it's a woman thing.The interesting point about Steel Magnolias is that it plays up the strengths of women everywhere without making men look like idiots.  In too many movies women can't be portrayed positively without men being made to look bad.  The male characters are typically male, but they are also likeable.  You see their faults, but the women show theirs as well.  The movie, also gives an interesting look into friendships.  The character development is fascinating because each of these women, even Ouiser Boudreaux, is someone I think I'd like to know and have as my friend. It's funny and sad and in the end you smile.  It's full of hope.  The dialogue is great and I think that some of the best one liners in movie history come from Steel Magnolias.So guys, if you can get over the fact that this is a movie for women, you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Beauty Spot Talk","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** The 1989 film Steel Magnolias, based on an off-Broadway play by Robert Harling, centers on six Southern women who aspire to be strong in the good and bad times. The bride-to-be Shelby (Julia Roberts) and her overprotective mother M'Lynn (Sally Field) are in Truvy's Beauty Spot, which is owned by Truvy Jones (Dolly Parton). Truvy had just hired an assistant, Annelle (Daryl Hannah), who was a new comer to the area. Clairee (Olympia Dukakis) was getting her hair set and Ouiser (Shirley McLaine), being pulled by her mangy mutt, was the last to arrive. This is a joyous day for the gang when the diabetic Shelby has an insulin reaction that M'Lynn says was caused from the added stress of the wedding. After the wedding, the girls go on about their lives. Truvy gets her distant husband to open up, Clairee buys a radio station, Annelle finds the Holy Ghost and a man of her own, and Ouiser rekindles an old flame.Around the holidays, the girls come back together. Shelby and her new husband Jackson Latcherie (Dylan McDermott) announce that they are expecting a baby early next year. M'Lynn is stunned because based on what the doctor had told Shelby at her pre-wedding physical, she wasn't supposed to have children. Her rare case if diabetes made her condition very delicate. But Shelby knew that she would be fine.  Complications with the pregnancy lead to M'Lynn giving Shelby a kidney. (Hey, what are mothers for?) After Shelby's tragic death from her kidney transplant, Clairee, Ouiser, Truvy and Annelle manage to keep M'Lynn smiling after the funeral.The intention of the Director Herbert Ross was to show the audience the troubles that people have in life and that sticking together, and maybe a little humor can get us through anything. Ross did a great job on this movie. From the female bonding done in the first scene to the death of one of the lead characters, Ross portrayed each character's life as an individual as well as their lives together as friends. I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants a good laugh and a good cry.  "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite movies!!!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't review the plot, that has been done many times so far, This movie is a gem!!!!  A perfect 10, funny moving and georgeous all at the same time.   The score is one of the best I have ever seen in a movie.  The composer resisted the temptation to go with regional music and composed a score that was lush, full and totally appropiate.  See this movie!  By the way I am not a chick ) "}{"Title":"okay film, but nothing to make a point of seeing","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias is about environment more than character or events. That's not to say that there are not achievments in character or big events, (a marriage, a death, etc.) The environment, however, is the movies main feature. This environment is composed of a group of women. Six of them. They hang out at a beauty parlor and talk gossip and seem to really be close. The dialogue is sometimes corny and sometimes funny and some of the events work. The problem with the movie is that nothing too extraordinary happens. The tragic moment is dramatic, but that's it. That's the only thing new in this entire movie. I can't help but be reminded of Diner about a group of adult men who hang out at a diner and talk gossip and kid with each other. Now that was a movie. It had brilliant characters, great dialogue, and hilarious situations. Steel Magnolias has the characters and the dialogue, but it is missing the situations. The situations are essentially the story and they are the most important part of a film and so without them Steel Magnolias might have the most realistic characters in the world, but it still feels empty. No story hurts any movie. This one is lucky that it can still be considered alright even though it contains next to no plot. It is alright because of the characters and performances only. "},{"Title":"The  play was better","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the off-Broadway production of Steel Magnolias, and let me tell you, other than the title, the two had little in common.  Hollywood screwed it up, as usual, with an over-acting cast who are cookie-cutter characters.  All of Dukakis' lines were taken from t-shirts designed for gay men; Roberts' accent comes and goes, Skerritt and Sam Shepard are wasted.  Only Sally Field, in the graveyard near the end, comes close to producing anything remotely memorable.  She does terrific work in a predictable, fuzzy, movie. "},{"Title":"An Ensemble Piece","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Harling's off Broadway play based on the death of his real life sister had the good fortune of having him do the screen adaption. In expanding it for the big screen and shooting it in his native Louisiana, Steel Magnolias lost nothing of what he was trying to convey in his one set drama which only involved the six women who are the leads. In fact seeing them interact with other family and friends added well to Steel Magnolias.Still the root of the play is the conversations among six friends in Dolly Parton's Beauty Parlor in a small Louisiana bayou town. The friends are friendly enemies Olympia Dukakis and Shirley MacLaine and Sally Field and her daughter Julia Roberts. A new hairdresser is hired by Parton as it turns out on the day that Roberts is to be married and that is Darryl Hannah.Roberts is a diabetic and she takes some very big health risks when she gets pregnant and has a baby boy. These women despite a lot differences and some occasional cattiness are really tight and the health problems of Roberts unites them all.Steel Magnolias should have received a bit more recognition from the Academy than the nomination Julia Roberts got for Best Supporting Actress. If Steel Magnolias is nothing else it's an ensemble piece and recognizing Roberts over the others was unfair. For this story to work, all of the six females have to be good and all of them are.This story has everything, laughter, sadness, great joy, and great pathos. Sometimes the six women are putting out several of these emotions at one time.The best thing I can say about Steel Magnolias is that it is the kind of film you can watch over and over and be moved by it and maybe pick up an emotion you should have felt before in a particular scene. A rare and extraordinary work can do that and Steel Magnolias is a film for the ages. "},{"Title":"As quotable as an episode of Golden Girls","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't praise this movie enough. I've seen it dozens of times, as a play on Broadway, and as a TV pilot with an excellent cast that sadly didn't sell. It is probably one of the most quotable films ever made. The movie was even a major plot device in one of the most popular episodes of Designing Women, which is ironic considering that much later Delta Burke of DW appeared in SM on Broadway.This is an ensemble piece of the highest proportions. If you were to ask any person to name a movie where ensemble is the keyword, Steel Magnolias would probably rank in the top ten. The major character is Julia Roberts' Shelby, but she is really supporting. It is her life that is the glue that holds all of these people together. Shelby gets married, Shelby has a baby, Shelby gets ill, etc. But it is each of the other characters who put the outside pieces together of this beautifully written Southern poem. Mama M'Linn (Sally Field, whose presence indicates the lead) is a mother hen, gentle and loving in every way, but strong and resistant. (In other words, a Steel Magnolia). When tragedy hits her family, it is her friends who come flocking together to help M'Linn deal with it. They are grouchy Ouiser (Shirley MacLaine at her most eccentric), good-hearted Truvy (the wonderful Dolly Parton, whom Designing Women focused their hour long episode around), bashful Annelle (an understated Darryl Hannah) and most outrageously, the cheerfully wisecracking Eve Arden of the group, Clairee (Olympia Dukakis). Unlike the play, men are included, and amongst them are Dylan McDermott as Roberts' hubby to be, Tom Skerritt as Fields' rascal husband and Sam Shepard as Parton's distant spouse.The men are there, but it is the women that the film concentrates on. There are also a few other women around in smaller roles, most notably Ann Wedgeworth as McDermott's aunt and Porkys vet Nancy Parsons (Gym teacher Ms. Ballbricker) as the physically wounded Janice Van Meeter, a victim of a collision with a baseball. Looks like two pigs fightin' under a blanket, Dukakis quips while watching Parsons dance at a wedding reception. (For the record, Parsons was a fine character actress who had only a few opportunities to shine in films; Like the equally stout Shirley Stoler, she could infuse even her nastiest characters with something memorable.) Everybody has great moments, but it seems that most people particularly remember Dukakis and MacLaine's teaming. Yes, they definitely steal every magnolia scene they are in. They are the Lucy/Ethel, Laverne/Shirley, Cybil/Mary Anne. At times they are also a Paul Lynde/Charles Nelson Reilly combo. (Yes, those two did work together.) For the TV pilot, it was Polly Bergen and Elaine Stritch, two Follies girls makin' with the cracks, and in the Broadway production I saw, it was Frances Sternhagen and Marsha Mason. (I must say that I originally thought of the actors cast in the opposite role in that production, but Ms. Sternhagen was a delightful Clairee who knew how to make each moment she was on stage count. It's ironic to see MacLaine supporting a mother in distress after being the mother in distress in 1983's brilliant Terms of Endearment. After her triumph as Cher's wise mother in Moonstruck and a few years before her outstanding portrayal of Anna Madrigal in Tales of the City, Dukakis scored this film role which became the final nail in the proof that she was indeed the best not-so-newcomer finding success in middle age even though she was already one of the most respected actresses in the theater. Like her SM successor Frances Sternhagen, Dukakis is capable of winning laughs and stealing scenes with just a rise of her eyebrow. Up against that, how can Parton and Hannah hold up? They do just fine, but I think they were probably resigned to the fact that opposite that pair, they'd be all but forgotten. Indeed, they are excellent. They have equally great lines Parton's line about one relative not knowing whether to scratch their watch or wind their behind is a gem, as is Hannah's delivery of the simple line about not letting her personal tragedy get in the middle of her doing good hair. Field gets the real chance to bite into the acting apple as she continues to hold in her grief through each of her sadness's until like a volcano, she builds up and explodes. She is excellent and missed out on a third Oscar Nomination. Check out her physical reaction when, after emotionally blowing up, she witnesses Dukakis's response to the whole scene. It's so filled with spontaneity and realism, and it is priceless. That brings me to Julia Roberts, here a novice in a group full of vets. She scores wonderfully and probably is the least showy. That's probably why the Oscars gave her a nod for Supporting Actress. It's understated and simple, yet filled with humanity, strength, and a quiet acceptance of a fate she can't escape. Stage acting can be big, but successful film acting for the most part meshes all of those qualities together to really touch the heart. While I would choose Dukakis for Supporting Actress, I can see why they nominated Roberts and not the rest of the fine cast. Bill McCutcheon is amusing as MacLaine's old beau who pops up, and Skerritt is funny as M'Linn's scoundrel husband who loves harassing the grouchy Ouiser. But to wrap things up in this long review, I can state that you don't have to be female, Southern, or gay to really get into these women's passionate friendship. The film is sumptuously filmed and features a beautiful musical score that is as touching as the friendship these ladies share. It is obvious that the tales several of these stars have told about making this film (Parton, MacLaine and Dukakis) that they loved working with each other. They should again. "},{"Title":"Engaging","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Very well acted drama about five very different Southern women and how they cope with the events that shape their lives.Director Herbert Ross really allows the ladies to take over the show, and they all put in strong performances. Sally Field, Shirley Maclaine, Daryl Hannah, Dolly Parton and Olympia Dukakis are all very good, whilst Julia Roberts is excellent. Also stars Tom Skerritt, Sam Shepard, Dylan McDermott and Kevin J. O'Connor.Humour and drama are well balanced in a film whose tragic ending will surely pull at your heart strings. Engaging and at times very funny, Steel Magnolias is an enjoyable film.Monday, November 29, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"too much pain","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steel magnolias has it all. Lots of laughs. Lots of pain. Too much pain. First of all the laughs. I would love to have the part played by Tom Skerritt as (Drum). Out side scaring the birds away by firing his pistol and then with his crossbow was really funny. The sparing he does with Shirly (Ouiser) will make you chuckle out-loud. Really great acting by everyone in the cast. So why am I down on this movie? Too much pain. After having watched a really good light comedy I'm suddenly watching Julia (Shelby) fighting for her life for a long time. Too much pain. Then the funeral and grave yard scene that wouldn't end was too much for me. The only part of the grave-yard scene that made me not hurt so much was when Annelle said it should be a celebration as Shelby was going to see her King. Again a great cast great acting but too much ---- "},{"Title":"The REAL Louisiana","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a native of Louisiana, may I clarify some aspects of this wonderful movie? First, there is neither a parish (what we call counties in Louisiana) nor a town in Louisiana named Chinquapin. This is totally fictional. Chinquapin is what we call a red-eared sunfish and is also a type of oak tree. The movie was filmed in Natchitoches, Louisiana, which is in Natchitoches parish. I attended Northwestern State University in Natchitoches. Natchitoches is in the northwestern part of Louisiana where the people speak a southern dialect, not a South Louisiana, or Cajun, dialect. Althougth there are French names in Natchitoches and wonderful Louisiana food, this town where the movie takes place, is not in Cajun Louisiana. Anyone in Natchitoches who speaks with a Cajun accent has moved there from South Louisiana. The movie is very authentic to the lifestyle and people of Natchitoches at the time it was filmed. Please remember that all of Louisiana is NOT Cajun. Only the southern part of the state is the Cajun area and not everyone in Louisiana of French descent is Cajun. If you would like to really understand the true meaning of Cajun, please do an Internet search under Cajun or Acadien. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but stands up pretty well","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Expanded version of Robert Harling's play stands up reasonably well. Yes, it suffers a bit from its obvious direction, its potpourri of Louisiana accents, and its all-star casting. (I think each performance deserves a comment 1) Sally Field is basically believable as the under-appreciated M'Lynn; her flat response to Shelby's 'big news' is particularly well played. Then again, she almost ruins everything with her embarrassingly actress-y meltdown at the film's climax. 2) Julia Roberts's accent might be the worst of the bunch, but she manages to play Shelby's main character trait, selfishness, in a way that's surprisingly un-obnoxious. 3) Shirley MacLaine is funny enough, but it's not really an acting performance, and she barely even attempts an accent when driving her 'zingers' home. 4) It's occasionally obvious that acting isn't Dolly Parton's day job, but other posters are right in saying hers is the most natural (and likable) performance in the film. 5) Olympia Dukakis, though miscast, underplays nicely, and 6) it's only Daryl Hannah's Annelle who really gets lost in the mix--less because of Hannah's performance than because the director doesn't know what to make of the character.)But if it's not a perfect movie, it still has a lot going for it. It manages to bring in male characters without diminishing the play's important female focus, and it works hard to keep sentimentality from creeping in, with some success. It takes an admirably straight approach to a wisecrack-packed script that might easily have seemed affected or disingenuous. And most of all it manages to engage its audience, even on repeat viewings. These factors come together into a movie that's going to be worth a watch for most viewers. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"chick flick with excellent cast","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias has a fabulous cast of ladies taking the lead roles - Dolly Parton as the beautician/hairdresser who is friends with all and keeps the place going, Sally Field and Julia Roberts as mother and daughter, Daryl Hannah as Parton's assistant, Shirley MacLaine and Olympia Dukakis as two old broads in-fighting, and then some.  In the cypher male roles are Sam Shepherd as Parton's husband, and Tom Skeritt as Field's husband.There is comedy and tragedy a-plenty in this little sleepy Southern village, especially when Roberts (as diabetic Shelby) gets married and the events that happen after.  Perhaps the best individual performance comes from Sally Field, especially in the last few scenes.  It is a film with a heart and one you'll need to bring your tissues for.  Well-scripted and put-together, too. "},{"Title":"A fine blend of emotion and intellect","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since I first saw this movie on cable, I have made it one of my all-time favorite movies. Its blend of emotion (laughter through tears, for example) and intellect (dramatizing the ramifications of diabetic complications, such as kidney failure) combine to make it a movie worth watching over.In addition, the ensemble cast is a unique pairing of three actual southerners (the misses Roberts, Maclaine, and Parton) and three non-southerners (the misses Field, Dukakis, and Hannah).  "}{"Title":"Genuine Tear-Jerker.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Impressive comedy-drama that works due to smart performances and good direction. Young Julia Roberts (Oscar-nominated) becomes the focus very quickly as she is about to be married to Dylan McDermott and wants children, but there is a problem she is a diabetic and having children poses a real risk to her health. This is at the center of Steel Magnolias, but there is much more to the film than just that. Sally Field (Roberts' mother), Olympia Dukakis, Shirley MacClaine, Dolly Parton and Darryl Hannah are all along as southern women who experience triumphs and tragedies together. Tom Skeritt and Sam Shepard are solid in supporting roles. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the great ones. I cry everytime I see this film. I think the entire cast is excellent. Sally Field is wonderful. Shirley McClain is marvellous. I think Julia Roberts should have won an Oscar for this film. I am a diabetic and she played the part of a diabetic perfectly. "},{"Title":"Music by Georges Delerue","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, it's a chick flick, but it's funny and entertaining.  I can't think of a film with more quotable one-liners.The wonderful score for this picture is by Georges Delerue.  It is elegant in it's simplicity and emotion.  The main title music, along with Herbert Ross' visuals, exudes all that is good and decent about small town life.  It reminds me of Elmer Bernstein's beautiful main theme for To Kill A Mockingbird.The DVD allows the viewer to isolate the music away from the dialogue and sound effects.  On the commentary track Herbert Ross described how Delerue was not his first choice as a composer for this film.  Another well known writer's music was rejected in favor of the gorgeous score that now graces this great movie.The soundtrack is still available.  "},{"Title":"Solid story telling!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias has a wonderful cast, and the script Robert Harling ( First Wives Club),  is great!  He is a solid story teller. The story has humor, conflict,  tragedy, and is very educational, showing the different aspects of diabetes. The filmography by Oscar nominee and Golden Globe winner,  among others awards,  Herbert Ross (Undercover Blues, The Goodbye Girl,  The Turning Point) is impressive, worth a look.  One of the most interesting aspects of this movie is that they manage to turn beautiful and extremely elegant,  Daryl Hannah (Grumpy Old Men, Legal Eagles) into an ugly and off beat character. She is very flaky and weird in this movie. It shows that she has talent.  I believe that  Julia Roberts (Mystic Pizza, Notting Hill, Erin Brockovich) really knows how to pick her roles.  She has a great personality,  and I say this not only because she is cute because she is, but because Julia is always positive, smiling, and joking around. I have most of her movies on tape. She is also a great actress. Her accent in this movie is great.  Many of the actresses in this movie are from the South.  Dolly Parton (Nine to Five) is from Tennessee; Shirley MacLaine (Evening Star, Guarding Tess, Postcards from the Edge) is from Virginia; and Sally Field (Norma Rae, The Flying Nun) has been exposed to the South. They are all good in their accents and roles. My favorite role in this movie is Ouiser played by Shirley MacLaine. I might not agree with  Shirley's ideas, but I watched her interview in Inside the Actors Studio and she is brilliant and witty. The movie also has the brilliant actors Tom Skerritt (A River Runs Through It) and Sam Shepard (Crimes of the Heart). If you haven't seen this movie, get it and watch it.  You will laugh a lot, and get the chance to see Dylan McDermott (The Practice) in one of his first roles.  My favorite quotes M'Lynn That church looks like it's been hosed down with Pepto-Bismol. Truvy When it comes to pain and suffering, she's right up there with Elizabeth Taylor. Truvy Oh, Sammy's so confused he don't know whether to scratch his watch or wind his butt. Ouiser I'm not crazy, I've just been a very bad mood for the last 40 years! There are so many great lines that you must see the movie.  Favorite Scenes The women's conversation in the beauty parlor are great and give a great insight into women. That is how they bond. "},{"Title":"Steel Mags A southern flick w/ a lot of spitfire guts","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   Well, dammit, I love this movie. I love Julia Roberts, Shirley MacLaine, Sally Field, Dolly Parton and Daryl Hannah. The film has plenty of laughs,tears, joy, sharing of experiences...it's got something for everyone, male and female.Shirley MacLaine's character, Ouiser, the town grump is just what the film needs to shed light on comic relief and realism. I tell ya, my mom and I have had a lot of laughs over the scene where Ouiser first meets Annelle (Daryl Hannah) and gives her the feminist's outlook on men (Men are the most horrible creatures, honey. They will ruin your life, you mark my words). Along with that there are the tears. Shelby (Julia Roberts) is a diabetic who wants to have a baby and puts herself at a great risk. She ends having to have a kidney transplant with her mother, M'lynn (Sally Field) acting as the only likely donor. However, they do not act in time and sadly, Shelby dies. The scene with M'lynn going ballistic after the funeral is both heart-wrenching and makes a sudden turn into comic relief. Dolly Parton and Olympia Dukakis make for a delightful rounding of the group with their cynical remarks on men, Christianity and issues involving homosexuals. The film is not for all ages (why it was given a PG rating is beyond me) but it is a great friendship film that you will want to see time and time again.Here's to the power of southern-style friendship!  "},{"Title":"Required viewing for EVERYONE!","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias is definitely a film that should be viewed by EVERYONE, not just women as it is sometimes labeled as.  Top-notch performances by the entire cast, excellent direction and a marvelous screenplay make this movie required viewing by all fans of good movies.  A raitng of 9 out of 10 was given "},{"Title":"What an awful film","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, many people like movies that have endless babbling throughout the whole thing, and hey, I like emotional films myself if they are done right, but at least have good acting in the thing. A Chimpanzee could have done a better crying job than Roberts, and how many movies do we have to see where most of the stars are trying to fake a southern accent? Either higher actors who do it better or take out the southern element please.  The writing was pitiful, hey go write for soap operas will you, because movies aren't for you. If I want to watch a bunch of women babble I'll go to a NOW meeting ok. This movie was horrible. "},{"Title":"Come and Listen to My Story 'bout a Gal Named Shel(by)","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We took a weekend trip from Baton Rouge, LA to Natchitoches, LA, where fifteen years earlier the filming of Steel Magnolias in 1989 remains about the biggest thing that ever happened. Having never seen the movie, we rented it as soon as we got back home. Everyone had a reason for watching it in two segments--mine was my sense that this was one of the cutest movies I'd ever seen, and I'd had quite enough cute lately, especially after sitting through Will Smith in Hitch. The accents and the caricatures of the characters were all so thick that it reminded me of The Beverly Hillbillies, though more embarrassing than funny. One Hillbillies-like moment that pretty funny was the few non-female characters' effort to shoot some crows out of a tree so that they won't sh*t all over the reception. Their creative use of a crossbow is a classic.Sad to say there isn't much else classic in a story that is at the same time saccharine and maudlin. I saw another review that noted the choppiness of some scenes (as the movie was adapted from a play that never left the beauty shop). I can think of two scenes in particular--one where the town-big wig Clairee (played by the noted-Southern belle Olympia Dukasis) buys the local radio station so that she can do the color commentary on the local football games (the scene features the same guy filmed bare from the back waist-and-lower view as he walks in front camera in the locker room three times.) In another scene, the Darryl Hannah (hard to recognize) committed Christian character argues with her boyfriend over his repeated taking of the Lord's name in vain. Neither scene has any impact on the rest of the story.Dolly Parton is her usual big hair, big smile, big **** self as the lead hairdresser. Shirley MacLaine has a very unsympathetic character as the Eatonton's (Julie and Sally, and family) ill-tempered neighbor. The male characters are more or less wasted, especially the estimable Sam Shepard, who spends most of the film underneath a car, or sitting lifelessly in front of a TV.The movie moved up from a 2 during the seemingly endless wedding prep and wedding of the first half to a 6 in the second half, which became more dramatic. Sally Field has a pretty good scene near the end, she and the story make you think a little about the motives of the main character (Julia Roberts as Shelby).Overall, I thought that Steel Magnolias was a relatively embarrassing depiction of life in the beautiful town of Natchitoches, LA. Given that the locals seemed not to mind too much, I may be overreacting. They even showed us where the truck made an illegal left turn in the final scene. I hope this is not a spoiler.I don't really understand the almost universal overwhelming praise by the reviewers here. I understand the overall rating under 7, as all the 10's from the reviewers are being offset by 4's and 5's by people who saw the movie as I did, but were too nice to submit a comment. "},{"Title":"Well Acted Soap Opera","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The material in Steel Magnolias teeters dangerously on the brink of Terms of Endearment territory -- maudlin, gloopy and shamelessly tearjerky. But it's saved by its cast, who are able to keep things palatable. The most praise must go to Sally Field, who's perfectly suited to play the tough-as-nails Southern mom who must face losing her daughter, and her breakdown scene in the cemetery after they bury her is a small tour-de-force. Field refuses to let the sentimentality of the script overshadow her performance -- it's a terrific piece of acting.The film also features that tireless work horse, Tom Skerritt, hopelessly under-appreciated as an actor, along with a female cast that includes Shirley MacLaine, Olympia Dukakis, Dolly Parton, Daryl Hannah and Julia Roberts, Oscar-nominated for her performance as Field's sick daughter.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Oscar worthy?","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The repartee between Dukakis and Maclaine rivals any bit that Abbott and Costello ever created. The diabetic crisis scene that Roberts pulled off was as physically accurate as anything ever seen outside an actual emergency room. Hannah's religious fanaticism was as annoying as that which I find in real life here in the Bible belt, but her soliloquy to Fields after the funeral about the why of Shelby's death redeemed her character forever in my heart. Parton's down-home humor and willingness to help anyone who needed her help was spot-on. I married her (or somebody quite like that character) and remain quite ready to spend my life with her. My opinion is that Parton's line about there being no such thing as natural beauty is one of the most salient lines in the script. What would happen if we could see on the inside as easily? That's what this story is all about.But the scene that hasn't been discussed nearly enough in this forum is when M'Lynn shows up at Aunt Fern's after Shelby's death to pick up Little Jack Junior. The way she held, cuddled and caressed that little boy was an act of everlasting love for him and for his now dead mother. It showed more in her gestures than in her face, but there was no question that she cherished that little boy and the memories he represented. Maybe she wasn't acting.The rest of Fields' performance had several supernovas in it as well. Her obvious disapproval of Shelby's decision to have a child despite the risks to her own health is one example. THAT scene DID show in her face as well as in her gestures. The language of her WHY? lament at the cemetery at Shelby's funeral was written to evoke that kind of emotion and Fields delivered! No criticism of Roberts' performance, but, if only one Oscar nomination was available, maybe we ought to put Sally Fields on a pedestal of some sort so that she can be seen on a par with the statuesque Julia Roberts.Finally, for those who have commented that the male characters were wasted,... Pah! Steel Magnolias wasn't about the male characters. Skerritt, Shepard and the other male actors were effective in their roles and should be congratulated for being strong enough to stay out of the way of the juggernaut that was the Steel Magnolias. Go watch Conan or Dirty Harry if you need a macho flick, but you would be advised to stay clear of Dukakis and Maclaine. They'll cut you to shreds and laugh gleefully all the while.Thanks to the playwright for sharing his family's tragic story with us in such an endearing script. "}{"Title":"Powerful scenes","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A powerful scene by Julia Roberts she goes into a diabetic attack. It was great emotional and physical acting, and I was stunned at how excellently she did it. All the women helping her, especially her mother, showed true concern about her well-being.It must be pointed out, however, that anyone with diabetes does not necessarily have attacks like this. Someone I knew just used to pass out, with no violent symptoms. Nowadays, with Type 2 diabetes in so many people, their only untoward symptom seems to be too-high blood sugar when they do the finger-stick.Shirley MacLaine with the dog a powerful speech with strong emotional portrayal. The dog has just been pointed out as some kind of what-cha-ma-callit who would look like a St. Bernard if it had hair.Dolly Parton's character is encouraging and calm. I enjoyed watching her do Julia Roberts' hair, but I was saddened to see the whole thing ruined when Julia's character was having her diabetic attack. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. I once loaned my VHS movie to a friend and thought I'd never get it back, I never got the movie cover back but I did get my movie back. Then I saw it was out on DVD and I just had to have it too. My daughter and I love to watch it, and like others we like to quote sayings from the movie as well. I saw Julia Roberts on the movie and I have admired her ever since, as well as the other ladies. I never knew the name  Steel Magnolias was referring to the main ladies in the movie, but it is right on the target. I wish there would be a sequel, but it wouldn't be the same without Shelby.Loretta from Pa  originally from Alabama  "},{"Title":"Laugh Til You Cry","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I bought this movie on DVD and I never get tired watching it. My favorite line is when Ouiser says, I'm not crazy, I just been in a very bad mood for 40 years. I always get crack up every time I hear her say that. The thing I always wondered, that Shelby always hung out with her mother and her friends. Didn't she have any friends of her own? Were there any other people who went to Truvy's beauty parlor? I thought 6 women were great in the movie. I thought Drum was funny, but Jackson, Shelby's husband was a bit annoying. I thought Truvy was warm, funny, friendly. I wish all beauticians would be like her. The first time I saw this movie was in 1991. I wanted to see it because Julia Roberts was in it and I loved her in Pretty Woman and Sleeping With The Enemy. Of all the Sally Field movies I've seen, I liked her best in Steel Magnolias. Another good thing about the movie is that the characters really decorated the houses for all holidays such as Easter, Christmas and the 4th of July. I can relate to Shelby who shouldn't be able to have children because my husband and I shouldn't have children and we're hoping to adopt or take in a foster child. I watch it over and over and still get a laugh out of it. "},{"Title":"The greatest saddest movie on film","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was beyond the best movie I have ever seen. The Actors and Actresses they had mixed well together and I must say they all did a fantastic job. Dolly Parton steals the show though with her country voice and that awesome laugh. Also, Sally Fields and Julia Roberts make the greatest mother daughter combo ever to star on film. Shirley Maclaine had a very crude mouth, but she was always truthful which in turn helped her to be liked in the end. Daryl Hannah and Olympia Dukakis were okay in the film but they could have used better judgement in their lines. Sam Sheppard was awesome!! All in all if you want to cry watch the movie..If you want to Laugh watch the movie,,you can't lose either way. "},{"Title":"Not as strong as the play","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am moved to comment on this film only because I just finished directing a production of the original play upon which it is based.The play is better.Just as Terrence McNally diffused and weakened his powerful drama, Frankie and Johnny in the Claire de Lune, by taking it outside the humble walk-up in which it was set, so playwright/screenwriter Robert Harling has diluted and homogenized the power of his own work in adapting Steel Magnolias to the big screen.Not to say that the result is as disappointing as was the case with Frankie and Johnny...; it isn't.  But, in my opinion, the film loses something in the translation.  Perhaps it's the intrusion of the menfolk into the story;  in the play, they are never seen, only talked about, and this isolation gives more strength to the bonding of the women.  Movies, of course, with rare exception, demand more than a unit set and moving so much of the action (such as it is) outside of Truvy's beauty shop tends to soften the dramatic tension that the play so lovingly builds to a cathartic release. Make no mistake, the film is still effective, thanks mostly to strong performances by the six leads, and cinematography that captures the full Southern charm of Chinquapin Parish, Louisiana (played with authority by Natchitoches, LA).  But if you like the film, I must recommend that if you haven't caught the stage version, you owe it to yourself to do so. "},{"Title":"To Laugh or To Cry?","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not only hilarious, but it also is sooo sad. The cast is great; all six ladies (and everyone else, for that matter) did a fabulous job at bringing the characters to life. Sally Fields and Julia Roberts are a good choice for mother and daughter- the little arguments are so cute between the two.I was thrown into watching this movie b/c my school is about to perform the play-version of the movie, which is just as good. While the movie follows most of the play, some of the things added in are brilliant (i.e.- the wedding scene was not included in the play, but some of my favorite parts of the movie were during that scene). I wish we could do the play in the movie-style, but the play is just as entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Commenting on the movie version.","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  On April of this year I had the pleasure of seeing this wonderful movie on cable TV, and I love every minute of it (THANK GOD I TAPED IT). The actresses were wonderful in it, but to me Shirley McClaine stole the whole show as Ouiser she was hilarious. I saw the tv version it was ok but the big screen version, to me, it was a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The best female ensemble cast ever...","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my most favorite movie of all time.. I've been even know to quote it at times.. I just love all the characters and the story. Whether feeling ill,laying on the couch or, just knowing it's time for a good movie. It's always there to fill that void. When the DVD was released.. Well, my heart just skipped a beat.. Julia Roberts as Shelby is the best.. and Dolly as Truvy.. No one else could have played those parts... Olympia and Shirley play off each other so well it's amazing. Daryl's character Annelle changes personality so many times it's surprising that she didn't need therapy herself after the shooting was over and Sally Field should have at least received another Oscar nomination for her performance as M'Lynn.. What can I say  I love the movie more than my luggage    "},{"Title":"It makes me laugh and cry.........","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoy watching Steel Magnolias for the brilliant acting by everyone. Of course, Dolly Parton is my favourite, but credit must be given to Julia Roberts and Sally Field for their magnetic attraction as mother and daughter. I guess the appeal of the movie is that it centres around a small parish in one of the southern states and gives one a general idea of what life can be like. It always makes me laught and cry............ "},{"Title":"I loved it more than my luggage!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best movie Julia Roberts ever made!  It gave the perfect setting for the 'Southern Hospitality' feeling the movie portrays.  This movie shows that friends will always be one of the biggest treasures a person can have! "}{"Title":"great!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie is a great movie for someone who loves humor.. there are much funny one-liners, and it is very warm and witty. But it is very melancholy story. It was one of the first movies of Julia Roberts. and she is great. Shirley Maclaine is also witty, and Sally Field is beautiful like the mother of Julia Roberts. Olympia Dukakis, who isn't very famous.. is great... and Dolly Parton is not singing this time... but is always funny.  So, this is a really mother and daughter drama, you have to see this movie with your mother, or with you friends. take tissues.. "},{"Title":"I wanted to see this movie just for Olivia's one-liners.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you love great actresses and don't mind a chick flic this is a wonderful movie. All the actresses have so much fun in their characters you can forget about their big hair. What impressed me the most was the dialogue...the main reason I rented this film. The plot isn't necessary...how they live their lives in the film is.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my absolute favorite movie!  I love watching this, especially now that I'm older and I actually get some of the jokes (such as what rubbers are.)  It is a total girl movie, but it's wonderful!  As Truvi says Laughter through tears is my favorite emotion.  I think that applies here! "},{"Title":"The tagline is perfect.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The tagline of this movie truly describes it accurately.  The movie is hilarious, and yet it is such a great demonstration of talent as well. Can you imagine if this cast was in one movie together today?  That would be one incredible ensemble.  This movie should be viewed for Sally Field's performance towards the end of the movie - truly one of the best pieces of acting I've ever seen.  And who can forget Shirly MacLaine's hilarious performance?  This is not a prestigious film, it is just a fine piece of entertainment that does not try to live up to Hollywood norms.  It's highly enjoyable, and a great testament to dramatic comedy.  I voted 9/10. "},{"Title":"Truly Unique!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An inspirational movie! Shirley MacLaine at her very best. I've watched this movie countless times and each time I still laugh at the same parts. I've never known any other film to make you cry when you laugh, and laugh when you cry! A truly unique film, it will always take the proud place beside my VCR! "},{"Title":"How Can You Not Love this Movie?","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sappy...Yes!  Cheesy...Maybe!  Being a guy, I am not too often impressed with these chick-flicks but this movie is very touching.  Each of the characters gets a chance to shine in this classic film of friendship.  Not to mention it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen!  Julia Roberts is wonderful in her portrayal of Shelby, while Sally Field does what she does best(which is over-act to the point where you laugh and cry)as Shelby's ever-suffering and seldom listened to mother.  If for nothing else check it out for Daryl Hannah's transformation of her character, Anell.  Tom Skerritt also makes waves with the mostly female cast as Shelby's father.  I could talk about everyone in this film!  Each character is entirely unique and give something special to the movie.  Check this one out if you get the chance!  "},{"Title":"Own it, watch it regularly, love the believable characters.","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe people need action, noise, violence, graphic details, etc. in the movies they enjoy. But this one has love, affection, friendship, small-town characters, and a believable storyline.  I can't count how many times I have watched it (first time in theatre) and even though I own the video I continue to watch it when appearing on TV.  Absolutely love Olympia Dukakis and Shirley McLaine.  And Drum Eatonton is not that different from some men we all know!  The beauty shop conversation is also down to earth and the intertwining lives of the main characters can really hit home.  Watch it. Believe it! "},{"Title":"HA, BOO, HA, HOO","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!  This movie is like a rooler-coaster of emotions.  It goes from funny to sad and back and forth many times, but NEVER irritatingly.  They get you crying at one part, then you laugh through your tears as one of them puuls something. There are 6 main characters  Shelby(Julia Roberts), Trudy(Dolly Parton), M'Lynn(Sally Field), Clairee(Olympia Dukakis), Anelle(Darryl Hannah), & my personal favorite Ouiser(Shirley McClaine).  They all congregate in Trudy's Beauty Shop, helping eachother through tough times, and laughing through the good times.  If you are watching this movie for the first time, be armed with tissues, and lots of them.  I still keep a box with me and I've seen it at least 100 times(no joke).  This is among my favorites.  It's the eighties, and they had all the best movies(then the 90's came and spoiled them with sequels).  I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Love this movie.","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always loved this movie. We have a running joke in our family. Daryl Hannah played Annelle Desoto. My name is Darrell and my sister's is Annelle. When we talk about the movie, we say Darrell played Annelle. Loved the beauty parlor scene talking about Marshall who is played by James Wleck. He bacame a regular for a couple of seasons of Walker Texas Ranger. He is one of my favorite actors. Sally Field is one of my favorite actresses. I loved her on Brothers and Sisters. Does anyone know if Robert Harling has written anymore screenplays. If anyone has an address for him, I would like to have it to write a short fan letter. I'm sorry I'm kind of rambling on here, but they said it had to be ten lines of text. "},{"Title":"Definitely one for the tissues","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love chick flicks! The bonding, the bitching, the laughing, the crying... definitely one to watch with the girls, and the guys too if you can get them (if only to hear the classic line No, I got popcorn in my eye)! The performances are all great, and I love Julia Roberts in this, so natural and effervescent (I think she's getting too Hollywood now). This is a movie about the characters, that sounds stupid-probably is- but every one of them is so engaging, each story gets you- you even feel for the grumpy ones! I love movies where you don't have to think too deeply whilst the emotions speak for themselves. I'm not saying this is mindless and inane, on the contrary it's the definition of 'touching'! It's a very well portrayed, natural and realistic insight into the lives of a group seemingly ordinary women- behind the obvious differences and conflicts, the relationships and situations are complex. Just looking at the women in my family confirms this; the discord runs deep, but the loyalty runs deeper. This is the original home-town girl movie; bring the tissues, bring it on! "}{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie and don't care whether or not people call it a chick flick! As a man, I can appreciate it just as much as the next person! It is special, however, because of when and where I saw it and the circumstances that surround the first viewing of it! I was at UCLA at the time and we always got film premieres before the theatres and sometimes they would invite actors/actresses after the showings! After we saw it, they said, we have the great, up and coming actress you all just saw and it was Julia Roberts. She was there to answer any questions we had. First of all, no one went to the mic to ask questions, then she said, Come on guys, I flew in from Dallas for this! Then everybody got up and went to the mic to ask questions.Most were basic questions but it's funny looking back today at some of those questions, like What movies are next for you? She replied, I've finished a comedy called 'Pretty Woman' , which I hope people will like and I'm beginning work on a film called 'Flatliners' next week. She was friendly, affable and very kind to us all, long before she became the superstar she is today! Hopefully she's just as nice but I know fame and Hollywood sometimes take their toll on people! "},{"Title":"Get your hankies out!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steel Magnolias is the type of movie that just practically SCREAMS Woman Picture! as you have the star-power of the century here, what with a then-unknown Julia Roberts, Shirley Maclaine, Sally Field, Olympia Dukakis, Dolly Parton, and Daryl Hannah all competing to tug the heart strings. The story focuses around Julia Roberts, and the key points in her life. Her character, Shelby, is diabetic, but that doesn't stop her from getting what she wants, much to the chagrin of her Mom, played here by Sally Field (Very good casting there btw) and much to the concern of the girls at the beauty shop where they regularly hang out in. There, that's all I'll say about the plot, because if I say any more, then I will spoil it for you. It's fairly intricate, but the whole cast holds it together quite well. It's easy to see how amazed people were when they first got a glimpse of Julia Roberts in this film (Maclaine states that she got her agent to sign her on after seeing her work on the film, I think Shirley is trying to hog the credit). Parton is great, Hannah is okay, Maclaine is wonderful in a out of character role, Dukakis is smart as always, and Sally Field, despite a LOOK AT ME ACADEMY! speech at the end, is powerful as usual. As well, it's always great to see Kevin J. O'Connor used so well. He's an actor that I always take a pleasure of seeing. "},{"Title":"Dolly Parton goes from music to making a movie","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has one best country music stars starring in this great movie named Dolly Parton. This movie was made in Baton Rouge,LA. This movie starts as 5 elder women are having a great time running a beauty shop where everyone in town knows all the ladies due to the fact that everyone has their hair done in their beauty shop. During the those days in the movie it was always active during the summer. Things were going o.k until one of the ladies' daughter planned on getting married, the lady's son makes it real fun for the ladies before the wedding but things continue well until 2 years later when the daughter develops a difficult situation which made it very hard for everyone in town. I enjoyed watching this movie especially when I have always enjoyed listing to country movie while younger. "},{"Title":"The classic DRAMEDY with Excellent Southern Style!","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my ALL TIME FAVORITES, and will always have a spot in my personal movie collections....  With an all-star ensemble cast, witty dialogue and a drama-driven, comedic story line, 'Steel Magnolias' is a classic that will make you laugh and cry - and sometimes make you laugh UNTIL you cry!The story line revolves around a Louisiana family - The Eatentons - played by Sally Field (as M'Lynn - the mom), Julia Roberts (Shelby - the daughter), Tom Skerrit (Drum - the father) and Tommy & Jonathon - the younger brothers.  The time frame starts off as we see the family getting ready for Shelby's pending nuptials to Jackson Latcherie (a then, somewhat unknown Dylan McDermott)....  All of the drama of a big family is impacted by the marriage and getting ready for it.  Of course, there is the typical drama between the bride and her mom - with M'Lynn wanting a picture perfect wedding - HER way - while Shelby is looking for her own signature touches - such as it is.Of course, given that there are all the lives that touch the Eatenton's - such as Ouiser (Shirley MacLaine), Clairee Belcher (Olympia Dukakis), and Truvy (Dolly Parton).  Truvy runs a local beauty parlor out of her home....  Anelle (Darryl Hannah - looking as un-pretty as possible!) is a new comer to town, having been brought to the area by her drifter (and drug dealing husband!) and needing to find a job...  So, Anelle comes to Truvy's Beauty Spot for a job and gets involved in the drama...  Truvy also gets into 'discussions' with her husband, Spud (Sam Shepard).  He's an under-employed construction worker, trying to help make ends meet.No spoilers here, as there are so many little story line points that pop up from time to time between the characters and with their histories.  Shelby is a diabetic, with all that goes along with it.  Ouiser is one of the richest women in town, and is currently single - leading to all sorts of interesting liaisons.  Clairee is the 'former first lady' of the Parrish, having been married to a former civic leader, until his death a few years previously.  Ouiser and Clairee are best pals - with all of the friendship and rivalry that goes along with that....  In many ways, they come off more like siblings...The cast works exceptionally well together.  The lines and dialogue are witty and biting, and there are many times that you will have to stop and go back a scene to catch them!  Many times, when the women are all together, the lines and barbs fly!  Listening to them banter back and forth is classic - reminding one of their own family and friends.So, get some friends together, gather up some snacks and drinks and plop down on the sofa to watch this classic dramedy!  You won't soon regret it!  And, don't be surprised if you and your pals start popping off lines from the movie.....  ...ya know I loves ya more 'n my luggage!  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really love this movie.  I have no idea how many times I have seen it. It gets better every time.  Steel Magnolias may be the best womans movie ever made.  It is about adult women whose friendship sustains and strengthens them.  Many movies are made about the friendships between men (the ever popular buddy movies).   Many movies are made about romance and the relationships between men and women (chick flicks).  However few movies are made about relationships among women and of those that are made, many are about the negative aspects of relationships.  And finally, as mentioned by one of the other reviewers, it does not stress female relationships at the expense of the men in the film.  "},{"Title":"Whiny","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a little to whiny and melodramatic for me. And good God, what happened to Darryl Hannah? Is she supposed to look high? Sally Fields was great of course. The movie wasn't too bad actually. You just had to care a lot about the characters to watch. It just seemed like Lifetime unplugged for awhile. We had this on tape a for awhile, but I deemed it worthy of being taped over by some Xena episodes. Soryy Shirley! I loved her animosity towards Tom. It was the high point of the movie to watch those to verbally spar. I thought it was great. She amuses me to know end. The acting is superb, but the movie can just seem looooong. Thank goodness this critique won't be. "},{"Title":"the supreme chick flick","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias is one of the most stunning movies I have ever seen and probably ever will. The acting was brilliant, as in the way that their emotions gave life to there characters. If ever one movie could make you laugh and cry unbearably at the same time, then this is the movie. With the talent of little-known-country-girl at the time, Julia Roberts and experts of the screen Sally Fields, Olympia Dukakis, Shirley MacLaine, Daryl Hannah, and Dolly Parton you can't miss on this movie. If you have not seen it then do yourself a favor and rent it. It's magic will amaze you. The Supreme Chick Flick!  "},{"Title":"The only thing that separates us from the animals is our ability to accessorize!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful, colorful film follows the lives of six Southern women over the course of several years. Sally Field plays the mother of Julia Roberts who's marrying Dylan McDermott. Roberts wants to have a baby...but she has a severe case of diabetes and having a baby may kill her. Dolly Parton is perfectly cast as a beauty salon owner with Daryl Hannah as her shy helper. Shirley MacLaine plays the meanest woman in town. Olympia Dukakis plays her rival (kind of) as the nicest woman in town.The cast alone is great--everybody plays their roles to perfection. Top honors go to Roberts and especially Fields. The script is sharp and witty and the two hour length just flies by. Also it was beautifully filmed on location in Louisiana and there's a wonderful music score also. This has been derided as a mini Terms of Endearment but it works just as well as that movie did. Also have plenty of tissues on hand for the ending. This is a chick flick that a lot of guys I know love! Already considered a classic in some circles. I give this a 10. "},{"Title":"The Godmother of modern chick-flicks","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top-flight cast meets top-flight soap opera comedy.  This is the performance that put Julia Roberts on the map, the romantic heroine, rebellious daughter, and all-around great Louisiana belle who suffers beautifully from an incurable disease.  Unlike Julia, Sally Field was denied an Oscar nod for her role of Robert's strong mom but this remains one of her true signature roles; that graveyard scene still packs an emotional wallop, from tears to smiles, the latter at the expense of Shirley MacLaine's character's dignity.  This is just a wonderful (and eventful) couple of years in the lives of a Southern town, so sit yourself down with a box of tissues handy and enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"A Circle of Life","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It wasnt until several years after I first saw this movie that I truly understood what this movie meant. It begins with a wedding at Easter, a symbol of new life on a Christian holiday celebrating the new life given by the resurrection of Christ. We learn that Shelby is pregnant at Christmas, a Christian holiday celebrating the birth of Christ. Shelby dies and Annelle's child is born when Easter comes again. The symbolism is so subtle and complete, the story so well laid out, and the characters so carefully depicted and developed. This film is a must-see for serious film-goers. "}{"Title":"If you're not diabetic, you will be","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst films of all time.  Having to kowtow to about a million Oscar-winning actresses in the cast seems to have been the death knell for what could have been a quirky and charming ensemble piece. Instead, actresses far too big for their roles overact horrendously, the piece-de-resistance being delivered by a dreadful Sally Field at the gravesite of her daughter towards the end of the film.  A film about women, adapted from a terrific little play by Robert Harling, the screen adaptation inserts male characters with nothing to do and makes them look like morons as they whoop, holler, provide penis references and embarrass themselves.The rest of the film is one setup-joke after another, interspersed only with saccharin, maudlin, lackluster moments allowing each archetypal Southern woman's character (embittered rich widow, noble widow, prom queen, PTA mother, white trash-turned-Born Again, etc.) to have her moment or two in the sun.  An out and out retchfest, a film sure to make you want to run to the shower to get rid of the dirty feeling you'll have after allowing yourself to be manipulated by this cheesy, pointless, humorless, contrived, focus-group-driven piece of schlock.The one bright spot is a very natural performance by Dolly Parton.  Good solid support provided by Julia Roberts' hair.  "},{"Title":"Excellent cast makes high class soap opera work","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steel Magnolias may be nothing more than manipulative high class soap opera, but it is soap opera that works, thanks to a good script and some first class performances by an excellent cast.  If you are looking for edge or your seat drama, you're shopping in the wrong store here.  What you do get is a story about relationships.  The main focus is the story of a friendship between five women, each character totally different, but very well defined by the five actresses who portray them.  There is also a major story about the relationship between a Mother and Daughter, some minor stories involving girlfriend and boyfriend, and husband and wife.  It is the actresses who make this movie watchable, Sally Field hits all the right notes as a mother who at times can seem overbearing to her daughter, but as we find out with good reason.  Dolly Parton as a beauty shop owner gives her best performance ever here, and for once doesn't try to draw our attention to her anatomy.  Shirley MacLaine and Olympia Dukakis are stellar as two women who you are always trying to one up the other, but who deep down really care about each other.  The biggest surprise here is Daryl Hannah, who plays a mousy church goer.  It is probably her best performance to date.  Julia Roberts, in an early role as Sally Field's daughter, does a fine job also.Although the male roles don't have much screen time, they are still pivotal to the story, and Tom Skerritt, Sam Shephard, Dylan McDermott, and Kevin J. O'Connor, give performances every bit as good as the ladies.  It's great to watch a movie where on the surface there doesn't seem to be much happening, but challenges you to listen to the dialogue between the characters.  Steel Magnolias is just such a movie, and does it better than most.   "},{"Title":"I'm a bit too cynical.","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Granted, this is a movie from the 80s, but it's rather overly silly and annoying. I'm sorry, but it really was. There were some good moments, some woman kinship and whatnot, but it just didn't connect. I think it's me though&#x85; My woman kinship bits might be broken. It's not completely out of the question, I'm not big into female family Yaya Sisterhood stuff, where woman moan and groan and act all unreasonably crazy.I'm a bit too cynical. I guess because there were some deep moments, but mostly predictable and uncalled for&#x85; because there was no reasoning behind them. Also, I don't really care for the huge gaps of time with the poor transitioning.I guess this gripe just has to do with the semi-high expectation since Sally Fields and Julia Roberts is in this film and it just wasn't that spectacular. But with that said, give it a try if you are interested, because at this point in time I think I'm just being picky. "},{"Title":"'Steel Magnolias' rarely feels like it's squeezing the tears out of your eyes, mostly thanks to the wonderful acting on display here from the leading ladies...","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steel Magnolias In small-town Louisiana, a group of friends and family are making preparations for a very special day. Shelby (Julia Roberts, 'Mystic Pizza') and her mother, M'Lynn (Sally Field), take a trip to the local beauty parlour to allay Shelby's pre-wedding nerves. Run by their companion Truvy (Dolly Parton), who has just recruited the shy, nervous Annelle (Daryl Hannah) as an assistant, the parlour becomes a place for the women to trade tips of advice on life, love, and hairstyles, with the constantly bickering Ouiser (Shirley MacLaine) and Clairee (Olympia Dukakis) popping in for a chat. The tight circle of friends strengthens and continues to last well after that day in Truvy's beauty parlour, with each having shoulders to cry on when things don't always go right.Robert Harling has done an exemplary job of re-styling his own play for the big screen. 'Steel Magnolias' is certainly no stranger to momentous plot movements and interpersonal melodramas, but the film rarely feels like it's squeezing the tears out of your eyes, mostly thanks to the wonderful acting on display here. Every single one of the leading ladies are on top form, with Julia Roberts in particular offering up a breakthrough performance as the bride-to-be. But Field, Parton, MacLaine, Dukakis and Hannah are equally as good, with director Herbert Ross ('Footloose') letting the cast-mates simply beam off the screen. By the end of the film, I was moved by the preceding events, and while I was sorry to say goodbye to these characters, I was still uplifted.~ 8/10 ~ "},{"Title":"The single best seen ever by an actress...Sally Field","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie all around. How about the cast?! I don't know if there has ever been or will ever be a cast this talented in one movie again! I can understand why some people might say it is sappy or too feminine, but hey..that is what they are going for here, so why not enjoy it. The movie is great, a definitel 10 in my book. However, I think that the movie also contains the best scene of acting by any man or women in the history of film. Sally Field at her daughters funeral goes through an entire range of emotions in just 3 minutes! For anyone that has ever lost a loved one, and is so distraught that you don't know how to act or feel...Ms Field delivers those feelings flat out on the screen better than anyone I have every seen. This is the movie that made me believe that Sally Field is the best actor in the world today! "},{"Title":"A wonderful film in every sense of the word!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best films ever made and definitely deserves a much higher rating than 6.8/10! More like 9/10 because of its wonderful story line, plot and characters. Dolly Parton, Sally Field, Olympia Dukakis and Shirley MacLaine are all great actresses in this fully emotional film. The end is tearful and the accents are really sweet and Southern. Very authentic. What a great touch Dolly Parton brought to the film! This gets my 10/10! It deserves it! Ban all the cold hearted souls who find this film pathetic! If they can do better than let them! But I won't watch their films! I'll be watching Steel Magnolias! Great work Girls! "},{"Title":"Keep swallowing back the same puke!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The worst kind of swill thrown against the screen! How could ANYONE like this crap? If I want to hear a bunch of old crones gossip, I'd go to church! Would have been much better if a hostage had been taken, or an extended car chase, or even some mud wrestling! There's two hours of my life gone for good! THANKS! "},{"Title":"Inspirational Christian Movie","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie Steel Magnolias is based on southern women about their lifestyle as Christians. Daryl Hannah played this Christian role leading her faith through christ to other people. Julia Roberts played the diabetic girl Chelby who nearly was sad in a broken heart from her mother. Sally Field (My Favorite Actress) played this loving mother as M' Lynn. She acted hard-headed toward to her daughter's diabetic treatment having babies. At the end of the movie M'Lynn blamed herself for her daughter's death from diabetic treatment. She didn't felt dumb at all. She just forgive Chelby everything she says. But also this goes for Louisa and Clairie these crazy ladies had a crazy argument all the time. Clairie annoys Louisa all the time and tease her. But Louisa gets jealous of clairie by picking on her. Clairie wasn't acting like a christian at all to Louisa. Clairie makes up jokes toward Louisa. But will Clairie and Louisa forgive each other.  "},{"Title":"God I love this movie","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I pity those who don't love Steel Magnolias, you must be cold fish indeed. Or maybe the average American male.  I watch it periodically, and I laugh and cry every time.Sentimental?  Manipulative? Yes and a whole lot more! A great work of art? No. Who cares? I could name many similar movies  that I hate - the difference here is that you have an incomparable cast and a wonderful script.On my dying day my last request will be to see Steel Magnolias. Maybe an 8 in terms of quality as a movie, but a solid 10 in my own enjoyment. "},{"Title":"The BEST of them all","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved everything about this movie simply the best if you changed one thing you would destroy its meaning.  I rarely suggest things are an absolute MUST HAVE! THIS MOVIE IS AN ABSOLUTE TOTAL UTTER MUST HAVE FOR REASONS TOO COMPLEX FOR ME TO EXPLAIN HERE YOU JUST HAVE TO SEE IT!This movie should have been Best Picture in the year it was released! "}{"Title":"Chick Flick Through and Through","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a decent little film, but not great.  I think in terms of quality and tone it wanted to be Terms of Endearment, which was very good, but this movie was so sappy it was almost pathetic.  Despite the sugary tone you cannot deny the incredible cast this film possesses.  Sally Field, Shirley MacLaine, Olympia Dukakis, Darryl Hannah, Dolly Parton, Julia Roberts, Sam Shepard,and Tom Skeritt make this movie incredible in one aspect, in that all of this talent is on the same screen.  It almost goes without saying the performances of this film is quite incredible.But this movie has incredibly corny dialogue and contrived situations, the plot and the writing is just awkward.  Part of the problem personally is that I cannot identify too much with rich southern women.  Part of this movie is so whimsical it makes me sick.  The overall happy tone throughout most of this film makes The Cosby Show look like The Godfather. SPOILER  The only remotely sad part of this movie was when the Julia Roberts character died.  I know this is bad, but when she died and Sally Field broke down I broke down laughing.  That scene was so campy it was hilarious, WWWWHHHHYYYY!?!?I guess this movie isn't too bad in the end.  This is a nice coming of age story with some good performances and some decent moments.  The story is a little too southern for my tastes.  I guess the ultra white trash and the snotty southerners in this movie probably hit a little too close to home for me.  Still, if you want to watch this movie, be forewarned, this is definitely a chick flick. "},{"Title":"Best Players Don't Make Best Team (DVD)","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story tells about Life its philosophy (a journey that each one must do with people), its best moments (the give of life) and its worst (the loss of life).The lead characters are the mother (played by Sally Field), her daughter (played by Julia Roberts) and her close friends. All of them deliver strong performances. I didn't know Dolly Parton so far as an actress, but she was really convincing.The setting is a small town of Louisania. All the holidays of the calendar are shot Christmas, Easter, and Halloween. It brings a real feeling of the passing of seasons. So you should wait for my enthusiasm. Unfortunately, I haven't kept a sweet remembrance.First, this movie has a Frankenstein composition. In part an adaptation of a play (which has only one location the beauty shop), the mix isn't smooth with the screen material.Then, the character of the mother is too overwhelming. She is so anxious for her daughter that she didn't allow her enough free space. When the movie proposes light and happy times, there is always the dark presence of the mother to spoil them. The movie is thus unbalanced. The sad moments are really really sad, and the happy moments are not really happy. In conclusion, I felt sad after watching this movie, while I thought the goals of the writers were to give a homely & a celebration of Life. "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is very scary and not suitable for everybody, there are certain scenes in the film that makes you want to look away in disgust and there are other scenes that may give you nightmares. Especially the scene were Dolly Parton has cut all of Julia Roberts hair and Julia is so sad because her hair is short even though she wanted it and she is almost going to cry but her mother and her friends keep telling her it is allright Shelby it is allright. Scary. If that is not enough for you then you have this. Darryl Hannah plays a girl who comes to this town somewhere in Louisiana and gets a job assisting a hair dresser played by Dolly Parton. Hannah´s caracter is really a dumb one in the film and is very poor in the beginning but then meets a man and becomes so religious. Dolly Parton has few friends one played by Sally Field who in the beginning of the film is planning her daughters Wedding. Her daughter is named Shelby and is played by Julia Roberts. Shelby is diabetic and is sometimes very sick in the film. Then there is Olympia Dukakis character which is supposed to make everybody feel good because she is so free spirited and happy woman who smiles a lot. Shirley McLaine obviously was paid a lot to be in this film because she wasn´t having much fun played an old hag who hated everybody in the movie and never smiled. You get to know these women and what is going on in their lives etc. This film is great when you are watching television while you are doing something else or want to be really scared one night and have nightmares. "},{"Title":"The case of mistaken genre.","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This poignant and skillfully maneuvered film is one of the cleverest representations of post modern horror film.   Sally Field, Julia Roberts, Dolly Parton, Shirley McClaine, Daryl Hannah and Olympia Dukakis star in what was at first to be perceived by the public as a feel good drama comedy but is now becoming a cult classic for slasher film fanatics around the world.  It is full of implied gore, monstrous transformations, death, violence and debauchery.It is evident that screenwriter Robert Harling was striving to make this as scary as possible.  The first indication of this hopeful fright fest is the opening scene in which M'Lynn (Sally Field) is frantically getting ready for her daughter Shelby's (Julia Roberts) ill fated marriage to Jackson (Dylan McDermott).  M'Lynn discovers that the champagne glasses have all been broken and she quickly calls a friend (who we can only assume is a priest) in order to ask for help.  The significance of this scene comes into playlater when M'Lynn and Shelby head to have their hair done for the wedding ceremony.At Truvy's (Dolly Parton) beauty shop, Shelby goes into convulsions. Undoubtedly scenes of head spinning and vomit à la Reagan were deleted, but it is certain that Shelby has become possessed.  She is no longer the Shelby that we knew at the start of the film, but now a monster who moves to the swamps of Louisiana to breed with a lawyer and bear devil spawn.  It is unclear whether or not M'Lynn is responsible for cursing Shelby's womb with a child that will destroy her for it is established earlier in the film that M'Lynn is indeed a powerful scorceress of the macabre vein.  There are flocks of bats (not birds as the script tries to trick us into thinking) surrounding her home, she paints her daughter's nails with pig's blood, instigates animal ritual sacrifices at the wedding party with an unwilling armadillo, causes her husband to be deaf so that he won't hear her ritual chantings, and eventually shows no remorse at the outcome of her daughter's fate.Shirley McClaine is amazing as Ouiser, the Vampiress of the small southern township.  Accompanied by her disgusting, powerfully revolting hellhound through a great part of the film, she wreaks havoc on the town, alluding to the fact that she has killed and eaten her children and former husbands, claiming millions.  `I am richer than God' she says, as blasphemous as only a fang-wielding child of Satan can be.  She initially tries to lure newcomer to the town Annelle (Daryl Hannah) to her lair but Annelle quickly grasps religion in order to save herself, desperately trying to avoid demonic possession and vampirical tendencies.Parton represents the archetypal Bride of Frankenstein, big breasted, enormous hair, seductive.  She has been sewn together by the coven of demons, vampires and witches in an attempt to create a monster that will lure all of the townsmen to the beauty shop where Ouiser will devour them, M'Lynn will curse them, Shelby will possess them and Annelle will run around screaming religious prophecies to make it all that much more freaky.  It is my belief that Clairee (Olympia Dukakis) was not actually intended to be in the film as she was not in the original script.  She is a ghost, a banshee, a celluloid phantom, haunting this story of venomous violence and southern gore.  "}]