[{"Title":"I Assure You, It Was Intended As Camp","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  In regard to some of the other reviews of this film posted here on IMDB, I would like to say  lighten up!  Does this film capture the quaint Cravenesque sci-fi ambiance of the first movie?  Of course not.  Nor does it capture the dreary, macabre vision of the Alan Moore comic books.  What we have here is a perfect lovely late 80's fantasy/comedy about a seven foot plant man.  If you look at it objectively, perhaps your vision would not be so skewed.Now, you may think that I (Daniel Emery Taylor, featured in the film as Darryl) might be slightly biased.  I assure you, it's a possibility. However, you must know that the movie was filmed in fun and meant in fun. From every one-line groaner to every silly sexual innuendo, it was all planned and perpetrated.  To see how serious we were, take a look at the video/DVD cover art.To give a summary of the movie  Swamp Thing returns to thwart Dr. Arcane's plot for immortality.  It's a basic semi-superhero movie plot.  From there, Swampy falls in love with Arcane's daughter, has some great fighting sequences, comes through a faucet, drives a jeep, takes pictures with these two ADORABLE kids (and they're really terrific actors, too ... honesty!), and blows stuff up.If you're a fan of B-movies, as I am, you're likely to enjoy this.  There are plenty of laughs, both intentional and unintentional.  The acting is what you would expect, and the effects are really quite good for its day. This is not a movie you have to ponder or concentrate on.  Its subtle social messages and troubled postmodern imagery will not haunt you for days. It's simple fun. "},{"Title":"Highly Enojyable, Intentionally Cheesy B-Movie","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" Every once in awhile, a sequel is a million times better than the original. This is just such a sequel! If you look up my review for Swamp Thing, you'll see that I didn't care to much for it. This, on the other hand, was great! They decided to go with the over-the-top comic-book style that the original skirted, which made the movie a lot more enjoyable. The effects improved greatly, the creatures in this actually looked like some effort was put into them! I especially liked the updated Swamp Thing costume, made him look a lot better and more intimidating. Louis Joudan was thankfully back, and his character, Dr. Anton Arcane, was even better than ever! His step-daughter Abby, played by Heather Locklear, was one of many great comic relief characters, along with the bumbling head of security named Gunn, and many others. The side plot with two kids trying to get Swampy's picture was a tad annoying, but it had it's amusing moments. Overall, this was a great intentionally cheesy B-movie, that you really should check out! 8/10 "},{"Title":"An Epic Worthy Of Greatness","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" Well with actors and performances more wooden than Pinoccio's c*ck, this has to go down as one of the greatest send up horrors of all time. From the opening shots until the fantastic fight with the rubber, lightbulb-headed creature at the end (With inhaler!) this is absolutely hilarious (even more than intended). I have already read a review that criticized character development. I hope that this is a joke as this was hardly supposed to be a plant version of the Shawshank Redemption. I think there are times when people should see a film for what it is, and this one is an absolute B movie p*ss take with £20 dedicated to special affects and even less on the appalling actors. Magnificent. "},{"Title":"a classic!!!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing this film when i was tiny and i haven't forgot it yet. I KNOW its corny, i KNOW it has no plot to speak of but its good fun. Nineteen years later and i still put time aside if it happens to come on TV. Its not supposed to be a serious film, just sit back and enjoy. My favorite bit is when Heather Locklear turns into a swamp-woman at the end, i defy anyone not to love this film. "},{"Title":"Great sequel!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite of the series.Unlike the first one this is more of a super hero film.This movie is very good and it delivers! Louis Jourdan is great and Dick Durock performs as Swamp Thing in my opinion a lot better than hie did in the original.Sarah Douglas is so neat and so beautiful! I don`t think she has looked any better and her performance is very good.Heather Locklear was good and looked great as always.Ace Mask was funny.The monster and action battles are very good.If you haven't seen any Swamp Thing film do see the original fist but I recommend seeing this one more. I`m sure it'll be your favorite of the two. "},{"Title":"this movie is dope...you just don't know it.","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  I've been reading swampthing comics for a while now and although this movie looks like a pile of puke in comparison to the legendary alan moore run, it a really fun way to kill 90 minutes. honestly, what this movie lacks in respectability, it more than makes up for in charm... you can tell they had a blast making this movie. the action scenes are simple but well executed (the fight with the leech man amongst all those exploding cars... awesome!) the cutesy comic relief parts with the to kids are hilarious (especially when they're scrambling around the living room trying to hide a mountain of porn) and the special effects are more than satisfactory...i don't know what all these other reviewers who think otherwise are talking about. its not a movie that you can just expect to dazzle you without any effort on your part. you have to want to like it. c'mon participate in life a little bit..you're invited.  "},{"Title":"Swamp Thing kicks butt!","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" I enjoyed Wes Craven's film Swamp Thing very much, but some reviewers found it to be lacking in laughs. The same can not be said of this sequel. Return of Swamp Thing has far more humor than the first film and should not be taken seriously. It's a humorous superhero/monster mash with plenty of fun moments. The two goofy little kids are especially funny. I dug this sequel as much as the first movie. Dick Durock played Swamp Thing in both movies and also in the Swamp Thing TV series. It's too bad the TV series isn't available on DVD (PUT IT ON DVD SOMEBODY!). Return of Swamp Thing is a cheesy blast of fun! Pop some corn, grab a cold beverage, kick back, and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Possibly better than the original...","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" Return of the Swamp Thing takes the best aspect of the original Wes Craven cult classic (its camp value) and also the worst (its discontinuity with the comics) to produce an exceedingly silly and over-the-top film that ranks right up there with Attack of the Killer Tomatoes in terms of sheer comic-bookish hilarity.The casting works surprisingly well, despite the use of B- and C-list actors. Dick Durock, once again, brings far more class to the role of the Swamp Thing than the writing would seem to allow. And Louis Jordan, while completely unlike the Arcane seen in the comics in every way, is deliciously brilliant in every villainous role he's every played (see Octopussy as an example of a brilliant Jordan performance in an otherwise uninspired movie).Plus, what's not to love about Heather Locklear? Sure, she's missing Abby's Transylvanian accent from the comic. Sure, she portrays Abby as far more airheaded than she was in the comic. And sure, she's not wearing comic-book Abby's trademark jean cutoffs and read shirt. But this is Heather Locklear, folks, and she more than makes up for it every time she smiles. (Hey, I'm reviewing a corny movie...what better way to do so than to make corny statements?)Rumors abound that we might someday see a new Swamp Thing film, this time built around the landmark origin story Alan Moore brought to the character. We can only hope. In the meantime, both Swamp Thing films (while hardly high cinema) are still great B-movie fun. Make yourself some popcorn, check 'em both out and be sure to leave your brain in the swamp.Rich Handley Roots of the Swamp Thing http//www.swampthingroots.com "},{"Title":"decent and amusing","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  Amusing flick is decently made but badly acted and the script is kinda sloppy written but this is mildly entertaining and pretty amusing.  Horrible make up effects just adds to the charm.  All in all i suppose it is worth a look **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Fun sequel.","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" The man of muck rises from the swamp once again to take on the evil DR. ARCANE who was supposedly killed in the last adventure after mutating into an ugly beast, this time Arcane's daughter is the object of his sinister plans when she decides to visit him & Swamp Thing must rescue her. This sequel, was not as good & not as serious as the last entry & forces us at times to sit & view some scenes with two annoying kids that really have nothing to do whatsoever with this movie, but all that aside, THE RETURN OF SWAMP THING wasn't all that bad either, there was plenty of humor & it had a comic book look to it as well, it also sports great acting, interesting & well written characters, fight scenes & awesome special effects make-up. B movie director JIM WYNORSKI (GHOULIES 4 & DEATHSTALKER 2) takes over the directorial duties this time & does well. Fun for fans of the comics & first movie. Followed by an animated TV series & a live action TV series.*** stars "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequel!","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" Return of Swamp Thing (1989) is the long awaited sequel to the Wes Craven cult classic Swamp Thing. This movie was based upon the D.C. Comics classic character from their more mature theme line. This film has achieved a level of cult status itself amongst fans of the genre. This time around the movie is more cheesy and campy instead of being too serious. The cast seems to have a lot of fun in this flick. Heather Lockyear stars as the hot blonde who is rescued and falls for Swamp Thing and Louis Jordan returns as it's chief rival and nemesis. The legendary Jim Wynorski ( a non-R rated outing for the sleaze king this time around) who has become a huge B-movie film maker in his own right helms the picture.A light hearted film that'll warm you over. Recommended for fans of the comic book and cheesy films. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it despite it's bad reputation.","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" The Return of Swamp Thing sees evil scientist Dr. Anton Arcane (Louis Jordan) trying to reverse the extreme ageing that he is undergoing as a result of his experiments. Meanwhile in Los Angeles his stepdaughter Abigail (Heather Locklear) decides to visit him to find out more about her late mother & the events surrounding her sudden death. It turns out that Abigail has the exact genetic make-up that Arcane needs to complete his experiments & give himself eternal life. Arcane also needs a sample of Swamp Thing's (Dick Durock) DNA to complete the process but getting a sample isn't going to be as easy as Arcane hoped for as Swamp Thing sets out to put an end to Arcane's evil experiments...Directed by Jim Wynorski whom I consider one of the worst genre filmmakers of all time I have to say that I really liked The Return of Swamp Thing & for my money just about the best thing Wynorski has ever done (which isn't saying much in itself). A direct sequel to Wes Craven's Swamp Thing (1982) it is never actually explained how Arcane survived the events during the climax of the original although it turns out he is suffering from the process that saved him which forms the basis of the plot as he sets out to find a cure & doesn't care how many people he kills to do just that. Based on the dark Gothic DC comic book character the script by Neil Cuthbert & Grant Morris hasn't got too much to it & is rather simplistic & underdeveloped but is good fun all the same & you suspect that what the production team were aiming for, a good solid entertaining light hearted fun comic book superhero flick which I think it succeeds at being but like most things in life it's down to personal opinion. At a little over 90 minutes it's relatively short, it moves along like a rocket & I was never bored with it which is always a good thing to be able to say. There are one or two half decent action set-pieces but considering the production team had a budget smaller than the Wes Craven original you could say they worked minor miracles. The character's are fun although not particularly deep, the dialogue is often amusing & packed full of one-liners & doesn't take itself too seriously either with Locklear's character referring to the TV show T.J. Hooker (1982 - 1986) in which she starred. All in all much, much better than I expected & a film that I really liked. Keep watching after the end actor credits as the two kids get an extra little scene.Director Wynorski does a decent job & the film looks reasonably good although you can tell there wasn't much money with which to make it. One very impressive aspect of The Return of Swamp Thing is the special make-up effects which are of a very high standard. The Leechman in particularly looks great although he disappears about halfway through, there's a elaborate Cockroachman & an Elephantman. The Swamp Thing suit is also much better than seen in the original, it's far more leafy & slimy & more representative of a what a half man half Georgia swamp creature may look like. The Dr. Rochelle mutation at the end also looks good but is dispatched too easily by Swamp Thing & doesn't put up much of a fight. There are some good fight scenes as well along with a couple of impressive explosions.Technically the film is good, it's well made with the already mentioned special effects impressing. Shot in Savannah in Georgia. The acting is pretty camp & over-the-top but the material demands it, Louis Jordan is somewhat restrained, Dirk Durock's voice was dubbed in post while Heather Locklear looks nice enough.The Return of Swamp Thing is a film which I admit that I throughly enjoyed, that's my opinion & I am sticking with it. Followed by the made-for-TV live action series Swamp Thing (1990 - 1993) & the short lived made-for-TV animated series Swamp Thing (1991). "},{"Title":"Someone Gave Jim Wynorski a DC Franchise","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" The Swamp Thing returns to battle the evil Dr. Arcane, who has a new science lab full of creatures transformed by genetic mutation, and chooses Heather Locklear as his new object of affection.How easy it would be to rag on this film for being cheesy, campy, comedic and not the serious horror-action tone of the first film. And how easy to say that Wynorski cannot match the directing abilities of Wes Craven. But let us be fair.Taken at face value, this is a rather fun film with some awesome monster battles, in some ways not unlike a good Godzilla sequel. Serious? No. That is obvious the moment you see the cover and Locklear mugging for the camera. But some entertaining moments, such as a nod to Louis Jourdain's role in Gigi.Oh, and the kids with the magazines are hilarious, especially because the little one cannot act to save his life. While painful to watch if you take it seriously, every time this kid shows up it is just a riot of poor, pathetic proportions. "},{"Title":"Some funny lines...but not all comedy!","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" I watched this before Wes Craven's original and before completing USA's TV series, which I also enjoyed. This film introduced me to Louis Jourdan-didn't know he was French beforehand, but found out soon after) and Heather Locklear. I enjoyed this film a lot, but the trailer makes it look far too comedic-yes, there are some funny one liners) but this isn't all comedy. The love story, has a kinda beauty and the beast feel. One of my favorite parts in this one, from when I was a kid, was the Arcane mansion explosion until this film, I hadn't seen an explosion with such an elaborate and unique set up, and honestly, no movie since this has quite topped it. The actors do a nice job-although aside from Heather and Louis, most are rather unknown. I saw WC's original-from a very poor video print) but still liked it, and the TV series by USA network a couple years ago, enjoyed it as well. I for one am not hoping for a remake, but rumors of one are surfacing. Check it out, w/ an open mind...if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"A pointless but well-cast sequel","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" Much like its title hero, The Return of Swamp Thing is a hybrid creature it tries to do many different genres - horror, comedy, action, romance - and, as it usually happens in these cases, does none of them completely satisfyingly. What keeps it watchable is its cast Heather Locklear is a beautiful and engaging heroine (her spectacular cleavage doesn't hurt either), and nobody can play a suave, sophisticated, cultured villain quite like Louis Jourdan (it's ironic that his character in the film is trying to find a formula to reverse the aging process, because Jourdan himself seems to have already discovered that formula; he was 70 years old when this film was made but he looks about 50!). The witty and classy Sarah Douglas plays his assistant, and Dick Durock does a fine (physical as well as emotional) job as the Swamp Thing. And the final bonus a GORGEOUS red-haired Monique Gabrielle as an armed security guard - YES!!! (**) "},{"Title":"Cheesy Fun","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  This is hardly gripping entertainment or anything but it is played very much tongue-in-cheek. This fact rises it slightly above mediocrity. Only slightly but I have to admit I kind of like the goofy comic book heroics put on display here. Heather Locklear tries and Sarah Douglas stands out amongst the cast..at least giving us two lovely ladies to admire. Best part of the movie though is the opening sequence followed by the ultra cool comic book covers. "},{"Title":"They call me Swamp-Thing","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" After Wes Craven churned out the DC comic Swamp Thing into a 1982 feature length, film-maker Jim Wynorski would couple year's later helm the low-budget sequel The Return of Swamp Thing and take it down a totally different path. Wanting to solve the mystery of her mother's death, horticulturist Abigail Arcane goes to stay with her stepfather Dr. Anton Arcane. However he has plans for her, which involves stealing her DNA to achieve immortality. Finding out she escapes into the swamp where she is rescued by Dr. Alex Holland, who now finds himself half-plant, half-man known as Swamp-Thing. For better or worse, he camped it up and played it for laughs. However that's not taking anything away from it, while it can get silly. It still was rather enjoyable and the make-up FX (involving the mutants) was very well pulled off. The opening sequences involving comic inserts and Creedence Clearwater Revival's Born in the Bayou used as its theme song do set the mood. I think it actually starts off rather strongly, then if anything kind of falls away when Swamp Thing and Heather Locklear's character come together (the sweet love-story) mid-way through. The script is very tongue-in-cheek and the performances are rather self- knowing&#x85; even Dick Durock as Swamp Thing. Louis Jourdan returns as Dr. Arcane and does a wonderful job bringing this sly character to life. Locklear is looking great, but her character was somewhat an annoyance. The support fair better with the likes of Sarah Douglas and Ace Mask. Wynorski doesn't hold back as he eccentrically seems to pile on the set- pieces and effects with very little story holding it together, but he sure does make it feel like a live-action comic strip with some imaginative brushes, bang-up action and good use of the atmospheric swamp terrain. The tone did feel uneven as there are kiddy elements mixed with adult themes. Too bad I found the ending to be terribly anticlimactic. Colourful, if ridiculous sequel. "},{"Title":"Better Than Anyone Could Have Hoped For","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" The Return of Swamp Thing is the sequel to the 1982 Wes Craven film which took the subject matter far more seriously than exploitation film-maker Jim (Chopping Mall) Wynorski. The sequel has it's tongue firmly in cheek from beginning to end, delivering loads of camp and quippy dialogue in the hopes of winning over it's audience and for the most part succeeds. Louis Jordan returns as the evil genius Arcane who lures his lovely step-daughter Abigail (Heather Locklear) to his mutant infested plantation for a deadly experiment which only Swamp Thing can save her from. Heather Locklear is terrific in her role despite winning a Razzie for worst actress and the creature effects are pretty good for something with this low a budget. Dick Murdock is particularly impressive as Swamp Thing; capturing the look of the DC superhero to perfection. Followed by a hit TV series on the USA network. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  Swamp Thing returns to save Arcane's daughter, Abby (Locklear), from his evil wrath, along with his new batch of vicious mutant predators. All in all, it was a good film with great special effects! "},{"Title":"A memorable film for me,not for cinematic reasons though.","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" This is a film that i will always remember,however this is based more on the context of how i watched it rather than the film itself although i did rather enjoy it. Way way back in 89 for reasons long now forgotten i decided to skive of school for the day.So i enter the local town centre and decide to go see a film and this caught my eye. So I'm in the cinema and no one else comes in and now the movie starts and i have the whole place to myself,at age 15 that seems rather cool to me.So thats why it always stayed with me. So the film itself is great tongue in cheek fun,various monsters which i loved and the effects where very good.Worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Swampy is back and ready for some lovin'","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" Plant lover, Heather Locklear, comes looking for Dr. Arcane (her stepfather) to find out the truth of her mother's death and falls for a seven-foot tall plantman (Dick Durock).Lots of stereotype humor, lots of purposely bad special effects, and some quirky charm to be sure. The first one tried to be a decent movie with the budget they had, this time they simply played it purposely bad. In the end it turns out to be a monster movie for children (the chubby redhead and black kid looking to shoot a pic of Swampy to make money steals the show.) All of this is especially disappointing coming from the executive producers that made it their mission to be bring a more serious Batman to the silver screen, then following Alan Moore's ground-breaking comic series, cop out and take the easy cheap camp route for the character, an image they were fighting to shatter for Batman. Although it's campy cute fun, beware it is also the type of film that you can actually feel yourself getting dumber while watching it. View at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Funny, but little else to recommend","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" - The evil Dr. Arcane (Louis Jourdan), thought to be dead at the end of the original Swamp Thing, is alive and well. His life, however, will be short-lived unless he is able to reverse his cell degeneration. Up to this point, his experiments have yielded only horribly disfigured mutants. Fortunately for the Doctor, his step daughter, Abby (Heather Locklear), arrives to confront him about her mothers death. With her DNA, Arcane may be able to save himself. But, lurking nearby is Swamp Thing - Dr. Arcane's nemesis who is intent on stopping him.- I've seen this movie at least a half a dozen times. With each viewing, I want it to be good. Although bits and pieces are enjoyable, overall it's just not a very good movie. For the most part The Return of Swamp Thing fails at being an action movie, it fails at being a sci-fi movie, and it fails at being a horror movie. Some of the acting, particular that of Monique Gabrielle, is noticeably wooden. I doubt that Gabrielle has ever delivered a line that sounded natural. Some of the special effects, particularly a few of the mutants, are anything but special. Many of the plot points can be seen from a mile away. For example, when we are introduced to Abby, we are told that she's the kind of person who prefers plants to people. Gee, I wonder who will be her love interest in the movie? - The movie does achieve a little success, however, at being a comedy. Some of the lines are genuinely funny. For example, when Swamp Thing reminds Abby that their budding relationship will be hampered because he's a plant, her response That's okay, I'm a vegetarian. Not great, but it does bring a smile to my face. Another scene that I'm fond of involves Jourdan poking a little fun at himself. Jourdan's pet parakeet happens to be named Gigi. Jourdan sings a little song to Gigi that's a take-off of the songs in what may be his most famous movie, Gigi.- As I had seen this movie several times before, on this occasion I watched with the commentary on Image's DVD. Few commentaries are as informative as this one. Listening to Director Wynorski, it's amazing the detail he remembers about making The Return of Swamp Thing. It's one of the better commentaries I've heard in a while. "},{"Title":"Not Funny, Not Scary","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  The Return of the Swamp Thing seems a victim of poor timing; by 1989 wasn't camp long dead? And campness is what the movie aspires to, plowing the same ground thoroughly farmed by Troma and others during the 80s. What were the producers thinking? And in 2001 it is even more painful than it must have been in 1989. Give this movie a big pass; it's not funny, nor scary, nor campy. It's just dumb. "},{"Title":"Slightly more enjoyable than the first film.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, this film is also terrible, but it's easier to watch because it has some comedy relief throughout. It's bad comedy relief, but at least they tried. But, beyond that this film is a piece of garbage. Swamp thing still looks neat like he did in the first one, but the idea still isn't interesting. Stick with the comics. "},{"Title":"Likable tat","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" This sequel doesn't bear much relation to the dark comics, but it's an agreeably tongue in cheek follow-up to the Wes Craven original. Mad doctor Louis Jourdan and his scientist girlfriend Sarah Douglas need his stepdaughter Heather Locklear for their strange genetic experiments, but she escapes and gets help from hero and, erm, love interest Swamp Thing, played by Dick Durock in ace make-up. Made by B-movie hack Jim Wynorski, this is really a load of rubbish but it's cheap and cheerful and likable enough, and has a few funny bits floating around, although the pace flags too often to make it as fun as it should be. "},{"Title":"Disappointing...but then it is a sequel","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say about this film that hasn't already been said (or at least thought!)? Unfortunately in the great tradition of sequels, `Return' thought that it could do without a plot, relying instead upon stereotypical characters &#150; mad yet well-funded villain who wants to take over the world; misguided female sidekick who mistakenly believes that villain's aspirations of world domination take second place to her only to be sorely disappointed; beautiful, wide-eyed, eager, yet rather dim-witted heroine attempting to foil evil villain's plans with only beauty, low cut dresses and tireless eye-fluttering at her disposal. The plot (what there is of it) could be summed up in about two sentences. Mad scientist seeks immortality but to find it he needs the blood of shapely step-daughter Heather Locklear, and avoid the vengeful wrath of Swamp Thing. Everything else is just surplus to requirements &#150; in other words, a typical sequel.I watched this movie and mostly thought how well it would work as a comedy play, with poor special effects, two-dimensional characters, pantomime villains, mediocre dialogue and acting and a plot you could see coming a mile away. Less than five minutes is spent establishing Heather Locklear's character as a plant lover before packing her off to `Daddy' to plant (pardon the pun) a spanner firmly in the works of Arcane's plans &#150; hmm, a green-fingered heroine who seems to prefer plants to people. Wonder what's going to happen when she meets the big green guy - as if I couldn't guess! Meanwhile, Swamp Thing seems to have little to do except conveniently show up whenever trouble is near to bust some heads and blow a few things up. You'd think the swamp was the biggest hotspot in southern USA, the guy never gets a moment's peace during the entire film!For a bit of undemanding late night fluff (perhaps accompanied by a couple of bevvies) this is fine. Yet, although I never expect much from sequels as a rule, I felt that this film had the potential to be more. It played like the outline of a potentially good idea that needed developing. Yet, unlike it's eponymous hero, it never sprouted into something more. A disappointing 1 and a half out of 5.  "},{"Title":"mmmmmm...... swamp thing.....","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  I was flipping the channels and came across a scene of this big green guy beating the living crap out of a bunch of guys with a baseball bat! I mean come on, what more does a movie need??? All right, fine, it sucked. But the baseball bat scene is great. "},{"Title":"Saga of the Swamp Thing","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  Oh dear.Swamp Thing, now. Swamp Thing was a fairly unremarkable horrorish comic, which went on for a few years quite happily. Then, in 1984, Alan Moore started writing it. And his writing revolutionised comics, there had never been anything this complex and deep before. He went on to write (among other things) the comic From Hell which is being made into a movie with Johnny Depp, Ian Holm and Heather Graham, later this year.Anyway, back to Swamp Thing. A pre-Alan Moore film of it was made, and after he made the comics popular, they decided to make a sequel. Did they use any of his ideas or style? Or did they decide to make a campy, supposedly-funny mess out of it? Well, you decide.Dont even get me started on the problems with this. The characters look all wrong. They feel all wrong. The plot is messed up. No one here can act. Its NOT FUNNY.Lets see if I can find something good to say about it....hmm...well, Heather Locklear looks quite nice. And Louis Jordan wants to be Vincent Price so much, its hard not to feel sorry for himAltogether, 0/10. I might have enjoyed it more if I hadnt had the comics to compare it to.  "},{"Title":"This movie is really horrible. Seriously. It's horrible.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  There's a reason I watched this movie. As a child I went on vacation abouts of Disney World and MGM Studios. At one of those I saw none other than our very own Swamp Thing in the flesh, or should I say, in the vegetation? *titter* Anyways, there was a film crew there and a crowd had gathered. The part I enjoyed was that director had to frequently tell the crowd - via his megaphone - to be quiet; I imagine he had to do this all day as it was pretty busy at the theme park in question. Poor shmoe. I thought this might be the movie that I had witnessed. That, at least, would have been neat. I was wrong. Apparently, there was a Swamp Thing TV show, which is what I must have seen.As it stands, there are only two good things about this movie one, if you can sit through the entire thing, they play CCR through the end credits; two, the name of the guy who plays the Swamp Thing is Dick Durock. Now, should I ever need one, I've got myself a good porn name.Aside from that, this movie is bad. They seem to have spent their entire budget on explosives and monster costumes. Unfortunately, once they got them, they didn't know what to do with them. Don't get me wrong, the costumes and explosions still looked fake and ill-timed but there WERE a lot of them. The acting, of course, was horrible, as was the comic relief. The action scenes lacked any blood or gore, which lead me to believe this was a children's film, except for the blatant sexual innuendoesMay we have sex now, Swamp Thing?No, I'm a monster.Oh, come on. Pleeease?Oh, okay. Take this. He then proceed to rip a piece of celery off his body and hand it to the girlThat's not an exact quoting but you get the idea. Do you parents of the 80s get some kind of kick out of raunchy aspects of children's films that are above the heads of your kids? What's the matter with you people?This movie is void of entertainment value. If you ever feel the need to rent a movie about a large, green, muscular, good-hearted man with a Clark Gable-isque voice, go rent the original (unintentionally campy) or, better yet, The Toxic Avenger (intentionally cheesy).  "},{"Title":"This one is bad.","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  The first Swamp Thing was okay, but took itself too seriously.  This one goes in the opposite direction and ends up being almost a parody and it is not even an okay movie.  In fact, it is horrible.  Well that is not fair the first few minutes were at least tolerable as Swamp Thing battles this other creature, but after that the movie is just about unwatchable.  Louis Jordan is the only one back from the first one I think (not sure if it is the same guy playing Swamp Thing) and Heather Lockler plays the love interest and the lame jokes come fast and furious.  Most of the time they are not very good, in fact, I do not remember laughing at any of them.  I also remember this movie dragging quite a bit.  You will check your watch and wonder when it is going to be over.  After it all you get your lame ending and then you can let out a breath and be thankful that it is finally over. "}{"Title":"Sludge.","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  Evil scientists Louis Jourdan and Sarah Douglas have a deviant scheme up their sleeves. Of course it is up to the titled character (Dick Durock) to save the day. Also along for the ride is Jourdan's super-hot step-daughter (Heather Locklear) who ends up falling in love with Durock (I guess there is always hope for those who may not have the best reflections in a mirror). Could it be possible that Jourdan would sacrifice Locklear for his plan to work? Another disgusting mess with plenty of science-fiction meanderings and dumb characters galore (military thugs Monique Gabrielle and RonReaco Lee leading the way). The seven year difference between installments did nothing to help this lame duck as the movie barely made a dent at the box office and ended up drowning with critics. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm........  (without swearing)","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":"  Well, this film was only watched under duress because my dad thought it was a classic.  And he only watched it because he was on a 7 hour flight to South America.  Any sane people are advised not to bother with wasting their time in front of this film.Locklear 10/10 Rest of the film 0/10 (in all fairness, not even the make-up can help this truly dreadful film) Shame.  No, really.  "},{"Title":"I'm NOT green with envy","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" When we last saw Dr. Arcane he was transformed into a monster and impaled, but apparently he's doing much better now. Of course, only Sawm Thing can save the day. While it's true this film is nowhere near the greatness of the original, it's also not as horrid as some have suggested. OK, not by much. Yes, it's rather corny and the 'Comic relief' kids are annoying and drop the grade a bit (my apologies to Daniel Taylor in advance, as I know he's on this site).However, it's ALWAYS nice to see Monique Gabrielle, even if this is one of the few times she keeps her clothes on.DVD ExtrasCommentary by director Jim Wynorski; Promo reel (5 min); 6 TV-spots; 2 PSA's for (the law breaking) Greenpeace; and Photo galleryMy Grade C- "},{"Title":"a pointless sequel(?)","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" This movie is dopey and pointless. What particularly bothered me was that in the original SWAMP THING, Louis Jourdan was the bad guy. In the end, he was transformed into a hideous monster and ultimately was destroyed by Swamp Thing. However, in this sequel, of sorts, once again Louis Jourdan returns as the bad guy. Now, he might be a really resilient guy but this is ridiculous!! Why couldn't they have at least gotten a different actor so as to maintain some continuity? Regardless, this is just a re-hash of old stuff and offers nothing new of necessary. The original was fresh and mildly interesting--this film is just an old re-tread. "},{"Title":"Awful! Awful! Awful!","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Horror, Comedy","Review":" The first Swamp Thing was a great cult-classic. It had everything, drama, action, and adventure. They turned the second one into an absurd comedy. The second one shouldn't even be linked to the first one it's so bad. The first Swamp Thing was a great cult-classic. It had everything, drama, action, and adventure. They turned the second one into an absurd comedy. The second one shouldn't even be linked to the first one it's so bad. The first Swamp Thing was a great cult-classic. It had everything, drama, action, and adventure. They turned the second one into an absurd comedy. The second one shouldn't even be linked to the first one it's so bad. "}]