[{"Title":"In defense of She Devil","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"59 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Reading the comments for this film, two aspects appear as the concentration to the films perceived flaws. The one is a lack of sympathy for Roseanne's character, Ruth. The other is a lack of appreciation for Meryl Streep's performance. Having watched this film many times since it's release, I think I can safely dispute this argument.This film certainly I feel has all the markings of a cult favorite. It's dark humor, over charged performances as well as the overall look and feel wedges it someplace between Heathers and Ruthless People. More on the nuances that I feel set this film apart from others later, but lets first deal with the Roseann/Streep problem.Quite frankly, I see no problem. Meryl Streep's Mary Fisher is one of the screens funniest inventions. It seems quite clear to me that she enjoyed playing this role because there is no other way such a wonderful performance could have been created. On a number of occasions, there are lengthy shots with no change of camera where she drives through a range of hilarious emotions. How she handles a scene involving a dog licking her feet while she awakes is tremendous. I feel it is one of her strongest performances; she never turns it off, and always delivers it in the correct dosage.The issue with Roseanne's character, Ruth, is she is seen as manipulative, uncaring, a monster hell bent on revenge. Ruth, like everything else in this picture is a caricature.  This is very much the sort of role we would expect from Roseanne, the domestic goddess taking it all a step further. True, she does wallow in a mean spirited negativity, but it results in a positive outcome for nearly all involved. She takes control of her life and liberates Linda Hunts Nurse Hopper as well as countless women through her Vespa Rose Employment Agency. She returns life to the geriatrics in her care at a nursing home. As a result of Ruth's revenge, Mary Fisher at last becomes recognized as the serious writer she wished to from the start. We even know that Begley's Bob Patchett gets his comeuppance, and accepts it with grace and humility.There are dozens of touches brought here which make this a movie so enjoyable to watch. Firstly, there is the remarkable physical change in many of the characters as the story progresses. Roseanne goes from looking like a reject from a freak show to a rather zaftig Joan Collins.  Linda Hunt and Sylvia Miles likewise transform, and Streep goes from a pink, frosted confection of a romance novelist, to a black turtle necked, bespectacled writer with a gift for the post modern metaphor.  A certain tone is set when the establishing shot of Mary Fisher pink palace by the sea reveals her initials, M F, emblazoned on the massive gate. Streep is given countless occasions to do great business for the camera, as in a scene where her complete lack of comprehension in doing laundry leads her to put half a gallon of bleach and several dryer sheets in a washing machine. Best of all, she manages to give the finger to the serious critics while on the Sally Jesse Raphale Show.  I honestly don't feel this film is as bad as many would like one to think. If you sit back, and let it unfold as I believe it was intended to, you will find a clever picture that has just the correct amount of overarched villainy and cynicism as many of our favorite black comedies. "},{"Title":"Hilarious! and clever too!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not serious at all. That's the funniest part!This movie is absolutely among my comedy favorites. Perhaps it was a bit ahead of it's time, I think - everyone should take a look at it again and have a laugh.As a European I must say that it is ever so refreshing with a movie with such a black humor to it. The fact that everything is over the top makes it not less attractive, but brings the so-called authenticity of this story to an extend of fun, fun, fun. It is beyond real - it is there to amuse you and so it does. This movie is sarcastic, even to itself and indeed to the Fay Weldon novel that lies behind it.Roseanne stars in her very best role ever as the ugly and poor Ruth Patchett who reveals herself as a superheroine in the vengeance department. To cast Roseanne in this role is a brilliant idea. She is obviously not afraid of being the most repulsive woman ever seen on video, and that only contributes to the laughs as she turns from the bearded lady into a business woman with a hard grip on her own destiny. Roseanne has always been accused of being a bad actress. I am not saying that she is a good one, but perhaps the character Ruth has a lot of Roseanne inside her - because her work here is in any way magnificent.Meryl Streep on the other hand is absolutely faboulos. She has tried a few time to enter the world of comedy, most notably with the bizarre Death Becones Her, but this might be her very best try in the genre. As the pink queen of romance, the Barbara Cartland of her generation, you might add, she sparkles with hysteria and selfconsciousness. Her Mary Fisher does make one of the funniest breakdowns as her Love in the Rinse Cycle fails as well as her relationship with Robert Patchett, Ruth's husband. Streep has the elegance that it takes to be - well, pink - but she is not afraid of tearing it down and plays the role with much physical courage.Academy Award Winner Linda Hunt as always also makes a great appearance as Ruth's partner-in-crime Nurse Hooper. Along with Roseanne and Meryl Streep she benefits from her physical appearance, and all three of them changes as women in a very convincing way. For Linda Hunt, cookies does the trick, and her change from dry, bitter and hardworking to giggling business woman is very amusing indeed.Finally I must say that the cinematography and editing of this movie is outstanding, as well as the musical contribution, e.g. the opening titles and the introduction of Ruth - it sure does follow the general irony of the story in a great way. Along with the extremely well-put dialogue this movie simply is - hilarious.  "},{"Title":"Not enough praise was given to this little gem...","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I will admit from the outset that I have a soft spot for the trio of Seidelman films made in  the mid-80's and early 90's-- Desperately Seeking Susan, Making Mr. Right, and this  film.  There is something playful and quite outrageous about all three of the  aforementioned movies with She Devil being the funniest due to great performances by  the entire cast, even Roseanne Barr.  Although this movie was disregarded by most  critics and ignored at the box office, it is truly a funny film with its cartoon-like  situations and over-the-top characters.  Regardless of what everyone says, check out  this film, especially when you find yourself in the mood for a cute and campy movie that  is reminiscent of some of the great comedies of the 80's, such as Ruthless People. "},{"Title":"Academy Award Winner Meryl Streep was Fantastic!","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meryl Streep (Mary Fisher), Out of Africa,'85 put her heart and soul into this role and proved to her many fans that she is a great actress who can even play comedy and make it work.  Roseanne Barr(Ruth Patchett), Blue in the Face,'95, performs as an ugly housewife who is abused beyond words by Bob, her husband, (Ed Begley,Jr.),Auto Focus,'02. Bob plays a horrible husband who deserves just what he gets from the SHE-DEVIL!  If you love Meryl Streep and Roseanne, just sit back and enjoy this CRAZY film and forget about your troubles.  "},{"Title":"just like first wives club only a bit better.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In a nutshell-this is another first wives club and fans of that movie will probebly appreciate this one which actually cam eout quite a bit before fwc. It's another woman scorned movie but I enjoyed it actually  a bit more then wives club due to the fact it didn't drag. First wives club though it was the ultimate watch in a group of women movie had some moments where my attention wandered. This was very much a caricature movie but it was good dark comedy and boy was it funny to see Meryl in a role like this!  "},{"Title":"Bedevils you","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" She-Devil bedevils you!! Roseanne Barr is not one of my favorite thespians, but this under-rated little movie simply RAWKS!!Roseanne Barr is married to Bob Pratchett. He is a hard-working accountant who is skimming the little gratuities from his clients; the newest of which is Mary Fischer. With a huge MF on her front gate, she is the top fantasy/romance novelist in the country.With Ms. Fischer's mother in a retirement home, and Bob spending all his time with his new lover, Mary, Ruth Pratchett has a lot of time on her hands. She has vowed to take care of their children, their home, and do her best to hold her head up in the community. When Bob's parents come to dinner, and it turns into a total disaster, Bob begins to berate his loving and faithful wife, who slowly begins to unravel at the seams, right there before our eyes. During his tirade, Bob makes the fatal mistake of listing his life's assets. 1. home2. family3. career4. freedomHe walks out on his loving wife, and moves in with Mary Fischer. Ruth, in a state of shock, then sets out upon her plot. She blows up their home, takes the kids to Bob, obtains employment in the retirement home where Mary Fischer's mother resides, and begins giving her vitamins instead of sedatives. She then helps Mrs. Fischer to the bus for a surprise visit with her daughter, and arranges things so that the elderly Fischer is unable to return to the retirement home. So Bob is now deprived of his house, has an over-abundance of family and his career and freedom are next on the agenda.This is a wonderful getting even movie for all those of you who have been there; done that.While Roseanne is not exactly the shining star of stage and screen, she is more than adequate in her role as Ruth Pratchett, wife and mother; and in her title role as She-Devil, the personification of a marriage gone wrong.Maria Pitillo is delightful as the naively sweet but ruthlessly ambitious Olivia Honey. Olivia is Bob's new lover. And nothing cools the flames of passion like a mistress who behaves like a wife. So Bob, while still very hungry for Mary's money, is now on to bustier things. But he neglects to tell Ms. Honey of his relationship with Mary, and when they find out about one another, all bets are off. If you liked her as Audrey Timmonds in Godzilla, 1998, you will thoroughly enjoy her performance in this zany vehicle.I love this quirky little B movie, and watch it often.It gets a 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Lighten Up People!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My goodness, all the negativity about this fun and strangely satisfying flick.  Everyone I know really likes this movie and has seen it several times.  If we can define how good a film is by how many times we're capable of seeing it, then this movie certainly is praise worthy.  I also enjoyed Roseanne's performance every bit as Meryl Streep.  And why can't people believe that an actress of Ms. Streep's caliber took on this role?  She was wonderful and got to demonstrate a great comedic performance. This movie is just plain fun.  If you watch it once, I guarantee you'll watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Fun role for Meryl Streep","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked this film. It's a dark comedy about revenge. Apparently it was a star vehicle for Roseanne, and I thought she performed well enough. Meryl Streep really sank her teeth into this role, probably a lot of fun for her, after so many tragic, accented heroines. True, the special(??!!) effects shot of Roseanne walking away from the exploding house was awful, but it was so bad that I wonder if it might have been intentional. If so, I can't understand why, though. One gaping plot hole. Ed Begley, Jr. As an average-looking guy (OK, below average-looking) I can tell you that Begley is not the sort of man that the Meryl Streeps/Mary Fishers of the world fall for on first meeting. Anyway the film is cute. Not great by any means, but worth a viewing.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing for Meryl Streep alone!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  She-Devil was trumped-up as Roseanne Barr's movie debut!In just a few years our favorite chubby housewife rose from being a stand-up comic performing in bars to having her own TV series and at last co-starring in a major motion picture with the immortal Meryl Streep!The movie itself is rather silly and farfetched!Roseanne is essentially playing herself as a put-apon housewife! But the real surprise is Meryl Streep! She delivers a searing,self-mocking performance as narcissisitic romance novelist Mary Fisher.She plays this role flawlessly!! As a prissy,bluenose diva she reacts hilariously to every twist and turn of the movie's silly storyline!Actually mocking every role she's played before!Roseanne holds her own nicely-but it would't have been possible without Meryl Streep!! "},{"Title":"Shoot Yourself -- It's Faster","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Painfully unfunny comedy about a disgusting woman (Roseanne Barr) whose husband (Ed Begley, Jr.) cheats on her with a romance novelist (Meryl Streep), so she decides to get revenge. It's amazing how unsympathetic Roseanne's character is. I don't blame Begley for cheating. She's vomitous (both the character and the actress playing her). This movie is just a complete misfire. The comedy is so broad and all over the place. Begley and Streep seem to be playing it as some sort of parody, with Streep in particular giving a ridiculously over the top (but never funny) performance. Meanwhile Roseanne is playing the whole thing straight in her usual nails on a chalkboard way. I just hated everybody in this and wished unhappiness on them all. If you like watching movies where ugly people do ugly things to one another, then this is right up your alley. I would rather let Roseanne sit on me (i.e. kill myself) than watch it again. "}{"Title":"Bad movie that negates itself in the long run","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not a fan of Roseanne Barr (or whatever she calls herself now), but this movie was a definite misfire. While the casting is awful--Ed Begley Jr. as anybody but a nebbish is simply wrong and Meryl Streep makes you wonder why she won anything related to an award for her acting--the film's overtones are very strange.On the gender side, this movie attempts to make itself into a moralistic feminist play about how women are always mistreated by men. Unfortunately, the character of Ruth negates this by being more manipulative than her husband, especially in regards to using his second mistress to help frame him for fraud. Also, she takes on a very strange attitude towards revenge by attempting to destroy Meryl Streep before going after her husband. While her list notes that her husband is her focus, the movie takes an odd turn by seeking out Meryl's character as a moral lesson while destroying her husband. The film can never really rectify why Ruth hates her husband so much that she's going after the woman who supposedly lured him away. The film's ending takes some satisfaction in changing Mary into a more bitter and 'learned' woman but doesn't really offer a real solution. Is Ruth going after her husband through this woman? And if she blames her husband for this, why is she going to such great lengths to destroy Mary since her husband is simply the kind of jerk who uses and then leaves women? Shouldn't have Ruth found more common ground with Mary after a while? And if one sees this through a class sensibility, Ruth's whole mission becomes pointlessly sadistic. Mary is of a higher-class and is rich to an extent. Ruth is a poor and ugly housewife with limited means. At the end, Ruth raises in class while Mary remains the same. Hence, Ruth could be seen as using her husband's infidelity as a means to rise above her own station. While Ruth's narrative diatribes about Mary 'learning' about being a wife are meant to be seen as some kind of validation for the troubles of a housewife who has to deal with various troubles to keep a family intact, it's hard not to notice that Ruth at the end will not go back to being the very housewife she supports. By rising herself out of revenge, she in fact becomes an image of Mary but causes her whole actions throughout the movie to be negated. Her whole character's motivation hinges on being an abused lower-class housewife who is going to knock down the higher-class woman down for stealing her man and at the end becomes exactly the same successful in her own right. This is hypocrisy at its finest. And the dumping of her own children as some sort of object on their father completes the hypocrisy. The image of a housewife is something to be shown on a pedestal, but isn't recommended for a way of living. While this could mirror the life of Roseanne, it simply does not fit. How can you support a woman who is supposed to be an everyday woman (as the conceit goes) fighting for a sense of justice when she turns out to be the same as the woman who stole her man? This whole angle of thinking is what sinks the movie. Are we seeing revenge for Ruth, or are we seeing her fight back over the loss of property in the form of a husband which she doesn't want back anyway? And the movie cannot resolve this because then we get into weighty issues about what being a housewife truly is. By marketing itself as some sort of comical Lifetime Movie of the Week, the movie supports a position as the housewife/mother being some sort of holy figure to be supported and idealized. But with the ending showcasing a housewife 'evolved' into a businesswoman who joins the kids she abandoned as a part of her revenge to the husband she doesn't want back, this negates the whole plot. Why didn't she just dump her kids on the husband and forget about them all? The point of the revenge was to assuage her ego, which then marks the housewife/mother/Jesus figure as some sort of prison which one must escape since it was formed by a man. But since without the man this illusion breaks down, the movie instead becomes the story of a woman who seeks to better herself after a horrible betrayal and instead dwells in the past for petty revenge, hence sinking her moral high ground for absolutely nothing. "},{"Title":"Her Name","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So cool that Rosanne's name in the movie was RUTH! Do you know what that means --- the common noun ruth?I thought this movie was really funny. Not a great, mind you. Not a classic. I am not lamenting the fact that it got no Oscars. But I am deploring its abysmally low rating on imdb. I just don't get it.  "},{"Title":"The devil in disguise","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Underrated, well-performed comedy from Fay Weldon's book (previously filmed as a British mini-series for television) about a common housewife who connives to get even with the self-absorbed romance novelist who stole her husband. Some of the jokes have a mean-spirited tone, but it was an interesting idea to have Roseanne Barr play her role (as the put-upon wife-turned-she devil) in a relatively low-key and allow Meryl Streep (as the colorful villainess) to ham it up. Sylvia Miles and Linda Hunt are lively in supporting roles, though both simply evaporate from the film's narrative after the midway point, this due to the film's episodic structure. Ed Begley Jr. isn't quite right as Roseanne's cheating husband--he looks like Streep's brother, not her lover--yet the film is funny and entertaining, if not always right on track. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A True Tale About the Dowdy Wife Who Fought Back","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Roseanne, as I've said before is a great actress. In most of her roles she is playing a funny, bossy character who we all know and love.  In this role, she is none of that.  She plays a more serious role, and in the beginning, she a bit of a push over.  She stars as Ruth, a dowdy, overweight mom of two.  Ruth is well aware her husband Bob is sleeping around on her, she's even met the woman.  When Ruth embarasses Bob, he moves in with his mistress reciting the four things that mean most to him in life.  His house, his career, his family and his freedom.  He also calls her a devil, so she writes the list down to reread, and destroy everything that means well to him.   Meryl Streep plays the snooty, spoiled mistress.  She is a romance novelist named Mary Fisher.  As Ruth says many times in this movie, Mary Fisher lives in a beautiful mansion by the sea.   Ruth acts much like Santa Clause with her list.  She reads carefully and always checks each thing twice.  First she burns his house, then she drops the kids off with him.  She starts her own business to get people to be hired by him.  (One of whom sleeps with him on a number of occasions.)She finds out he's been cheating his clients so she gets him sent to jail.  All in a day's work.  Not really, she meets this amazing woman who helps her along the way.  Hooper really helped her out.   If you like a fun, romantic or unromantic comedy with revenge on the side, I recomend She Devil.   "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep's acting so wooden I got splinters and sawdust and I reckon she's afraid of log fires I think her father is a desk","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie is supposed to be a comedy but there is very little evidence to backup this because it's worse than the Jason Friendberg and Aaron Seltzer comedies. is quite easily the 4th worst movie of the 80's I don't know what the #### the people are thinking when they say Merly Streep can act she can't act she's so bad I think If I see another thing with Meryl Streep in it I could spot her out even if she had 9,000,000 layers of makeup (to hide her face) OK the plot is so annoying this woman has a husband and she is a housewife and the husband cheats on her for THE WORLDS WORST ACTRESS MERYL STREEP!!!!!!!!! and the wife cooks a dead rat with a dinner and he blows it and leaves then she blows the house up takes the kids to her (with her bad acting all I mention in this movie is all this crap actress Streep deserves) and then she puts Streep's mother with her and she gets fired and then they open an employment Agency which the commercial is so out of order they say ...we believe people are more than just their jobs. which is a very huge mistake because they wire people to their jobs and nothing else so she slips a pamphlet in her husbands office she has the perfect person in competition in the movie then the husband starts ####ing her and then it turns out that the girl up against Meryl is in love with the husband and this doesn't bother her for a second and when she ####'s the girl Meryl is typing up a new novel and then the girl up against Meryl Streep reveals her feelings for him she gets fired so what do they do the wife and the girl up against Streep frauds the customers into getting out thousands of their money to Switzerland a party is thrown the Police enter then they arrest him. this movie is a must-see for anyone who likes pains like stretching the skin of their own head (another movie comes to mind Charlies Angels 2) "},{"Title":"If you think this is good wait till you see the british version","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you enjoyed this film wait till you see the british version starring Patricia Hodge, Dennis Waterman and Julie.T.wallace. Once you have seen it you will forget why you ever liked this film. If you want a dramatic end to this story watch the english version it doesn't end as happily as this film there is no fairy tale end to mary fishers life only for ruth.  "},{"Title":"Flat Fairytale","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Director Susan Seidelman's tale (script from Barry Strugatz and Mark R. Burns) of a woman scorned and her sweet revenge on the man who betrays her is nothing more than a flat fairytale with a cast full of unlikeable characters.It is nearly impossible to sympathise with heroine Roseann Barr, whose jaded housewife is so bitter and vengeful it's frightening. Yes Ed Begley's cheatin' husband is a complete tosser, but considering every player is no more palatable than sour lemons, he really ain't that bad. Barr and Begley fail to inspire, and Streep never quite hits the mark in her first big venture into comedy. The one exception to the rule is the ever enjoyable Linda Hunt, who shines as a nursing home matron from the old school who comes out of her shell after meeting Ruth Patchett (Barr).Frankly I don't enjoy watching nasty people doing awful things to one another. The poor plot certainly does not help.Sunday, October 19, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":" Simply a mistake","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       The story situation holds enormous promise for both audience identification and insights into human nature.  Its development fails because the character with whom we would empathize approaches her mission in a totally negative manner.     Seemingly a devoted mother until her husband strays, she abandons her children to an altogether unsuitable environment,apparently without a thought as to the likely effect on them.  Seemingly a devoted wife, she makes no real effort to hold onto her man.  If she still wants him (if only for the children's sake), she might make the best of things until her husband comes crawling back when Mary Fisher is through with him (sure to happen soon).  If she no longer wants him, she might consider making a life for her children and herself elsewhere.  But everything is negative destroy, inflict pain, avenge.  How many in the audience will remain on her side?   Meryl Streep's poor judgment may relate not so much to accepting the role as to her deciding how to play it.  It is a total caricature, badly out of sync with all the other performances.  Roseanne's flat performance only heightens Meryl's ludicrous one.     "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one could have worked very well as a black comedy, but the result is too disappointing. It's too predictable; I expected much more from the plot, for example I expected that Barr's character would be much more devious / devilish / mean! I think it would be better if it contained even some gore! Anyway, both Streep and Barr are quite fun to watch (certainly the only reason to watch this film), whilst the rest of the cast just... seems misplaced. I hardly laughed and I would not recommend it for anything but a couple of funny scenes.4 "},{"Title":"Errm...","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What happened at the end? This film didn't even end at all! I wanted to see Ruth (Roseanne) undergo complete metamorphosis into Mary Fisher (Meryl Streep) as was in the original BBC mini-series, but it just ended with Ruth walking down a street.Was the whole transformation idea a bit too much for Hollywood tastes? This film version missed the point completely, and I wasted time watching this non-event. Watch the BBC series that has the full title, as well as the whole story, and not this butchered offering.  "}{"Title":"dark (comedy?)","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ruth Patchett (Roseanne Barr) is no trophy wife and she's desperate to impress her accountant husband Bob (Ed Begley Jr.). They have two kids. Mary Fisher (Meryl Streep) is a best selling romance novelist. Bob and Mary fall over each other at first glance. Ruth suspects it immediately. Bob has enough of Ruth and moves out calling her a She-Devil. She makes a list of Bob's Assets; home, family, career, and freedom. She then sets off to destroy each item on the list. She starts work at a nursing home to get close to Mary's mother and befriends downtrodden nurse Hooper (Linda Hunt).Roseanne is pushing her unpleasantness to the limits. This is a dark comedy that is concentrating on the dark and leaving the comedy to find its own way. It's a movie full of unpleasant characters being unpleasant. To its credit, somebody thought Roseanne couldn't do this unless she has a prominent mole on her face. There is no need to fear. Roseanne can be really be annoying with or without the mole. She does need more glee in her revenge. The comedy never truly takes off. It's a matter of tone and it's too down to be funny. "},{"Title":"Streep does make it worth your time","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some delicious, over-the-top scenery chewing by the divine Meryl Streep is the primary reason to check out a bizarre black comedy from 1989 called She-Devil.The film stars Roseanne Barr as Ruth, a frumpy and insecure housewife and mother who is crushed to learn that her accountant/husband, Bob (Ed Begley Jr.) has begun to have an affair with a glamorous romance novelist named Mary Fisher (Streep). When Bob finally decides to leave Ruth, she then sets out on an elaborate plan to exact revenge on her scummy husband, beginning with burning their home to the ground and sending her children to live with Bob and Mary.This film was made during Roseanne's hiatus from the first season of her classic sitcom and was intended to make a movie star out of her, but failed dismally, primarily due to the fact that the character Roseanne plays here is not as smart or appealing as Roseanne Conner and it's hard to get behind a lot of Ruth's actions in this movie. It's a little hard to believe that a wronged wife would actually destroy her children's home merely as a way of getting back at her husband, which is also hard to buy because the character of Bob is really a jerk and why Ruth cares about his feelings or why Mary finds herself attracted to him are a mystery as well, which for me was the primary problem with this story...the character of Bob was just not worth these two women fighting over.Director Susan Seidleman, who scored a bullseye five years earlier with Desperately Seeking Susan really misses here, but she is hampered by a screenplay that is kind of all over the place and some really unlikable characters, especially Barr's Ruth, who is supposed to evoke sympathy from the viewer, but does just the opposite.What this film does have going for it is a perfectly executed comedy turn from the fabulous Meryl Streep, who manages to mine every bit of humor out of her character that the screenplay provides. As for the rest of the cast, Ed Begley Jr. is miscast as Bob and some minor laughs are provided along the way by Sylvia Miles as Mary's mother, who loves to tell anyone who will listen what a loser her daughter is and A Martinez as Mary's manservant/boy toy, but this is Streep's show all the way and without her, this film would be impossible to get through. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure Film on my Shelf!","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie! I watched Roseanne religiously growing up in the 90's, so this was a nice walk down memory lane, and I thoroughly enjoyed watching Meryl Streep play a Gorgeously ritzy, self-deluded, Spoiled blonde. Awesome. Anyone else playing the role of 'Mary', and I would've probably found her annoying. Yet, Meryl Streep is an amazing actress with more emotional depth on her pinkie than most of the actresses in Hollywood today, so to see her play a role so far beneath her her original stature is pure pleasure, she gives her character profoundness, Roseanne played her role perfectly, It was fun and exciting to see what her character would do next. I enjoyed it thoroughly! - SundanceNagrial "},{"Title":"Amusing revenge comedy, but try and see the British mini-series first!","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Both films are worth seeing, but the British TV version is much darker and takes the storyline to levels that are shocking when compared to the very Hollywood-ized version with Meryl Streep in her first comedy and TV star Roseanne Barr in her film debut. The idea of those quite opposite women starring opposite each other is a strange sight to even envision, but they only share a few scenes together. They do, however, share the leading man, and that is Ed Begley Jr. as an amoral accountant. He humiliates Barr at a dinner party to which Roseanne announces (in front of his parents and children) that he is having an affair. Begley storms out and Barr lets out a loud scream, her plans of revenge covering every important aspect of her no-good husband's life.Reviews were sensational for Streep as the vain Mary Fisher who even gets a Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous spot while Barr spends time cooking her son's gerbil in a casserole and fuming over Begley's infidelity. Streep is thrilled when Begley moves in with her, but Barr's revenge has her dumping off the kids on them while she goes to work in the nursing home where Streep's mother (a very funny Sylvia Miles) resides. Once Roseanne takes Miles off her medication, mouthy Sylvia is ready to return to her daughter's mansion on the hill and adds more turmoil to Streep's already growing frustration.The film also includes Academy Award Winning Linda Hunt as Barr's initial foe at the nursing home who becomes her best pal after Barr goes out of her way to start an employment agency for Manhattan wives abandoned by their husbands. This aides in her quest for revenge, and boy, for Barr, is it sweet. The film unfolds all of Begley's evils towards both women in his life, and before you know it, Barr is smirking and Begley prepares to learn a great lesson.Reviews were not so sensational, however, for Roseanne, who in spite of her dead-pan acting (already famous for her starring role on her own TV series) but in retrospect, she makes this role more than just a revenge-seeking harpy. The sight of Barr trying to squeeze her way into a glamorous strapless evening dress is humiliating visually but many women could probably identify, and while they might not seek the same time of War of the Roses style revenge, enjoyed it on screen. Daytime soap star A. Martinez adds comic Latin sexuality to the studly butler tossed aside by Streep, while another soap veteran, Doris Belack, is memorable as Streep's agent. Mary Louise Wilson is delightfully imperious as Barr's boss at the retirement home.If the film focuses mainly on Streep, Barr and Begley, the real credit thought must go to Susan Seidelman, the film's director, who prevents the film from becoming a man-bashing women's lib fest. Men can see the growing frustration in Barr's sometimes grossly dowdy character, and in the end, you really can see why she might all of a sudden quote Peter Finch in Network and scream, I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore! "},{"Title":"question","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" On the video cassette copy there was a trailer for a movie ....It may have been British, the people in the movie were wearing the white wigs and riding horses, does anyone know what that movie was called? It is killing me that I don't know the name of this movie. In the preview I remember there was a lady in the bathtub and someone knocks it over and she falls out, i think its about cheating, I don't know someone help me ha ha ha. It was one of the previews on the video home system copy , She Devil came out in 1989 so what year would the previews have came out? Also I know this is rambling a little bit, but I have to have ten lines in order to post on here, I hope someone can help. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious movie that is underrated","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So many things are overrated in the media. but She-Devil is a really good movie that is underrated. Roseanne is awesome as a woman seeking revenge on her two timing husband and his rich mistress romance novelist and comes up with some pretty awesome schemes to give them what they deserve. what she does in this movie changes the lives of everyone. its like Mean Girls and John Tucker Must Die for adults. anyone who has been cheated, rejected, backstabbed or lied to will appreciate this movie and fans of Roseanne and Meryl Streep will absolutely love this movie. its a smart,dark, inspirational movie and a great way to end the 80s. "},{"Title":"more rewarding after multiple viewings....","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  but, that's probably a bad thing.Complex and interesting story. I think every actor contributed significantly. I certainly don't see this as a low point for Meryl Streep. I do feel that Linda Hunt was a great addition, but, seriously underused.Deep irony mixed with a lot of fun fluff.This movie used to mystify me. Couldn't tell why I didn't feel this comedy was funny. But, after multiple viewings; I really enjoy the entire package. I could be dense.  "},{"Title":"I only give it a 6, but it is an enjoyable 6!!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maincharacters Ed Begley Jr., Meryl Streep, Roseanne Barr. Begley and Barr are married with 2 adolescents. Streep is a single, rich, successful author, somewhat of a snoot. Begley meets and falls for Streep's affections, while Barr is being a dutiful wife and mother.  Until she figures out they are fooling around. Then she decides she will systematically bring him down, making a list, in order - Family, Assets, Career, Freedom.  The house burns down, the kids get dumped on Begley and Streep, the chaos reeks havoc. Barr changes her name, sets up an employment agency, stacks the deck by putting a tempting blonde in Begley's employ.  He gets accused of embezzlement, gets a favorable judge, Barr gets it switched, begley eds up in prison for 18 months.  Meanwhile, stripped of her sanity Streep makes a comeback with a semi-autobiographical book. Barr and kids visit Begley in prison, sounds like he has learned the lesson of his wayward behavior.This is not a good movie. It is interesting because Streep plays such a different role for her, and does it well.  Also, Bar's is close to what can be called a serious role, although the whole film is a dark comedy.  When you have a couple of hours to kill, watching She Devil can be a good, fun diversion.  Just don't take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"Watch it with your best friends.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite cult classics! My friends and I constantly quote lines from this movie.  Mary Fisher lives in a Palace by the sea! It's just one of those silly movies you hate to love.  Despite popular opinion, I believe Meryl Streep was hilarious as Mary Fisher and Roseanne was perfect as the mole faced She-Devil!  She-Devil is on the comedy station at least once a month and I recommend it if you have nothing better to do.  Don't expect first class acting from the supporting cast. Frankly the father in this movie can't act and the children need to go back to acting school.  Is it any wonder why the children were never seen in a movie again? I believe their acting abilities speak for themselves.  Sally Jesse Raphael and Linda Hunt also have great supporting roles.  Just go watch it.  "},{"Title":"British vs American","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had seen the British mini-series on PBS and adored it...glib, vengeful,witty and wicked. Meryl Streep in the Mary Fisher role was wonderfully cast. However, the US version somehow lost its edge in the translation. ;-)  "}{"Title":"Relaxed","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This trivial timewaster has one element worth watching Meryl Streep relaxed. She has power  and focus, but when she tries hard, you can often see her trying. She sometimes gets around  this by trying in the manner that her character would try (if she were an actress).Here - uniquely so in my experience - she just relaxes, and the result is fascinating. Her  mannerisms are much more theatrical than her normally controlled self. She acts large. And  in so doing, you can see all the basic moves she has. These are suborned and melded into  her characters normally. She'll always have to simultaneously use and fight this basic  vocabulary. Here, she just uses it and reveals more about her other characters than they themselves can.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Poor Meryl Streep!  Roseanne is, as always, tedious and tiresome.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meryl Streep must have been really hungry to take on a part in this film. Tiresome, endlessly boring -- a pitiful attempt at a comedy. I only sat through to the end in the hope things would improve - but they didn't. It's another in a long list of contemporary films that makes one wonder why this humorless attempt ever got into production. Oh, dear... as for Roseanne - some people think she's funny. She may be occasionally amusing on TV, but she's not in this film. "},{"Title":"An embarrassing disappointment","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm horribly ashamed to say that I waited in a line to see this movie on opening day back in 1989.  I truly thought (from the previews) that it would be hilarious to see the juxtaposition of Meryl Streep's proper and glamorous character with Roseanne's crude and ugly lout.  Boy was I wrong.The first disappointment is that Streep and Roseanne appear in only two scenes together, disallowing the possibility of numerous odd-couple moments between the two women.  The second (and most glaring) disappointment is the unsatisfying story and unbelievable characters.  C'mon, Ed Begley Jr. as a philandering ladies' man?  And the underlying lesson I guess I was supposed to learn was that being manipulative and vindictive can gain you fame and fortune, and make you a better woman.  I felt that, in the final scene where Roseanne is walking down the street toward us, the director wanted all of us in the audience to be standing up and applauding this glorious and wonderful woman, along with all the great things she had done.  I didn't want to cheer for Roseanne, and I resented the implied manipulation of this scene.I would also have to agree with the above review (What Was Meryl Streep Thinking???) which pointed out the dreadful house-blowing-up incident. Even though it has been over 10 years since I've seen this film, that image is still burned into my mind, watching Roseanne walk away from a large-screen projection of a videotaped house explosion.Not only did this embarrassingly bad movie (considering the cast) make Siskel & Ebert's 10 Worst Movies Of The Year list, but it is the first title I call to mind whenever I am asked about the worst movies I've ever seen. Recommended only for the most dementedly obsessed Meryl Streep fans. "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie really shows that the players and or cheaters will get what is coming for them.  roseanne, from the tv show ROSEANNE, plays the wife of a cheater, who strays on her (**SPOILER**) while at a party and lands the perfect account,(he's an accountant)mary fisher, who is the best romance novelist in the biz.  i found it rude and intolerable when (**SPOILER**) ruth's husband doesnt even drop her off at the door, but at the beginning of the complex of where the two of them live, and he takes the novelist home and seduces her... if that were my husband, i wouldnt have ever ever ever tolerated that kind of behavior. but it's the movie so i shouldnt complain. the movie kinda twists and turns on roseanne's character, since she goes over the edge and deliberately trys to make his life a living nightmare. the typical crazy moled woman does outrageous things, but i wont name them, so you should watch it and figure it out on your own. oh and by the way, speaking of that mole, how did they get that on there, and did that have a significant meaning to the movie? what i mean by that is that since she was able to come out on the top, the mole was able to be removed, but when the mole was there, it was a symbol of grief and misery, and was there until she did what she felt was necessary revenge. i dont know, that's how i saw the mole being represented. and what was the mole? it looked so discolored and out of proportion, that is was kinda hard to believe that was a mole.  but moving on from the whole mole significance, the movie had some bizarre moments that i felt didnt mix with the movie at all, and that gave me the impression that she was doing all these evil doings just to get him to come home, but in reality she wanted him gone.. i dont know, too odd for me i guess.  but the comedy element is still there, and that was all that mattered to me.  (B- C+)   "},{"Title":"dear God","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie twice.  I had to.  I couldn't believe it.  I mean, I've seen bad movies, but this one defied the limits of my comprehension capabilities.  I could not for the life of me understand what in heaven's holy name Meryl Streep was doing in this movie!!  My mind kept flashing to Postcards from the Edge, Sophie's Choice, Kramer vs. Kramer, and The Deer Hunter.  I had to watch it a second time just to make sure it was her.  I hope, no I pray that they paid her a fortune and that she had the time of her life making it.  I still adore her, and believe it or not her performance in this was still great.  I just can't figure it out. "},{"Title":"See It for Streep and One of the Greatest Comic Performances of All Time","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie version of Fay Wheldon's novel The Life and Loves of a She- Devil for the most part misses its marks. You would think a movie with this cast and great source material would be a lot better than it is but it's not. Though a film's failure cannot be blamed on just one thing, for this film, the lion's share belongs to the director, Susan Seidelman. Her direction is flat and unimaginative. She shot She Devil like it was a TV movie. It certainly looks like it. There's no spark or liveliness to it. It's point and shoot direction. This is acceptable when the actors and the material are solid but here they are not. As good as Roseanne Barr (or Arnold or whatever last name she was or wasn't using at the time) was on her TV show, here she's as flat as Seidelman's direction and since she's the center of the film, it nearly kills it. I think our sympathies were supposed to rest firmly with Roseanne's character Ruth but since she is presented so negatively, we cannot understand why her husband (or anyone) would have been attracted to her in the first place. She comes across as gross and incompetent. There's nothing at stake when she seeks revenge on Bob for leaving her because neither character feels worth the time.The whole movie would have been forgotten if it had not been for one thing the unbelievable, incredible, tour-de-force comic performance of Meryl Streep. Every single scene she is in is a comic whopper. When she is on screen, the whole movie suddenly jolts to life. Streep's acting skills often rely on capturing the smallest of nuances and in She Devil she nails them perfectly. Her Mary Fisher is a woman addicted to the impossible dream of perfect romance. Every word out of her mouth is whispery affirmation of it. She is so good that we end up rooting for her and worse, feeling sorry for her. Streep's best scene (and they are all good) comes about midway when Bob (now cheating on her) comes home late. Streep, on all fours, wags her fanny as she exclaims she's an artist. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"The Original (and Better) Melissa McCarthy","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Believe it She-Devil was my first introduction to&#x85;Meryl Streep. And say what you will about this movie, I really liked her in this.She isn't just an artist. She is thee artist in Hollywood. From this viewing or many, MANY, more when I was a child, she appears to have taken this role very seriously. Much like when I watched Megan Mullally perform live as Karen Walker at a taping of Will & Grace. Both Karen, and Streep's Mary Fisher are silly roles, and yet they're treated professionally.I appreciate that. And the movie.Now, far from perfect &#x96; and I'm not even speaking of the terrible FX (SEE the house blow up and how Roseanne Barr is nowhere near that,) it's a fun watch. It's fun that Barr's Ruth is not Barr's normal role, like in her &#x96; at the time, future &#x96; role on her hit TV show. I liked how she had a plan of revenge, or more accurately justice, and didn't have to stoop to lowbrow humor as Melissa McCarthy has to do today. In fact, I would back this Ruth over any of McCarthy's ladies I've seen on screen.I digress. Housewife Ruth's husband cheats on her with famed romance novelist, Mary and she devotes her time to tearing down the things that he states mean the most to him.That's it, for the premise, at least. There are a lot of funny moments, good secondary characters, and Maria Pitillo, who I recently reviewed in 1998's Godzilla, and oddly dropped off the Hollywood map 5 years ago. Anyways, I liked how it wasn't straight forward for Ruth. She grew as a person and had to continually improvise and adapt for her plan to work.And Streep's Mary, was a fun watch, especially when you can see she's not the dumb blonde she mostly portrays. Note the glasses push-up.Sure, it's predictable and some scenes are pretty far-fetched, but it was fun when I was growing up with this as it is today. I liked the soundtrack, some of the lines and the relationships Ruth makes during her journey. And I definitely understand more of what they were saying now, than I did as a kid. Totally recommended. "},{"Title":"Fresher material than Desperate Housewives, 15 years before ...","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Susan Seidelman's She Devil is a comedy that works on a simple but efficient formula opposition. The opening credits consists on a delicate and feminine music, a Santa Barbara- like cursive writing, and several shots of glamorous women putting on some make-up, lipstick or perfume, like in these corny cosmetic ads, so typical of the 80's. In fact, the whole intro is so clich that we expect a punch-line. And rightfully, we get one when emerges the face of Rita, Roseanne Barr as the unpleasant, plump, average-looking and (not yet) desperate housewife, the soon-to-be She-Devil.Roseanne Barr, whose breakthrough role in Roseanne had already launched her career; has never been considered a beautiful woman, yet she still pushes herself to the most atrocious physical limits by adding a big mole on her upper lip. It takes some great deal of courage to abuse one's own image, but it's essential to recreate the perfect contrast with Meryl Streep, who incarnates Rita's nemesis, a rich roman rose writer, beautiful, blonde, distinguished and literate, a caricature in all pinkness and sophistication. The film is often credited for featuring the first comedic role of the ultimate drama actress. Is she good? Delightfully Streep's capability to caricature herself and play a woman who takes herself so seriously almost works like a refreshing self-derision, deserving the Golden Globe nomination for Best Actress in a Comedy.The opposition between Rita and Mary is the core of the story; the whole narrative depends on our empathy toward the ugly duckling and our sadistic delight to see the beautiful princess' life falls apart. Oddly enough, Mary and Rita hardly interact. The intercessor is Bob, Rita's unfaithful husband played by Ed Begley Jr., probably the only actor whose hair can compete with Meryl Streep's. With his tall and athletic body and his elegant demeanor, it's a wonder how he and Rita ended up together. When Mary finds out he's married, it's too bad she says, to which he replies it's too late not to have some sex though. Indeed, after Rita dropped some drink on Mary's pink dress, he apologetically suggests driving her home. What did Rota expect? Still, although she suspects Bob to be screwing around, she gives him the benefit of the doubt. It's not until a disastrous dinner in front of her stepparents that Bob can't take it anymore and leaves the house. He then delivers the film's pivotal rant, against his wife. Rita remains silent, contemplating the failure of her own marriage while Bob lists the four assets he most valued a house, a family, a career and freedom. Not part of them, Rita decides to destroy these sacred pillars one by one. At least, she'd deserve to be called a liability, and worse, a she-devil. The film turns into a delightful revenge comedy, working like a missing link between two movies of the same year  Look Who's Talking and The War of the Roses.Like Look Who's Talking, She Devil is a sweet and entertaining family comedy appealing to a younger audience while the main target are adults; it has its share of goofiness and physical humor, but under the surface, there is a lot of wit and sensitivity. I guess it's not a coincidence that both movies were released by women, which might explain the choice of tone, apparently sweet enough to hide a good amount of bitterness, like a frail and fragile woman hiding a burning flame inside her heart, like all the everyday heroines of Rita's employment center. And the film works thanks to this distance, this capability to turn every situation into something both insightful and comical, it's almost like a trick so the movie could win men's hearts despite its feminist undertones.Take the scene where Rita, who had just destroyed the house, sends the kids to Mary's house, to break up her idyllic routine with Bob. This is one of the movies' funniest and smartest moves while many mothers would have played the victim card and console themselves by keeping the kids (which any cheating husband would expect), Rita doesn't lament on herself, and just reverse the roles between the mistress and the housewife. With more free time, she works as a nurse in a hospice where she teams up with Hooper (Linda Hunt) another woman touched by an ungrateful looks. Then, she manages to get Mary's mother (Sylvia Miles) off the house. The mother is another scene-stealer, finishing the mayhem started by the kids, and ruining all the facade Mary built during her successful career, starting with her age.And the marital conflict, the whole love-and-hate relationship between Bob and Rita reminds of The War of the Roses, a superior masterpiece of Black humor starring Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner. She Devil, with a bit of schmaltz's, is as politically incorrect and even flirts with very borderline humor, having a luscious butler (played by A. Martinez) flirting with Rita's teenage daughter and some implicit sex scenes &#x85; the film assumes some crudeness even though it tries to sugarcoat it. And while we empathize with Rita's feminist career, it's impossible not to resist to Ed Begley as the victim. Yet we know we're watching a slow but possible redemption. The same goes for Mary Fisher who learns not to take her success for granted and tries to change.This is what elevates the film above the basic standards of comedy its characters play like archetypes, but they do change for the best. The ending has something very inspirational the looks on Roseanne while she walks and smiles surrounded by an army of female underdogs during the You Look Like an Angel song is almost beautiful. And then we understand why she had to be so 'ugly' at the start, less for the contrast with Streep than with herself at the end, which is even more satisfying.She might have looked like a devil, but she was an angel in disguise. "},{"Title":"Not Roseanne or Streep or Bagley's Fault","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For those reviewing this film who are putting down Rosanne Barr, the truth is that she was the PERFECT cast for this film, as was Meryl Streep. Where it went wrong was the script and direction. Based on the book and series The Life and Loves of A She-Devil; the Americanization of this film was wrong. It went for laughs. This was NOT a funny subject.The original series was engrossing and you felt for the fat, really ugly suburban neglected wife at the end. She slowly and methodically got her crappy husband back. To be honest, Roseanne could have been even more fatter and uglier in the beginning; and her transformation to the 'she-devil' over the years could have been more dramatic. They did not let Roseanne BE Roseanne in this. If they did, she would have mop the floor with this role.When I heard that Roseanne was cast for this film against Meryl Streep, what a good contrast and choice! Meryl was great! Old enough, pretty enough, vapid enough, spoiled enough - but then again, Meryl wasn't allowed to be... Meryl! She was phenomenal in transitions back then and needed that here if the script was serious.Bagley was a good choice for the crap husband; but Eric Roberts would have been devilishly better if they kept with the seriousness of the book and BBC series.I saw the TV series first, and week by week it kept me riveted back then. Then read the book and by that time, this film was being done. When I saw the film (on cable) finally, I was pretty ticked. The casting was right for all, the script was horrid.Maybe someone in America needs to look at the book again soon, and this time do it with the seriousness it was. Yeah, you'll initially hate the she-devil, but you'll hate the folks around her more and at some point start rooting for her as she climbs UP through the muck of her boring life, of letting herself go thinking her life was fine and it was not, and her adulterous thoughtless, degrading husband. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In my deep heart of hearts, I knew that this was a bad movie, I mean it wasn't well thought out or that well acted and kind of biased. But Despite that fact, for some odd reason, I really did like this movie. I think because I loved the fact on how real it was, I think a lot of women could relate to Rosanne, either looks wise or their love lives. She was so realistic and heart breaking, but you rooted for her all the way into the end. Even though it was kind of pathetic how she kept on obsessing over her ex, I think a lot of us, men or women, have done that.I also love Meryl Streep, because she reminded me of my step mom. She accepts her new boy's children into her house, but ends up with more than she bargained for. I loved her scene with her agent and how her new book would be a flop, Your lead male's name is Bob?, I think Bob is a beautiful name! and her breaking down was just perfect. The husband got what he deserved and you just kept of rooting for Rosanne. It's a guilty pleasure that more people take it for.6/10 "}{"Title":"Britney Spears' Womanizer has a better moral","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meryl Streep has gained some acclaim at award shows (and on YouTube) for her wry humor and positive energy (Watch the speech she gave when she won the Emmy for Angels in America). This was one of the reasons I downloaded this somewhat obscure movie. Roger Ebert's generous review was another reason (He gave it a surprising 3 out of 4 stars and praised both Roseanne and Meryl).The movie's plot is taut and simple, under-appreciated and unattractive housewife Ruth (Roseanne) envies beautiful women and does her best to bring her husband Bob (Ed) to the bed. Unfortunately, her husband has malicious eyes that cannot resist perfect female anatomy (no straight men can resist, but this man's a womanizer) and is easily allured by a popular romantic authoress Mary Fisher (Meryl), who in her interviews is shown to have an unblemished life. When Mary and Bob get intimate and Rob leaves Ruth, Ruth seeks revenge against Rob and Meryl. For this she has to destroy Bob's assets (thank god it isn't Rob's jewels, because that would've been painful!)-his home, his new family, career and freedom. This makes Ruth a 'She-Devil'.Jane Lynch would've nailed this role; the vindictive nature creased with an emotional touch that her character in Glee has is superbly conceived by Jane. Roseanne is however mediocre; she is like 'Precious' from the movie of the same name, playing Ruth, with slight laggardness does not make her character very likable.Meryl, on the other hand gives more skin to her character; I read a number of reviews that lambast her performance for being too wooden. Her character is uppity and pretentious, what more can she do? I've seen some high-class, good-for-nothing people talk and behave the same touch-me-not way, and Meryl gets that right. An exaggeration would have ruined her performance, since both Roseanne and Sylvia Miles (who plays Mrs. Fisher)'s characters are overly exaggerated. It's not an award-worthy performance, but it's great for a comedy. Some of her best scenes include (i) the outburst at her mother (ii) the bubble-bath-love scene when the kid interrupts and asks about the satellite dish and she gracefully turns around and goes back (iii) the last outburst. The supporting cast is all ordinary, with the only exception being Sylvia who is better-than-ordinary.Now there are some fundamental problems with the story, because of which I could not sympathize with Ruth. The major one, that has been mentioned in some other reviews too, is her actual revenge that is aimed at Mary rather than Ed. It's like the recent controversy in Karnataka, India, where the paramour of a top regional actor was banned for three years from the film industry after the wife of the actor complained to the police that the husband had beaten her up when she had confronted him regarding the affair. Here at least the wife and the law used their head and got the man arrested and lifted the ban on the actress. Ruth however destroys Mary for majority of the film and then targets Ed, though Ed seems more licentious.Another problem is with the consequences of the events. Ruth starts and employment agency to help women then makes them her weapons and on top of that almost destroys a woman's career. If in the ending, Meryl had gone to Ruth, apologized and made Ruth her publisher, and then it would've had a better alls-well-that-ends-well ending. This is Mary becoming Ruth and Ruth becoming Mary which is somewhat disturbing since I can't say then that Mary deserved it. Also, Bob never turns a better man, and Ruth forgiving him is just pathetic. Bob actually deserved a good pummeling.The movie falls short on laughs, and fails to provide justice to all the characters, especially the children who become spoilt towards the end (like most of the Disney girls).My Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was made early on in Roseanne's TV career. The movie character of Ruth is not far off from her TV character, i.e. overweight, frumpy, but the movie has a far different plot from her cohesive, despite dysfunctional TV family. In the movie version, she is a doting yet overwhelmed housewife, devoted to her husband, until her cheats on her and subsequently leave her and the kids for a more promising life with a romance novelist.I think this movie has been given a bum-rap by critics. Roseanne is funny, the supporting cast is good, and Meryl Streep is her usual excellent self.This movie is a good one for a rainy day. Highly watchable, hard to fault. Those that expect perfection from any movie with a plot such as this are overreaching. "},{"Title":"Roseanne Barr In A Great Movie","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" She-Devil (1989) Starring Roseanne Barr, Ed Begley Jr, Meryl Streep, Linda Hunt, Sylvia Miles, Elisabeth Peters, Bryan Larkin, Maria Pitillo, A. Martinez, Mary Louise Wilson, Robin Leach, Director Susan Seidelman, Based on the novel by Fay Weldon.I never saw this in the movie theaters in 1989, being only 9 yrs old at that time. But this film has been on TV and cable several times. It stars Roseanne Barr in a terrific performance as Ruth Patchett, a frumpy, fat and under-appreciated suburban housewife with two kids. Her husband, Bob, indulges in an affair with a fabulously wealthy romance novelist Mary Fisher. She lives in a pink house by the ocean. When she and Bob become lovers, Ruth is resolved to get her revenge and possibly win her husband back at the same time. Throughout the film, she methodically extracts his punishment. She first kicks him out of the house. He naturally moves in with Mary Fisher in her mansion, but Ruth also dumps the kids on him. Now Mary Fisher must serve as mother to the kids and suffer the same treatment Ruth endured. Her novels begin to lose their old magic and she finds herself aging and unattractive. Ruth manipulates things so that her shrewish mother (Sylvia Miles) moves in with Ruth, this accomplished by posing as a nurse in the convalescent home where she was lodged. Roseanne's plot actually works, as ultimately, Bob lands in jail for his embezzlements. Ruth and Bob care for the kids, even if Bob is still in jail. The story is dark, humorous and contains a strong women's empowerment theme. Rather than just taking her husband's betrayal, she gets even. I wish more women could do this! It's a wonderfully-written and enjoyable film. Meryl Streep as Mary Fisher is comical, bitchy, and the type you love to hate. There is much to admire in how this film serves as revenge fantasy, even if it's unrealistic. I really found this to be a great movie. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Ultimate female revenge movie","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought that this movie was the ultimate form of revenge for women who have been cheated on. The movie is great because Bob in the movie cheats on all the women and they all find some sort of way to get revenge on him. It's such a funny and dark comedy because it really shows how women can be more backstabbing. I also liked this movie because not only does Ruth get revenge on her husband she also gets revenge on his romantic novelist turned housewife mistress.One thing that I didn't like about this movie was the clothing but that was the eighties. In the end, Ruth almost feels sorry for Bob. Almost. It's a good movie for a rainy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is A Riot!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For the life of me, I can not figure out why this movie was not well received on its initial release because I find this movie to be a riot. In fact, every time I have seen this movie, I can't help but laugh. Anyway, for those who have not seen this movie, Rosanne Barr (this was before she dropped the Barr from her stage name) plays a frumpy housewife named Ruth Patchett whose husband is an accountant named Bob played by Ed Begley Jr. She goes to a party with him and it is there that he meets Meryl Streep (Mary Fisher), who is a famous writer of romance novels. Shortly after their meeting one another, Bob begins an affair with Mary Fisher. When Ruth discovers this, she comes up with a revenge plan of her own by making a list of Bob's most important assets Home, Family, Career and Freedom. One by one, she destroys all four of them in a wicked and comical way. Hence, the title SHE DEVIL. There are a lot of funny parts to it like when Mary tries to do the laundry and puts bleach in it thinking it is detergent as well as when Ruth gets together with a former employee of Bob's named Olivia and they come up with a scheme to frame Bob. Anyway, I have this movie on video tape and I recommend it to anyone who loves slapstick comedy and/or loves Meryl Streep as she is great in this role. Sylvia Miles plays Meryl Streep's mother and she is a riot. The same thing goes for Rosanne as well. "},{"Title":"You go girl!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie came out when I was in the death throes of my failed marriage and greatly identified with my distraught and disturbing emotions at the time. My husband (now X) hated it... I wonder why!!!? Needless to say, I'm MUCH BETTER NOW (LOL) and always watch the movie with appreciation and mirth when it comes on cable tv every now and then. My X got off lucky! "},{"Title":"Don't second-guess Meryl","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  She knew what she was doing when she picked this movie. I don't think its fair to critcize someone for taking a part in a movie that is not PERFECTLY suited to that person, or if the movie is of a genre that the person is unfamiliar with. She is better than the movie, obviously, but that does not mean the movie has no value whatsoever.  There are good scenes between Linda Hunt and Roseann, and Sylvia Miles gets a laugh or two as Meryl's mother. A Martinez is perfect as Meryl's boy-toy, and the movie is not that bad at all.  Why director Susan Seidelman insists on badmouthing New Jersey every chance she gets is very annoying, though.   "},{"Title":"A comedy about vengeance","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Have a bit of a sadist touch? Then I think you'll like this one. It is about a woman, who is betrayed by her husband, and then makes a plan to take her revenge. We see her put this into action systematically, one aspect at a time, ruining her ex-husband's life. I thought it was rather witty.  "},{"Title":"Roseanne & Meryl Streep duke it out for Ed Begley Jr","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie on many levels. I've been the wife who tried to do everything right and still lost her husband to another woman. I've been a nursing home employee wondering why the patients need to be so drugged up. I've been the mother whose children enjoyed life with another mother and I've been the woman who discovered truth and strength within herself. A great ensemble cast (loved Linda Hunt especially, and A Martinez was made for the role of Garcia!) I think the special effects were supposed to be cheesy. Even the dogs were representative of the differences in Mary's and Ruth's lives! I had an ah-ha moment when I recently discovered a favorite author of mine who normally writes murder mysteries had ventured into science-fiction territory with less-than-wonderful results--she varied the formula!All in all, a film of self-discovery. "},{"Title":"Wives don't get mad,they get even","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rosanne Barr and Meryl Streep are witty,funny,and shine in this tickler. Streep is great in such movies as Kramer vs Kramer,a heart tugging movie.Barr is spunky,and I loved her in her self-titled sitcom Roseanne. Here,the two ladies play rivals for the affections of a somewhat selfish,arrogant womanizer.Bob Patchett(Begley),has a roving eye.When his wife takes notice,she devises a plan to destroy him.Bob first gets cozy with Mary Fisher(Streep),a romance author.Mary has no morals, and woos him away from his family.When she becomes his wife,he starts getting friendlier with Olivia,who is not such a honey,her real last name.I love Linda Hunt, who plays Hooper,a registered nurse.Ruth makes it harder for Fisher to stay away from her mother.She devises a way to take Mrs. Fisher(nursing home resident),and keep her as a permanent fixture in the household.One may feel sorry for Andy and Nicolette,the children Ruth feels for.I love the ending,however,where the son and daughter turn out to be well-adjusted.Bravo, to Streep and Barr for this gag a minute riot.I love it! "}{"Title":"Unwatchably grotesque but good movie","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Based on Fay Weldon's popular novel about a lowly housewife who takes revenge on her husband after he cheats on her with a romance novelist, She-Devil is at times unwatchably grotesque, but this owes more to it's characters and their tastelessness rather than the quality of the movie itself.Rosanne Barr, as the housewife, would later make a serious name for herself in the kind of role she plays here - in her own TV series. She gives a good performance that wins you over by the end. Meryl Streep as the author overacts enormously, and it is horrifying to think that women like the one she's playing actual exist. Today, I see a vague hint of Harry Potter author JK Rowling in her performance - an absurdly beautiful and intelligent woman who lives in a self-created world of her own. Ed Begley Jr is also watchable as the mindless husband caught in between them.The posters for this movie are actually misleading - Barr and Streep never have a punch-up although they inflict a lot of pain on each other and themselves.Worth watching - but you need a strong stomach to swallow the movie's message. "},{"Title":"A fun movie and two amazing actresses.","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meryl Streep as an actress is in a league of all time greats and a legend in her lifetime. In She Devil (and this is a must watch movie ) she has performed a role at odds with her persona with grace and panache.The fast aging author unhappy without a man in her life is played to perfection. The scene in which Meryl Streep is just getting out of bed and mistakes the dog licking her toes for the man in her life is exceptionally well played.She uses her fully clothed behind to communicate the frustration so exceedingly well it is a scene which stays firmly etched in the mind.It is great to see the movie breaking typecasts and stereotypes and unravels like a fairy tale the female version of David taking on Goliath. "},{"Title":"devilishly great","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As Meryl Streep is usually known for serious, important roles, it's interesting to see her in a movie like She-Devil. The movie has frumpy housewife Ruth Patchett (Roseanne Barr) taking revenge on her womanizing husband Bob (Ed Begley Jr) after he dumps her and moves in with trashy airhead novelist Mary Fisher (Streep).This is one of those movies that you gotta love from every aspect. A really funny scene involves Mary's embarrassing attempt to use a washer it just goes to show that celebrities should not operate heavy machinery (or anything, for that matter). Linda Hunt, as a nurse, also adds a good characterization to the movie. A great movie in every way. "},{"Title":"ROSEANNE IN SHE-DEVIL","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved the movie She-Devil. Roseanne really does great in her first motion picture. If you haven't seen She-Devil, and are a fan of Roseanne, I suggest you rent She-Devil. "},{"Title":"What was Meryl Streep thinking???","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When one thinks of Meryl Streep, he or she gets images of great performances in films like Kramer vs. Kramer, The Deer Hunter or Sophie's Choice. The most interesting thing about She-Devil is that ironically, just as it introduces some humility into her character Mary Fisher's life, Meryl Streep is brought down to the gutter just for associating with this stinker.  I hope they paid her a fortune.  Don't get me wrong--there were moments where I laughed (such as when the prize poodle plays its last game of fetch!), but this was a low-rate film with a script that had unbelievable holes big enough to drive a Mack truck right on through.  Normally in a silly comedy that is just fine, but these were so glaring that common sense did not allow me to enjoy the movie (and the blue-screen of the house blowing up while Rosanne walks away is just terrible!).  For example, why would Bob Patchett have knocked up Roseanne's hideous character to begin with?  And if the She-Devil really loved her kids would she really just leave them with her husband and his mistress for a few months?  The only reason this movie got higher than a 2 or 3 was due to Meryl's portrayal of the slutty, sexy main character played off against Roseanne's convincing act(?) as a disgusting person (the mole on her mustached face is truly gross).  Also, the woman who plays Mary Fisher's mom is a hoot.  The ending of this movie was terrible with no real resolution other than the fact that the She-Devil got even by completing a demolition list on her ex-husband.  I guess we are to believe that she has transcended into a likeable, attractive, confident woman, but in fact she is just a crafty witch who used her friend's money to get even with her cheating husband.  I recommend this movie if you are really, really bored and can find absolutely nothing else to do.  Otherwise, unless you are a Meryl Streep fan (who is really very sexy in a twisted sort of way throughout this film) who wants to see her doing something different, don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Low point for Streep","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  She-Devil (1989) The ever-irascible Rosanne costars  with Streep,who portrays an indulgent,  successful romance writer Mary Fisher.  When she begins an affair with Rosanne's  husband, played by Ed Begley Jr., Rosanne  does what she can to ruin their lives.  A bomb at the box office, the movie is  certainly one of Streep's weakest works.  And her efforts at creating the Fisher  character are too forced and cartoonish.  Actress Linda Hunt appears in the film,  though, providing her usual distinctive characterizations. "},{"Title":"Streep is Terrible","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie takes some well-deserved licks. I'm sympathetic to the theme (and deriving comedy from it) but this is just a misfire. For starters in answer to the question everyone was asking when this came out.. No Meryl Streep cannot do comedy. I can't imagine she's ever told a joke.Part of her problem is that as a self-impressed diva, she can't bear to fit herself into the scale of a movie. She's too freaking needy for that. Her self-conscious technique continually takes you out of the world of her movies, and standing amidst the ruins, all that's left for dazed viewers is to fawn appreciatively over her ability. Apparently this trick got old for her too, and in an effort to develop some range, she began to choose absurdly inappropriate material that only further proved she had no versatility; this, Death Becomes Her, The River Wild. Can she do comedy? No, but she can't do adventure either.On the Actors studio when James Lipton asked what her least favorite word was, Streep sneered edgy! Perhaps this is because in her whole career she has only mastered earnest. She couldn't do edgy if she was holding Lee Strasberg at gunpoint. She's too cerebral. She botches everything but drama.In an effort to say something nice about her, she was good in both Fred Schepisi films twenty years ago; Plenty and A Cry in the Dark. "}]