[{"Title":"Raul Julia's gift to cinema","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raul Julia's finest moment as an actor  was also one of the finest Latin American-themed  films of all time. Julia portrayed the  diligent bishop Oscar Romero with an  aplomb which few actors could have  embodied. Sadly, this film ends up as  nothing but a blip on the map. Few people  have actually experienced the power and  creativity placed into this film. Perhaps it  was too political or too dark, what ever the  reason, it will remain one of my favorite films  of all time. Perhaps years from now, the  appreciation this movie deserves will be  given to it.  "},{"Title":"The best political thriller of them all because it's a realstory","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romero is about injustice in the world but presents this theme without preaching. It draws in the viewer through the excellent performance of Raul Julia (rest his soul! he is missed!). Romero is also about class differences and the intolerance of the powerful towards social change. It's a great film for teaching Americans about what life is like in the rest of the world. It's a Hollywood film that managed not to go Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"The Film For Which Julia Will Be Remembered","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'll always remember the name Raul Julio for this picture. I guess I don't really remember him in other films except for smaller roles. This was one of his acting career highlights, I would assume.This is a powerful movie based on history in the late '70s in El Salvardor, where a country's leaders were killing thousands of dissidents including clergy in the Roman Catholic Church. Julia plays Archbishop Romero. He is interesting to watch and the center of the story.This is a violent, sometimes unpleasant movie to watch but if your concerned about profanity or sex, you don't have to worry it's not here. That's hard to find in a modern action-drama.The downside was that despite the above, the story just wasn't that memorable to me. Also, I have serious questions about the slant in here. Knowing the film world, I know which way it would be politically and, frankly, I don't know the real story....but as a movie, it's not bad. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film Romero follows the career of Oscar Romero through his rise to power as the archbishop of San Salvador to his life in politics and ultimately his assassination. The film offers an insightful look into the political situation of El Salvador during the 1970's. Like many countries of Latin America at the time, the nation was ruled by a brutal regime run largely by the military. Political assassinations and repression of all kinds were common place. The working people of El Salvador were also forced to endure the hardships of poverty and economic instability. The film is interesting to watch because it shows the controversy over the difficult roles that many in the Catholic Church felt compelled to play in the midst of the situation. According to the film, many in the Catholic Church, including many priests and eventually the archbishop himself, saw the political and economic situation in El Salvador as terribly unjust. Several priests began to speak out publicly on behalf of the people suffering in their congregations. This kind of political activism agitated the military regime and resulted in a crackdown on elements within the church including the assassination and repression of activist priests. As a result of this persecution, the newly appointed archbishop of San Salvador was forced to become more involved in the situation. As the political repression and injustice continued, the reluctant Oscar Romero began to speak more publicly on his opposition to the government and its policies. The film offers a remarkable insight into the political and cultural situation of the country. At the same time, the film documents the life and struggles of Oscar Romero during his tenure as archbishop of San Salvador.Much of the film's drama is centered on Romero's reluctance to get involved in the political debate that was engulfing his country. In fact, the film focuses as much on the character's personal transformation as it does on his politics. According to the film, when Romero was instated as archbishop it was only because he was viewed as an intellectual moderate who would keep the church from getting too involved in the political affairs of the country. As the film progresses, however, the political repression becomes increasingly violent. With the assassination of a priest and the military's desecration of the Eucharist in a Catholic church, Oscar Romero was shaken into action. He frequently began to speak publicly against the injustices of the political regime. It was interesting to watch Romero increasingly identify himself with the suffering of the people of El Salvador. At the beginning of the film, Romero was shown to have a close relationship with several of the wealthy elites that were controlling the country. Many of the military and political leaders attended his inauguration. He received gifts from them and enjoyed a close relationship with several powerful figures in San Salvador. As the film progressed, however, these relationships quickly began to deteriorate. As Romero increasingly identified with the suffering and persecuted people of El Salvador, his relationship with the ruling elites also began to suffer. In a particular scene, Romero declined to perform a private baptism for the child of a wealthy family. Instead, Romero told the family that they must baptize their child alongside all the other children at a regular Sunday Mass. The wealthy mother was horrified at the thought. It was this way that Romero increasingly began to identify himself with the lower-class people. In another scene, Romero is seen speaking on the radio about the church's need to defend the needs of the poor and underprivileged in society. It was this kind of radical thinking that earned Romero enemies within the government. Eventually Romero's agitations became too much for the military-backed government to bear. The film doesn't say if it was the government or simply an overzealous supporter of the military-regime, but Romero was eventually assassinated for speaking out in support of the poverty-stricken masses of his country. Regarded as supporting communist subversives, the military leaders began to view the archbishop as a threat to their grip on power. The film ends with the dramatic assassination in which Romero was gunned down in the church while performing the communion ceremony for his congregation. At the end of the film, the text stated that in the nine years following the assassination or Archbishop Romero, more than sixty-thousand Salvadorians were killed under the military regime. To me, this film demonstrates the tragic brutality of many of the Latin American military regimes that emerged in the late 20th Century. After viewing this film, I have a newfound respect for the person and philosophy of Oscar Romero. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a pretty good film, about the real life story of the archbishop of EL Salvador, Oscar Romero. Raul Julia gives a good performance as the title character.  The music is effective and interesting; at times it sounds almost like helicopter blades.  If you close your eyes when you watch the beginning, you could almost think this film was about Vietnam. Some aspects of this film were not that great though.  Some scenes appeared to be cut off too early or in odd ways.  "},{"Title":"Romero","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An absorbing film that tackles violence in the harshest terms and is led by an angelic performance by the great Raul Julia. Like Schindler's List, Romero sacrifices everything for peace and survival. He's willing to stand with his people and take brutality as they do. A remarkable film!  "},{"Title":"Not outdated","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Even though the situation has changed considerably in El Salvador, this movie is still very enjoyable. I've seen it shortly after it was released and I just saw it again. Same verdict. Very good movie. Raul Julia is simply fabulous as Romero, the Archbishop who was talking about peace while it seems everybody else was talking about war. The final scene in the church is unforgettable.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Historical drama","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raul Julia gives his routine wonderful performance as Oscar Romero, Archbishop of San Salvador, capital of El Salvador, playground of right-wing paramilitary militia sponsored by successive military juntas subsidized by the CIA and successive US Administrations. Archbishop Romero slowly evolved from a bookworm to a politically aware activist as he came to realize what the military regimes were doing to the poor of his country. He paid the ultimate price willingly. Unlike today's cowards, who proclaim martyrdom and kill themselves and a few or many others in the name of some sterile ideology, Romero accepted martyrdom in the name of a living gospel he deeply believed in, in order to save lives, not to take them.Julia looks absolutely nebbish in his glasses, and proves his genius as a thespian. Alas, he is not with us any longer, so that pretty boys of 2005 can only watch his films and learn how to act.Highly recommended film, especially for the vast majority of US citizens who think that Ronald Reagan and his ilk actually did good things in El Salvador, Nicaragua and other places in America. "},{"Title":"A moving experience","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Easily the best political movie in the past 20 years. If you watch this movie and are not moved by the story of the abuse and the archbishop's fight against it, you need to go to a doctor to see if your heart is still in your chest. While it is a moving film, it is also very disturbing because of the graphic nature of some of the abuse suffered by characters in the film. A must see for Catholics. While the events depicted in the movie are true, keep in mind that there are exaggerations and omissions. Don't believe everything that is in a political movie as fact. Check out the story yourself from respected sources on both sides of the argument. "},{"Title":"A true story about a man of God, and of his people","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" What an amazing story. In a movie world full of so many stories that have very little meaning, it is inspiring to watch a movie about a man that inspired a nation. I have always loved the story of this great man's life. After watching the movie, so will you. I have watched this movie by myself, with friends and now I plan to watch it with my children. I want them to see what one man's passion can do for a nation in turmoil. Many Latino nations celebrate his life as a model of what a modern Christian should be like. I celebrate his life as a model of what I aspire to be. The movie is filled with passion and a great cast that makes every incident, every scene and every word come alive. The setting is true to the historical setting of the time when this man of God lived and worked with the people of El Salvador. The story line and acting are easy to follow and the characters are so amazingly played that you will fall in love with them. Watch this movie. I seriously recommend it. "}{"Title":"Another scary movie about Central America....","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is another sleeper about totalitarian regimes in Central America. What is particularly fascinating about this one is that Romero, a non-political man, comes to the realizaton that there is no such thing as apolitical, apolitical ultimately being complicity, and recognizes his responsibility to take a stand for his people, despite pressure from Rome to refrain from doing so.I remember hearing about the events in this movie on the radio, when they were actually taking place.For me this reality is a major part of how I felt watching this movie. The movie is quite good, but I didn't enjoy it. I don't think one watches such movies for enjoyment. I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"povre angel del cielo","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is something that sets a view on how war is really like...it's disturbing and unfair... but this movie shows thats their is always hope; that their is always someone who will stick up for those who are to afraid to stand up. Romero was a man that stood for all Salvadorian, even the poor. This brilliantly shows how Romero gave hope and to those who have lost their fate to those who thought they have lost everything. he shows his people that everyone needs to be strong and determined. I believe this is a great movie that shows people how the rest of the world is suffering. I loved this movie and i believe that many people would enjoy the movie. God bless Romero and Raul Julia.. "},{"Title":"A powerful piece of work.","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Archbishop Oscar Romero was a priest who was went to Archbishop in El Salvador. During that time, the new bishop speaks out against the death squads that harmed the streets of El Salvador. The terror campaign, the government was using to crushed the warfare that is being waged against them. That is the true story set-up for Romero. Romero starts out with a campaign from the government people and their leaders. Raul Julia gives a memorable performance as the Archbishop who struggled to stop the genocide from occurring. This also leads to disloyalty against the churches of El Salvador. Only one man will stepped in and make it stop and listen to the truth. Romero was assassinated in March, 1980. It is a powerful movie to watch as we see the horrific details of this atrocity. I seen this movie in my History class. Oscar Romero is one of the least known subject in a History class. While the actual Romero moved El Salvador, I was moved by Raul Julia's performance. Romero is one of those political dramas that really grab the audiences and put them inside the real world of the movie. It is a must-see. ★★★ 1/2 3 1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Romero is easily one of the best films made in the 1980's. The film is astounding. It is in fact very depressing, but shows the cruel and unusual ways of the San Salvadorian government in the 1970's. The film is violent and sometimes disturbing. I showed this film to my freshman classes at school, and they were somewhat disturbed. The main reason this film is so good, is Raul Julia's performance. His role as Oscar Romero really gave light to the film, and also impressed many of my students. His assassination scene is handled very well. Great Film. You must see this wonderful adaptation of you are to get the truth of what happened in Oscar Romero's life. Rated PG-13 for Strong Violence, Language, and some Sexual References. "},{"Title":"Archbishop Romero of El Salvador devotes his life to freeing his people from oppression","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although not a very well made movie (the writing and editing are especially weak) the late Raul Julia's performance is stunning, as are the performances of many of his supporting cast. The journey his character (and presumably the actual archbishop Romero) makes from innocence to awareness is deeply moving and very convincing. His story is remarkable and well worth forgiving the director and editor for not realizing it's full potential. The impact is in Julia's performance and you'll be with him from the moment he fills the screen. Probably one of Raul Julia's most remarkable performances. Another performance worth note is that of the late Richard Jordan who, as Father Grande, helps lead the archbishop to an awareness of the suffering of his people. "},{"Title":"Romero editing","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The comment about the overall editing seems harsh. The first portion of the film is admittedly not the best editing, but after that it is bordering on great. One scene in particular is worth looking at again and again. The film has the feel of two different editors and in fact that is what happened. This film is one of my all time favourites. It evokes mood and place and emotion and passion and atmosphere. All the elements of exceptional visual story telling. The fact that it is based on a real man who followed a very disciplined life and belief system, and had the courage and desire to stand up to certain perils makes this film a standout on every level. "},{"Title":"Romero, A Great Film","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great movie about the prophetic conversion of the Archbishop of El Salvador.  The movie details the life of Oscar Romero after being appointed Archbishop.  Believed to be the quiet bookworm, a man that wouldn't stir up anything, Romero makes a conversion in order to save his people from the oppressive government.  As a result, he is martyred for his beliefs.  A great picture to watch and take in.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Film","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" So there were a lot of things that were great about this movie. It had some awesome commentary on the reality and the struggle of Salvadorians living in the slums, and the harsh behavior of the police and the army on the people. The acting from most of the main characters was pretty great, although most of the army members were very blank and just not very good. Raul Julia did an excellent job, especially in the scenes in which he had to get emotional, although there were a few times in which his performance became a little bit worse in some of the scenes that he was screaming. The prison scene was odd, primarily because the make up was not believable to a dead person. He was supposed to be a man who was beaten to death, tortured until he finally decided to give up. However, the make up was similar to someone who got punched in the face once or twice and got knocked out. One of the things that restricts this movie, in my opinion, is that everything is just so black and white. The priests and the church are the good guys and then the rich and powerful people are the bad guys. Every single action that they take is therefore extremely predictable because you know what is going to happen as soon as the scene starts. This also makes it so that the only person you can rout for is Romero. There is no struggle, I don't have to make a decision, and I am not challenged as an audience member. This makes the experience extremely one sided and I am left with a feeling of emptiness.The other problem, although I already mentioned it before, is the actors other than the lead. The extras are pretty bad, and most of the people in the military just have a blank expression and sound like they are just reading their lines. I get it that it really isn't supposed to be about acting but you get the point.Overall good film, 7/10. "},{"Title":"solid Raul Julia performances","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1977, the military in El Salvador helps the conservatives win the crooked election. Oscar Arnulfo Romero (Raul Julia) and Father Grande (Richard Jordan) help the poor. Romero as Archbishop of San Salvador has to balance the factions inside the church. The National Guard massacres dozens of worshippers. Grande is killed by death squads. Romero tries to free Rafael Zelada from the guerrillas. Atrocities continue as he struggles to find a way.This is an important biopic of a compelling historical figure. Raul Julia is pulling back to play a calming presence in uncertain times. He does have some power acting moments. His performance is mostly one-note and that keeps tension from rising. Maybe an energized inner monologue could heighten the tension. "},{"Title":"Spiritual Cypher to Heroic Symbol","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Though a worthy effort, Romero doesn't reach the intense feel of a Missing or Salvador. There's a pervasive sense of horror and fear in these latter largely missing from Romero despite laudable efforts at conveying the same rawness of police state terror. Perhaps the staging is a little too tidy or the death squads too ordinary to reach the same level of abject dread. Nonetheless there is much to praise in Romero. Raul Julia's transformation from meek upper- class toady to passionate spokesman for the masses is eloquently understated, and no less powerful. I especially like the way the filmmakers portrayed elements of the elite, humanising them and giving them a chance to speak, even as their death squad hirelings carry out the bloody dirty work. Perhaps the movie's high point is Romero's pivotal refusal to continue baptism privileges for the well-bred, thus affirming his new spiritual loyalty, but also sealing his earthly doom. It's a quietly powerful and revealing moment.I wish the producers had showed more candor in implicating the US's role in the repression. Except for Romero's plea to stop arming the military and the presence of a thuggish American adviser (he looks North American but is not identified), there is no mention of repression's ultimate sponsor. Yet the US was waist deep in these events, as Reagan's boys in the basement undercut every Congressional effort to moderate support. Principled films such as Romero need to be fearlessly historical in putting such facts before the American public, pleasant or not. Even so, Romero is a moving portrayal of one man's evolution from spiritual cypher to heroic symbol, and poses a challenge to conscionable people everywhere. "}{"Title":"surprisingly impartial","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" It might have been little more than a thinly camouflaged big screen sermon, but this portrait (produced by an arm of the Catholic Church itself) of martyred El Salvador Archbishop Oscar Romero is neither religious propaganda nor a political manifesto. It's the story of a simple man of faith whose conscience would not allow him to remain silent when confronted by the escalating bloodshed of civil warfare, and Raul Julia's performance in the title role highlights all the Archbishop's conviction and sometimes clumsy sense of humility. The film works best when addressing the age-old conflict between Church and State, and to its credit is not above criticizing the policies of either institution. Director John Duigan thankfully doesn't try to sensationalize the climate of violence leading up to the crime (compare the film to Oliver Stone's typically overwrought 'Salvador'), but the assassination itself is (sadly) played for maximum (melo) dramatic impact. What follows is a familiar (and completely redundant) end-title moral with the usual grim statistics, but in balance the film presents an honest and sometimes moving story, with an essentially humanist message Someone, says the Archbishop, must have the courage to say 'enough'. "},{"Title":"As a film, savage; but Romero, a saint","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 20'th century history of Central and South America can be compressed into the film Romero. I'm not going to comment on why this part of the world has been so long plagued by such violence and repression; that's up to sociologists. Although things as they stand in 2007 are no where near as bad as they have been, there are still completely wild areas in the America's (parts of Columbia are in anarchy with rebel groups still fighting a very long war). Central America saw some of the most brutal and repressive civil wars and regimes. Guatamala and El Salvador saw exceptionally horrible levels of death and destruction. El Salvador, which this film depicts, was in the throes of yet another wave of civil disorder, pitting the large and very poor underclass against the small numbers of privileged upper class with predictable results. The army was used as a brutal and murderous machine, acting out the dark ideas of the right wing. The US aided the right wing because US foreign policy blindly labeled all rebellious groups in the America's as Communist insurgents and worked overtime to eliminate them. That's the backdrop to this film.The murder of Archbishop Romero was but the beginning of a ten year civil war that saw over 50,000 deaths in El Salvador. The film is hard on the nerves to watch as all depictions of depravity and death are. The actors have put their best into this important film. Two of them are sadly no longer with us Richard Jordan and Raul Julia. Jordan shone in this film (and even more in one of my favorites - Gettysburg). Julia probably gives his most memorable performance. He is by turns shy, sedate, stirred, outraged, shocked and broken down. His depiction shadows that of the real Romero and one gets a sense that Julia had more than enough raw material to work with and that the script and storyline would support strong acting. In short, by the tragic end, we are emotionally drained and very upset, as we should be. If there is ever to be justice in this world, and it's a big if, then we can start by demanding that perpetrators of violence are dealt with appropriately and not allowed sanctuary and support. Of course the chances of this happening while you live in a client state of the US is slim. A sad, wrenching depiction of both Romero's short career as Archbishop and of the black hole that overcame El Salvadore. As grim as they come but important to watch and take note of. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, I saw this only a year ago, and it still affects me. This is one of the films where it grabbed my attention and made me see reality in other countries. Central America is one scary place. Because of the film's impact on me, it has made me join Amnesty International. Great film, disturbing, but truly amazing..... 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Fine, Understated Examination...","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...of El Salvador during the late 70s.  For all of its humanitarian committments, the Carter administration in the US went out of its way to arm, fund, and support regimes such as the quasi-fascists in El Salvador who are depicted in *Romero*.  This practice of US support for far-right dictators was (and continues to be) par for the course during the Cold War, and it is of course completely reprehensible; the death of Archbishop Romero and 75K other Salvadorans is on the hands of the CIA and the Pentagon. For shame.The film understates this savage process very well, only casually hinting at US responsibility for the atrocious poverty and human rights issues in Central America (M-16s in the hands of the military, Romero's open letter to Carter, etc); jingos in the US probably won't notice the subtlety here, however. Indeed, such superpatriot fools will no doubt look at this film as yet more evidence of the greatness of America (whatever that is), and further demonstration of how the Third World can't get its act together. Little do these folks realize that US prosperity is directly related to the misery that the US produces across the globe, as in eE Salvador.Bravo, Julia and Paulist films.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film shows clearly how the great archbishop learned of the atrocities of his government and how he eventually came to side against them. Romero was not a Marxist or a member of the FMLN, he was a liberation theologist, which contained elements of Marxism but ultimately is not Marxism.One user here wrote a comment that the film was a propaganda piece, completely ignoring communist atrocities. With the exception of FARC and shining path, the US's beloved right-wing dictatorships were responsible for the overwhelming majority of murders. 70,000 were killed in El Salvador, across the border in Guatemala 200,000 were killed. These are only two examples of many other in Latin America. If you want to understand the beginnings of what would become genocide in El Salvador in the 80s, or even just to see the commitment of a great man to the poor and actually carry out what Jesus asked then see this movie.PS - Romero will not be canonized, the current Pope waged a virtual war against liberation theologists, almost eradicating them from the church. What would you expect from a Nazi youth? "},{"Title":"An inspiring film","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie made me proud to be Catholic. While it's not totally successful on an artistic level, the story of Romero's conversion was inspiring and spiritually moving. I hope the church will keep him on the fast track to sainthood! Aside from that, as a film, it gets a little too didactic towards the end (it was more emotionally involving before his conversion than after); however, Raul Julia's performance is superb.  "},{"Title":"Propaganda piece","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film presents a completely one-sided and often false portrayal of the situation in El Salvador in the late 1970s and 1980s. It offers no context whatsoever, and like so much propaganda out of Hollywood, the movie completely ignores Marxist revolutionary violence in Central America at the time. One is reminded of the movie Outbreak, in which the US Army is portrayed as the villain by Hollywood, when in truth Army doctors saved people from a vicious virus outbreak, as Richard Preston documented in his excellent book, The Hot Zone. It was in fact communist guerrillas who said they would murder anyone found with voting stamp dye on their hands during the El Salvador elections portrayed in the movie. But in a truly heroic act of defiance El Salvadorans stood in long lines for hours to vote under the threat of death by the guerrillas -- not, as the movie would have you believe, the Savadoran army. Similarly, in 1990 Nicaraguans voted against the communist junta led by Daniel Ortega. After watching the movie Romero you would never know these things, but the facts can be easily verified in authoritative historical sources. Of course, as you might expect, the US is another villain in the movie like the brutal El Salvadoran army, and the communists are of course just trying to help the people in a terrible situation. The movie only hints at the role Liberation Theology played in the thinking of some Catholic theologians at the time. All in all, this movie is hardly worth the effort and only worth it as a study in propaganda, despite the overtly religious context of the movie. Unless you believe Central America would have been better off under communism, watch this movie with a great deal of skepticism. "}]