[{"Title":"Let Me Take Care of That Sweet Tooth, Clare.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film showcases so much talent from actors and performers that have now passed into Hollywood Valhalla Paul Bartel, Ray Sharkey, and tragically, Rebecca Schaeffer who died at the tender age of 21, and would probably have blossomed into a graceful and beautiful actor.  The cast is unlikely, however they work well together and seem to have fun doing it.  There is harmony and refinement as they interact, making it seem as a dance.  The make-out scene with Jacqueline Bisset, Ray Sharkey and a chocolate cake is passionate and sexy.  Wallace Shawn is smug and manipulative as a troubled gynecologist.  Arnetia Walker is a show stealer as the former porn star wife of a self-deluded playwright played by Ed Begley Jr..  Edith Diaz plays Rosa, the Aztec-descended maid who spouts the meaning of life with a cultural twist and, according to Beltran's character, has a dustpan loose. Then there is Darren the West Highland White starring as Bo-Jangles, the terrier with an affinity for black women.  The scenes are well edited, and not the least bit clunky or contrived.  I don't think this is Paul Bartel's best film, but certainly it has its moments.  A must see for anyone interested in off-color sexy films.  Paul Bartel's works are certainly not voluminous, but he gets an A+ for effort on this one.  Paul, I read recently, was a little disappointed with the film.  It didn't live up to his expectations, and the gay relationship between Beltran and Sharkey, which Paul had said he wanted to bring out more, is minimally, but expertly alluded.  It is an amicable film, unpretentious despite its subject matter, and almost innocent in its portrayal of an elitist LA establishment.  I will never turn down a screening. "},{"Title":"An under-appreciated gem","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is outrageous, funny, ribald, sophisticated & hits the bullseye where 99 % of Hollywood movies don't even make the target. Paul Bartel should be recognized as one of the great directors of this or any era. He's the American Renoir & Bunuel _ combined!!! Glad I have the videodisc. "},{"Title":"Paul Bartel's Best","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe the user rating for this great film is so low! This is Paul Bartel's best film. It is a fantastically clever remake of Rules of the Game and is secretly beloved by film academics around the world. It is beautifully shot, well performed by an amazing cast and very well written. If you are a true fan of cinema, this one must not be missed. Hey Criterion, this film deserves a special edition DVD, get on it! "},{"Title":"whip smart satire","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the unsung gems of the 1980's, Scenes... features razor-sharp satire and outstanding performances from Arnetia Walker (how did she not get a ton of roles after this?)and Wallace Shawn. It's a delicious send-up of class warfare and the people in those classes. The writing is hilarious and the characters, while not subtle, are nuanced. And, sorry, but the Asian gangs (if you can call one Japanese guy extorting one of the other characters a gang) were not put in for sociological value as another review implies they should been. The value here lies in what the movie is making fun of and in the sparklingly wicked way it does it. I found it creative, funny, and idiosyncratic. "},{"Title":"A tongue-in-cheek look at love and honor in a valueless culture.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pre-Voyager Robert Beltran and the the often-maligned Mary Woronov are the real stars of this show about the meaning of love and honor among those who know little of either.While that sounds really dull and serious, keep in mind that this is one of the sideways comedies of Paul Bartel, the man who brought us Eating Raoul, and starring the usual Bartel suspects.The script is funny, all parts are fully fleshed, these are real people...not anyone I'd want to know personally, for the most part.   "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Saw this movie on its release and have treasured it since. What a wonderful group of actors (I always find the casting one of the most interesting aspects of a film). Really enjoyed seeing dramatic actress Jacqueline Bisset in this role and Wallace Shawn is always a hoot. The script is smart, sly and tongue-in-cheek, poking fun at almost everything Beverley Hills. Loved Paul Bartel's doctor and Ray Sharkey's manservant. This was raunchy and crude, but thank god! Unless you're a prude, I heartily recommend this movie. FYI for anyone who likes to play six degrees of Kevin Bacon, Mary Woronov & Paul Bartel were in Rock & Roll High School. Mary Woronov and Robert Beltran were in Night of the Comet together. They were all three in Eating Raoul. "},{"Title":"Funny, surreal satire on the classes in L.A.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Often laugh out loud funny play on sex, family, and the classes in Beverly Hills milks more laughs out of the zip code than it's seen since the days of Granny and Jed Clampett.  Plot centers on two chauffers who've bet on which one of them can bed his employer (both single or soon to be single ladies, quite sexy -- Bisset and Woronov) first.  If Manuel wins, his friend will pay off his debt to a violent asian street gang -- if he loses, he must play bottom man to his friend!  Lots of raunchy dialogue, fairly sick physical humour, etc.  But a lot of the comedy is just beneath the surface.  Bartel is memorable as a very sensual oder member of the family who ends up taking his sexy, teenaged niece on a year long missionary trip to Africa.Hilarious fun. "},{"Title":"A Very Funny Movie","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie stayed true to the movies of the 80's. Rarely I can watch the same movie at least more than 2 times a year.How many movies can place a dozen actors in one movie and still keep you laughing? I enjoyed the one-liners and the various subplots. Sometimes you just want to laugh and watch someone's else weekend for a change. My favorites was (unsavory)Ray Sharkey and (sarcastic)Wallace Shawn. I loved their relationship with each other while using each other to satisfy their needs. Who needs a long drawn out plot when you just want to laugh? The characters were entertaining for the weekend. I also caught the last half of the movie on the A & E channel one night and enjoyed it. I finally found it on VHS. This movie is in my top five favorite movies of the 80's along with The Blues Brothers and Caddy Shack. "},{"Title":"Rococo rondelay","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great title; and in its day Bruce Wagner's extravagantly purple dialogue made a lot of eyes widen. In his fiction, Wagner scales astonishing heights of cruelty and scabrousness, but writing a SHAMPOO-style rondo, he seems miscast; it's as if Terry Southern had ambitions of being Ernst Lubitsch. There are savory performances generously sprinkled Paul Mazursky is the wistful shade of a TV producer, brought by lust back to this mortal coil, and Wallace Shawn makes a sumptuous entrance, flanked by two LAPD officers, telling his hostess, These perverse gentlemen have made a slanderous assertion. "},{"Title":"2. words!, Arnetia Walker","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's all about Arnetia Walker in this movie. She plays the black wife of the white character in the movie that's a failed playwriter. She simply Oozes sexuality, and you'll see what I mean especially if your in to Black Women. I remember seeing this movie when I was at least under 18 and whew!! was she hot. I don't even remember what the movie was about (now I do) but I do remember all the sex scenes with her. She has the best sex scene in this movie (doggie style) that is simply Unforgettable and Definitely worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Mary Moronov.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A long time ago, I watched this movie from the middle on cable. I then had a crush on Mary Moronov. I saw her again in Eating Raoul. I was convinced that she's the hottest woman on screen.I maybe biased about this movie. 9 out of 10.This's the only movie I own on original tape. "},{"Title":"Sick and raunchy - not worth it","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is so sick and raunchy, just thinking about it makes me think, vulgar. The movie is extremely crude, and rides on the Beverly Hills image to sell the movie. A friend said it is a poor man's Eating Raoul. It is a movie I would like to forget. It has some marketing value for sure since Rebecca Scheaffr was in it. That tragedy has brought a little bit of fame to this movie. Other than using those marketing ploys, I don't recommend this movie to anyone. It is full of stereotypes and you feel like you've just been in a gutter. The party scene toward the beginning is perhaps the most memorable part of the movie. While there are Asian street gangs around, you don't get any kind of sociological value from this movie. No one really acts like they do in the movie, but it has no camp value. The title is the most interesting part of the movie. "}]