[{"Title":"Here's a quarter.  Go downtown, and have a rat gnaw that thing off your face.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"63 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Candy's best performance ever.  As hard as it is to pick a favorite role that John Candy ever portrayed, I'd have to say it was Uncle Buck. Although this wasn't the only title he and Culkin ever shared, it was the only film the two ever shared any time on screen together.Basic plot  Candy's sister-in-law's father has just had a heart attack in the middle of the night and the two parents rush trying to find someone to watch the kids for them while they hop the next flight to go see her father.  In a desperate last resort, they call the husband's brother.  Buck.  Of course, the concerned uncle comes to the rescue and takes the task with no complaint. However, the oldest of the children doesn't care for her bumbling uncle, and the discipline and protection he places upon her, while her parents are away.A great heart-warming comedy that will make you laugh and possibly even cry at times.  A classic, and certainly a triumph that wouldn't have happened without John Candy.  Hollywood truly lost a great actor.I give this movie a 9 out of 10.  One of the funniest and most wonderful stories, but not my favorite.And that's my review. "},{"Title":"Uncomplicated simple and pleasant","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"56 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I gave this an '8', which is one or two more points than it really should get, but the simple fact is - I enjoy watching it over and over. John Candy shines as Uncle Buck. He brings the character alive and you can't help but wish you had a crazy guy like that as an uncle.Well, maybe a distant uncle, but still he's warm, lovable and helpless in so many ways. As one would expect, the story is simple, the scenes mostly predictable (except maybe the ax-murder scene?) and of course there's a happy ending.The little kids, Maisy and Miles, played by Gaby Hoffman and a slightly younger Macaulay Culkin, are simply adorable! The teenage daughter (Jean Louisa Kelly) perfectly portrays a teenage girl in the throws of that classic imbalance between childhood and adulthood.Anyway - no one dies. No one loses an eye or an arm. No houses burn down. There are no explosions, no fighter jet scenes, no wild car chases - just plain old silly fun.Go watch it. This is not a request! Uncle Buck says watch it! "},{"Title":"JOHN CANDY'S FINEST HOUR","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"58 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Simply Candy's best film, second only to Planes, Trains & Automobiles. Only hughes knew what to do with Candy. He is completely charming as a total hapless slob who invades his newphew and neices life. Every scene in this film is memorable! Its sad such a comic genius is no longer with us, but he will always be rememered. If you see only one John Candy movie make it UNCLE BUCK. "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There isn't really much to be said about Uncle Buck. It is very good but it is a simple little film, one of those nice films to watch on a Sunday afternoon without having to rack your brain or think too hard.The late John Candy excels here as Buck Russell who at first glance is a slob and without much going for him. However, as the film goes on, we learn that Uncle Buck does indeed have a heart. The film really is about a guy who looks like the type of man you would keep your family away from but who is in fact a guy with a heart of gold.I recommend Uncle Buck to anyone who fancies watching a nice simple little film for the whole family to enjoy. And watch out for the scene with the drunken clown on the doorstep! "},{"Title":"One of Hughes' best","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Hughes' Uncle Buck is a comedy that isn't as recognized as much as his acclaimed films (Home Alone, Pretty In Pink, Weird Science, Breakfast Club, 16 Candles), but this is just as funny and heartwarming as the others. Courtesy mainly of the lead John Candy as Buck Russell.  He brings to the screen sarcastic humor that works best for him.  Enjoyable throughout, even if sometimes the mushy stuff is unbearable.  Favorite line He, he, he, you ever hear of a ritual killing?  hehehe.  A- "},{"Title":"John Candy is BRILLIANT as Uncle Buck.","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is a brilliant and fun comedy for everyone. John Candy plays Uncle Buck, a guy who has to look after his brothers children for a while, as his brother and sister-in-law have to go away. The kids include a rebellious teen, Tia, and two sweet young kids, Maisy and Miles. As well as the great Joh Candy starring here, the just as great Gaby Hoffmann and Macaulay Culkin also star in this movie. I give Uncle Buck a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Great John Candy movie!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This in My opinion is one of the late great John Candy's best films! The story,acting,music,and cast is just right.The film is very funny and it is never boring.I just love the Uncle Buck character.The character always wants to have a good time,is always kind and does small and big things for people that he doesn't even have to do. I wish more people in the world was like this.Anyway I have seen it many times and in My opinion its a classic!If you haven't seen Uncle Buck and love John Candy,silly and serious comedies then check out this great movie!I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Say Uncle!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is a typical John Hughes family film, and probably the first of the beginning of a series of family films as director/writer Hughes left the world of teenage film-making (though Career Opportunities would be released the early 90s).Uncle Buck is a cute, innocuous family film about an unusual uncle trying to adapt to parenting skills, of which he basically has none. When their mother's father has a heart attack, the parents of the three children have to leave town to visit him, so they need a babysitter, pronto! Call it misadventures in babysitting because they get the father's somewhat irresponsible, but loving uncle, Uncle Buck (John Candy).The story is typical. Uncle Buck is a big mess at first. Not really sure how things work, but trying hard to make friends with the younger kids (Gabby Hoffman and Maculay Culkin), and trying very hard to make peace with the older, cynical niece (Jean Louise Kelly) who for some reason, just can't take a liking to Buck. In part, that's understandable considering that he does try his bess to embarrass her at times in order to get her to see how stupid she's being (especially when she's around her idiot boyfriend, Bug). But in her case, she really has an overdose of teen angst, and that spells trouble for Buck. The niece does her best to get revenge on Buck, and make life as difficult as possible for him so that her parent's will see what an irresponsible bafoon he is, or at least that she pegs him to be.The story also examines typical John Hughes elements, namely class divisions. Buck isn't exactly wealthy, let alone classy. Also, there are familial tensions, since the oldest daughter doesn't get along with her mother well at all (or either parent really, but we really don't see her relationship with her father). But, like all Hughes comedies, it is resolved and everyone lives happily ever after. This is a better movie for kids in their mid teens and younger, since Buck's comedic antics (the monster size pancakes, the washing machine mishap, and the revenge on the boyfriend, Bug) will generate plenty of laughs. Buck has his own way of doing things, kind of like Michael Keaton in 'Mr. Mom' (although Keaton follows a standardized process afterwards unlike Buck, who's improvisations are his own, and he sticks with them). The interaction between Bug and Buck are the best because Bug is such an idiot and scared as hell of Buck. Though, I think the funniest scenes are with Laurie Metcalf (always a scene stealer) as the seductive, cooky next door neighbor who takes a liking to Buck.John Hughes fans in general will probably enjoy this comedy, though that depends if you kept maintained faithfulness to his film catalogue even after he started going strictly with mindless family films (and not teenage comedies). Though, this is the earliest period of that transition, about the same time as Dutch and Curly Sue, so it really depends on what serves your taste as far as John Hughe's family film collection goes.It is a nice little comedy, and one that wouldn't hurt to try. You'll probably get a few good laughs in there. John Candy always does.  "},{"Title":"A sensitive, often touching film that was made for John Candy's talents.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is a lovable character who, though irresponsible at times, loves his brother's children like his own. He winds up trying to deal with more than he bargained for when he must keep track of his teenage niece who tests the limits while her parents are not at home. It is funny and touching, something Candy does very well. This is a movie worth renting and one that teens and up can really enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies. It is only rather hard to say why. Only because it was one of the first good comedies I've seen? What's behind it?The movie is about a character named Buck, who is played by the late John Candy. You might think this says everything to be said. Not really. I hate most movies with John Candy in a supporting role, because these roles are mostly silly and superfluous. The worst example I have seen is his *role* in Brewster's millions(starring Richard Pryor). Not so here, where he takes the lead once again. To my mind, Uncle Buck was the role of John Candy's life.This character is a man who has more faults and weaknesses than you could ever count, but it's clear that he is very warm-hearted and, *surprise!*, can be a good parent in a very inventive way. Of course this is no movie for real depth, neither is it a movie for masterful performances. This is why I was hesitating to give it 10 out of 10, but why not? It  d o e s  achieve well and it  r e a l l y  works.The teenager and both children all do a good job here and they are the perfect supply to John Candy. It was no-one minor to Roger Ebert who argued that the teenager, played by Jean Louisa Kelly, was too angry and too sharp to be sympathetic. I like reading Ebert's reviews and I wouldn't dare try to prove him wrong, but that doesn't mean I have to agree. Why should she not be too angry and too sharp? Why should she be perfect, why can't she be dark, mean and bad? And learn better in the end of the movie. And does this necessarily mean that we don't still like her character?It's kind of comforting to watch a more genuine Macaulay Culkin here, before he had become famous, and Gaby Hoffmann is also very nice to watch. I also like Laurie Metcalf here as neighbour Marci Dahlgreen-Frost, if only because this *role* seems to me like a grotesque exaggeration of her role in Roseanne. "}{"Title":"can't go wrong","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**'Uncle Buck' is a comedy/drama movie starring John Candy as Buck Russell, Jean Louisa Kelly, Macaulay Culkin and Gaby Hoffmann. When Cindy's father has a heart attack, someone is needed to watch the kids.Buck is phoned as a last resort, (with the exception of un-contacted neighbour Marcie) and must arrive at their home as soon as possible. Cindy and Bob must go to stay with him in Indianapolis, while Buck (Bob's brother) stays with the children. Cindy doesn't trust Buck. She feels extremely uneasy and nervous about leaving the kids with him. He is a 40 year old, who is not married, has no children, gambles and hates to work. He is a light hearted character, and doesn't like to take things seriously. Things start off on the wrong foot. Miles and Maisy (Culkin and Hoffmann) don't remember him, and he doesn't even remember their names. Tia instantly clashes with him, as she does with her mother. Tia is a sarcastic, angry rebellious fifteen year old girl. She keeps her life to herself, but not her opinions. Buck warns her about the intentions of her boyfriend Bug (Jay Underwood), whom he can see straight through after meeting him.We can't help but feel sorry for Buck. He grows to love the kids, yet Tia gives him an incredibly hard time. He is hated by Cindy.(She even folded him off of her and Bob's wedding photo) Chanice(Buck's girlfriend) catches Buck with flirtatious Marcie, and gets the wrong idea of what is going on, thanks to Tia, who is trying to make things miserable for Buck.However, after Tia discovers Buck was right about Bug, we see a special relationship develop between uncle and niece. When Bob and Cindy return home, there is a heart-warming moment between mother and daughter. Uncle Buck's comedy comes fast and frequently. Buck has the greatest comedic role. My personal favourite Buck moments are when he talks to bug about the hatchet in the trunk, chat with Tia about shaving heads, and drill moments. The accompanying sound effects are so well suited here. They have a sci-fi effect, and make Buck seem rather scary to the character opposite, and funny to the viewers. Also note the way that Buck carries out household jobs, such as the washing, drying and ironing. One of the greatest lines in the movie is the 'tune-up' 'ritual killing' line (if you've seen the movie, you'll know!), beaten by the question and answers sequence between Miles and Buck. Brilliant! Miles also comes across as a comedic character. He also seems quite smart and mature for his age. This film is great to watch time and time again. It never loses its comedy value. If you have some time to spare, I suggest filling it with Uncle Buck. You won't be disappointed! My rating of Uncle Buck - 9/10.  "},{"Title":"The Protector Real Love","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadFirst, the movie is the funniest of all of Candy's films. There are not weak spots like Summer Rental or The Great Outdoors. It is good all the way through. The short length of the movie works very well. It flows well with no boring parts. The movie is his best because of the moral depth to the character. The jokes all come at his expense what a bumbler he is and how out of his element he is trying to be responsible for the first time in his whole life. The film was criticized for his sinister tone towards Bug when he is preying on Tia. The violence and threats of violence were a target of Siskel and Ebert. Well, when some guy is going around preying upon angry, upset teenage girls using them, getting them pregnant then dumping them, I did not find Buck's protective reaction wrong in any way. The parents are such a disaster; clueless yuppies obsessed with improving their lifestyle and abandoning the poor kids. This really is the core of the film that gives it such depth. Tia is ignored by the snobby, clueless mother seeking the affection she is denied at home. Buck is thrown into the middle of this dysfunctional family with a very angry, bitter teenage girl.Candy's self deprecating humor is at its best here. His protection of the children is well done without being gooey. The scene where he almost takes them to the race track and looks in the rear view mirror at them after cursing them; that is really a great distillation of why the film is his best. Candy made a lot of bad movies Harry Crumb, Delirious, Wagons East, they tended to be very superficial and often boring. This is a glaring exception. The protection of Tia, her coming to realize that he is not controlling her but protecting her; the last scene is the image that stays with you forever. After the yuppie parents go back in the house, Tia sees him truly for the first time. Their eyes meet and he raises his hand. She understands that despite his awkwardness, mistakes and being in general, kind of a bum, he truly loves her. The scene is the quintessence of the movie. The connection and the love, real love that sacrifices and protects not today's vapid verbiage devoid of any real actions of love. It is a real gem, I cannot tell you how many times I have watched it. He is not here but I bet he would tell you it was his favorite. Certainly, he has the greatest moral depth to it. A Great Little Movie Love That Risks All For Another "},{"Title":"'Buck Melanoma, Moley Russell's Wart'","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Candy is Buck Russell, a character very similar to Del Griffith from Planes, Trains & Automobiles. It's not surprising since John Hughes is the writer, producer and director of both films. Buck is a simple man with simple pleasures. He likes his freedom, his leisure time, and his bowling. He has a girlfriend who desperately wants him to grow up but...he can't be bothered.But when Buck is called to the wintry, affluent suburbs to look after his brother's kids for a couple of weeks (much to his sister-in-law's horror) he learns what it's like to be a responsible adult and does surprisingly well with his extended babysitting chore (in his own unique way).Uncle Buck was Candy's fourth (of five) collaboration with Hughes and the role is clearly tailor-made for him. He may be a slob, and the underdog, but he's the kind of relative you'll all wish you had. The comedy is underplayed and quiet, and the drama involving without being overbearing. It's all just easy-going entertainment that's perfect for brightening up a dull afternoon, and yet another reminder that Hollywood lost someone very special in March 1994. "},{"Title":"Decent Hughes, Decent Candy","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A decent John Candy movie and a decent John Hughes movie but does not really find a good niche for itself. The movie is very uneven, sometimes the jokes are too adult and sometimes they are too childish. I would hesitate letting my kids watch this all the way through, but at the same time about 40% of the jokes are obviously made for children.So... It is hard to pigeonhole this. If you are an adult that can stand some humor in this being very low brow and adolescent -plus- have a thing for John Hughes or John Candy-movies then this film probably will satisfy some centra in your brain.Decent film that suffers on some levels. All in all enjoyable.6/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Do you really need a review?","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I doubt another review is really necessary; but, hey, I have an ego to feed. Uncle Buck is another in the line of John Hughes family comedies that dominated the 80s and early 90s. They are all pretty much the same; precocious kids, clueless parents, wacky outsiders, etc, etc. However, Uncle Buck rises above due to John Candy's wonderful performance, ably assisted by young Macaulay Culkin (and a few others). The film has a wonderful cast, with Amy Madigan and Lori Metcalfe adding some character touches, and a nice cast of talented (and cute) kids.Candy plays Buck Russell, black sheep of the family, who comes to the aid of his desperate brother. His father-in-law has had a heart attack and they need someone to watch the kids while they travel to be with him. The family already has a strained relationship, with oldest daughter Tia at odds with everyone, but especially her mother. Buck may be a screwup, but he's there when family calls.Candy has a great rapport with the young actors and much chaos and silliness ensues. The height is the well documented (in the trailer) scene of Culkin and Candy, in their take on the classic Dragnet back and forth. However, the film reaches beyond just the cute moments, with Buck trying to bond with Tia, the only one of the children he has a history with. Nothing he does seems to please her; but that doesn't mean he isn't afraid to call her on her BS and bad attitude. His tough love actually starts getting to her, though it takes a while to finally get through.In the end, Buck matures from the responsibility of caring for the kids, while they have a great time with their black sheep uncle. Tia mends fences and Buck moves into a new area of his relationship.The film has many great scenes and has a fine story, even if it is predictable from the opening credits. Much like a Frank Capra film, you know how things will turn out; but, the cast are talented enough to get you to set that aside and enjoy the film.Uncle Buck demonstrates what a tragic loss John Candy's death brought to comedy, and how Macaulay Culkin's issues sidelined a talented actor. Still, it draws you into its little fantasy world and entertains you while you're there. Definitely one for everyone. "},{"Title":"Classic John Candy","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Really, this is funny from start to finish, and pretty smart too. A great comedy, this is also a fine movie about growing up - for every character in the film. Obviously, the most important is Uncle Buck himself, a man- child long overdue for some responsibility. But his nieces, nephew, sister-in-law, and even Bug (What is his last name? Spray?) are in for some character development. Of course, Candy and his half-hang-dog, half- know-it-all, and half know-nothing (yes, that's too many halves) together carry the film, but the others hit their marks as well -- kids, teens, and adults as well. There are some classic moments - I think about Buck's friend down at the crime lab who can analyze a toothbrush to make sure the kids brushed their teeth every time my kids claim they've brushed their teeth when I know they didn't spend enough time in there. But mostly this is a comedy with an actual plot, and nicely done. "},{"Title":"Candy is candy","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When we lost John Candy we lost a friend. I enjoyed all of his movies as I think I saw most of them. Uncle Buck probably his best. Tia (his niece) does'nt hate him because he's Unkle Buck, she hates him because he represents authority. She is young and rebellious as most fifteen year old teens are. Miles and Masie love him out of the get go because they see him for what he is, a big loving teddy-bear. When at the bowling ally when Buck chases Pal away the ice starts to melt as Tia starts to realize Buck is not out to get her but to protect her. Buck had to tell Tia a bit about the birds and the bees. Where was her father all her life? Anyway this movie has a lot of laughs a few tears trust and love. At the end in the scene when Tia's mother comes into the house and Tea and her embrace just about rips one's heart out. Happy ending? Why not? Don't rent it, buy it and be done with it. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE CHANGED MY LIFE","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie changed my life...literally.  My friend had seen a local community article on a girl in our hometown newspaper.  He thought she was attractive and looked up her Dad's name (listed in the article) in the phonebook.  He then proceeded to call her and make small talk.  I don't know how he ever convinced her that calling up people you see in the paper is a normal situation.....but anyway he did .....and she agreed to go out on a date but only on a double date.  He then invited me along on this crazy escapade on the condition that she would bring a friend as well.  The double date was set and we all agreed by phone to  see a little movie called Uncle Buck.  By the way...all this happened when I was about 15 (Uncle Buck was released in '89.  Anyhow, my friend met his newspaper girl....and I met my future wife.  I can still remember being nervous sitting next to her and watching John Candy driving that blowed-up car and hearing Tone Loc's music blaring from the theater speakers.  And to Amanda, Trust me, If I'd known What I Know Today, I'd Have Taken A Sip Of The Mountain Dew.  Hee Hee. "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Culkin is just irresistible in this movie... perfect timing and chemistry with the cast. Uncle Buck is a reminder that John Candy is sorely missed. This is one of my favorites, just because it's light, funny and warm. If you haven't seen it, pick it up at the video store and if you have seen it, see it again...  "},{"Title":"Uncle Buck","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just a year before Home Alone, its child star and writer/director John Hughes made this enjoyable family comedy, this was the start of Hughes first film focusing on childhood rather than adolescence (Ferris Bueller and The Breakfast Club). Anyway, basically Cindy (Elaine Bromka) and Bob Russell (Garrett M. Brown) and their family have recently moved from Indianapolis to Chicago, but the kids were happy where they were. One night Cindy receives a phone call from her aunt that her father has had a heart attack, and they immediately make plans to visit him. But they urgently need someone to babysit the younger kids, since teenager Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly) refuses to be responsible, and even though Cindy doesn't like, Bob thinks his brother Buck (John Candy, in one of his only great leading roles) can do it. When they are gone, Buck is doing the best he can to please and help the younger kids, Maizy Russell (Gaby Hoffmann) and Miles (Macaulay Culkin, leading towards to stardom), same for the despising Tia. Buck's sloppy but lovable personality and presence have the kids bonding, but he still struggles to please Tia, who he knows has a boyfriend Bug (Jay Underwood) only using her to get sex. Also starring Amy Madigan as Chanice Kobolowski, Scream 2's Laurie Metcalf as Marcie Dahlgren-Frost, Brian Tarantina as E. Roger Coswell, Dumb and Dumber's Mike Starr as Pooter-the-Clown and Suzanne Shepherd as Mrs. Anita Hogarth. It is impossible to hate Candy (character or actor), even with his sloppy nature, Culkin is cute and the perfect choice for Home Alone, and there are plenty of one-liners and near-gross jokes to please everyone. Good! "}{"Title":"John Candy uses his natural comedic charm in this film; he is loveable and huggable.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Uncle Buck'If you have read my other reviews, you would have realized that one of my favorite directors is John Hughes. Not because of his teen movies, but because he made my favorite comedy ever `Planes, Trains and Automobiles' with Steve Martin and John Candy. But that has little to do with Uncle Buck; if you want to read my review on `Planes&#133;' it is on this site. Anyway&#133;John Hughes' second to last film he directed was a little, low budget comedy named `Uncle Buck,' about a guy named Buck (John Candy) and his ordeals of the week.Basically, to make a long story short, Buck's brother and sister-in-law are called out of town because of a family emergency. But, unfortunately, they cannot leave their three children (a teenager and two smaller kids) at home, alone. After calling many neighbors to no avail, Buck's brother realizes that the only option left is a big, large slob named Buck.John Candy brings his warm screen presence straight outta' downtown Chicago to watch the kids for `A week at the most.' Little does he know what will ensue. Buck has no idea whatsoever how to care for kids. One of the most endearing things about this comedy is his chemistry and connection with the smaller children.Another funny thing is how Buck handles the teenage girl. She is used to being free, basically; but Buck, like most parents and adults, has been through things before, and knows everything going on in her life and what it will lead to. He sees right through her boyfriend `Bug' to his real intentions.`Uncle Buck' has some very, very funny moments. Some of the gags fall short a bit, but it is still a winner. Some of the best parts are stretched-out, making it even funnier. The thing about `UB' is that unlike many comedies, there are long segments that are funny, instead of individual jokes throughout like `Airplane' and Mel Brooks films. `Uncle Buck' is NOT slapstick. It is a comedy, plain and simple. But this does not mean it doesn't have any good lines. There are some funny one-liners that have John Candy saying things like `Ever heard of a ritual killing,' etc&#133; (anyone who's seen the movie knows what I mean).John Candy uses his natural comedic charm in this film; he is loveable and huggable.Macaulay Culkin has his best role in this film. He was not yet an annoying brat, and could actually handle his lines, for once, without sounding like he is reading off a piece of cardboard (see `Home Alone' and/or `The Good Son').John Hughes directs the film in his typical fashion. I'm not sure what that fashion is, but whatever it is, it's good.Basically, when it all comes down to it, `Uncle Buck' delivers everything you want in a comedy. It's great for a Friday or Saturday night. It may not be as great as `Planes&#133;' but it sure as heck is funny.Every time I see the freeze-frame ending it makes me want to cry (well, I feel sad, at least), because like `Planes&#133;' the freeze-frame captures John Candy at his best, with his heart shining through. I think that is why he is one of the greatest comedians ever. It makes me sad when I think of his death.We miss you, John.John Candy 1950-1994 "},{"Title":"One For The Family To Enjoy","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uncle Buck is a wholesome family film that was written and directed by the late John Hughes who steps out of his parameters of teen comedies and casts John Candy as the bumbling but lovable slob named Uncle Buck who reluctantly but graciously watched over his brother's three children while he and his wife (Garrett M. Brown and Elaine Bromka) go to Indianapolis to attend her sick father. Uncle Buck has found the approval of the two younger siblings Miles and Maizy (Macaulay Culkin and Gabby Hoffmann), but is in a battle zone with his eternally bitter and moody oldest niece Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly). She's the typical rebellious teenager who's going through this stage in her life where she wants to be independent and doesn't want any adult rob her of her happiness let alone Uncle Buck and is in a relationship with an obnoxious punk named Bug (Jay Underwood). This was the pinnacle film for Macaulay Culkin who would later become the top grossing kids star from 1989 to 1994 when his bravado faded out. One of his moments was when he started trivializing Buck with personal questions and Buck responds with quick, passive-aggressive responses, which ends with hims saying, I'm a kid, that's my job. Gabby Hoffmann has also went on a subtle movie career after this including her affectionate performance in the Kevin Costner vehicle Field of Dreams, she also was very charming as the equally intelligent youngest child Maizy Russell. The two characters that truly are the centrepiece of this film is the performances of John Candy and Jean Louisa Kelly who plays the angered Tia. One of the remarkable things about Buck is that he can understand her psyche that seems rather blind to her parents. He also strangely knows what's going on the the cranium of her boyfriend Bug. When he tells Tia that Bug is just using her for some intercourse, he tells her that Bug was the character that Buck was at one time. He's never afraid to humiliate Tia any way possible even in front of her friends just to make his point clear. By the end of the movie, she learns her ways and realizes that he's not as dumb as he looks and she also tries to repair his estranged relationship with his girlfriend who sells tires Chanice (Amy Madigan). Buck also seems to provide more entertainment to the younger kids which is more than their parents could provide for them including having a pancake feast to celebrate Miles' birthday. He also confronts a drunken clown who can barely raise his fingers to reach the door knob. Buck can multitask and handle any problem with the snap of his fingers. John Candy was a brilliant comic actor. Even when he becomes snarky, he's still lovable like a teddy bear. He even had that certain edge to him like other great clowns reminiscent to the silent film era. When he's verbally abused you just want to hug him like a teddy bear. Even when he can't finish telephone conversation only John Candy could pull something like that off. Uncle Buck is a caricature taken from the penmanship of Mr. Hughes and combined with a warm heart and funny dialogue, you can't help but adore the lovable charm that Uncle Buck provides. He will stop at nothing to defend his family's honour including a memorable scene where Buck goes to Maizy's school and confronts her principal who sports an ugly mole on her chin. When she tells Buck that Maizy isn't at the same pace as her other students, he retorts back at her and ends by telling her to get a rat to gnaw off that ugly mole off her face. As the 1980's were coming to a close, Uncle Buck was a memorable John Hughes film. It also carried a character that comes closet to the real character that the late John Candy was. It also made Macaulay Culkin the most watchable child actor of the 1990's. Other notable performances are from Amy Madigan and Laurie Metcalf. The character Uncle Buck himself can be a real person to. If you have an Uncle Buck in your family, consider yourselves as one of the lucky ones. "},{"Title":"A good family comedy","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Hughes' Uncle Buck is a heartwarming family comedy about a father whose father in-law had a heart attack and they have to get to Indianapolis as soon as possible but curious to find out who is going to watch their kids Tia (Jean Louisa-Kelly), Miles (Macaulay Culkin), and Maizy (Gaby Hoffman) while they're gone, and the man who watches them is his brother Buck (played by John Candy in a sensationally funny performance.). Hughes' comedic genius is undeniable, along with the drama in this movie. Not only it is a good comedy but another thing that John Hughes proves in this movie is that how stupid teenagers can be, and how valuable spending time with family members you don't remember or have never met can really be instead instead of spending time with teenage losers of which Tia used to consider friends. "},{"Title":"A funny movie that unfortunately gets too bogged down in the dramatic.","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The main problem with this movie is that it really doesn't seem to know if it is supposed to be a comedy or a family drama. It opens with a real snotty teenager snobbing off her parents and them acting really dramatically over her actions and then a family illness interstate.This movie stars McCauley Culkin and John Candy. I cannot remember the movie's advertising, but it seems that they push it as a cute McCauley Culkin movie. Personally I really don't think it is, rather it is a John Candy movie, and he stands far over Culkin and is the main focus of the movie, while Culkin really only takes a supporting role. Personally I am happy with that, because I really think he is one of those over-rated actors who only succeeds on the cute factor, and I really don't think he is all that cute.The movie is about a bachelor, Buck, who comes to house sit while the parents are away dealing with a family tragedy. Basically it is the story of an irresponsible man put into a position of responsibility and thus is forced to change. He has been leading a woman on for a long time and really doesn't want to commit himself to anything, but after a couple of weeks with the kids and being a parent, he comes to realise that he is wasting his life.Personally, I think the way he handles the teenage girl is quite impressive. The reason he does this though is because he knows what the guys she hangs around with are like, and that he is only doing what is best for her. Her parents seem to let her do what she wants, but Buck has taken a much more interventionist stance with her. As such she resents him and tries to undermine his life, but really she is lost and confused and finally realises that Buck is cool.I actually think that this is quite a funny movie, but unfortunately it gets bogged down in places (like the beginning) where it tries to be more of a family drama. It is really something that irritated me because it did not seem to be able to make up its mind. Even then, once it gets moving, it becomes quite a cool little movie. "},{"Title":"A good film, but not the best Hughes film.","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" UNCLE BUCKThis is a classic film from the 80's that I have never seen before.The film is about a lazy slob who has to babysit his brothers 3 children while they go away urgently. Buck has never looked after anyone before and can barely look after himself&#x85; what makes it worst is the teenage daughter hates him and will do anything to make the babysitting harder than it has to be.This is a John Hughes film. John Hughes was a genius at writing comedies. I don't think there is anyone who has the same vision and imagination he had. There are so many great comedies out there with his name on them. This is not as good as some of the others, but it is still good.There are some really funny moments in this film. It helps that the main character is played by John Candy. I don't mean to throw this word out there too much, but John was a legend also. I love John's work. He has also made so many really good movies. I was gutted when he died. The one scene that had me in stitches with laughter was when Buck tried to use a urinal in a school&#x85; it is hilarious watching him trying to pee kneeling and squatting. Haha! There were a few other moments that had me laughing too.Other cast members were Jean Louisa Kelly playing the moody teenager Tia. She was OK, but there were moments where I found her annoying. Not because her character was horrible, but because I thought she struggled to act certain scenes. There were moments where I thought she just wasn't very convincing, but at other points she was OK. Gaby Hoffmann and Macauley Culkin. They were not very good at all&#x85; but I always find that 99% of child actors can't act. There is the odd exception though. Macauley Culkin made this before he hit it big in Home Alone. And he was even more annoying in this than in Home Alone.All in all, this is a good comedy that is very entertaining, but the story is nothing new. It kind of reminded me of Big Daddy&#x85; although Big Daddy was made after this. It is generally a story about someone who should not look after anyone has no choice but to look after children.I will give this film 6 out of 10.Here's a quarter buy a rat chew that thing off your face!For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Good stuff","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Candy, rest his soul, plays an understated role here. He is funny as usual but low keyed about it. His portrayal of Uncle Buck, the untrustworthy, unreliable, black sheep of the family I thought was excellent. When a family emergency comes up Uncle Buck is the only available person to watch the two kids as the parents must leave. He ends up teaching the rebellious teenage daughter a few things about life and rescues her from a tight situation, causing her to reevaluate her Uncle Buck. The young brother is at times an adversary and at others an ally. So to some it up all ends well and when the parents return expecting a disaster they find everything is okay. "},{"Title":"This is a movie to watch again and again","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very surprised that the rating is currently languishing below 7. It's so enjoyableJohn Candy is great in this one - you're just rooting for him all the way. He plays the part of the lovable slob, who may not always make the best decisions for himself, but is remarkably shrewd when it comes to other peopleGood family entertainment and is a great advert for Uncles (and Aunts too of course) to take a greater role on helping their young relatives find their way in the world Feel good - yes! "},{"Title":"Good Comedy!","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Candy, Amy Madigan, Jean Louisa Kelly, Macaulay Culkin, Gaby Hoffmann, Jay Underwood and Laurie Metcalf star in John Hughes' 1989 comedy. Buck Russell (Candy) is a mild-mannered, out of work guy who is asked to help watch his nieces, Tia (Kelly), Maizy (Hoffmann) and nephew, Miles (Culkin) during a family crisis. At first, He gets into mishaps and doesn't get along with Tia, but after a while things get better. Madigan (Field of Dreams) plays Buck's girlfriend, Chanice, Underwood (The Boy Who Could Fly) plays Tia's no good boyfriend, Bug and Metcalf (Roseanne) plays next-door neighbor, Marcy. This is a good comedy that's one of Candy's best I recommend. "},{"Title":"John Candy - the legend","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An iconic actor, John Candy, tragically died in his sleep from a heart attack in 1994 at the young age of 43, after leaving behind a legacy of films which still make the rounds today, earning him a reputation as strong as it ever was; performances in films such as The Great Outdoors, JFK, Cool Runnings and Plains, Trains and Automobiles. Uncle Buck is possibly one of his most well known performances, as it is indeed a very popular family film, also featuring a very young Macauley Culkin before his Home Alone fame.The Russell family have just moved from Indianapolis to the Chicago suburbs after a job promotion for Bob, the father, much to the loathing of their rebellious teenager daughter Tia. When Cindy's father has a heart attack, her and Bob have to leave to be with him, but their is no one around to watch the kids on such short notice. Bob suggests his brother Buck, but Cindy vehemently objects, showing an absolute hatred for the man she deems a slob and a bad influence. But they have no choice and they give Buck a call, who comes over right away. Tia immediately gives Buck a hard time, but he hits it off with her two younger siblings. Buck has a handful with Tia, whose sleazy boyfriend becomes a problem for Tia, leading Buck to go out of his way to look out for her, at least until her parents come home.It's far from a perfect film, and I'm not a fan of these kind of family movies. Never have been, and probably never will be. But I have to credit John Candy for his brilliant performance as Buck, and it's even the more tragic watching him in this, knowing that he would pass away less than five years later. Jean Louisa Kelly is extremely irritating as Tia, and you'd wonder just why Buck is even bothered... but then again you have to credit him for sticking it out. It has a typical happy ending, where Tia comes around and becomes Buck's best friend after realising what a sleazo her boyfriend was. But as predictable as it is, its enjoyable for at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"I miss John Candy","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The more I see of the foul-mouthed hacks who pass as the comedians of today, the better John Candy seems in retrospect. I miss John Candy and the relatively genteel 1980s. I miss John Candy as Del Griffith. I miss John Candy in The Neat Guys. I miss John Candy as Dr. Tongue. I miss John Candy as Johnny LaRue. I miss John Candy as Mayor Tommy Shanks. I miss John Candy as Harry Crumb. I miss John Candy as the Shmenge Brothers. I miss John Candy as William B. Williams. I miss John Candy as Jack Chester. I miss John Candy. Some day, they will create a strong AI-based avatar of John and we will be able to enjoy a simulacrum of John, which will have to do. "}{"Title":"Tweedle-Dee, Tweedle-Dah!","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh, how I wish I had an uncle like Buck! Just from watching his character in the movie made me want to be a part of his antics and absurd humor. The movie's message is great and the family is nicely cast. Plenty of memorable lines and scenes as well.However all I have to say is... John Candy is an absolute legend. His screen presence alone is powerful and the epitome of everything endearing. The way he told a joke or unleashed sarcasm was fantastic, and portrays Buck Russell to the highest degree. The movie itself is classic Hughes set in suburban Chicago. Jean Louise Kelly reels in a great performance as the angsty teen, and the dialog is both charming and witty. And who doesn't love the beast? The car Buck drives is a memorable and just one of the many antics Buck has in his arsenal throughout this gem of a film.Even if the emotion gets a bit mushy for some, Uncle Buck is a classic, but not just any ole' classic... A John Hughes Classic, strongly driven with a hell of a performance by Candy. "},{"Title":"Good comedy","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uncle Buck is an okay movie with lots of hilarious moments. This is no slapstick comedy, but it contains some dark and morbid humor... in a funny way, without going farther than that, which is a good thing. John Candy is pure genius here. The role of uncle Buck Russell was perfect for him. Buck is a very clumsy yet lovable guy, not to mention that he's got a great sense of humor. I also like the other side of his humor black and sarcastic. He says many funny lines, being «What's his last name, Spray?» only one among numerous others. John Candy was a great comedian. It's sad that he's no longer with us.Jean Louisa Kelly does a great job by portraying the rebellious and vindictive Tia Russell. Tia has a terrible temper and is spoiled and bratty. Strangely that makes her funny (probably because this is in a movie) but in real life I couldn't stand someone like her.Macaulay Culkin and Gaby Hoffmann (two talented kids from that time) star as the brothers Miles and Maizy. Both are cool kids, but Miles is the coolest and cutest of the two.Other actors good in their roles are Amy Madigan as Chanice Kobolowski, Garrett M. Brown as Bob Russell, Elaine Bromka as Cindy Russell, Laurie Metcalf as Marcie Dahlgren-Frost and Jay Underwood as Bug. (that's really his name? lol)Another strength of this movie is in its soundtrack. There are plenty of nice and catchy songs, such as Rhythm of life, Tweedlee Dee, Juke Box Baby, Mr. Sandman and Wild Thing.Uncle Buck's car is awesome. What a cool piece of junk/old land-yacht! It's a 1975 Mercury Marquis Brougham. That car produces unbelievable amounts of smoke through its exhaust pipe and the engine does that explosion-like noise, which only accents the comical effect. But in real life, a car polluting the air like that would make the driver get easily caught by the police. As much as Buck's car is an old wreck, it seems to be a strong car, although a slow one. I also like very much that mouse-like gray Volkswagen Beetle (Pooter-the-Clown's car) - it's sooo cute! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and heartwarming","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uncle Buck is a thoroughly enjoyable, entertaining and heartwarming movie which, despite some minor flaws, is nevertheless worthwhile viewing if you are in the mood for some light entertainment Most of the actors and actresses involved in this movie give high quality and excellent performances. John Candy, whose tragic and untimely death deprived us of great comedic talent and of a wonderful actor, gives a great deal of depth and believability to his role and plays his character with a great deal of warmth and humor that is endearing to watch. Jean Louise Kelly should also be given high marks or her excellent portrayal of her character &#150;despite her role as an angry and disillusioned teenager, she comes across as much more genuine, believable and even likable than most actresses I've seen who are cast in this particular role. Gaby Hoffman and Macaulay Culkin are also wonderfully cute and delightful &#150;if somewhat underused &#150;in their roles. Amy Madigan does well as Uncle Buck's love interest and Laurie Metcalfe is hilarious in her role. The only criticism of the casting of characters I have is in the casting of the children's parents &#150;unfortunately I thought they didn't portray the role of parents very well. Nevertheless they were only minor players so it really doesn't detract from the quality of the movie The script is a bit disjointed at parts and I thought the ending was slightly inconclusive and some of the characters weren't used to their full potential. But none of this detracts from the entertainment and enjoyment value of this movie. This movie has a gentle, feel-good and heartwarming feel to it which flows naturally. I enjoyed watching it and recommend it "},{"Title":"John Candy at his best","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The late, great John Candy always came across as this big, lovable rogue of man who had a heart of gold so 'Uncle Buck' really plays on these attributes to bring together a wonderful comedy that will leave you alternating between laughter and feeling all fuzzy! John Candy stars in the title role of Uncle Buck, the slob bachelor uncle who is grudgingly called upon to babysit his sensible brother's three children while the parents have to go out of town visiting a sick relative. Buck copes admirably with the adorable eight-year-old Miles and six-year-old Maisy. However, his work is cut out when it comes to dealing with the eldest of the children, fifteen-year-old Cindy, who is a sullen, cynical teenager who has no time for her uncle's light-hearted, down-trodden ways. It doesn't take long for the battle of wills between slob and teen to thunder through the house.Watching the film, it certainly seems that Candy was born for such a role. He really brings the character to life, portraying Buck's slovenly side as well as what makes him such a genuinely nice, decent guy who you would love to have as an uncle. Jean Louisa Kelly, as Cindy, nicely compliments him by depicting her initial disgust that she is related to such a man but later discovers they do have a few things in common (such as a sadistic side!) 'Uncle Buck' walks a nice balance between being a hilarious comedy, as we see Buck's antics in dealing with the alien territory of family life, and being a warming family film that doesn't delve into being overly-sentimental. Highly recommended even if it is just to see how Buck curtly deals with Cindy's sleazy boyfriend Bug! "},{"Title":"Classic 80's comedy. Great.","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really wonder what's going on in people's heads. I mean come on. This movie has a 6.3/10 vote average! And then there's some total crap out there that has higher scores. gahhh. Anyway, this is a great movie. It's so entertaining. Candy is brilliant. And Caulkin is really excellent as well, prince of the kid actors. It's not only funny, but it's also cute in a good way (not the sappy I wanna throw up way), and has a nice, side story. People really need to learn to appreciate these great 80's comedies. If you really want to have a great lazy Saturday afternoon watching movies, be sure and rent this one.And remember kids, the blue water's not good for the dog. "},{"Title":"John Candy is at his best in this comedy","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Candy always had a way with comedies, and Uncle Buck is no exception. This film, coupled with Planes, Trains, and Automobiles and The Great Outdoors in my opinion brought out his true comic genius. In all three films, he is the nice, everyday, even if somewhat odd man who has a knack for making the best out of the most difficult and unfortunate of circumstances. Candy is Buck Russell, a 40-year-old bachelor who has been giving girlfriend of 8 years Chanice (Amy Madigan) the runaround about marriage and responsibility. Buck pays his rent by gambling at horse races, and occasionally working for Chanice at her tire shop. Admidst this, we have the suburban Russell family (parents Bob and Cindy, and children Tia, Miles, and Maisy), recent arrivals from Indianapolis. Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly), 15, is surly and rebellious, while younger Miles and Maisy are innocent and much friendlier. Tia resents her parents because they moved to the suburbs from Indianapolis in the hopes of earning more money than they were there despite the fact that the kids were completely satisfied with their lives there. Then, tragedy strikes one evening when Cindy's aunt calls to inform them that Cindy's father has suffered a heart attack. Desperately trying to leave as soon as possible, they have no one to care for the kids. After several calls to neighbors, Cindy reluctantly agrees to call upon Bob's brother Buck to come to their rescue. A city person, Buck is at first out of sync with suburban life. He has to cook, clean, take the kids to school, and hold down the fort in his brother and sister-in-law's absence. Miles (Macaulay Culkin) and Maisy (Gaby Hoffmann) take a liking to him very quickly. Tia, however, butts heads with him for several reasons 1) she believes her parents have turned to him only as a last resort and that they don't care for him as it is (he had not been over to their house until they were stuck for a caretaker), and 2) she is attached to Bug (Jay Underwood), a sleazy rich kid who has malicious intentions that Buck has qualms about. On top of this, Chanice is contemplating whether or not she and Buck are meant to be. Can Buck prove he can be responsible and get his priorities straight for the Russell's and Chanice? Will Tia come around and see Bug for the creep he truly is, and patch things up with her parents and Buck?There is comedy in every scene of Uncle Buck. The Macaulay Culkin/John Candy interrogation scene is the best! The late John Candy will be remembered for his genuine friendliness, humor, and ability to make you laugh when you need it most! "},{"Title":"A Funny Family Film, Candy As Good As Usual","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uncle Buck was a film that was overlooked in my opinion by many people. It is after John Candy's glory days of Spaceballs (1987), Planes, Trains, and Automoblies (1987), and The Great Outdoors (1988)but this movie kept him going for a few more years.Cindy Russel's (Elaine Bromka) father is ill. Along with her husband, Bob (Garrett M. Brown) they will leave three kids behind to travel to Idianapolis to be at his side. Resorted to the last choice for a babysitter, Bob calls his brother Kurt (John Candy) to watch the kids. On his first day, he scares Miles (Macaulay Culkin) half to death and earns an enemy from the eldest daughter Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly) by trying to be nice. It is obvious that Kurt has no idea what he is doing but is able to adapt to the kids (except Tia) and be a mentor. Problems arise as Tia becomes more of a renegade and runs off late at night. Candy's ingenious ways of persuading the kids to brush their teeth or drying the clothes by attaching them to the ceiling fan are funny and inventive. He is protective when he needs to be and supportive when confronted with the problems of the children.The film is a funny family film. John Candy is smart and likable in this and Macaulay Culkin is supportive in one of his earliest roles. The film portrays a family message of togetherness and love, it is effective and fun.Uncle Buck. Starring John Cnady, Macaulay Culkin, Laurie Metcalf, Jean Louisa Kelly, Gaby Hoffmann, and Jay Underwood.3 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"sweet as Candy","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I agree with chapwithwings regarding John Candy vs Chris Farley & John Belushi. John Candy always had a sweetness about him that was obvious in any movie I ever saw him in & even though his comedy was sometimes a little over the top he was still more consistently funny than either Farley or Belushi. He could be laugh out loud funny but so vulnerable that you couldn't help but love him even though he was usually a bit of loser. I just saw Uncle Buck again today. It is one of my favourites along with Planes, Trains & Automobiles. I forgot how impossibly cute Macaulay Culkin & Gaby Hoffman were and Jean Louisa Kelly was totally believable as the angry young teen. I just really love a feel good movie & this is one. "},{"Title":"A hilarious, feel-good movie","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was BORN the year this film came out, but I've managed to see it on TV a few times and am proud to say I love it. Uncle Buck is one of my all time favorite movies. John Candy's jokes are just hilarious. He plays the part perfectly - if he wasn't cast as Uncle Buck, it wouldn't be half the movie it is. There are so many funny parts in this movie, even if you're in a horrible mood, you cannot help but laugh at least once. The music really enhances the movie, also. The teenager got on my nerves, but I suppose that's what she was supposed to do. Macaulay Culkin is charming and cute and has a few good scenes. Uncle Buck grabs onto your imagination and you cannot help but love it. If you haven't seen it, go out and rent it. You won't be sorry.  "},{"Title":"Classic 80's comedy","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is a must see for any fan of 80's comedy. It's pure gold without the slapstick gross outs of current cinema attempts.John Candy IS Uncle Buck. There would be no better choice for the part. During the more serious moment his acting is beautiful and he pulls off the jokes effortlessly. The running joke with the laundry highlights his helplessness in a way that cracks me up, he microwaves the socks! Legend. Jean Kelly is a little strained but she truly is a bitch. The characters work well together. And Macauley Culkin, what can i say, the kid has it down, no worries. Just watch it, you'll laugh your ass off.  "}{"Title":"one of my favorite movies---ever","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Uncle Buck is a great movie. John Candy (God bless you--we miss you) gives his character the warmth and humor that only he can.  I don't think anyone else could pull this role off. The plot is straightforward; a dysfunctional family gets into a bind and Uncle Buck, the shiftless uncle comes in to babysit the children.     Buck is initially introduced as an irresponsible slob without a plan but he becomes the loving uncle.  When Buck goes the house to watch the children he becomes very responsible right away.  It is too much a curve ball too soon.  I think a little buffer between the initial introduction of Buck to when he starts to become responsible would have been helpful. This is a relatively minor quibble.  The other quibble is the language, it should have been toned down a little.    The famous Q and A scene with McAuley Caulkin and Candy is hilarious. My favorite scene has to be when Buck is talking to Bug when Bug rags on Buck's car.   Have you ever heard of a tuneup?-hee, hee, hee ,hee? Hee, hee, hee have you ever heard of a ritual killing? hee, hee, hee Again, this would have been hard to pull off for anyone except Candy. Jean Luisa Kelly is excellent as the angry, acerbic tongued teen.  Amy Madigan has a small role; but she still manages to add something to the story.     A great turning point is when Buck is going to take to take the children to a horse race but stops when he realizes what he is doing.  The transformation of Buck is then complete.  There are some great ending scenes.    Overall, I give this movie a 9.9+++++/10. Please see it.   "},{"Title":"best lines that John Candy was ever given...","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite John Candy movie.  It contains some of his funniest lines; my favorite scene would have to be at the school with the assistant principal; and it is also a sweet family story.  It doesn't make as much fun of his large presence as some other movies have done, to his detriment, I believe. Just a warm, sometimes hilarious, family film that is worth seeing more than once, even if it was made in the trendy 80's. "},{"Title":"He's Crude. He's Crass. He's Family.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        The Russell family consists of Bob and Cindy, the working parents, Tia their 15 year old rebellious daughter, Miles their 8 year old son and Maizy their 7 year old daughter. They live in the suburbs of Chicago. One night, they receive a phone call that reports Cindy's father has had a heart attack, so Bob and Cindy must go to Indianapolis to help out the family. But who are they going to get to watch their kids? Enter Buck Russell, Bob's brother. Buck is a drinker, a smoker, a gambler, and an all-around slob. He has a girlfriend, Chanice who's in the tire business, whom Buck tends to ignore. Bob calls Buck, who was delighted at the idea to watch the kids. So he packs his worldly posessions, including his bowling ball that hit him on the head and jumps into his classic Cadillac that's got alotta smoke belching out the rear.         Tia takes an immediate dislike to Buck. The littler kids like him though. Buck drives the kids to school then fights with the washing machine. He meets Marcie Dahlgren-Frost, the chatty neighbor; Buck dislikes Tia's boyfriend and sends shivers down his spine whenever they meet. Buck can seem menacing at times, 'cause he doesn't take back talk from anyone! He even sent away the clown that would entertain the kids on Miles' birthday for being drunk. Which was a good decision. Next day, Buck goes to a meeting with the assistant principal in a hilarious scene! BUCK I'm Buck Melanoma. MoleyRussell's wart.          Tia warms up to Buck, especially when he teaches her boyfriend a lesson when he cheats on her. Pretty soon, Bob and Cindy return andit's time for Buck to leave. He vows he will return again someday. Interesting film. Quite entertaining. I catch it whenever it comes on TV. Apparently this movie spawned a TV series of the same name where the kids come into Buck's custody when Bob and Cindy are killed in a car crash. The series lasted one year. John Hughes got the idea for Home Alone from this movie. The mail slot scene to be exact.Poor John Candy is no longer with us, but we'll always remember him as the big guy who made us laugh. I do recommend this movie! You'll get to see a young Macaulay Culkin and many other entertaining things.-- "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film About Family and Teen Choices","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. John Hughes is brilliant. John Candy shines. The plotwas perfect and the movie turned out great. Jean Louisa Kelly is perfectfor the girl going through decisions on teen sex. And seeing littleMacaulay Culkin before Home Alone and his fame made him a good start.And before Now and Then and 200 Cigerettes, little Gaby Hoffmann is soadorable. The little ones were my favorite characters. And the scenewhere Miles (Culkin) was asking Buck (Candy) all of the personalquestions was one touching and entertaining scene. This movie was moreof a drama than a comedy once you get the feeling. Everyone should lovethis movi "},{"Title":"The definitive John Candy comedy.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is John Candy at his absolute hilarious best as the family slob and misfit who has to babysit his brother's children for a week.One thing that does bug me, is that subsequent re-releases of this on video, have placed Macaulay Culkin as the star of this movie. It is a wonderful early performance from him, giving a glimpse of the character he would hone to such perfection in Home Alone, but this movie should always belong to Candy, who is funny and charming in every scene he appears in.There may be funnier performances from Candy, such as Planes, Trains and Automobiles, but none showcase his individual comic ability more than this.An essential addition to any video collection, as a fitting momento to one of Hollywood's must loveable and endearing funny men. "},{"Title":"John Hughes' most underrated","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having recently re-located from Indianapolis to Chicago, Bob Russell (Garrett M. Brown) is awoken in the middle of the night to the news that his father-in-law has had a heart attack. He and his wife Cindy (Elaine Bromka) must leave urgently and must need to someone to babysit their two young children Miles (Macauley Culkin) and Maizy (Gaby Hoffmann), and their angst-ridden teenage daughter Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly). Everyone seems to be unavailable, and they are forced to call Bob's brother Buck (John Candy), an overweight, lazy, jobless slob who is more than happy to his brother a favour.Perhaps one of John Hughes' lesser remembered films (compared to the likes of The Breakfast Club, Ferris Bueller's Day Off and Weird Science), it is also one of his underrated. While hardly reaching the heights of Breakfast and Bueller, it is still warm, nostalgic, and funny enough in its own right. As formulaic as the film is, Hughes' nack for the heartfelt sets it apart from the other similar films. And although he made very few films that were good enough to show his comedic ability, it reminded me just how funny and lovable John Candy could be before his unfortunate death (a sentence I never thought I would say/type).The character of Tia has to be one of the most annoying characters in a Hughes movie since Anthony Michael Hall in Sixteen Candles. She is selfish, selt-pitying, and quite frankly, a bitch. This is clearly the point but I was just wishing Buck would get it over and done with and give her a good beating, rather than trying to 'understand' all this teen angst crap.It does allow for a very funny scene involving Buck kidnapping her two- timing boyfriend. An arsehole of a character getting hit in the head with a golf ball is always a winner in my book. And over a decade before Austin Powers made fun of a mole, Uncle Buck delivers possibly one of the best lines of the 80's - (to a stuffy teacher claiming his niece is a 'bad egg') take this quarter, go downtown, and have a rat gnaw that thing off your face!. Even though the film threatens to be ruined by an embarrassingly unrealistic and cheesy ending, this is still a fun film. And one I remember fondly from my childhood when I watched it religiously on VHS, after my granddad purchased it from my father's record shop, uttering the immortal line a-we're buying it (private joke between me and my brother so apologies everyone else).www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"While it's no Planes, Trains & Automobiles, this is a pretty funny John Hughes/John Candy film with some good sentiment","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've seen several of the movies John Hughes made in the 80's (the decade I was born), none of which have failed to impress me. I first saw his 1987 film, Planes, Trains & Automobiles starring John Candy and Steve Martin, in 2006, and thought it was a great comedy. I watched it for the second time late last year, over three years after my first viewing, and this didn't change anything. Uncle Buck is another movie written, directed, and produced by Hughes and starring Candy, both of whom are sadly no longer with us. I had known about this film for quite a while by the time I finally saw it, and I wasn't expecting it to be as good as the 1987 movie, which it isn't, but it was still enough to leave me with a good feeling.Bob and Cindy Russell recently moved from Indianapolis to Chicago with their three offspring, Miles and Maizy, who are both under ten years old, and Tia, who is now a teenager. Cindy is informed that her father has just had a heart attack, so she and her husband plan to go to Indianapolis to visit the ailing man, but first, they will have to find a sitter for their kids. After several failed attempts, it seems they have no choice but to call over Bob's unmarried brother, Buck Russell to take the job, even though he is a lazy, irresponsible slob, which means this could lead to disaster! Nonetheless, Buck agrees to come over and stay with Miles, Maizy, and Tia while his brother and sister-in-law are in Indianapolis. Inevitably, his presence in this household does lead to some trouble, especially with Tia. She does not appreciate her uncle's presence and is currently going through a phase of teen angst and rebelliousness.At the beginning of this movie, it's not all that great. When Tia (played by Jean Louisa Kelly) first appears, it doesn't take long for one to realize that she is a very unlikable, snotty character, though there are some fairly funny lines in that very early scene with the Russell siblings. I also didn't think Macaulay Culkin (in the role of Miles Russell) talking about a certain dog being a ball-sniffer that funny. However, as I had hoped, John Candy does a great job playing the title role. He plays the same kind of character here as he did in Planes, Trains & Automobiles, a lovable slob. I think his talent really helps carry this film, and his character's antics are probably the main reason why so much of it is funny, with the slapstick and comical dialogue. Around the time when the character leaves his apartment and goes to the family's house, I was laughing very hard, with scenes such as his phone conversation before he leaves and Buck knocking on the wrong door when he arrives. If it stayed this way for the rest of the film, I would be giving it at least an 8/10, but it doesn't. Tia continues to be snotty, and for much of the film, I laughed a lot but not as hard as before, but Candy's antics still make much of this film entertaining, sometimes hilarious, with the lead character annoying Tia, scaring her boyfriend, the explosion sound his car engine makes, his conversation with the elementary assistant principal, etc. It helps that there are also some good dramatic moments in the movie, especially towards the end.Basically, what makes this flick inferior to Planes, Trains & Automobiles is that it's not as consistent as its predecessor, and the 1987 John Hughes/John Candy collaboration certainly doesn't have any characters that are as off-putting as the Tia character is here. In between those two films, Hughes wrote but didn't direct a comedy entitled The Great Outdoors, which also features Candy in the cast, but I haven't seen that one, so I don't know how it compares, but Planes, Trains & Automobiles and Uncle Buck are both funny comedies which can also be serious in some scenes, with good sentiment, and Candy really stands out in both of them. The two movies can also easily leave viewers with a good feeling at the end. I can understand why Uncle Buck doesn't have the appeal of its hilarious predecessor, but there is a lot to make it watchable, and it can remind us of the talent Hughes and Candy had. "},{"Title":"John Hughes concoction...meaning it is outlandish, wise, 'human', and silly all at once","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You have to hand it to writer-director John Hughes. With enormous success behind him in the misfit-teenager/high school vein, he managed to branch out into other areas of comedy, finding in the bargain a great ally in comedian-actor John Candy. Here, goof-off adult Candy becomes a better person after agreeing to babysit his brother's wiseacre kids; it's a surefire formula designed to please both cynical teens as well as their parents, and it isn't any wonder the film was a winner with theater audiences. Still, Hughes relies almost completely on Candy's charm to put the scenario over, and one may eventually grow tired of the repetitious gags with the star front and center. The kids are sitcom-smart, the other adults shapeless blobs, and Amy Madigan is too intense, too hyped-up playing Uncle Buck's girlfriend. Later became a TV series, which is befitting since the material was already television-perfected. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"John Candy's most endearing role","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not a big picture by any means, but a wonderful, silly John Hughes film that captures the sweet essence and personality of one of the nicest comic actors of all time. At age 40, he died well before his time. Also wonderful in several other small or unsuccessful films. I love the one where he is Delirious from a high fever and imagines the whole thing. I also love Strange Brew because the premise is about evil Canadian Beer. Here, he is called upon to baby sit his brother's 3 young children, the oldest being 15. His beer drinking buddy is the family dog! In about 90 minutes, we see Uncle Buck grow up before our eyes and become a responsible adult. He saves his young niece from being taken advantage of by a high school lover. Made a year before Home Alone, with a very young McCaulay Culkin. A few minor cuss words, and adult situations, but otherwise toned-down quite a bit from a typical Hughes Production. Maybe an 8 or 9 for everyone else but a 10 for John Candy fans. "},{"Title":"John Candy as a misfit uncle watching his nieces and nephew","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Released in 1989, Uncle Buck stars John Candy as a black sheep uncle who housesits in a Chicago suburb while his brother and sister-in-law take an emergency trip. The teen daughter, Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly), takes a dislike to her eccentric uncle and he doesn't help matters by opposing her boyfriend, Bug (Jay Underwood). Amy Madigan is on hand as Buck's sorta girlfriend while Macaulay Culkin and Gaby Hoffmann play the younger kids.This movie has garnered a decent reputation over the years, but I didn't see it until last night. It's an entertaining, but unexceptional dramedy with Candy as a likable slob, which he plays well. There are quite a few laughs and the conflict between Buck and Tia is entertaining. The redemption of one character and the growth of another are kinda heartwarming.The film runs 100 minutes and was shot in the 'burbs south of Chicago.GRADE Borderline B-/B (6.5/10) "}{"Title":"John Candy is on top form","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bob and Cindy Russell live in a large house in the Chicago suburbs with their children Tia, Maizy and Miles. When Cindy's father has a heart attack they must go to Indianapolis but first they must find a babysitter. Bob suggests his brother Buck and after all other options are exhausted Cindy allows him to call Buck. We can see why he was the last choice; Buck is a slob whose idea of work is betting on the occasional fixed horse race. He arrives late at night and immediately gets off to a bad start. Things don't get any better in the morning; fifteen year old Tia is not impressed with having to have a babysitter and the two younger children don't even recognise him as it has been so long since they've seen him. His strange ways soon amuse Maizy and Miles but horrify Tia who feels humiliated by the situation&#x85; especially when Buck starts threatening her boyfriend then lectures her about how she needs to be more careful. She is determined to get her revenge.This film is a lot of fun; largely due to John Candy's portrayal of Uncle Buck; the character is a slob and acts like a psychopath at times but thanks to Candy he is still a likable character&#x85; this is of course helped by the fact that despite his flaws he really is looking out for the kids. Jean Louisa Kelly does a good job as Tia; a character who is harder to like at first but inevitably improves as the film approaches its conclusion. Gaby Hoffmann and Macaulay Culkin are cute and do well in the roles of young children Maizy and Miles&#x85; on the strength of this it isn't surprising that Culkin went on to take the lead role in 'Home Alone'. There are lots of laughs to be had; mostly provided by Candy&#x85; I particularly liked his speech to Tia's boyfriend about burying the hatchet; both hilarious and rather menacing. The ending was inevitably a little twee but it didn't affect my enjoyment of the film. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Candy","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A much-watched John Hughes classic, this marked a move away from his teen angst/coming of age style movies into more family-focused films with broader appeal. And Macaulay Culkin. Culkin is so funny in this, he got the HOME ALONE films and huge international stardom from it.Anyway, UNCLE BUCK is a must watch for fans of John Candy, because it seems almost to have been written as a tribute to the larger-than-life star. Without him, the film would be awful, but with him it's a lot of fun. Candy plays the unlikely babysitter who's tasked with looking after three kids while the parents are away. Lots of hijinks ensue, with Candy seeming to play a version of his slobbish-but-lovable character from PLANES, TRAINS, AND AUTOMOBILES (he even has a dodgy car that he drives).As usual, Candy is head and shoulders above everyone in the acting stakes, acquitting himself well in the comic and slapstick routines but bringing emotion to the part too. Culkin is very funny too (especially the classic quick-fire questions scene) but I could do without the stereotypical obnoxious teenage daughter character and the ending is way too twee and sentimental. Still, fans of Candy will find this unmissable entertainment and some bits (like when he invades the house party) are fantastic. "},{"Title":"John Candy at his hilarious best!","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frankly speaking, I am surprised how this movie has only managed a rating of 6.9! It is truly a heartwarming movie, of the kind they don't make anymore, and one which you will watch with a smile on your face throughout! You just don't find this kind of warmth in movies in movies these days. John Candy's finest performance after Plains trains and Automobiles; and add to that the charm of the wonderful kids, and you have a comedy masterpiece! Do not miss this guys. Macaulay Culkin is as usual, at his adorable best as is the other child actor, who played his sister Masey. Like I said, do not miss out on this wonderful movie guys! "},{"Title":"John Candy At His Best!","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uncle Buck is another highlight on John Hughe's film reel. It's a screwball comedy that is safe for the family, but luckily has many laughs to go along with that statement. John Candy is a comedian that died before his time, but thankfully he was able to make this movie as this is one of his best roles. The movie has a sweet message and it shows that even the slob of an uncle can show love. John Hughes's film is about a man named Buck who has a very lazy life and has a girlfriend who is very disapproving. After a tragedy occurs, Uncle Buck is called to his brother's house where he is tasked to look after the three children two younger ones and a rebellious teenager. Uncle Buck must prove that he is up to the task. I think the film has some pretty good acting. John Candy is at his best in the lead role. Always the sweet guy and it is not hard to root for him despite his clumsiness. Amy Madigan was pretty good at playing the angry girlfriend. Before Macaulay Culkin became known for Home Alone, he was good in this role as one of the young children. Overall, Uncle Buck is a very sweet comedy. Perhaps it's too sweet for its own good, but this is a great bet if you want to watch a movie with the family. It's funny, but its not vulgar. I do like those sort of comedies, but when I want something safe and pleasant, I now I can count on the talents of John Hughes and John Candy. My Grade A- "},{"Title":"A True Gem!","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Late/Great John Hughes delivers a gem of a film with 'Uncle Buck'. A super sweet, light-hearted film, about family & relationships. Its a film with a big heart!'Uncle Buck' Synopsis Bachelor and all round slob, Buck, babysits his brother's rebellious teenage daughter and her cute younger brother and sister.'Uncle Buck' works because Hughes constructs a solid Screenplay. The Writing is extremely sharp, and the protagonist is very well-defined. There aren't many sub-plots, and even the minor ones that are laced in the Screenplay, don't come across as unwanted guests. Hughes's Direction is decent, as always. Cinematography offers clarity. Editing is rightly done. Performance-Wise The Late/Great John Candy brings Uncle Buck to life, with a stupendous performance. He's cute, lovable & genuine, all through. Undoubtedly, this is among his best performances ever. Jean Louisa Kelly is highly effective, while Macaulay Culkin & Gaby Hoffmann are adorable. Amy Madigan is first-rate. Others lend fair support.On the whole, Sit Back, Relax & Enjoy 'Uncle Buck'. "},{"Title":"review","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the few movies I can watch over and over and still learn something. Best part is - there are so many the schoolers ducking when my, I mean his car, farts in the drop-off scene, the drill; but, the scene he is sitting in the car, with the kids in the backseat (excellent directing choice), and ... spoiler alert. It's held for just the right amount of time. OK I need 10 lines to say what I said in a more succinct form. This, and the fact I need to pay to be able to voice my opinion on this forum ; very curious considering some of the ... I see here. And 'caps', apparently IMDb considers that 'shouting', when used appropriately, are one of the few ways of communicating nuances face-to-face communication would not require. Really curious is the simple fact IMDb picks at the typing/emoting but not a word about spelling my spell checker caught schoolers, but IMDb ignores it. I give a huge 9 for uncle buck (i don't want to shout) and an even bigger zero for IMDb's system. "},{"Title":"Here Comes Buck!","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tia is a lonely and mouthy fifteen-year-old mad at her family for moving her from her childhood home in Indianapolis. She often curses and swears at her brother Miles and sister Maisie, and is very sarcastic. One night her grandfather has a heart attack, and her parents are forced to leave her and her siblings and dog in the company of Buck, an overweight, unmarried slob who has never taken care of a child in his life, heck, he can't even take care of himself! This situation provides tons of comedic moments, but Buck wants to prove that he cares for his nieces and nephew. When Tia is almost raped at a party, Buck rescues her, and she realizes he isn't just an irresponsible loser like she thought.Uncle Buck is hands down the funniest movie I've ever seen! One scene has stuck with me in it for years Buck goes to Maisie's school and meets the principal, who has a large wart on her face. After she tells Buck that Maisie has too much imagination and is a bad egg, Buck loudly lectures her on her bad methods of teaching and concludes with, here... take this quarter, go downtown... and have a rat gnaw that thing off your face! ...Good day to you, Miss. Uncle Buck has classic and unique soundtrack, and great acting. It was great seeing John Candy as Buck and as Miles, the child star of Home Alone and the Good Son.Uncle Buck was a laugh riot from beginning to end, there are no changes I would have made to it. Buck stands up for the children every time, from beating up the sleazy drunk party clown who shows up for Miles' birthday to standing up for Maisie at school.Definitely a comedic and dramatic movie, best one I've ever seen to be honest! "},{"Title":"Great movie for teens","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Now this movie was very simple but i'm very saddened that the guy who played as buck died (john candy). I like the jokes where he teases the kids one by saying he has a friend in the F.B.I who can use science to find out if they don't brush there teeth or not the funny bit is their reaction. They had some great classic songs like Mr.sandman by Pat Ballard also it's very funny when the women thinks he banging his sister in law in the wash room. when he trying to open the washing machine and the women loses it when he says take this load. her name was Darcy i think.I really like how he torments and scares Tia i think it is. another great joke was tricking Tia into going bowling by saying and miming saving her hair off so she won't screw her boyfriend and get pregnant. even at the bowling ally a guy covered in scars hits on her and buck makes him poop himself by scaring him away. and the jokes get better and better its a great movie Watch it! my main problem with this movie is he smokes a lot not a good message to kids. also the sex jokes are just sticking for a movie where even 8 year olds make these jokes so...... Still not a great message. "},{"Title":"John Candy at his best","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Right off, this is easily John Candy's best film. Most when asked..You know John Candy?...More than likely the answer will be..Oh yeah...Uncle Buck. Like many other John Hughes films, Uncle Buck relies on Comedy and a little bit of love. John Hughes was good at that. This was a precursor to Home Alone and when you see both back to back you'll notice the obvious similarities. A lotta comedy and a lotta love.Another one of John Hughes' strengths was casting. He couldn't have picked a better bunch to round out this gem of a film. The 2 kids are just perfect for what this film was made to do. There are so many moments involving these youngsters that'll make you laugh it's just not fair. Goes to show you don't need grownup dialog to get big laughs.For me, what I remember the most when I watch this film is the last shot in the film. I'm not ashamed to say every time I watch this film the last scene makes me cry. I grew up on John Candy all the way back to SCTV and when I see that parting shot of him waiving goodbye, it always reminds me of his death. He died way too young but what a perfect way to show what great actor and guy John Candy was.Man I miss John Candy. "},{"Title":"Okay Kids Movie But It Could Be Better","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought that Uncle Buck was an okay watch. It is not a film that I saw when I was young, so I really have no attachment to it that way. I feel as though there are better kids movies out there than this one.My girlfriend had me watch this because she claimed that it was very, very funny. However, I really did not find it all too humorous. Sure there are times where you might chuckle, but they are few and far between. The characters really do nothing for me. The older daughter plays the role of the antagonist who goes around in a bad mood all movie long for no good reason. The two younger kids are cute, but play very minor roles. The woman neighbor is very strange, not in an interesting way, but in a I really don't want you to be in this movie kind of way. As for Uncle Buck himself, he had his moments throughout the movie, but all in all I really thought he could have been more interesting.As for the story, I thought that too was okay, but could have been better. This might be something that kids might really like, but there are far superior kids movies out there. "}{"Title":"Reasonable piece of entertainment","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Old partners John Hughes and John Candy are at it again with yet another movie written from start to finish for the big comedian. He stars as Uncle Buck, a bit of an irresponsible character who suddenly finds himself in charge of his brother's three young children when the parents are unexpectedly called away.Candy manages to extract a few laughs from his character, though some may find much of the humour more offensive than funny. Generally though the comedy is good, and Candy fans, as well as Hughes fans, should find it enjoyable. Only when the film tends towards the more serious side of matters is it a failure. John Hughes ought to know better than to dabble in areas other than comedy.The sad news of John Candy's death will surely make his films all the more loved, and he will be dearly missed by all who derived pleasure from his many humorous roles. Although not one of his best films, Uncle Buck is one of his most popular characters which he brings to life as only he can, making John Hughes' movie a reasonable piece of entertainment.Wednesday, February 23, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"an enjoyable and easy-to-watch romp","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i like this film.it has a an endearing quality to it that makes it so easy to watch.i think i was six when i saw it in the cinema and i remember renting it a lot and taping it on TV every year for about 5 years,and then i forgot about it until i was going through a john hughes phase recently. it wasn't quite the chuckle-fest i remembered but it brought me back to a time i miss.i find it very easy to watch and is one of those films you can just smile along to. its definitely no planes,trains and automobiles or ferris bueller's day off,but the late,great john candy can make me sit through a lot of unfunny films just because of his presence.this is a film that won't change your life,but if you are a hughes fan,it's a warm inviting film with usual michigan setting,80's new wave music and warm atmosphere to it.it does end all of a sudden and your left wanting a bit more,but its an enjoyable ride nonetheless. "},{"Title":"The John Candy show","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Candy plays a man named Buck Russell, who has to babysit the children of his brother Bob (Garrett M.Brown) and sister-in-law Cindy Russell (Elaine Bronka).The children include little Miles (Macaulay Culkin), little Maizy (Gaby Hoffman) and a rebellious teenager Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly).Tia isn't too pleased about the fact Buck is looking after them.Especially when he gets in the way of the relationship of her and Bug (Jay Underwood).During the babysitting process Buck does some growing as an individual.But can he keep his girlfriend Chanice Kobolowski (Amy Madigan), when he has kept treating her badly for years? The eccentric neighbor, Marcie Dahlgren-Frost (Laurie Metcalf) gets in the way of these two, and therefore makes it even harder for Buck.Uncle Buck (1989) is a John Hughes- movie.And a really funny one, which also has some serious moments.The late great John Candy makes the movie really memorable.If we only still had John Candy, we would all have a few laughs more than we have now.He was a funny man, who could also do some serious acting.Laurie Metcalf is also there in this movie to give some laughs.The kids are great.The kid star Macaulay Culkin was great in Home Alone movies as he was in this one.Isn't it sad how he has grown? I guess nobody stays as a kid forever, not even Peter Pan.He became Robin Williams when he grew up.Gaby Hoffman does really sweet role work.Jean Louisa Kelly is there to offer some drama to this movie.She's terrific.Mike Starr has a great visit there as the drunken clown Pooter.Macaulay Culkin's My Girl buddy Anna Chlumsky makes a brief visit as a school child.Uncle Buck offers some many funny moments, like when Buck does some golfing to Bug.Everybody who hasn't had a laugh in a long time, should watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Family favorite","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Along with Ferris Beuller, Clifford, and few special others, this is one of our family's favorites. It features great quotable lines (I'm Molly Russell's wart) and strives to teach some great lessons. Features some interesting music, and McCauley Culkin is actually cute in this one--before the HomeAlone hits. Although the parents come off as the bad guys, and men in general take a hit or two, its fun to watch with the whole family or just over and over and over for the great story and redeeming values. It is just a movie, after all, but one that is enjoyable many times over. If you don't like it after a couple of viewings, then you're not a fun person, and should be forced to watch Clifford. You'll be stunned! "},{"Title":"Classic Candy humor with touching moments","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rotund Buck Russell (John Candy, RIP) a kind-hearted, but lazy shell of a man is engaged to feisty Chanice Kobolowski (Amy Madigan), Chicago tire shop owner and a woman patiently waiting for that special day. One night, Buck's brother Bob telephones him to request that he watch his three children while they travel to Indianapolis to attend wife Cindy's father's funeral. Buck agrees and watches oldest daughter Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly) and young twins Miles and Maizy (Macaulay Culkin, Gabby Hoffmann). Tia, being a teenager and so forth, takes an instant dislike to Buck while finding him to be slovenly, rude, and quite meddlesome in her high school affairs. Buck approaches a few hardships during the film (ditching the kids and cheating on a horse race while attempting to prevent a possible nasty situation with Tia and her boyfriend) but eventually is there for his young nieces and nephew. And even Tia begins to appreciate him as the movie progresses.Candy's humor is top-notch, and overall, his performance (along with a few aforementioned actors) made for an enjoyable cinematic feature. "},{"Title":"Funny and touching at the same time.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoy watching this film, it's got a great story and an excellent cast.  The story is very simple and far from anything complex, but it is very entertaining and you really grow to know and like all of the characters.  This is a very well written film.John Candy pulls off one of his best performances in his career.  It's so sad to think that there won't be any more John Candy films, I miss the guy.  John Candy has such an great style about him, he's very good at being both comedic and dramatic, he does an excellent job of shifting gears rather convincingly in all of his films.  Jean Louisa Kelly does a very nice job as well, she has one heck of a scowl in the film.  Gaby Hoffman and Macaulay Culkin are two little gems in the films.  They are two tremendous little actors, where have they been all these years?  Amy Madigan was a nice touch in the film, she played her part very well.  Director, John Hughes, pulls off another great credit to his name, I hope he keeps up the good work.If you are a fan of John Candy, definitely see this film as soon as possible, I'm sure you'll like it.  The film has a very nice story to it and is quite touching at times.  There is virtually nothing I don't like about this film, if you like comedic family films, then you need to check this out.  I truly hope that you enjoy the movie as much as I do.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"One of the best feel good movie I've seen","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand the rating this movie gets. Sure it's not an hilarious comedy, sure it's not an amazing script, sure it's not a monumental piece of acting. It's story is simple and mainstream, one that has been told so many times. The man unable to commit to a relationship (or anything else), the troubled, rebelious 15 y-o teenager, the very busy and materialistic parents. It's all there, so much for originality.It's just a perfect blend of every bit of life, so much that everybody learns and grows a little. Including the viewer. And in the right circumstances, this movie is going to be just that... moving!I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"A delight from start to finish!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is a great movie for the whole family. John Hugh's did a fine job directing this movie. John Candy is is a crack up, and his funniest movie since Trains Planes and Automobiles.I have seen this movie about 1,000 times and it's still funny. Jean Louisa Kelly is the perfect snotty teenager, and Macaulay Culkin and Gaby Hoffman are also great as Miles and Maisy.This was one of the movies I watched when I was younger, so it will always be a favorite of mine! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Candy makes it work","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is another John Hughes comedy, loaded with mushy sentimentality, it's manipulative, it's way to cute, but Candy makes it all work. His best and most funniest scene is when he threatens his niece's boyfriend called Bug with a hatchet (I have been known to circumcise a gnat. Hey Bug, Gnat, Bug Gnat, is there some kind of connection here?). 7/10. "},{"Title":"Candy corn","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For anyone who wonders what made John Candy such a lovable lug, this, along with Stripes and his best work Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, will clue you in.  Arguably the weakness movie of the three, Candy's timing and soft self-deprecating humor as a bachelor turned babysitter give Uncle Buck a charming center that helps you endure Jean Louisa Kelly's grating performance, as his snotty angst-ridden niece, and John Hughes' sappy direction. "}{"Title":"Thoroughly delightful from start to finish!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is sheer joy and a pleasure to watch.  John Candy is at the top of his game here.  Anyone who thinks Chris Farley or any other SNL losers even belong on the big screen should watch a master comic actor at work.  We really lost a major talent with Candy's passing.  Along with PLANES, TRAINS, AND AUTOMOBILES, these two films highlight his comic genius and vulnerability.  Buy this one and keep it!   "},{"Title":"Complaints about making fun of Ms. Horgarth's Wart","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many critics complained about the scene where Buck Russell goes to visit her niece's principal, and insults her because of her wart. At first, that might be considered a noble reaction, however what most people forget is that the reason that Buck lashed out at her in the first place was because of her approach to elementary school education, i.e., her inability to tolerate the spontaneity of a six-year-old girl. The wart jokes in the beginning were only a starting off point, if anything. If you don't believe me, next time I'll write the full quote from John Candy, instead of the infamous ending of it. "},{"Title":"John Hughes + John Candy = Pure Joy","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uncle Buck Russell (John Candy) is an unreliable bachelor. His brother needs someone to look after his kids while he and his wife go see her ill father. Buck is the last guy she wants for her kids but they have no choice. The kids are played by Jean Louisa Kelly, Gaby Hoffmann, and Macaulay Culkin. His long suffering girlfriend is played by Amy Madigan.Uncle Buck gets into all kinds of trouble in this fish out of water movie. But his street smarts and good nature win over everybody, and help the family get closer together.This is one of the most joy-filled movie in the happy career of John Hughes. This has to be included in John Hughes' greatest collection. It's due in no small part to the inherit joy in John Candy's nature. He exudes joy and happiness. And it's inevitable that everybody get their happy Hollywood ending. After all this is a John Hughes movie. "},{"Title":"John Hughes cut a diamond out of a clunker","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A well-to-do couple is forced to ask the deadbeat brother-in-law to babysit their precocious offspring for a few days. What sounds like the recipe for a cinematic disaster is turned into a witty, captivating and timeless (I saw this a few days ago, 21 years after it was shot) movie - - for what it's worth, a masterpiece.That said, I once again stumbled over John Hughes remarkably antiquated sexual ethics, as shown up by uncle Buck's attitude towards his sixteensomething year-old niece Tia. Buck takes umbrage against his niece smooching some boy from her school. In what I would describe as a fairly creepy reaction vis à vis normal, healthy and age-adequate behaviour, Buck tries to protect his niece against what he sees as a sexual predator by threatening the would-be Romeo with silly lines like I could circumcise a gnat with an axe. Eventually Tia sees her error and presumably decides to save herself for marriage -- which could take some time, as demonstrated by uncle Buck's girlfriend, who, at roughly 40, still has to wait for her love interest to drop the question ... "},{"Title":"Amiable piece showcasing John Candy's strengths.","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Buck Russell is a slob, but as a last resort during a family crisis, Bob & Cindy Russell agree to let the oafish Buck babysit their three children...Perhaps a tad too sugary with its moralistic social commentary? Director John Hughes has none the less crafted an entertaining, and at times, heart warming film. Watching Buck bulldoze his way through a series of standard chores is never less than entertaining, but it's the interplay with the three offspring of his brother that is the film's successful core.The two youngest children take to Buck straight away, to them he is like one big clown, but the relationship with the teenage daughter is fractious at best. Yet in typical John Hughes fashion, Uncle Buck becomes a rites-of-passage piece, where family values come shining to the fore from whence there was merely mirth.It's John Candy's show all the way, he puts enough skin on the bones of Buck to keep him interesting in spite of the almost crass make up of his persona, and as usual the comedy moments only serve as a reminder that we lost a comic talent when the big man passed away.Uncle Buck, a very safe and enjoyable viewing. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"John Candy + Macauley Caulkin= Laughs","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Caught this old favourite on Tv1 today Uncle Buck is the story of an uncle, Buck (John Candy), who is called in at the eleventh hour to babysit his nieces and nephew when a family member has a heart attack. Buck hasn't been around the family much, but when no-one else can help, the family has no choice.Buck rocks up quickly and lets the family depart. It becomes apparent pretty quickly Buck doesn't know the first thing about kids, and hilarity follows. While looking after the family Buck encounters some cute kids, a troubled teen girl, a flirtatious neighbour, a strict headmistress, a dodgy boyfriend and more, all causing some great moments.This was one of John Hughes's, John Candy's and Macauley Culkin's finest pieces of work, culminating in a classic family comedy. Plenty of great one-liners and classic scenes. Must see. "},{"Title":"Good Movie But Could Hvae Been A Lot Better .","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was a very funny movie and John Candy did a good job in it. He was funny but if they had put Chris Farley in it and not John Candy this could have been a lot better as if you have seen Chris in Tommy Boy you would think so to. John was a funny guy but not Farley funny. Chris Farley was the best person for the job and should have been in this movie AND THAT'S IT . Now John had some funny saying in the movie and he is very funny the character always wants to have a good time and like to help people to (Chris would be a lot better has a fat guy who likes to have a good time) But I recommend this movie to all this was John Candy at his best I couldn't think of anyone(Only Chris Farley) else that could have filled Candy's role as much as he did.Go Out And See This Movie.....NOW !! Add Tommy Boy and all of Chris Farley Movies "},{"Title":"Simply the Best of the Best","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Without a doubt my favorite film of all time. Since a child I have loved this film and I still watch it many years on with the same enjoyment. The essence of this film is the unbelievably likable John Candy who is utterly effortless and yet captures full attention when on screen. John Hughes, one of the most underrated directors of the last 50 years, is on form and keeps the saccharine sweet nature of the film well under control in a way few others could.Other than Candy the rest of the cast is amazing with many household names. As good as they are they are never more than a backdrop for Candy. I have no idea how achieves such a strong presence by doing so little, I suppose its like a sportsman at the top of their game - they make it look easy.If anyone hasn't seen it - go and buy it now, lie down on the sofa with some popcorn and a drink - relax and forget the outside world for a while. "},{"Title":"I miss John Candy","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I miss John Candy.  He was great.  A fat comedian who was actually funny rather than sporadic (John Belushi) or crap (Chris Farley).  This was his uber-role, the outwardly boorish man who is inwardly sensitive and avuncular.  Buck with a chainsaw is a sight you won't forget, and his Q&A scene with the young Macaulay Culkin is a killer too.  Candy was one of a kind. "},{"Title":"Pure Candy","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is John Candy at his purest simplest least complicated 100% shear joy. The story is predictable, but the ride is well worth it. If you love Candy - who doesn't??? - then you'll love this movie. It is rich with all the aphorisms that Candy is known for - his giant heart. 9/10.The rest of the cast - especially the 2 child actors - are excellent.-ZafoidPS my heart thumped at the closing shot.-Z "}{"Title":"funny","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A entertaining film about a bum uncle who has to take care of his newphew and neices during a family emergency. John Candy once again gives a wonderful performance along with a pre Home Alone Macaulay Culkin who is a lovable kid in this film. I could care less for the preformances of the parents and Shanice. Uncle Buck is worth having in the ol' video library. "},{"Title":"One of Candy's best movies","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Again, last night, I saw Uncle Buck. This might not be the best of the movies but it has a special charm that touches my heart every time I watch it. I feel grateful because I had the privilege of having an uncle like Uncle Buck. Most of all would feel lucky to have someone so special in our family. John Candy is one of my favorite actors. I regret his early death and all the wonderful movies he couldn't make. Watch Uncle Buck today, you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Everyone should have an Uncle Buck!","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy is on top of his form playing the black sheep uncle who is called upon in a family emergency to take care of his young nieces and nephew.  His teenage niece takes an immediate dislike to Buck, but the two younger children adore him. Buck's bachelor lifestyle hasn't really prepared him for life in the 'burbs, but he learns to adjust quickly, and he and his young charges are all the better for it.  His conference with the assistant principal at his 6 year old niece's school is one of the funniest scenes in the movie.  This is one of those sweet and funny (but not sappy) films the whole family can enjoy.  Of all the movies John Candy made, I think this one is his finest, just barely edging out Planes, Trains, and Automobiles.   "},{"Title":"My Favorite Comedy","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I grew up as a kid that never could be bothered with television or movies. However, Uncle Buck was perhaps my first favorite movie.  John Candy is hilarious and his character is genuinely caring.  I wish I had an uncle like that.  Mr. Candy passed away when I was probably about 13 or so, I was really upset. I wished his brand of comedy was still around.  Uncle Buck is an incredibly funny, and even heart warming film.  A great rental "},{"Title":"Classic Candy","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy is at his comedic best in this off the wall romp that tells the story of a crude, rude relative who's called in to housesit his brothers' kids...Well, you imagine what happens with Candy steps in the house. The laughs are constant. Candy's timing has never been better. Amy Madigan co-stars.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining fluff","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's a John Hughes flick, don't expect anything deep and philosophical, or even anything unpredictable.  What counts is John Candy is the star, and watching this movie on the Disney Channel helps me better realize how much of a great comedian he was.  It's been a while since his death, and that's why it's good that they show this movie to pay homage to the great John Candy.  The script is sometimes lame, and some of the bits don't work, but most of it does due to Candy's funny antics.  His perfect handling of comic moments, including frying up a giant pancake and beating up an alcoholic clown, helps overcome the predictable, fluffy script.  Plus, since the movie was made in the late 80s it was great to hear Tone Loc's Wild Thing. Uncle Buck is harmless family entertainment--far from great, but definitely watchable and quite funny.  My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Buck wild....","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Time was when you saw John Hughes' name on the credits, you could be assured of a good time at the movies.  Like here in Uncle Buck. He writes and directs Candy et al in a movie where family values, personal worth and hungover clowns are all dealt with head on.Candy was always the perfect foil for a movie like this genial, jovial and handy with a drill.  He does his best babysitting his brother's kids, even when his best is often considered other peoples' worst.I crack up every time I see Candy and Culkin engaged in that Dragnet discussion at the kitchen table (You have a lot more hair up your nose than my dad.  How nice of you to notice.  I'm a kid that's my job.).  Love it.In fact, the whole movie serves as a reminder that Hughes is or was) a good writer.  Note the more slim use of violent slapstick here and the more subtle dialogue.  Signs that Hughes hadn't become immersed in the world of the Three Stooges just yet.You want a good light laugh?  Watch this movie at all costs.  Guilt-free laughs are hard to come by nowadays.Eight stars.  Just say Uncle! "},{"Title":"Didn't catch my attention","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I actually wanted to like this movie. I downloaded it because i thought that maybe it would have that Home Alone vibe. And at some point it seemed that maybe the writer/director John Hughes was trying for the same thing. Even the house of the Russell family looked as if they could live on the same street as McCallisters.Unfortunately, this film lacked the main ingredient that made Home Alone so successful. No, not the dumb robbers and the Saw-like traps inducing pain and agony. It failed to be either funny or gripping. The first fifteen minutes pass, and there's not a single good laughing moment. People on the screen are generally unhappy, pouring their problems right on the viewer's head. But to connect with people's problems you need a dramatic approach, that requires character buildup and a fair degree of seriousness. Instead, we have some slapstick-style comedy tricks like a pile of things falling onto a person who doesn't keep his closet tidy or people yelling on the street in the middle of the night and waking up all the neighbors.I admit that after 20 minutes of watching i turned off this movie. But, to be fair, i gave it enough time to raise at least some amount of interest in me, and it just failed. Maybe Uncle Buck has some moments of glory later on, but if a filmmaker hides everything of value under the overly long, lazy, heavy-hearted and plain boring opening, then it means that something's not right in the Hughes kingdom. A movie where the audience has to sit through all the bland stuff to be given something interesting at last is like a fly in in the ointment, only this time it's not a single fly but a swarm of them and the ointment itself is quite so-so. "},{"Title":"Charming family film which challenges stereotypes","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this film repeatedly as a child, and upon watching it again recently, was surprised to find the same enjoyment as an adult. The plot is simple a typical suburban middle class American family face an emergency, and the parents have to contact the Father's dissociated slob brother Buck (John Candy) to care for their three children while they have to be away. The parents' emergency is not explored, which doesn't matter, for its the screen presence of Candy which makes this film so memorable. Although Buck is seen as the oddity of the family, he implements his own morals on the kids which prove to be as rounded as their own, and quickly adapts to a parenting role despite barely knowing his nieces and nephew. The teenage daughter is also great in this picture - she creates an awkwardness to the comedy as she constantly tries to antagonise Buck to no success. I'm not one for US family comedies but this one stands out to me due to the central character's taste for trash, of which this undertone makes it more palatable, and the sentiment is kept to a minimum. A film of its era undoubtedly (Macaulay Culkin is in it), it's good to know that it still is screened perennially on TV over 20 years later. "},{"Title":"A Great Feel Good Classic","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A great feel good movie that will warm your heart. At first I was not sure if this is an 'adult' movie or just another teenage comedy about some crazy baby sitter. I ended up enjoyed watching it. This movie is for the entire family.John Candy is superb as Uncle Buck. He brings the character alive. This is his first movie I watched and I am already a fan. The character was very obnoxious and very likable at the same time and Candy has performed the role really well. I was sad when I looked him up and learnt he passed away at such a young age. I plan on watching some more of John Candy's movies this holidays. Watch it, if not for the heartwarming comedy, then for John Candy. It almost made me want to have a crazy uncle! RIP John Candy. "}{"Title":"The uncle everyone needs","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a real departure for John Hughes, since he's known for directing teen comedies. If it weren't for the language, drug/alcohol usage, a rebellious teenager, a boyfriend and dark tones, this would (or at least could) be considered a family film. But it's not a family film, only one about a family. Uncle Buck is a guy you either love or hate. Plus, Buck's girlfriend, Chanice, isn't exactly family-friendly either. I own this movie on DVD and have seen it many times. It's a movie you'll never get tired of. Without John Candy in the movie, it might not be the same.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"One of candy's best","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen the movie Uncle buck so many times and each time I still think it is hilarious. The movie basically focuses on Buck Russel who is an unemployed fun loving guy who is trying to avoid commitment and marriage, while at the same time, his brother has to go out of town, so he has to face the very things that he is trying to escape from.His niece's and nephew are challenging him to become a better person while as the story unfolds you realize that Tia one of the niece's has to get a huge chip off her shoulder and Buck is there trying to deal with keeping her in line as well as the two others.This is one of his best movies I think and rather underrated by critics and viewers alike. The story line is great, because it focuses on things that actually have happened in real people's lives and are bringing out candy's best persona and performance of his short lived career.This is a must see for any viewers who are John Candy fans, and one of John Hughes better movies right up there with Ferris Bueller and the Breakfast Club. "},{"Title":"Sloppy, but sometimes funny","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember wanting to see this when it was released, when I was 10 years old, because I was a huge John Candy fan. I never got around to it for some reason. It's an okay movie, but nothing special. John Candy is quite funny, but it suffers from the general slovenliness that I associate with writer/director John Hughes (as much as I hate to speak ill of the dead). The major conflict of the film, between the estranged titular uncle and his teenage niece, is pretty poorly developed. We're not really given much to work with in Jean Louisa Kelly's character other than that she's a moody teenager. She has some ill defined problem with her mother, and apparently doesn't like that Uncle Buck has been absent from her family's life for so long (though her insistence on family togetherness seems contradictory to her general character). The film is at its most amusing when it's just dealing with Buck and the two younger kids, Macaulay Culkin and Gaby Hoffmann (though the film can definitely suffer from an overdose of cutesiness at times, too), or just Buck on his own. Like all of Hughes films, the film finds a lot more energy when it gets to the setpieces, whether they work or not. My favorite bit was when Candy tries to pee at a urinal in an elementary school. "},{"Title":"A seriously overlooked jewel of a comedy!","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are some very negative critical reviews on this movie, which I think personally is unjustified. This film is very funny indeed, especially when the bowling ball falls on Buck's head. John Candy gives possibly his best performance here as Buck Russell. John Candy was one talented actor, evident in Planes, Trains and Automobiles and Cool Runnings, and I think comedy lost a truly great actor when he died, and I don't think he ever got the respect he so rightly deserved. This film is very funny indeed, sometimes the jokes are a little over-familiar, and the sentimentality gets in the way at times. Out of the child stars, who were all excellent, Macaulay Culkin of Home Alone fame is a standout. Cute and self-assured suits Culkin like a glove. There was great chemistry between the stars, and in conclusion, see this gem, of which I will award an 8/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Another under rated John Hughes film","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uncle Buck is one of the funniest movies I have seen. Oh, how I miss John Candy. He is by far one of the best comedic actors that we need today. Uncle Buck is just another fine example of his talents. He is just incredibly funny and this is a film for the whole family. That's what I liked about it. It was clean humor that anyone could enjoy. I think my favorite part was when Uncle Buck had Tia's boyfriend in the trunk. Also, Maculy Culkin(yes, I know that's the wrong spelling) and Uncle Buck, when Mac is interrogating him, that was such a great scene. They just fed off each other and each cue was so perfect. I really wish we could find more of Mac lately. He is a very gifted actor. Also Uncle Buck's old beat down car, just when you see it, you'll understand what I mean. Despite being a bit predictable, I think you'll love this film. It's another great film by John Hughes.8/10 "},{"Title":"This is Brett Wagstaff from 509 Lawerence Hargrave Drive Wombarra NSW 2515","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uncle Buck is comedy which is recommend to watch over and over again, because the movie its self is very funny. The movie is baisc on an unlce who looks after his brother children because the mum and dad has go to away for week because of the children's granddad has a heart attack. So they hire uncle buck to watch the kids, my favourite part of the movie is that when the uncle hits the ninces boyfired with a golf ball and also like when the uncle punches the clown out at his nephews birthday party. Uncle buck who watches the children, is unemployed but his gets up to a lot of trouble with the children. Its a very very funny movie again i recommend it to all ages. I have not seen it at the movies but i have the DVD of it and I watch it over and I over again. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought I would get a chuckle out of this but belly laughs are plenty in this! Yes this is John Hughes movie with children so there is morals and lessons but its still very funny! This is a story of man who ends up watching 3 children! Uncle Buck is a over grown teenager but he is all heart! He teaches the kids to have a good time and in turn they teach him to grow up! The teenage girl is a little over the top (well that is how it is written) but if you need a family movie to watch one night you should sit down and watch! Even if you don't have kids you can still enjoy this movie! While your at it you should also rent Parenthood "},{"Title":"A great feel-good comedy","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In my opinion, this is a good movie with mild raunchy content. The one thing that made me feel uneasy was when Buck (John Candy) did something crass. I don't want to say what, though. Still, this movie had very funny humor, even though it was slightly crass at times. A couple of parts I really liked the most were when Tia (Jean Louisa Kelly) got reprimanded and when Buck caught Bug (Jay Underwood) doing something I don't want to mention. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If I ever have kids of my own, I'm going to show this to them as soon as they're seven. Now, in conclusion, I'd like to say, Parents, I strongly recommend this great feel-good comedy to everyone! "},{"Title":"Great stuff from Candy and Hughes","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Candy was an amazing comedian who didn't get a lot of chances to really shine. Most of his movies are forgettable and lame, but John Hughes recognized his talent and used it to make two hilarious movies (the latter, Planes, Trains And Automobiles, is an all-time classic in my opinion). Uncle Buck lets Candy have great fun with the role of a slobby bachelor who seems like the type of person to keep your kids away from, but who turns out to be an incredibly responsible and caring guy. He has some very funny moments, most notably the scenes with Tia's moronic boyfriend, Bug, and trying to act cool around the kids at a wild party. The supporting cast is good too, especially little Macaulay Culkin, who was always a hoot (I love the way he shouts WHO ARE YOU!? when he first sees Uncle Buck in the house). It's a fun movie, and definitely worth watching for John Candy at his best. "},{"Title":"John Candy","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While we all feel empathetic for the big guys that pass away before their time I think that sympathetic is more the feeling for John Candy. While I do not know what he did in his personal life, he did not die from a drug overdose. And while it is sad for those guys who passed away from drugs it is more sad that John Candy is remembered with them (Belushi, Farley). Remember, they killed themselves, John Candy didn't. While I think Belushi and Farley are great, there is no comparison to the loveability and talent of John Candy.Now, about the movie, Uncle Buck is my favorite John Candy movie. Others are great. Others not so great. But no matter what, it's hard to change the channel when a rerun of any of his movies, good or bad, is on TV. He is always able to pull a smile from me. A good example of this is that at 4am this morning I woke up, flipped thru the channels and chose to watch Uncle Buck. It's almost 6am and I decided to come to IMDb to talk about it.And like others, I hope that some of his classics are re-released on DVD with outtakes that were never seen before. Those re-releases should be dedicated to his memory rather than the last film he was in. I had never even heard of it until this morning. Whatever it is that they do with his movies to remember him as time goes on , I hope its big. Real big.gdigio2@aol.com "}{"Title":"Tweedle-dee-Tweedle-ee-dee!","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is absolutely hilarious with a good cast. This story begins when the family's grandfather has a heart attack. The parents decide to go to Minneapolis, which is where the grandfather is. To babysit the kids, Miles, Maisy, and Tia, they resort to having the dad's bum brother come to watch them. The story moves on in with hilarious scenes and a happy ending.John Candy did an amazing job! "},{"Title":"As Matt Mepham would say, What kind of 45 year old man goes trick or treating?! That guy didn't have any kids with him! I hate that guy! Freakin' 45 years old, screaming to people 'I want a 3 Musketeer","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Buck wild indeed my friends.I'm make this one short and sweet kids.  John Candy is great as the title character Uncle Buck. My mom took me to see this at the local Ford-Tel dollar show when I was a little kid with my sister. Never before had we laughed that hard together.Candy doesn't miss a beat and keeps the laughs coming. My favorite parts include where he makes the BIG pancake, pulls the hatchet out of his trunk to scare Bug, and where he punches out Pooter-the-Clown.Pooter-the-Clown, portrayed by talented yet bit part actor Mike Starr, steals the show as the drunken clown. I must have laughed to the point of wheezing last time I watched this movie (back in January I think).This is one I'll show my kids for sure. John Candy made many classics in his day (Who's Harry Crumb, Armed and Dangerous, Delirious, Planes Trains and Automobiles, the Great Outdoors), but Uncle Buck will always be the fondest memory I had of him.God bless you John. I'll never forget you. "},{"Title":"Typical Candy Performance","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One must concede that John Candy had the role of the lovable loser down to a perfect T. Over and over again he plays variations on the same character and does it well. Here he plays Buck Russell, a shifty type who makes his living apparently by fixing horse races and who is suddenly forced by circumstances to look after his brother's children for a few days.It's billed as a comedy, but to be honest I didn't find it all that funny, although there were a few chuckles, particularly as Buck tries to protect his niece Tia's honour (very much against her will.) But in spite of the lack of laughs I found the movie strangely compelling and never had the urge to tune it out. Jean Louise Kelly put on a marvellous performance as the attitude-filled Tia, and it was interesting to see a very young Macauley Culkin in something other than the Home Alone series, playing her brother Miles.Overall this is certainly not a masterpiece, but it's an OK timewaster in spite of the lack of laughs.6/10 "},{"Title":"We want Candy!!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" UNCLE BUCK (1989) ***1/2 John Candy, Jean Louisa Kelly, Amy Madigan, Macaulay Culkin, Gaby Hoffman, Laurie Metcalf. John Hughes comedy about lovable loser Buck Russell (Candy's finest comic moment) who is forced to take care of his brother's kids when an emergency occurs. Some very funny moments particularly from young Mac and adorable Gaby. Best bits Buck going to Hoffman's school and chewing out her power mad assistant principal and Buck at an impromptu party looking for Kelly and trying to be cool (What's that your listening to, The Grass Roots!) "},{"Title":"Classic humor..","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is, IMO, one of the timeless, classic funny movies made. Also, IMO, this is one of John Hughes' best movies made. Practically 7 minutes into the movie, when Candy first appears, the laughs come on strong. Classic scenes in this movie, much like his 1987 appearance in Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, are prominent. Candy's character, Buck Russell, is a lovable goof up, an underdog of sorts, someone one can't help but cheer on as he defends his youngest niece to an Assistant Principal, fending off preying boyfriends for his oldest niece, or standing in place of the missing parents to celebrate his nephew's birthday party (which, BTW, has a hilarious scene with Buck confronting a Drunken Party Clown; sure to be a howl!!). This movie also teaches patience and understanding in Oldest niece Tia's character. Overall, a funny, sometimes uproar of a comedy; a family movie. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I miss John Candy, dearly.I never miss an opportunity to see Uncle Buck when it's on Cable, and when it's raining and gloomy and nothing else is on, I pop in my Uncle Buck copy that I bought.This movie never fails to entertain and make me laugh.  I can recite Shanice's line perfectlyI'm s'posed to come over and watch youuu?Rent it, buy it, watch it when it's on cable.  Uncle Buck is my 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"John Candy is funny!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy has made a great film! This is a very funny one and everytime i see it his craziness toward Bug just gets more hilarious. My favorite scene would have to be when he's saying to Bug Is there a little similarity? IT'S CRAZY, FUNNY, AND JUST PLAIN FUN TO WATCH!  "},{"Title":"REST IN PIECE JOHN CANDY. I LOVE AND MISS YOU. =(","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  awwwwwww, why did John Candy have to be so fat that he died of a heart attack? He was so funny, expecially in this movie and The Great Outdoors. This movie made me laugh the whole time. Expecially when he was going off on the principal and the ugly wart on her face(while that was going on little Gabby was telling the teacher how Uncle Buck(U.B.) how he does dries the laundry in the microwave and when the teacher asked why she said,Because he couldn't get the god damn door open. that was so funny. I loved the girl who played the teenager. I thought she was perfect for the roll. She is so pretty. Well i could go on and on about the parts i liked but i'm sure you don't want to read one comment that's a page long. RENT THIS MOVIE!!! 10 "},{"Title":"A favorite scene","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watch this movie each time hoping to catch the great scene with Uncle Buck and the Principal.   She comes out with that You're niece is a dreama, a twiddla, a silly haught... and U.B. turns around and verbally blows her out of the office.  I think it is the essence of what people like about this movie, U.B.'s pit bull defense of his family.  Wouldn't we all love an uncle like this on our side? "},{"Title":"the best","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is my favorite movie. john candy is really funny as uncle buck. there are alot of memorable scenes with all the actors. i think the movie is underrated. it is shown on disney channel alot, so watch it sometime. "}{"Title":"Good Movie...But Not Candy's Best.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie the first time I watched it, but, although it has it's funny moments, I don't think that it's the sort of film anyone would want to watch over and over. TRAINS, PLANES AND AUTOMOBILES was Candy's best move because he and Steve Martin worked magically together and it's the sort of film that I never tire of watching over and over again. As for UNCLE BUCK, i'd say it's a funny, but predictable movie. It was good for it's time 12 years ago (!), but watching it again now bores me honestly. 6/10 Good. "},{"Title":"Uncle Buck is pretty good","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is another movie by the master  of teen, and feel-good movies John Hughes. It  just proves that every movie John Candy is  in works. Uncle Buck does work. It's  funny, and sometimes entertaining, but not  all the time entertaining. But most of the  time it works. I give this movie **1/2 out  of **** "},{"Title":"Uncle Buck is a funny movie","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uncle Buck is a funny movie. It doesn't go out of its way to entertain you, but it's sometimes entertaining. I give Uncle Buck **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Funny and enjoyable movie","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much. I really miss John Candy very much and have always loved his movies. He was very funny in this one, as well as Macaulay Culkin. Watch for the humor, and you may be surprised to learn that he is a very caring person although he may not look it in this one. Best part Go have a rat gnaw that thing off your face. Thank you John, and we all miss you very much.. Rest in Peace. "},{"Title":"Very funny, possibly one of the funniest films made.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy is at his comedy best with this marvellous comedy. He plays Buck, a desperate tyre salesman who is called by his brother to babysit his children. From there the hilarity starts.Candy's mere presence radiates with humour. His jolly persona is fitting for the affable and naive character he plays. His inexperience with children and teenage daughters is classic.Great stuff, indeed. Nine out of ten.  "},{"Title":"It's funny and touching and is one of Candy's best efforts.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy as Uncle Buck is exactly the right role for this talented comedian. The film is the story of Candy (Uncle Buck) taking care of his brother's three children for a few days. Uncle Buck's niece, a teen, creates some problems that must be dealt with. This is a good comedy with several touching moments too. Along with Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, Uncle Buck ranks as one of John Candy's best films. "},{"Title":"Candy at his best.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A movie that makes me laugh every time I watch it.  John Candy at his funniest since Stripes.   "},{"Title":"Too many hats.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was pretty funny. It's about a family who fail to find a baby sitter and end up with a drunk, gambling, fat uncle. Uncle Buck ends up interfering in everyone's life, especially his teenage niece. It all works out eventually. I wondered why everyone in this movie wore a hat. There is even a scene where Uncle Buck goes to a party and someone steals his hat.The best part was the part where Uncle Buck is making pancakes for his younger niece and nephew. I about died laughing when I saw the looks on their faces.So tip your hat to this one and make some pancakes because it is a funny movie. "},{"Title":"A Chlumsky perspective","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I discovered this because it is an Anna Chlumsky feature, the only one that she made before My Girl 1 and 2, 1991 and 1994.She only appears for a few seconds, during the classroom scene, not a speaking part, but as few of the class are shown she stands out.With My Girl 1991 posing a problem for me, difficult to enjoy without the 1994 feature as context, I found this useful as additional context. Uncle Buck is so scrambled, mostly highs but some low lows, that for me it can be read as a wider context.There are also bits of detail, such as the look of Buck compared to the look of Vada's undertaker dad, such as the garage, that also link these stories for me.* Low lows. A big one is the school. 1989 and Winona School, not so long after Ryder went to Miss Shannon's School. It is as if the storyteller feels a need to scream. I know I did. Beetle juice. This will be negative communication to anyone who still feels a need to chain themselves to Victorian understandings of godly ways. Warpath stuff. An incitement to war? This could so easily have been an incitement re circumcising beetles instead.At the other end of the spectrum is Jean Louisa Kelly, aged 16ish in her first screen role, playing Tia Russell, the older girl. At times she feels so real and right for the part, but at times an empty drama queen? I find this one difficult. The way that she is shown to be a victim is the most difficult credibility hurdle for me, even though there is a touch of pure beauty as she is revealed. The beauty tells me that the storyteller is telling an up side down story with Tia, one with fall guys all over the place, and that includes herself. Actors are an important food, a staple.Mostly high, but some low lows. Uncle Buck is mostly high, but Tia might consider that to be obvious at a glance. Puritans could have a problem as well, unless they managed to approach the down side carefully, and that can be way too difficult a task, they would be under pressure to knock the L out of this otherwise brilliant Chlumsky. Even Beetle Juice 1988 might be too difficult a lead in to this. This is immature. I can not agree with any view that this is just empty entertainment. To me this is treading on relevant ground. "},{"Title":"and to think that those sorts of things eventually killed John Candy","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mostly an excuse to be silly, Uncle Buck is lovable nonetheless. John Candy plays a seemingly worthless guy hired to watch his nephew and nieces for a few days. In what seems like an eerie prediction, Buck announces that he's quit cigarettes, and then says I'm on cigars now. And then I'll be going to pipes, then chewing tobacco, then nicotine gum. Didn't those sorts of things eventually kill John Candy? Anyway, it's great as plain entertainment, but don't expect a religious experience. That scene at the party is fairly entertaining. It's just too bad that John Candy got typecast in these kinds of roles. Also starring Macaulay Culkin. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite John Hughes films of all time!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My biggest upset with this film is that I think it's too short. They should have had more in it but it's a great comedy. John Candy stars as the Uncle Buck who comes to the rescue of his brother and his sister-in-law when they have to travel to Indiana for a family emergency. Elaine Bromka is brilliant as the mother. Jean Louisa Kelly from Yes, Dear plays the oldest daughter, Tia, with a chip on her shoulder. She doesn't like the move to Chicago and misses her life in Indiana. Laurie Metcalf plays the neighbor who sets her sights on the not so quite bachelor Uncle Buck. I can't forget Amy Madigan as the girl who steals Uncle Buck's heart. Their relationship is no less entangled by Tia's tricks. I think this is one of John Hughes' best films. Macauley Culkin before Home Alone fame plays the younger brother in the film. Anyway, the cast is always great and the writing is more believable. The film was so successful that they turned it into a failed sitcom. But without John Candy as Uncle Buck, it wouldn't have worked out anyway. He is the heart and soul of the film. John, we miss you down here. "},{"Title":"Hughes' last truly great film","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With their backs against the wall when Cindy Russell's father has a heart attack and having desperately to search for someone to watch the kids as her and her husband have to go visit her ailing dad, they have no choice but to ask Cindy's husband, Bob's slovenly brother, Buck to babysit. John Candy is hilarious and endearing as the titular Uncle Buck trying to win over the affections of his nephew and nieces that he hardly know. And the film wouldn't be half as good without his larger than life presence. John Hughes made so many flat out amazing films in the '80's and it's a huge testament to say that this film, as great as it is, isn't even in the top 3 of his films. That being said, it's still so much fun and is highly watchable. Reminds me why John Candy will always be missed and in the hearts of so many forever. Followed by a horrendous and thankfully very short-lived TV show spin-off.My Grade A- "},{"Title":"Other than annoying cursing, a very funny comedy","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very humorous and entertaining family comedy/drama.  There are some terrific scenes and moments in this film.  This movie has a nice pace and a sweet comfortable tone that make it enjoyable to watch.  It has several actors that you may recognize including MacCaulay Culkin, Laurie Metcalf, Gaby Hoffmann and Jay Underwood.  The one annoying fault of this movie is that the foul language is a bit too crude for my tastes.  Little children cursing is not funny.  Get it on DVD and use a filter to remove the foul language in a few spots and this is a fun family film.  John Hughes, the director, displays his comic flair in Uncle Buck and Hughes went on to direct the megahit, Home Alone with MacCaulay Culkin.   "},{"Title":"Not one of John Candy's best, but an okay movie.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     I still have a lot of respect for John Candy.  He used to be one of my favorite comedians at one time.  In Uncle Buck he plays a ne'er-do-well slob who has to prove he's competent enough to look after his brother's kids.  And of course he's a bad influence on the kids and they love him.  The things that kept me from liking this movie completely were Macaulay Culkin (who went on to do those horrid 'Home Alone' movies), and how in the movie Uncle Buck teaches the younger kids bad language.  Hence, the fact that John Candy had to take the role of a slob a little too far, and that whiny stereotypical teenage girl.     All in all, I think Uncle Buck is a decent movie that can be enjoyed by anyone of all generations.  I thought the funniest part was when Buck told off that mean principal.  This movie also spawned that terrible sit-com later on.  This isn't a movie I would watch again, it wasn't John Candy's best.  I've seen worst (i.e. Hot to Trot).   But still, it's an okay movie to get a few laughs out of.  Some might like it, some won't. I give Uncle Buck 2 stars. "},{"Title":"There's nothing great about this film...","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen some great films. Casablanca, Citizen Kane, Brief Encounter, River Kwai, American Beauty...I've seen and loved them all. Uncle Buck has none of the qualities that make a 'great film'. It's basically 95 minutes of fairly disposable comedy.It doesn't aspire to greatness - and THAT is probably what makes it great. Perfect casting and performances, great comic timing and a plot that is completely implausable and totally believable at the same time. Uncle Buck may well be one of my top ten favourite films. So sue me! "},{"Title":"A fun movie!!!!!!!!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy is one of the world's best comedians and this movie shows off his talent. Through out the entire movie you will not be able to stop laughing from the bowling alley to Bucks apartment. It does have a couple series scenes in it but that's only around the end. I wouldn't say that this is his best, but it is still worth the money. 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Not So Funny.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Candy plays uncle Buck, a perpetually unemployed man who is called over to his brother's house when they unexpectedly have to leave town on a family emergency, since they cannot take their three children with them. Buck, not a father himself, tries to win over the kids with happy talk and big homemade breakfasts, but while this works on his young niece and nephew, his older niece Tia is not impressed or interested, just wants to date her boyfriend bug.Schizophrenic film has some moments of warmth, but hints at a serious dark side to Buck; he threatens bug with a power drill after kidnapping him, and putting him in his car trunk! Not to mention the infamous scene where he confronts his young nephew's guidance counselor and throws her some change and tells her to spend it to have a rat remove the prominent wart from her face! Mean spirited and totally uncalled for;What were they thinking there? Later a brief TV series. "},{"Title":"Not the most inventive movie ever made, but still funny at times.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy plays Buck. A man who is sent to spend the week with his two nieces and his one nephew after an unexpected death of a friend of their father's. Maculay Culkin did a good job for being such a young child actor. And I am now wondering what ever happened to him. John Candy does a good job here. Not quite as good a job as he did in THE GREAT OUTDOORS. That was a good film, there. And so was PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES. Both of those were great, classic comedies. This film is one that fits into that category only because Candy stars. Otherwise, it is just another casual comedy that should have never been brought to light. UNCLE BUCK 3/5. "},{"Title":"Candy Is Dandy, But The Kids Turned Me Sour","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Of the four main players in here - John Candy, Jean Kelly, Amy Madigan and Macauley Caulkin - the only one I've never heard about (at that time) was the one that annoyed the heck out of me and ruined the film. Well, she must have done a decent job of acting to make me want to throw her and the VHS into the garbage pail. I am referring to Kelly in the role of teenage brat, Tia Russell. Ironically, six years later she played a stunning and extremely likable role in the person of Rowena Morgan in Mr. Holland's Opus.Candy, as usual, is fun to watch as Buck Russell, or the title character, Uncle Buck. Few actors were better at playing a lovable, hapless slob than Candy. I enjoyed his character in here, but I cannot watch that spoiled teen girl more than once. Also, in the first few minutes of the film, the little boy Miles (Cauklin) says the word G-damn. How bad is that, having a six-year-old kid saying the Lord's name in vain on film? These Hollywood people are such sickos. No wonder many of their child actors turn out to be mentally screwed up, Caulkin being a case in point. "},{"Title":"John Candy gives a great performance....","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" in spite of working with some thin cliché-ridden material. John Candy had excellent comedic timing and he makes the most of it here in a well worn plot of parents being away, a scraping of the bottom of the barrel for a sitter for the children in the shape of the nogoodnik Uncle Buck who fixes horse-races for a living.Uncle Buck can't settle down and has the proverbial long term successful girlfriend with a heart of gold. You get the two young adorable children, the sullen teenager that you know will do a 180 turn before the end of the flick, and you predict a happily ever after ending with reformed characters everywhere. You are not disappointed when all this comes to pass.In the meantime, Uncle Buck displays a disturbing dark side witness his interaction with the school vice-principal and his treatment of his niece's boyfriend. Not jocular at all. Also that neighbour woman, how strange was that? H'mmm. More to this than a simple comedy, it appears. Almost like two movies pretending to be one. 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Hughes saves Candy's Career again","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hughes has done most of John Candy's good movies.  Candy plays this off the wall Uncle.  I like the line  Did you ever hear of a tune up and Candy's reply  Did you ever hear of a serial killing.  Must see to get joke. Well not to ruin the rest rent it, and enjoy. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Uncle Buck, Mom Sucks","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know what bothered me about Uncle Buck? I'll tell you.So, the last time we see the mother of the family (before the happy ending of the movie), 15 year old Tia is telling her how horrible Buck is. He left the kids alone, he drinks, and all that. The mother (I forget her name and don't feel like looking it up) talks to Buck and in the middle of trying not to cry, tells him that he is relieved his is there. Now obviously she isn't, but do they show her talking to the husband and telling him that they need to go home? No. They told Mac Culkin that the grandfather was doing better. But I guess not enough for them to leave and protect their family. Fine. THEN, when the parents finally do come home, Tia is standing there and gives her mother an uncharacteristic hug. Now if I was a mother (and I might never be), and my daughter gave me a hug like that after telling me such horrible things about Buck, I'd think holy sh!t, he raped her, or something equally disturbing. But no. And the mother isn't even concerned about the strange woman that Buck has in their house. Nor does she even seem to care that Buck is sleeping with both young children.A mother like that should be locked up.Oh, other than that I liked the movie. "},{"Title":"Bucked!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Disappointing would-be comedy that could have been a showcase for John Candy's talents, but instead becomes another typical dud from the 1980s that goes for laughs and falls flat more times that not. Candy must take care of his younger brother's children after his wife's father falls ill. Jean Louisa Kelly, Gaby Hoffman and Macaulay Culkin all have their moments as the kids, but in the end the film is just another in the long-line of sub-par films starring the late Candy. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Uncle boring is more like it.","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one did not appeal to me at all.  I like John Candy and all, but this one just wasn't as funny as it could have been.  The poster of it makes it look like a laugh riot, but for the most part I found this one rather dull.  The premise has the parent's of three children having to go somewhere and they need someone to watch the kids.  They turn to the father's brother.  Instead of being really funny though, this one is only worth maybe a couple of chuckles as it takes itself to seriously at times and it mainly becomes Uncle Buck and the older daughter fighting and challenging each other's authority. "}]