[{"Title":"Sillier and gorier","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Toxic Avenger, Part II (1989) by the Troma lunatics Michael Herz and Lloyd Kaufman continutes the adventures of Toxie, a nuclear waste mutant monster hero, and his attempts to maintain peace in his home town, a world of its own (especially in Part I), Tromaville. And so on. Unlike the first film with many clever and satiric elements in it, the sequel concentrates more on the not-so-clever humor and jokes and extremely over-the-top ultra gore and violence that have often been censored (the Japanese VHS, the US Tox Box DVD set and, surprisingly, the Finnish videotape RE-release are as uncut as possible & director's editions) and for a better reason than in Part I. The effects are quite splashy and nasty. There are some genuinely funny moments and bits of dialogue (especially dealing with the Japan/USA territory and cultural differences and also genuine acceptance of foreign people, something that, for example, many Hong Kong exploitation films rarely achieve or dare to do) but the spark of freshness is gone. There is also a James Bond spoof that may be funny for some; at least the long chace is well shot even though the budget for the sequel was notably higher than in the first film. Ultra gory, ultra toxic and often ultra stupid but honest trash cinema. "},{"Title":"Victim of Troma's poor marketing decisions","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Toxic Avenger part II receives a lot of flak from reviewers, and I am not surprised Troma, in their foolishness, decided to sell the R-rated version on DVD with cover boasting an unrated cut. Ignorant consumers naturally thought this WAS the unrated cut, which is but a pile of forgettable dross with all the gleeful violence and nudity cut out by the MPAA. (and most inexplainably of all, the fate of the Japanese thug girl is completely removed, which doesn't contain any hardcore violence in the first place!) Unfortunately (or fortunately, rather) I have only heard about the notorious censored version, as I myself got the Tox Box which contained the TRUE unrated cut, and trust me when I say that it is almost on par with the first movie. The first film was a huge hit in Japan, and Troma received additional sponsorship from that very country, which is why they went there to make their film. Naturally, the plot to get Toxie to Japan is absolutely ridiculous, but that's Troma for you.Personally, I rate this film actually higher than the first, mostly because of the much higher production values which do indeed show gone are the pumpkin-head children and cheap gore effects, as this time we see some genuine splatter, such as a man being squeezed to death in a wheelchair, literally causing him to spill his guts...or a man being chopped up by a very distracted fish marketer! "},{"Title":"oooooh, phoebe I love you","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As with the first and third films in the toxic avenger series, I loved it. I'm not really sure why, but I found myself enjoying this more than I probably should have. Again like the 1st and 3rd it's silly, mad, daft, and pointless... but who cares! Whoever said films had to be anything more than an entertaining way to kill time is lying. Films don't have to make you think. So It's not exactly going to win awards, but that shouldn't matter. See the first three films in the series and laugh at the things you should and shouldn't and enjoy each for their ability to be completely deranged. "},{"Title":"Inferior to the original but good cheesy fun!","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" After the original movie, mutated superhuman hero The Toxic Avenger (Ron Fazio) has been saving the town of Tromaville New Jersey and works at the Tromaville home for the blind with a new girlfriend named Claire who's also blind. However, the greedy chemical company known as Apocalypse Inc. conducted by the evil Chairman who has plans on taking over Tromaville as Toxie goes to Japan to find his long lost father. Meanwhile in Tromaville, Apocalypse Inc. Has taken control of the town as it's bad news for Toxie but can he find his father so he can return to save Tromaville or will he fail? Although very inferior to the 1985 cult classic that made Troma popular, it's still a funny sequel with good laughs and nice splatter here. The acting is still laughable by Troma standards especially the writing, but is missing is that Sarah the first blind chick is now replaced by another blonde bimbo named Claire and doesn't have any of the charm that the original cult masterpiece had.It doesn't quite hold a candle to the original or Citizen Toxie but it's still an enjoyable sequel that isn't quite bad. "},{"Title":"I am the first hideously deformed monster hero of super human size & strength to come from New Jersey, they call me the Toxic Avenger. Total crap.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger, Part II starts with the startling revelation that after the Toxic Aveneger (John Altamura who was apparently fired during production & replaced with Ron Fazio) had rid his home town Tromaville of evil it actually became a nice place to live. This meant that Toxie had no use as a superhero anymore & now suffers from depression & a feeling of utter uselessness (just like directors Lloyd Kaufman & Michael Herz should feel like after producing this), Toxie now works as a concierge at the 'Tromaville centre for the blind'. It's not long before trouble rears it's ugly head though, an evil chemical producing company called Apocalypse Inc. plans to take over Tromaville for some stupid insignificant reason or other but to do so they need to get rid of Toxie. After the evil chairman's (Rick Collins) first plan fails he bribes Toxie's psychiatrist (Erika Schickel) to tell him to go to Japan & see his Father. Leaving his girlfriend Claire (Phoebe Legere), his Mother (Jessica Dublin) & his home behind Toxie heads for Tokyo, Japan. Once there Toxie sets about finding his Father & a woman named Masami (Mayako Katsuragi) helps him in his quest. Meanwhile back in Tromaville Apocalypse Inc. move in for the kill & without Toxie the citizens are powerless to defend themselves. Toxie eventually finds Big Mac Bunko (Rikiya Yasuoka) whom he has been lead to believe is his Father, however Big Mac is all part of Apocalypse Inc. plans to destroy Toxie once & for all...Produced & directed by Lloyd Kaufman & Michael Herz this follow up to the successful The Toxic Avenger (1985) basically proves the first film was a complete fluke, a lucky accident to combine the right blend of bad taste comedy, outrageous violence & so-bad-it's-good film-making, The Toxic Avenger, Part II is a load of crap in comparison. The script by by Kaufman, Phil Rivio & Gay Partington Terry with a load of 'additional material' credits does not contain one single funny moment during it's entire 102 (uncut director's cut) duration. The visual gags are terrible, Toxie walking through Tokyo with a wig & glasses to blend in for instance, or a scene where he heats up a bath with a bad guy in it & as he cooks Toxie throws in a load of vegetable's & spaghetti, a scene where he sticks electrical wires up a woman's nose, sticks an antenna in her head & a microphone in her mouth to which a Japanese radio announcer talks into, a bit where a Japanese bad guy has his nose burnt into the shape of a fish, a bit where Toxie grabs a swordfish head & uses it as a weapon, or the embarrassingly bad overacting & stupid idiotic facial expressions, a guy who literary has a fish for a head & gets turned literary into sushi, the awful comedy music & sound effects & the whole film in general is a pale imitation of what made the original mildly amusing & memorable. The bad taste gags aren't there this time round & the silly childish juvenile humour of the first is also missing, it just feels like a real step back from the original & lets not forget this is Troma here so that is most definitely a bad thing. There are a few gory fights & some serious gore & violence, at least in the supposedly uncut 102 minute version I saw, crushed heads with the bodies spurting out blood, smashed faces, intestines, roses poked in someones eyes & thorns wrapped around their throat, ripped off ears, severed arms & a very graphic & gory scene of a man being chopped to pieces. Unfortunately the special effects by Pericles Lewnes aren't particularly convincing & come mostly within the first twenty or so minutes. The acting is of embarrassing proportions as I've already mentioned. Action wise there is an ultra cheap looking car chase at the end & a few unexciting, lacklustre fights utilising cardboard ninja throwing stars at one point. Horror wise there is nothing a few gory set pieces apart. Comedy wise this is very unfunny. In fact The Toxic Avenger, Part II sucks on all levels really & to top it all off it's atrociously made as well, most of the cast appear to be people plucked from the nearest street corner, continuity is none existent, cinematography is basic point & shoot & the special effects are anything but. One or two gory scenes apart this is total crap plain & simple, do yourself a favour watch the original again instead. "},{"Title":"...worst of all... if Tromaville was destroyed, there'd be no Toxic Avenger 3!","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" You are either going to find the Toxic Avenger films funny, or incredibly stupid. Well, maybe they are so incredibly stupid that they are funny. They certainly grow on you the more you watch them.In this second adventure, all the great stuff happens in Japan. The fish-nose bit is hilarious.But, before Toxie gets to Japan, he fights off the evil minions that are attempting to take over Tromaville. Those who are averse to blood and guts may find his methods a little hard to take.In japan, he finds his father, Big Mac (Rikiya Yasuoka) with the help of a girl (Mayako Katsuragi) he saved from more evildoers. His father is evil also and he meets an inglorious end at the hands of a fish market owner. Toxie dispatches all his father's henchmen, and one henchwoman (Maya Shiraki), who manages to provide some real comic relief. Lots of gore in Tromaville, and plenty of nudity in Japan.Returning home, he sets out to clean up the mess that happened while he was gone. And, he unites with his real father.The production values were top notch in this film. The costumes in Japan were really colorful and I can see why it was such a hit there. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first but still awesome fun!","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger is a hilarious, fun, gory and exciting picture that really has it all. I didn't hear a lot of good things about the second tale of Toxie which was really bad to hear. Most of this negative attitude was centered around the unrated DVD that was actually heavily edited. Luckily the one I got was the true Director's Cut that ran around 106 minutes. This one had pretty much everything the first one had but the main thing that annoyed me was the change of actors. It just wasn't the same, the actors from the first weren't good but they brought a charm to the characters.The plot in this one is crazier than that of the first. This time The Toxic Avenger is lured into Tokyo, Japan by Apocalypse Inc. While he is fighting crime in Tokyo Apocalypse Inc. is reeking havoc in Tromaville. As usual, it's up to Toxie to save the day.The unrated version, as talked about before, apparently omits all the gore. And boy, there's a lot of it. We see plenty of great, gory stuff like intestines getting blown out of a guy's stomach from severe wheelchair trauma, roses being shoved into a man's eyes, someone getting chopped into sushi and much, much more. And the effects are actually really good.Please, don't go into this seriously, take your brain out and watch it. It's a lot of fun and it should please Troma fans and gorehounds alike! 3/5. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Everyone hated The Toxic Avenger Part 2 but i find it to be dumb fun, it definatly is not Oscar Material and the story isnt the greatest but its still a bit of fun and it is very gory and arousing.ADAMS RATING- 70% "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable sequel to the world famous cult classic.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Toxic Avenger II i(1989) is the sequel to The Toxic Avenger. Troma received funding from a Japanese investor to help make a sequel about a superhero from New Jersey. After all the filming was completed, Lloyd Kaufman ended up with a three hour picture. Figuring out that you can make two dollars instead of one, Kaufman edited the film into two different movies. The results being Toxic Avenger II and III. The Toxic Avenger II is campier and cheesier than the first film (if that was even possible)and it has more of a comic book feel. With no more evil left to combat, Melvin is bored with his mundane life. Because of his toxic condition job opportunities are very limited. That's until the evil corporation Apocalypse Inc. moves into Melvin's hometown of Tromaville. Adding to Melvin's personal conflicts, word has it that his father is alive and residing in Japan. What happens next has to be seen.Highly recommended for Cult film fans! "},{"Title":"more gore and stupidity","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Just seen the full uncut version of Toxic Avenger part 2 and as I wrote in my review of part 1, this is typical Troma and again this part goes even further in stupidity. What I did like was the opening part in which we do have a lot of gory moments. Thought this flick would be full of it but once the fighting starts in the opening the silly moments come in too.And in silly I really mean parts were people can turn off their TV. Like when all kind of persons attack Melvin they even start to dance. It's Troma and it shows from there on and it even goes further once Melvin goes search for his dad in Tokyo. You will have it all, the public baths, the ninja, the sumo wrestling guys and of course a lot of nudity. I was surprised that a lot of Japanese girls go the full monty without the body being blurred in editing. Pubic hair and private parts can't be shown due their religion.Over the top with the stupidity that's the part that I don't like but hey, there are so many out there who do like Toxie.Gore 1,5/5 Nudity 1,5/5 Effects 2/5 Story 1/5 Comedy 0,5/5 "}{"Title":"I still love that this sequel is part of the whole Toxie franchise, but it's very inconsistent and riddled with trying to go the extra mile than telling a cohesive story.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In 1984, Lloyd Kaufman and Michael Herz created Troma's brand of a superhero, which was the 'Toxic Avenger'. It brought the small indie film studio into the limelight, which created an instant cult following, and made enough money to finance several further films. This superhero was a nerdy guy janitor who was bullied and picked on, but then fell into a vat of toxic waste and emerged a horribly disfigured superhero who would fight the bad guys in town.The year 1989 came around and Kaufman and Herz decided to make sequel and a quick buck as well, and thus 'The Toxic Avenger Part II' was born. There are a lot of fun moments here with this sequel, but Kaufman and Herz decided the more over- the-top this is, the better the film will be. That's not always the case, as is here with Part II. Instead of telling a somewhat cohesive story from start to finish and furthering along the Toxie character in their own Troma way, Kaufman and Herz decided to drag out gross out and gooey scenes too long and put together a bunch of schlocky-silly skits together with blood and guts, rather than keep the story flowing.Don't get me wrong, there are some genuine good moments here, but they wear out there welcome rather quickly, even when the crew heads to Japan for a change of scenery. After the events of the first film, Toxie lives with his girlfriend and works at the center for the blind. The town he lives in is free of the bad guys, where everyone lives more or less a hippy lifestyle. Low and behold though, the evil people at Apocalypse Inc., the evil corporation whose sole purpose is to pollute the Earth has a new sinister plan.However, they know that The Toxic Avenger will stand in their way of their cruel schemes, thus they try to kill Toxie. Meanwhile, Toxie is dealing with his own personal demons in addition to brutally killing the bad guys. He has sever depression and wants to know who his real father is, which sets him out on a journey via windsurfing to Japan to locate his father. It seems like Troma would have quite the character study here, but let's get serious for a minute. This is Troma, and Troma is mostly just interested in more nudity, gore, and violence.One of the unfortunate things here is that Kaufman and Herz throw all the playing cards on the table in the first fifteen minutes of the movie in one long action scene of destruction, and the film never recovers. They literally blew their wad too early. There are a few later scenes that pack this kind of action, but it is very short lived with long gaps of slow pacing problems. In the end, I still love that this sequel is part of the whole Toxie franchise, but it's very inconsistent and riddled with trying to go the extra mile than telling a cohesive story. "},{"Title":"Who the blank is Claire?!","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Fine, if they had to replace her, I understand. But for Christ sake...can we have some continuity on at least that? Also, Andree Maranda was perfect, just too about her departure. This new chicks voice isn't funny, its grating. As awesome as Troma can be, there are times when I wish they could take their craft just a little more seriously. We have a few gems. A few genuinely funny, cool originals like Class of Nuke Em High, Tromeo and Juliet; Children and 'Combat Shock and even Poultrygeist, but the rest is garbage. Its all garbage, but I mean non-entertaining garbage.Besides the long over done sequence in Japan, it was tolerable. But incomparable to the original. "},{"Title":"Pass on the wasabi","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I watched part 1 a few days ago and totally blown away, so much that I craved a second helping. Toxic Avenger goes to Tokyo, the land of weirdness, has to be cool, right?At the start something immediately stuck out. They slapped a Halloween mask on the Toxic Avenger. It seriously looks as if the make bought a mask at Target. Part one got Toxie's look perfect. How could they screw up this bad? And not just the face, his entire outfit looks slapped together.The beginning opens up with some gory awesomeness. It's looking to be a good movie. Everything is looking good until Toxie goes to Tokyo. At that point the movie really takes a plunge. There's a few over-the-top scenes were great to watch. Everything in between those scenes seems slapped together on the spot. Maybe the film crew felt out of place in Japan.It just didn't have the confidence of the first one. Actually, scratch that, part one is the only true Toxic Avenger movie. Part two should have paid for its dishonor in the true Japanese fashion by disemboweling itself for shaming a classic. "},{"Title":"Pretty Horrible Sequel","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger Part II (1989) * 1/2 (out of 4) Incredibly disappointing sequel finds Tromaville at peace with crime now gone but this doesn't last long when a group of thugs blow up a house full of blind people. The Toxic Avenger takes care of these guys but he also must go to Japan to try and locate his long-lost father. THE TOXIC AVENGER PART II is an incredibly bad movie from start to finish but if you do decide to sit through it then it's best you view the uncut version, which will at least give you all sorts of gore. If you go with the cut version of this then you might as well take a complete star away from my rating. In its uncut form we're treated to some pretty wild gore scenes that manage to be just as disgusting as the ones in the first flick. Most of the action takes place after the home for the blind has been blown up and various thugs take their shots at the Toxic Avenger. He rips them apart in countless ways, turns a midget into a basketball and one poor guy gets smashed to where his guts are falling out all over the place. All that gore is good but sadly there's a lot of bad here. For starters, this thing clocks in at 103-minutes which is at least twenty-minutes too long and in all honesty I'd argue it's about forty-minutes too long. THe film's story is a pretty weak one even by Troma standards and they simply don't do anything with it. The stuff at Tromaville is just boring and the stuff in Japan dealing with the father simply goes no where. There's also a real lack of any comedy, which is something that made the original film work so well. Performances are pretty much what you'd expect from a movie like this. Sadly, everything that made the original so good is missing here so if you must you can fast forward to all the gore scenes and just leave everything else alone. "},{"Title":"The Toxic Avenger Part II","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Hideously Deformed Monster Hero with Superhuman Size and Strength returns to combat a new enemy, Apocalypse Incorporated, who have designs on destroying Tromaville, turning it into a toxic dump, returning pollutants to the environment. But, he is convinced by his shrink(..who works for Apoc Inc)to seek out his father's whereabouts in Tokyo, Japan, with Tromaville's citizens falling prey to Apoc Inc's army of malicious foot soldiers. Will Toxie find pops and return home to save the day? Or, will Apoc Inc rule Tromaville for good? Inferior sequel to THE TOXIC AVENGER, is incredibly silly in a cartoonish way, maintaining the gore quotient including plenty of nudity and foul behavior. The film has the novelty of being set in Tokyo for a large portion of the running time, milking the fish-out-of-water formula for all it's worth as locals often stare in disbelief and fear as Toxie walks the streets seeking out the identity of his supposed father, getting help from a girl he saved from sexual assault. Toxie runs into a series of altercations with villains who work for a mob boss he mistakes for his father. The film shows Tromaville's citizens(..including the elderly, blind, and children)being accosted by the evil minions of Apoc Inc.Unlike the previous film, the sequel is narrated by Toxie(..an annoyance in my opinion that wasn't needed)throughout. The film is essentially an ultra-violent slapstick comedy adventure with Toxie punching holes into faces, crushing bodies, ripping limbs off, the works. There are explosions, a high speed chase where Toxie commands a taxi driver to pursue a biker with a bomb, and even martial arts battles where our hero duels with Japanese thugs on Tokyo streets. The ability of directors Kaufman and Herz to find people with hideous acting is unprecedented for they succeed in casting plenty of Japanese who are just as terrible as their American counterparts. Plenty of bug-eyes and overacting, and, you betcha, not one, but TWO transvestites(..Toxie even tangles with one in Japan, who taunts him as our hero attempts to walk away)who get pummeled for their troubles. I'm happy I had the chance to see the sequel uncut for the first time, the way Herz and Kaufman intended. Seeing Toxie in Japan is as odd as the scene where Jason Voorhies stands in the middle of Times Square..that alone is worth checking this sequel out if you are a Troma fan. "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger Part II may not be has good as the first but it is does have it's moments and is quite good. The gore seems to be limited at parts but they're still is some nice gore effects. The plot is set some years after the first and now Tromaville is a nice place to live (The Mayor in the first film mentioned about it)since The Toxic Avenger cleaned up the city from crime but now that crime's gone Toxie is feeling depressed since he's got no job to do so he and his girlfriend Claire work in a home for the blind but the corporation know as Apocalipse Inc destroy the place with Toxie inside but it's not long before he breaks out and crushes some of them.Knowing that has long as The Toxic Avenger is in Tromaville they can't control it so they send him a fake letter from his long lost father in Japan so he heads off to meet him leaving his home town for them to take over. In Japan Toxie meets with a young Japanese girl and they go off to help look for him.Soon they find Big Mac Junko but the family reunion is cut short when he finds out that his dad is a criminal so after a chase through Japan Toxie confronts his father but his dad has a weapon to kill him and this anti-troma tons, after beating his father the container with the anti-troma tons breaks knocking Toxie out.He wakes up with some Sumo Wreslers who help him and teach him some Sumo moves, he then sets off to Tromaville again where he finds that Apocalipse Inc has took over everything so he takes them on and saves Tromaville.The Toxic Avenger Part II is not too bad and is quite good, it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable, but inferior sequel.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" THE TOXIC AVENGER PART II, is an equally gory sequel that somehow lacks the same charm of it's violent predecessor. This time Toxie is given a different voice (Gone is the deep voice sounding monster). As any TROMA/TOXIE fan can tell you, THE TOXIC AVENGER PARTS II & III, are the ones that brought Toxie (briefly) into the mainstream. Looking back now, it's almost hard to imagine that a series loaded with sex, nudity, violent bloodshed & profanity (The first film even contained violence towards children) would spawn a cartoon series TOXIC CRUSADERS, a line of comic books, action figures & T-shirts, but it did. TOXIC II also amps up the gore effects due to it's much increased budget, in fact the gore scenes here are some of the best this series has to offer! Not only has this one got more gore, it has better gore! Toxie's look is what I refer to as the definitive look for the Toxic Avenger, true the mask looks a little rubbery, but I prefer it over his old look from the first movie. The films bigger budget also allows TOXIC II to amp up bigger & better stunts, action scenes, car chases & impressive explosions.That said TOXIC II does have many problems. The script written by GAY PARTINGTON TERRY (With TOXIC II & III being her only screen writing credits) & LLOYD KAUFMAN tends to miss a lot of what made the first film so special. While the comedy is funny, a lot of it tends to be too juvenile & the film's far more cartoonish/comic book like tone & qualities tends to outshine everything else. The first film wallowed in B movie cheapness & sleaze. It's many elements were over the top, wild & unforgettable, in fact it's own raunchiness actually made the film! THE TOXIC AVENGER PART II however ditches the raunchy humour. Due to many unnecessary, silly scene's (even by Troma standards!) the film feels dull & padded in areas & many of the films better sequences tend to over stay their welcome, such as a lengthy car chase, various fight scenes etc. The films comic book/silly cartoonish feel also extends to the films villains. It literally strips away the Sci-fi/Horror/Suspense elements that were present in the first, as well as it's mean streak. In fact had TROMA left all of the silly moments onto the cutting room floor, out of the four hour long cut, they no doubt would have had a far superior movie on their hands. The film- makers also mess up on continuity from the first film, Toxie's blind girlfriend is here called CLAIRE & not SARAH like it was in the first & his last name is JUNKO not FERD as he is referred to in the original film. Despite TROMA'S obviously bigger budget ($2 million), the film still looks & feels relatively cheap. While it is slicker in look, boasts better gore effects & features bigger stunts, chases & explosions, it somehow lacks the same charm of the first. The acting is pretty bad, since it's clear that a lot of the actors were not really actors at all. PHOBE LEGERE overacts as Claire & doesn't appear to be the same girlfriend character Toxie had in the first for some reason, since the character is radically different. RICK COLLINS is a hoot as the chairman. What should be noted is how Toxie is played by two actors in RON FAZIO (Who also stars as a member of Apocalypse) & JOHN ALTAMURA (Who left midway into the production over creative differences with the film-makers) both men do a pretty good job as Toxie, although what should be noted is how Altamura tends to have a chubbier face than Fazio, that is quiet noticeable. LLOYD KAUFMAN & MICHAEL HERZ do well behind the camera capturing the action scenes, explosions & stunts in all the right areas. The film is also self referential as we see the first movie playing in Apocalypse Ic. headquarters during a meeting. The film does have a feel good ending where Toxie reunites with his real dad.THE TOXIC AVENGER PARTS II & III, were actually filmed as one big epic movie, until Troma realized they had four hours worth of footage & decided to edit the film into two separate parts. Although TOXIC II, has many fun moments, it ultimately falters due to it really not having an ending to it. The entire film just...well ends. The situation with Apocalypse Inc. is never resolved & the films lengthy (but impressive) chase scene used for the films climax made the film feel unfinished. In short, this is strictly for fans of the first film only. Not to say TOXIC II is a complete waste of time. In fact I rather enjoyed it for what it was, but compared to the first film it just wasn't as good. Avoid the Warner Bros. VHS & TROMA'S single disc TOXIC AVENGER PART II DVD (which also bills itself as the UNRATED CUT) since they are both heavily cut & try & get a hold of the TOX BOX set (which includes the first three Toxie movies & the cartoon series first couple episodes) since the full 102 minute uncut directors cut in the first box set, features all over the over the top gore & more footage. Look for SPAWN's own MICHAEL JAI WHITE in an early role as one of the henchmen from Apocalypse Inc. Full marks for the stunts, action set pieces, explosions & gore, but rather less for the movie as a whole. Followed by THE TOXIC AVENGER PART III THE LAST TEMPTATION OF TOXIE.VHS/R-RATED CUT ** stars UNRATED CUT *** stars "},{"Title":"good follow up","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  With a film as awesome as The Toxic Avenger it was bound to be made into a sequel..but actually by accident. According to Lloyd this movie was being joked around about being made into a sequel until a investor became interested in purchasing it and hence this and part III were spawned. Ok..now this and III are pretty much hated by alot of people..including Troma fans. Even Troma itself has stated on Citizen Toxie the 4th film that We're sorry about II and III heres the real sequel. Personally I think it's unfair..I really do enjoy II and even III. Also II and III are the same movie from the same script..but because when they began to edit it they discovered it ran 4 hrs long and decided to split it into 2 movies.Now while not as great as the first or even the fourth , Part II has it's moments. Now this review is based on my viewing of the Unrated Directors Cut DVD that can only be found in the Tox Box as of now due to a screw up in Troma studios where the DVD release sold individually is the R rated version although it claims to be cut. The Unrated Directors Cut is loaded with excessive gore and some extra footage that was omitted from the R rated video version. The people that probably saw the R rated version are usually the most anti part II , because i'm sure this version will change their minds for the extreme gore and violence alone. There are some things I like about this movie , and other things I despise. What I like CONTRARY TO EVERYONE! is Toxie's voice..I prefer the nerdy personality voice rather than the badly dubbed deep booming voice of the first film. His personality is alot funnier and alot more lively than he was in the first film and I thought the nerd actually suited what Toxie still was mentally rather physically making it funnier but Kaufman and everyone else disagrees. What I despise is Claire played by Phoebe Legere. They changed the name of the character Sara into Claire because she was a different actress.. Sara who was played by the gorgeous and sweet Andree Maranda was alot better..since they couldnt get Miranda they got Legere who plays it as annoying 80's trash slut. Not only is she really not as innocently portrayed  as Sara, her personality made my damn teeth grind..I kept hoping Toxie would just crush her head or something..yeah and she's blind???..she sure seems to focus on a characters face ya know..but acting in a Troma movie shouldnt require that but damn..I really hated her.*probably spoilers* Toxie is depressed since he's cleaned up crime in Tromaville despite nearly being blown to bits by Apcolypse Inc run by the evil chairman (Rick Collins) taking down his army of thugs and goons. They trick Toxie into going to Japan to find his long lost father and what insues is hillarious moments of locals being frightend by the hideously deformed creature . Toxie saves a cute Japanese girl from thugs , and she helps him find his father leading him to Big Mac Bunko a sumo wrestling thug smuggling cocaine in fish. Yeah he meets a gorey death...and what follows is sorta a pointless car chase scene that really didn't belong..and then the door opens for the remainder of the chapter in Part III. I guess you should see this movie..and all the Toxic Avenger movies..I liked it..just don't expect a huge classic like the first one..but the bad reviews this movie usually gets is undeserving. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm....","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well I didn't really know what to think when I first saw this movie. First of all I couldn't understand how Troma were willing to change so much about the movie when the first one was so excellent. First of all Melvin appears to have shrunk somewhere in the region of 9-12 inches, his voice is about two octaves higher, none of the original cast are present (even though it had only been 5 years). Most shockingly I thought though was the way that Troma had completely changed the style of the movie. Whereas Toxic 1 had been humurous, gory and genuinely had a 'so bad its good' feel to it, Toxic 2 appears to have gone for a slapstick, comic book feel which totally sucks. Instead of decapitations, and arm ripping from the first movie, we are 'treated' to comedy sound effects, spinning heads and what I can only call a kids or family film. Very disappointing by Tromas standards. It's not all bad though, there are some genuinely funny parts to the movie. More complaints now, why was it deemed neccessary to have Toxie narrate throughout the entire movie? Why is his new girlfriend so annoyingly poor actress even by Tromas standards? When you watch it the second and third times it does get better I guess its just the initial shock of the complete u-turn that they have taken since the first movie. After seeing it a couple of times now I recommend that you give it a shot and make your own mind up on this movie. This movie is not half as good as the first one but is twice as good as the third installment. "},{"Title":"TOTALLY CRAZY","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS) I enjoyed this film for one reason only-it was totally crazy. And crazy films are brilliant. It's nice to sit down and watch a film which is a total joke.The Toxic Avenger battles the evil Apocalypse Inc. corporation and the evil Big Mac Bunko-and there's plenty of crazy situations throughout.The Toxic Avenger is the ugliest hero ever with a blind girlfriend. He fights the good fight against evil throughout the film.The best bit is the beginning where a car pulls up by Toxie's home. Dozens of guys pile out of the car to battle Toxie. That was the first thing that made me laugh. How they all fit into one limousine is beyond me? And they were truly weird guys. There was some guy with a dogface, another guy dressed as a woman and other weird characters.Toxie despatched them all with ease. He decapitated two guys, he twisted one guy into a basketball and he made one guy's head spin round with one punch. It looked like he was going to meet his match at one point when this tall Martial Arts guy came to fight but Toxie was spared when the bad guy realised he had a piano lesson due to start.After the battle Toxie went over to Japan for more madcap mayhem. I won't spoil what happened but it will have you laughing throughout.Long live the Toxic Avenger! "}{"Title":"Disapointing sequel","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Toxic Avenger was Tromas biggest sucess so they make a sequel but most sequels suck and the sames with this.In Toxie 2 Toxie takes a trip to Japan to find his father but while he's gone a company called apocalypse inc takes over Tromaville .So why did I find this movie so bad while first of all it's a sequel right so shouldn't the cast from the original show up.Also Toxie's character is messed up his voice changed to sound like a highschool pimp and his face looked more real in this one it just looks like a guy with a monster mask on.Another thing that I thought was stupid was that they replaced the mindless gore with cartoonish violence and that the film keeps talking about itself, which isn't the problem but the first didn't talk about itself and so why should this one.I've been a Troma fan for years and beening a fan of the first I have to say this is a huge disapointment maybe if more time was put into it it would have been better waiting for toxie 4 which looks excellent. Score * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Cartoon Madness, Men in Dresses, and mini-me + mr. T","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well, here goes. I gotta say, I like Toxic 2 for a different reason from Toxic 1. Toxic 1 was horrible the first time I watched it. I saw head crusing and dying and I though...WHAT HAVE I BOUGHT? But then I watched it again and realised how funny it was. Thus, I bought Toxic Avenger two or, as I lovingly call it, Toxie In Tokyo. THis movie really looks like a comic book. Peoples heads spin, gangs of bad guys (and I mean gangs as in 30 people) continusaly pile out of a limosine. Toxie is now a little sillier, and I think they knew what kind of movie they were making. This could double as something on Cartoon Network without all the violence. Basicly, The first super human from New Jersey goes to find his father in Tokyo. Great stuff. And watch for the hillarious Dubbing. Peace Out! "},{"Title":"Bigger, bolder, better","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A lot of sequels try to outdo the original and often don't succeed. When the first film is so good the makers of the next film have a real challenge on their hands. However, some sequels are actually superior to the first film. Many would agree that 'The Empire Strikes Back' is better than the first 'Star Wars. The first 'Toxic Avenger' is a film that practically screamed sequel by the end and Troma would deliver, but not for a few years. The wait however would be worth it because the makers of part II really went all out so they could give us around 100 minutes of pure weird entertainment.Pros Cast is game. Fun score and catchy theme song. Excellent special and make-up effects, many of which are quite gruesome. Paces zips right along. A lot of hilarious moments and lines of dialogue. Bursting with creative vitality, like the death scenes for instance. High camp all the way. Filmmakers do a great job of taking new chances rather than copy the original.Cons Again not much on plot. The opening fight sequence is fun, but really drawn out. Though it's not supposed to be realistic, some of the acting really is too amateurish.Final thought I know I'm in the minority on this one, but I like this sequel more than part 1. It's more consistently entertaining, is less restrained, and takes the idea further. Sure it's totally silly and not an example of great filmmaking, but it accomplishes what it set out to and that's entertain. It's also quite funny if you're in the right mood.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"So bad that it is not good!","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The first movie was bad but it still had over the top plot that was a lot of fun and some decent deaths scenes in that movie, it kind flowed really well, I was never got bored with the first movie. How this movie was SO bad that it was NOT fun, I thought if you make sequel , you step up your came but the looks of it this series took step back, I felt this movie looked a more cheaper then the first and I didn't the make up effect on tom, is Just looked really odd compare to the first movie. And how did they change for blind girlfriend of Sarah to Clarie in this movie? its start of okay but way to silly even for this series! and then kind of drag on for , i Don't how long, I was really bored with this movie, nothing much happens, He was walking around the movie looking for his China. The last 5 minutes his start to pick and one or punches the movie ends The death in this movie was not as good or as gory as first movie, there some bloody deaths in this movie, One funny scenes in the movie. No where near as good as first movie, 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the first","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" After Toxie; the infamous monster-hero of Tromaville, journey's to Japan after having gotten word that his long-lost father is living there. He makes new friends, whips out new enemy's and ends up being the butt of a few 'fish-out-of-water' gags. Little does he know that he was fed misinformation so that an evil cooperation named 'Apocalypse Inc.' can take over Tromaville in his absence. The satire lack much of the caustic bite found in the first film, but it's still a funny, campy and, yes, often gory ride through the demented minds of the Troma team. Filmed on location in Japan where many of the Japanese actor's voices were dubbed by Michael Herz, Lloyd Kaufman and his wife Pam. Available in R-rated and unrated versions. "},{"Title":"If You Are Aware Of Troma, You Gotta See It.","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The original Toxic Avenger is what got the Troma Studio popular, and created their formula of blending cheesy explicit gore with witty toilet armpit humor. Troma works the formula well in a lot of their movies,not so much with the movies they pick up and release. The original Toxic Avenger is one of my all time favorite movies, right along with Troma's Terror Firmer (love that movie). This sequel is not all that bad. It delivers the witty gore and goof ball humor you would expect from Troma. Nowhere near as good as the original, but miles ahead of Part 3. The down-fall with this movie is that Toxie himself is cheesier here then he was in Part 1, which took away from his character. Still, this is a good Troma product, and should be seen only in it's unrated form. Features a man getting chopped up, elderly person blown-up in wheel-chair, naked women, and a horse hit by a truck (a scene that freaked me out when I saw this on the USA Network in the middle of the afternoon over a decade ago). Watch out for the plot inconsistinances which are everywhere in this (especially Melvin's (The Toxic Avenger) un-explained last name change, as well as his girlfriends first name switcheroo). Two And A Half Stars. "},{"Title":"Disappointing sequel...","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" After I saw the Toxic Avenger I rushed to the video store to rent this. I could not wait to see Toxie bash more bad guys in another fun, gory, nude filled film from Troma. However, I it was quite a letdown. Well, I rented the R version, in which the gore is absent. Unrated is a lot better, some awesome gore in the opening scene. wheelchair kill is awesome. SO there is some good gore, some good action. What's wrong with this film you ask? No original actors. TOxie obviously changed actors. Toxie gets a new, uglier, more annoying girlfriend, Claire. She is nothing compared to Sara. Claire is just...annoying. But thank God she is not in it too much, since he is in Tokyo most of the film. The girl he meets in Tokyo however, is not bad looking and is not annoying. YAY! Also, his mother looks younger than she did in the first film. If it had the same actors it would be better, yet this does not live up to the original. Still funny, and entertaining of course. See this UNRATED. "},{"Title":"Awful film (May contain spoilers)","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is the worst of the toxie series by far. The acting in Tokyo is horrible and you can understand them about half the time. The major problem with this film is all the sudden changes from the original. Like there's a different girl friend of toxie's in this one or it might be the same character just with a different name and played by a different chick. Why is this film made like a Disney movie. After about fifteen minutes it starts getting good with the gore and all. There's 2 awesome killings then the movie goes straight to poop. After the films 20 minutes are up the film is bearly entertainment. H*LL IT'S BEARLY WATCHABLE. Well unless your drunk then don't watch this film. YOU'VE BEEN WARNED. "},{"Title":"Another Great Troma Movie","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I know people are saying that The Toxic Avenger Part 2 isn't as good as the first but they're all wrong! The Toxic Avenger Part 2 has great amounts of gore(as long as you watch the uncut version). The beginning starts off with Toxie crushing a guy in a wheel chair. Is that great or what? There is a chase scene at the end that is really cool. the only flaw is the voice but that doesn't matter much. If you truly liked the first Toxic Avenger and really understood it you should like Toxie's adventures in Tokyo. Please, if you haven't seen this movie yet keep an open mind and go see Toxie Tackling troubles from Tromavile to Tokyo in, The Toxic Avenger Part II!! "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Toxic Avenger Part II is without a doubt a dreadful waste of time. The first film was comical in a stupid kind of way, but this movie doesn't have the originality of the first one at all, so the stupid stuff included in this one doesn't make you even crack a smile. I was bored beyond belief while watching this, so I would not wish the viewing of this movie on my worst enemy. "}{"Title":"Good but different","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I just got the Toxic Avenger boxset with the full (For the first time ever) Gore filled director's cut. The film, simply put, is very very different to the original film and part 4. Part 3 and this (siamese twins, split at birth forming two seperate movies-they were originally the same one) are more fun and family oriantated. The gore is still there but there's more slapstick.Overall a different feel to the first movie and part 4.Parts 2 + 3 have fans of their own, who hate 1 + 4. They are just very different for example; Toxie's voice is a 13 yr old boy, not the deep authorative voice of 1 + 4; Toxie is a little less buff and his mask is different.It's entertaining and has some really funny moments though.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first.","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Gone is the wonderful campiness of the original. In place is a c-grade action no-brainer, wich is not all bad, but pales in comparison to the original. All the meaningless sex and violence is gone, and replaced with crappy jokes and unexplained plot pointers. See it, but don't expect the thrills of the first. "},{"Title":"A disappointment!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Tromas try to make a film for the whole family fails terrible! This sequel of the fabulous trash movie cult classic Toxic Avenger deals with forced humor, protagonists who want to be real actors and an unpleasant touch of mainstream cinema! Theres nearly no gore and the delicate political reprehensible jokes from part one like beating up old grannies or running over children are totally missing! Watch this film only if you are a die hard-fan of the series or better check out the great original for one more time!!! "},{"Title":"quite different from the original but not bad","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Let me first say I am a huge fan of the original TOXIC AVENGER, so I was a bit disappointed to find out that this big-budget sequel takes a completely different approach.  Not that it was bad or anything but all the stuff that made the original such a classic (the low-budget, cheesy acting, bad gore fx, simple storyline, cheesy rock music, and just an overall politically incorrect attitude) are not present here.  TOXIC AVENGER 2 takes itself too seriously with it's half-way decent acting, dramatic music, big-budget, and wait a sec. Troma actually tried incorporating a complex storyline into it too!  Also, Toxie's mask was incredibly fake looking and his voice was very wimpy sounding!  I can't for the life of me understand why they'd change his voice from being deep and sinister sounding to this now girly voice.OK so it isn't all bad.  Some of the jokes and gags (while forced) did make me laugh a bit and if you see the true uncut version it's loaded with some serious gore.  I loved the bad cheesy gore in the first movie, but in this one the gore is both realistic and sickening.  Oh and his new blind girlfriend is a lot hotter than the old one (if not goofier too).  I was entertained for much of the movie but gimme the original over the sequel anyday.    "},{"Title":"Odd... But It Is From Troma","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The sequel to Troma's most popular film finds The Toxic Avenger after he's created a crime-free Tromaville. The New Jersey townsfolk are now able to pursue all their interests namely dancing in the street. As for Toxie he now works at The Tromaville Center For The Blind, along with his girlfriend, as an activity co-ordinator. One day while refereeing a blind-basketball game, Toxie finds himself being attacked by the henchmen of an evil conglomerate president. Seems Apocalypse, Inc. intends to take over Tromaville by any means necessary. However, they first need to get rid of Toxie. Since force seems to have failed they send him on a wild goose chase to Japan to find his father. Eventually, Toxie gets wise though, and returns to destroy big business for good.Throughout this picture it seems as though the film was shot and then the directors tried to edit together a movie however they could. Yet, this only adds to the films charm. Furthermore, The Toxic Avenger, Part II features a cast of hundreds (mainly local non-actors I believe), who are for the most part hilarious. My only major complaint is Toxie's girlfriend, who is just so annoying. Skeeter gives this one *** for ****. "},{"Title":"Only For Those Who Thought the Original Got Robbed at Oscar Time.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Numb-skulled production has the titled character (part split by Ron Fazio and John Altamura) being lured by evil Japanese environmentalists to Tokyo so they can start to trash his home-town of Tromaville. The Avenger, hard to look at and listen to, is easily fooled by the group of Orientals. Will he realize he has been led astray before it is too late? Tongue-in-cheek the whole way, The Toxic Avenger, Part II really makes very little sense and becomes a stupid parody-styled bore by its finale. The first was awful so I do not know why this one would be any better. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Troma-need I say more?","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is not NEARLY as good as the first (if the first can be considered good).  But where else can you see midget basketball, headless break dancing, and kabuki kung-fu?  It's only in The Toxic Avenger Part II.  I crack up every time I see the old lady get machine gunned out of her wheelchair.  And it has a great theme song and the dubbing is wonderful.  Actually it's one of the stupidest movies I've ever seen.  It has some of the most ridiculous stuff ever thought up.  Why is Toxie's blind girlfriend's name changed?  Her name is Sara in the original, now all of a sudden she's Claire.  What's the point?  Has it been so long since the creators have watched the original that they just forgot her name?  And the mysterious dark rider??!!  I'm not even going to get into it.  Quite a bit of this movie is pointless.  Wait...just forget everything I have said.  You weren't meant to think and watch this movie at the same time.   Enjoy it for what it is  a Troma masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Not like the first movie....","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  the first toxie film was dark, gory, and hillarious. This film is un-gory battles to cheezy jazz music, no real gore at all, and the worst toxie mask I have ever seen! His deep voice is now a light, happy voice, characters from part 1 reappear by actors that look NOTHING like them (Claire, Mom Junko), characters names change (Claire or Sara?). It is lacking all the brutal violence, dark humor, and political incorrectness of the first film. If it weren't for nudity, this movie could have been rated PG. Really lame. I am a HUGE fan of part 1 though, just cant stand this one. "},{"Title":"Toxie-lite","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger, hideously deformed creature of super-human size and strength is back in this sequel that gets mostly everything wrong. Toxie goes to Japan to find his father at the suggestion of his psychiatrist, whom is in cahoots with an evil corporation who just want the avenger gone to get a stranglehold on Tromaville in his absence. With new actors for Toxie and his girlfriend, who has a different name in this one, a much less grim, much more comical tone, and a plot line that can't hold a candle to the original. Even with the totally uncut version that one can only get if you buy the Tox Box DVD set, the gore is the only thing going for this one. And if you happen upon ANY other version forget about getting any enjoyment from this one at all. While the first one is a low budget classic, this simply is not.My Grade D+ Eye Candy Erika Schickel has a very quick nip slip; Phoebe Legere goes topless; one villianess gets fully nude; and a few extras in a bath house scene show various amounts of skin Tox Box unrated director's cut DVD Extras Intro and Commentary by director Lloyd Kaufman; Second commentary with director Lloyd Kaufman, Troma editors Gabriel Friedman and Brian McNulty; Toxie on Japenese TV; Interview with Fangoria managing editor Michael Gingold; Interview by Videohound's Mike Mayo; the same damn Radiation March that's on EVERY Troma DVD; Clip from Lisa Gaye; Toxie 15 Years Later mockumentary; 2 PSAs; Troma Intelligence Test; Troma Studio Building Tour; Ad for Lloyd Kaufman's autobiography; Stills gallery; Theatrical trailer; and trailers for Toxic Avenger, Toxic Avenger 3, Def by Temptation, Class of Nuke 'Em High, Sgt. Kabukiman N.Y.P.D., Tromeo and Juliet, Bloodsucking Freaks, & Surf Nazis Must Die "},{"Title":"Just didn't work this time around","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed the first Toxic Avenger, but the sequel just didn't work. There are some funny gags in the opening, involving members of the home for the blind, but past that point I was simply bored.  The sequel is also filled with much quirky, low-brow humor.  Only this time it's not funny!  Much of the gags revolve around crusty Japanese stereotypes.  Almost every Japanese character seems to be chopping fish.  Does everyone in Japan chop fish? The Troma films are known for being more than a little irreverent, but if you're gonna use humor involving racial stereotypes, at least make it funny.  I can't laugh if I'm handed the same crap I've seen a million times before! One thing I have to give credit for is the gratuitous nudity.  There's even more gratuitous nudity than in the first.  But altogether I was very disappointed, and the film ends with a tedious chase scene which had me huffing and puffing, dying for the movie to fade to black.  At least there's one hilarious line from the film which had me bawling with laughter. After the villain says a line from Shakespeare to one of the local citizens, the citizen (an elderly woman) responds by saying, F**k you--that's from David Mamet.My score  3 (out of 10)   "}]