[{"Title":"The plot summary has it ALL WRONG","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"104 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is NOT about vampires; there isn't a single vampire in it. Instead, it is about a man (played by Cage) who loses his mind and begins to think he is a vampire after an unsatisfying series of one-night stands that make him feel empty.  It's a metaphor about relationships, and this is one fantastic black comedy.  Check it out and thank me later. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"56 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  After reading so many comments who put this film down, I just had to write something to its defence. True the film is confusing in many ways; you get confused what is real and what is not for example. But some of the hilarious scenes in this movie is more than worth it. In one of his most remarkable, over-the-top performances, Nicolas Cage transforms from an up-tight snob to a complete lunatic. This is one of the most original and unconventional movies I have ever seen. Those of you who want predictable Hollywood movies should steer away; for the rest of you this can be an enjoyable experience!  "},{"Title":"very, very misunderstood","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"53 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vampire's Kiss is a comedy. In no way is it supposed to be akin to legitimate vampire movies. It parodies horror films and satirizes life in the big city, much like other popular films, such as American Psycho, do. In my opinion, Vampire's Kiss is much better than American Psycho because instead of trying to be creepy and ultimately failing, Vampire's Kiss is hilarious. I gave it a ten. I'm certain that I'll be seeing it over and over again.ME, 2006 Looking back at this comment about the film and writing anew from a later date, I can certainly recognize why this movie isn't for everyone. If you are a fan of absurd, inane, dark, wry humor, and you enjoy watching movies for subtlety and detail THIS IS IT. Watch out for the mimes, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A brilliant psychological study of a jilted lover.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"51 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, so Nicolas Cage eats a real cockroach. So the majority of  the people who've seen this film don't understand the plotline. So black comedy is new to a late eighties audience. These points are minimal considering the great lengths to which the filmmakers go to to reveal the downfall of a hideous relationship between two  people. A relationship gone so wrong that the male has to commit himself to therapy and conversely...murder. Imagine a relationship wherein the woman was so soul sucking, so evil in her ways that you now feel as if she has sucked you dry - literally and figuratively - you are left as nothing but (in this case) a shell of a man - a walking corpse, yearning for the life's blood that she has stolen from you through your very own veins!Cage gives the performance of his career and should have received an Oscar as the twisted, quintessential jilted lover who now desperately tries to recapture the joy of his most passionate and influential relationship by revisiting the empty, vampiretic bar hopping lifestyle where he found her - working his way through subsequent women, then just as unsatisfactorily moving his way through rape, suicidal tendencies and ultimately, murder. It's tone is unforgiving alternating comedy and tragedy, confusing us as to whether he is really a vampire or just thinks he is.  By flipping from his therapeutic sessions to his bitter and pathetic reality we see just how badly his male ego has taken rejection. Here is a film where the simple plotline of a man being bitten by a vampire and believing he has become one becomes one where we see a man disintegrating before us, sliding into madness because he is forced to face his empty life. His obsessive attention to detail, penchant for house bugs, absence of reflection in the mirror and avoidance of sunlight all match the prerequisites for vampirism, but his clumsy attempts at finding another woman and to fill the void that is left by a woman put so far onto a pedestal he cannot reach are overshadowed. This is not a film for the feint of heart but for anyone who has ever been screwed over by a woman they have loved (or imagined they did) this is a welcome little cult revelation that makes them laugh and brood at the same time.  "},{"Title":"Just keep watching","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those movies you have to watch to the end to truly appreciate. It's a mess -- but it goes places you can't imagine despite the workmanlike screenwriting and the slow pace  of the beginning. It's worth it. Charlie Kaufman could have written it, it's so bizarre and beyond the norm for the silly Hollywood movie it's disguised as. I don't want to analyze it as some metaphor for a relationship with a blood-sucking bitch as others have or argue what's real and what's not. I watched it expecting some anemic late 80's comedy and with that expectation, I found myself bolting upright in my chair in surprise at what it delivered. One of Nic Cage's best early performances, ranks with Raising Arizona and Valley Girl, except he's never sympathetic -- ever. In that sense, I understand what people mean when they say it's a monster movie. "},{"Title":"Vampirism can be a state of mind","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There is something to be said for excess. Nick Cage as Peter Lowe is the great god of over-acting - which makes this film truly remarkably funny. Peter goes from controlled yuppie to mad vampire right before your eyes. This is one of my favorite films because it is so over the top.  Again, it is little things like calling the psychiartist when he has cheap vampire teeth in his mouth or skipping down the street chanting  I'm a vampire that make this film uniquely freaky.   "},{"Title":"INSPIRED!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A few of my friends use this film to test compatibility of potential mates. I knew I had to ditch my girlfriend when she didn't laugh.  Not once, not ONE TIME! I am stunned that people are voting this film down.  I'm extremely picky and rarely go to movies because I find most to be 'cheapy' but this is an INSPIRED piece of work by everyone from Nicolas Cage (his BEST performance - even better than Leaving Las Vegas) to the director, ALL the actors and to the especially insane writer Joseph Minion of After Hours fame and one or two unproduced scripts I found funny if not disturbingly so. THIS IS A MUST SEE!! Peter, right?  Yes!  Peter!  Right!  How are you?  How AM I?* You know...A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z!  That's all you have to DO! "},{"Title":"Funny, unintentional or not...","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" One of the funniest movies I have ever seen, but I still wonder to this day if it was meant to be this way or not. The central idea of the story revolves around Peter Loew, a mid-level executive in a book publishing company, who believes himself to be bit by a vampire (the way Jennifer Beals looked in this film, most men probably would give their right and left jugulars to be in his place, but I digress...) In any case, it is rather unclear until the end if these nocturnal visitations by the lady vampire are real or not, but watching Nicholas Cage play the deranged Peter Loew was a masterpiece of comic acting. It is questionable if the director intended the movie to be this way, as it does come across as a serious horror film in many ways, but my wife and I are pretty sure that he saw he had a turkey of a horror script and so told Cage to run with it and take it as far over the top as possible. And does he! Highly recommended for those that like black comedy and psychological story lines -- but if you are looking for real horror fare, just skip it. Best scenes when he eats a roach, eats a bird (not seen on screen), and bites a woman to death with his plastic vampire teeth. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Fascinating!","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I cannot believe how many people have ragged on this film! Then again, it is a work of art, and by definition will be appreciated by some and hated by some. The thing is, everyone keeps ranting on about how confusing it was and how it jumped around too much but I believe firmly that was very much intended. Cage's character was experiencing those exact feelings. He was on the brink of madness where absolutely nothing made sense, and in a typical Hollywood movie you'd sit back and be able to decipher the character's madness. You'd be able to see where he cracked and why and where he was going with it. In this one, you experience what the character experiences. You have no idea what the heck is going on, and I DIG that! I think this is truly a fantastic film. I've seen it countless times and it never fails to entertain. A must see if you're into the dark comedy genre. There are so many little moves and bits of dialog that get overlooked the first couple of times - so if you enjoy it - see it again so you can pick up on the little things. I highly recommend the DVD with the commentary as it points these type of things out. I'm not crazy about Cage, but this movie remains in my Top 5 of all time. I wish everyone could enjoy it as much as me. Then I'll be happy. Holy sh*t, then I'll be happy - Peter Leow "},{"Title":"Loneliness is a Stake Through the Heart","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" VERY BIG SPOILERS!!! YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!!! I explain the entire film here, so if you don't want to have it explained, read no further!!I did receive an e-mail from the screenwriter of this film, thanking me for understanding his movie after I posted this comment on Amazon years ago. I really think it's an underrated film that people misunderstand and everyone can relate to on some level.Vampire's Kiss is an overlooked and misunderstood dark comedy, and an allegory for the isolating fear of intimacy that can mimic being undead. It features an amazing physical comic performance by Nicholas Cage as Peter Loew, which deserves recognition. I've read reviews wherein people feel that the character of Peter Loew has descended into madness as a result of being a jilted lover. But his madness is more about his crushing loneliness in a world where everyone around him seems to be happily and easily paired off. In spite of his solitude, he is emotionally unable to connect to anyone. One night, he brings a woman back to his place, but while in the throes of passion, a bat flies into his apartment through an open window. The mystery and excitement of fighting off the bat becomes more erotic and interesting to him than the willing beauty in arms. Terrified of the closeness he craves, he sabotages any opportunities he has for actual relationships in favor of elusive fantasies and hallucinations. His fear of commitment manifests itself as a vampire lover in the form of Rachel (Jennifer Beales), a woman he has had one conversation with in a bar, but has never made it with, except in his own fantasy world. There, she is a dominatrix of a vampire, sucking the life out of him, making him a prisoner of her demands, hungers, and lusts, distracting and preventing him from any real intimacy, promising him that soon, he will be with her.The vampire is the only one to whom he can say I love you, and she doesn't even exist--not really. She represents the promise of something more exciting right around the next corner. Peter simply cannot commit to anything else when love and immortality are so close, but so far...Vampires seem human, but they aren't human; they FEED ON humans. They're dead, cold, and isolated from the warmth of human existence--which is exactly how Peter feels, and why he believes he's becoming one. Plus, he is suicidal, and he seems to have found a way to receive deliverance in the form of his secretary Alva, who he begins to torment in earnest once he discovers she carries a gun, hoping she'll (justifiably) use it on him.It's over the top and a little hard to understand, but I found this movie so engaging, and Cage's performance so funny and astonishing, in spite of the dark subject matter, that I have watched it over and over again. I have used this movie as a compatibility test for potential mates (which is sort of Peter-ish, I guess), and if they like it, I know it's a good match. If it had been performed another way, by another actor, I don't know if I would like it at all. But Cage brings brutality, vulnerability, tragedy, and all-out desperation together to create a complex character the like of which I have never seen before or since. Sure, there are violent scenes; but are they real, or are they his imagination? We'll never know. So much of Vampire's Kiss happens in Loew's mind that all we know for sure is that he's desperately alone. So alone, he's willing to drive someone else over the edge to help ease his pain. He's so cowardly and childish that he uses terror as a way to achieve relief from his horrible solitude--death is less frightening to him than actually getting close to a real person. Therein lies the horror, and the sadness, of Vampire's Kiss. And in Cage, lies the performance which makes this story watchable, and actually very funny. "}{"Title":"Definitely worth watching","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This was one of the first 5 DVDs a friend of mine bought, and so I was curious about his choice. It turns out that the things he chooses may not be perfect, but are invariably very interesting, as it turned out with this one. The only thing I knew about this movie beforehand was that it's supposed to be a 'comedy,' and that Nicholas Cage eats a cockroach in it. So it was hard for me to understand why someone would be so passionate about what seemed like a goofy 80s comedy, but it turns out that this film is much more than that.The opening photography is wonderful, silhouetted spires and Gothic details of Manhattan, that seem to reveal the city as a place of dark supernatural horrors within the regular city we know, which was a great start.You're read in other reviews that this is a film about a man going crazy, and that his insanity takes of the form of believing that he's a vampire. What I haven't heard anyone talk about is the place that his misogyny plays in that&#133; he's lonely and isolated and sees women as objects, so as he goes insane he thinks he's a vampire, someone who picks up young women, rapes and kills them&#133; and is cursed by this. In this movie, Nic cage HATES women, and a lot of discomfort comes from how horrible he is to them. I thought it was also ingenious how his therapist, the imaginary vampire woman, the woman he jilts near the beginning, and his secretary all look vaguely alike. The director could easily have thrown in a bit of psychoanalytic depth by having a photo of the character's mother looking similar as well.There are things in this movie that are vaguely funny on their own, but in the context of the movie it's not really funny at all. I mean yeah, people do goofy things as they are mentally breaking apart, but is that funny? All the actors do a great job, but I love the therapist, who seems so engaged and curious. I like how Cage's character assumes the movements of movie vampires, because in his lunacy that is probably what he is imitating.There are only two problems I think the film has. The film goes out of its way to show how Alva, the abused secretary, needs her job and is not supported by her family, but Cage's behavior is SO over the top ANYONE would know that she has a lot of reason to go to the police. That she remains so passive is a little frustrating and unrealistic to the point where it detracts from the film.The big problem, I think, is that ramping up so quickly to high insanity in the first hour, there's really nowhere for the film to go in it's last 45 minutes. The scenes of cage humiliating his secretary become repetitive, as do other aspects&#133; but overall definitely worth watching.I was shocked to learn that this was the director's first full feature, as it is very assured and well-done. I would love to have a chat with the writer to know HOW this idea came to him and what he thought about it. That's it.--- Check out my website devoted to bad and cheesy movies at www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Sometimes hilarious, but very disturbing movie about a very disturbed man","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I would have to agree with other viewers who have characterized this movie as one of the strangest they've ever seen. I think Nicholas Cage's outrageous performance is the very definition of an actor taking huge risks. In my opinion, he succeeds.The film is at times unsettlingly funny, but by the time it's near the end, Peter Loew has become such a pathetic character that no one's laughing any more. SPOILERS AHEAD The death by staking at the end did not strike me as funny in the least, even though earlier scenes of Loew running around with the plastic fangs in his mouth were a hoot. The character is so basically unlikeable that, when it is obvious he has succumbed to complete madness, it's tragic, but not really moving. The question of how sane he is from the beginning is ambiguous.Whether the Rachel character is a distortion of someone he had a failed relationship with, or perhaps was someone who did not ever return his love to begin with, is hard to say. I think she might be seen as a general representation of all his failed attempts at worthwhile relationships in general.Things that baffle me about this film are ambiguities that include such questions as did he actually rape the secretary? It seems he did, though I'm not sure why. Did he actually kill that woman in the nightclub? Maybe.Did the brother actually kill him? I think so. I am going to propose an idea that may sound absurd, but it's probably no more strange than anything in the movie anyway.I wonder if it's possible that, in spite of all the vampire fantasies about Rachel, Peter Loew is actually in love with Alva, but is either too crazy to realize it, or can't act on it in a normal way. I don't think this totally implausible, partly because there were times I got the feeling she sort of liked him, in a way. His treatment of her is so mean and ultimately violent, that this idea may seem impossible. But if he's a man driven crazy by women rejecting him, it might be that the only way he can respond to a nice, normal woman is to abuse her.This is a very strange movie, which ultimately is not a comedy. People have compared it to Repulsion. I am reminded of Melville's Bartleby the Scrivener, and also George Romero's Martin, about a young man who murders women, believing himself to be a vampire. There is a scene in which Martin puts on a cape and a pair of plastic fangs as a joke to scare his elderly cousin, who believes him to be a genuine, supernatural vampire. I wonder if that movie could have been an influence.The other film I'm reminded of is Scorsese's King of Comedy.This movie is worth seeing at least once, but it's definitely not for everyone. Cage is downright embarrassing to watch at times, which is realistic for the character. He makes a basically hateful character at least interesting, and his descent into madness is all too believable to sustain the humor which often pops up in unlikely places. "},{"Title":"Interesting & fairly amusing.","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Off the wall black comedy about Peter Loew (Nicolas Cage), a literary agent in NYC. Peter, dissatisfied with the nature of his life, has an encounter with a one night stand, Rachel (Jennifer Beals). She bites him on the neck, and the increasingly unstable Peter believes that she is a vampire and just turned him into one. He makes life absolutely miserable for his flustered secretary Alva (Maria Conchita Alonso), while going about doing what he thinks a vampire's gotta do.Joseph Minion (After Hours) wrote the screenplay for this movie that, if nothing else, will go down in history for Cages' performance. We've seen him be prone to shameless overacting, but here his eccentricities reach one of their peaks (see also Deadfall). As other reviews have stated, though, there is more going on here than meets the eye; the movie isn't really to be taken literally. Yes, there's violence (the gore is courtesy of Ed French), and a few pointed teeth, but it's not too hard to reason that Peter is really manufacturing all of these nightmare scenarios in his head. A rather uncomfortable bit of business with Peters' office harassment of his poor secretary forms the major subplot.Cage really is something to see, as he overturns his sofa, crawls beneath it, and turns it into a makeshift coffin, shuns the sunlight, and is forced to buy ultra cheap plastic fangs. He's rarely been THIS unrestrained. He even affects a light, posh accent at times that is just downright silly. The supporting cast is fine (Elizabeth Ashley plays Peters' psychiatrist, Kasi Lemmons a potential girlfriend), and the ladies are all tantalizingly sexy. Now familiar faces like John Michael Higgins and David Hyde Pierce have small roles. The filmmaking isn't especially stylish but it's competent enough. (The photography is just gorgeous at times.)Vampire's Kiss does generate some modest chuckles. It's kind of tough going at times, and really should have been shorter, but it makes for some decent entertainment.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's better every time I watch it (spoilers...as if that werepossible by now)","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw this film years ago, I loved it. I just watched it again, for perhaps the fourth time. I still love it. It's a film lover's film.Usually, when a film appears to be one thing and turns out to be another, it's disappointing. The opening motif is usually the more interesting one, and you typically see scenes from that part of the movie, to get you in.This movie is an exception. It looks like a vampire movie for a while, and then it makes a very satisfying turn into a dark comedy about something else much more real. And everything about the film helps to pull it off. The direction is finely tuned to presenting us with a very normal, fully populated background of people such as you would find at any job, or on the street, or in a real family, against which we watch Cage move from almost-contained desperation to way past coming apart at the seams.If nothing else in the film were even good, his performance would be worth the price all by itself. I suppose that much of the direction to him was simply to play it out as big as possible and remember that to madmen nothing they do seems mad.Luckily, much else in the film is very good. Maria Conchita Alonso, as someone else pointed out, is cast against type, and very effectively. Demure, forgiving, conscientious - she is any female worker prior to the era of telling men to go f*** themselves at the drop of a hat. She has a job. She needs her job. She is scared of the boss, but she accepts his apologies for clearly bizarre behavior, repeatedly. Part of the setup that makes it obvious early on that Cage is way out of line (he's much more, but you don't know that for a bit) is his heavy-handed, dishonest treatment of this simple, pleasant young woman. Part of why he is so effective is that she is very effective.I have even come to believe that Elizabeth Ashley's character, the psychiatrist, is a better accomplishment than I thought originally. I thought it was just too much of a parody of the profession to add anything. After seeing over the years how little psychiatry has to do with any notion of getting better, I think the film's take on the therapy is not only funny but absolutely on the mark for showing the patient stranded in his insanity while making futile cries for help to the shrink. And Elizabeth Ashley's completely aloof formula responses are delivered with a perfect mixture of words that seem to convey interest. They are no more authentic than her patient's adopted gestures. If she has a genuine interest in the patient's actual state, it's certainly well concealed.And one more - Some reviewers faulted Jennifer Beals's performance (or lack of) as the vampire who comes to Cage's character. They have missed the point that she was not there to develop a vampire character. She was there to play Cage's character's idea of a vampire, which she did absolutely perfectly - all breathless sexuality, hungry vampire, and then comforting lover. If she shows us Cage's character's creation convincingly, then she did her job, and she did just that.By the way, there is no confusion in this film about what's real and what's not. The movie seems to be about vampires for a while. Then it becomes a descent-into-madness tale that is much more satisfying than any fantasy could be. But, unless you are merely staring at the screen, rather than watching the movie, you will not be confused about what is going on.Cage incorporates a good deal of classic vampire movie images into his performance, the same way that he has the character already incorporating parts of other types of people in his own actions from the beginning - notice that he has at least three different accents - one as he does business on the phone, another as he tries to be an engaging drunk while walking one of his conquests up the stairs, and yet another as he hounds Maria's character. I take it that this is a portrait of a man with almost nothing left in his life that is authentically him, so it stands to reason that as he becomes a vampire, he would take the same approach to that as well. Cage pulls this off with absolutely brilliantly controlled apparent abandon. You can't play a character that's out of control unless you are fully in control.There was no question in my mind after seeing this that Cage had all the talent any actor could ever ask to have. I'm glad for his later successes, but he has had very little chance to show his range and strengths since the days of Raising Arizona, Wild at Heart, and this film. See it more than once.(Come to think of it, I did also like those parts of Face/Off where we get to see John Travolta acting like Nicolas Cage acting like John Travolta and Nicolas cage acting like John Travolta acting like Nicolas Cage. The rest of the film is neither here nor there, but this isn't a review of that. It's an all-out plug for Vampire's Kiss and Nicolas Cage's brilliant performance in it.) "},{"Title":"The Most Bizarre Nicolas Cage Film?","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" After an encounter with a neck-biter, a publishing executive (Nicolas Cage) thinks that he is turning into a vampire.Okay, looking back from 2015, Nicolas Cage has had one of the most unusual careers in Hollywood. We know he can be a great actor, because we have seen Adaptation, Leaving Las Vegas and others where he just stunned audiences with his portrayals. But we also know he has a habit of picking duds, and at this point he probably has more stinkers than winners.And then there is Vampire's Kiss, which is a bizarre blend of horror and comedy. It is never quite horror and never quite comedy, sort of existed in this world of nothing... and that just makes it more interesting. That weird accent (somewhere between rich guy and surfer dude). Wow. "},{"Title":"An Epic movie overlooked and misunderstood by many","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I thought it was an avg. run of the mil Vampire movie and the only reason I even watched was because of the memes that are been floating on the internet, but instead it turned out to be a dark comedy juxtaposed with a metaphorical satire on relationship especially one night stands, I mean that is what i inferred I am sure many would agree and disagree with me but that is the beauty of this movie you can interpret it according to your perception and the way you perceive things to me this movie was primarily about how a man loses his mind and eventually his life to drugs he started using to cope with the stress of the work and to escape the mundane life he is living, Nicolas Cage gave an epic performance,Ignore the ratings its the most misunderstood movie ever. "},{"Title":"Certainly a Unique Creature.","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" There has never quite been a film like Vampire's Kiss, and there has not even been an imitator since. It is an absurd, hilarious semi- spoof of all things horror, whilst also being a surreal and powerful delve into the damaged psych of horrid human being. I honestly feel I need to break this down in pieces.The elephant in the room is Nick Cage. His performance is excellent, but takes getting used to. He is hilariously over the top, moving like Max Schrek on Caffine pills. He talks in a petulant and whiny 'vaguely British' voice, also leading to some really goofy line readings. However despite this camp factor, there is depth here. Cage is also believable here, he stays perfectly true to the character throughout and forms a unique identity that can only be found here. It reminds me of Christian Bale in 'American Psycho', which is fitting as Bale based his performance off this film. One aspect I will bring up often here is thee film's re-watch value, suffice to say that Cage's performance changes and shifts upon numerous viewings.Next is the direction. It showcases some great shots of New York, almost making it feel alive. The cinematography highlights the striking architecture and uneven lighting of the city, almost showing it to be a real life translation of classic horror settings. However it also shows the clinical detachment of such a large city, and the Yuppie culture that has grown from it. The other performances match this films dual nature also, taking classic horror roles at times, and being typical Yuppie's at others.Night and Day, Gothic and Modern, Deep and Funny, Dark and Light. This film performs an entirely unique juggling act that has never been matched since. Both a homage to classic horror tales, and a deconstruction of the 80's Yuppie lifestyle. "},{"Title":"One for the Archives","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I still remember that day in college (this was the mid-90s) when a friend of mine came to my apartment holding a copy of Vampire's Kiss. We were always looking for stuff that was weird or out of the ordinary. All he said was you HAVE to watch this movie. We did, my roommates and I, and for the next two years we all walked around acting like Nicholas Cage's character and quoting his lines to baffled sorority girls at parties, work doesn't just GO-eww away, Alva!. Needless to say we weren't very good company. This is one of those bizarro films that you watch and can't quite believe what you're seeing. It even trumps David Lynch's films because the main character is funny and ridiculous but he's also FRIGHTENING and he really seems to be losing his mind, but we aren't sure why. There is one telling moment where he looks into a mirror and gasps that he can't see his reflection. But we (the audience) quite clearly see it. Certain scenes manage to be funny yet haunting, like when Cage (clearly spiraling into psychosis) calls his doctor from a payphone and begs for an appointment, alternately sobbing and whining in a nasally voice. The director films this scene with a wide-angle lens that makes Cage's slack-jawed, dead-eyed face look like it's pressing out against the viewer. Completely creepy. It should be noted this film is not for everyone. It is a bit slow-moving and it contains a strong (and very nasty) undercurrent of sexual sadism that many viewers will find off- putting and repellent. But Cage's performance is absolutely astonishing. It's one of the most overtly theatrical you're likely to see, yet it retains a core of truth. In film history there are a few performances that manage to walk the tightrope between humor and horror (other examples include Peter Sellers in Dr. Strangelove, Benecio del Toro in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Vanessa Redgrave in The Devils, Alicia Witt in Fun, and Michael Moriarty in Q). There are certainly others. Cage's performance in Vampire's Kiss is one of the great gonzo acts of all time "},{"Title":"Am I Getting Through to You, Alva?!","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you take this movie seriously, you're not going to like it. If you're taste in humor is on the silly side, you're going to love it. Nicholas Cage is absolutely ridiculous in this and does his finest comedic performance, in my opinion. This has been classified as horror/comedy, but there isn't any horror in it whatsoever. This is completely over the top comedy from beginning to end. This is a story about Peter Loew (Cage), a literary agent, who just can't find satisfaction in any of his personal relationships and loses his mind in the process. He takes out his frustrations on his secretary, Alva Restrepo (Maria Conchita Alonso), and she receives the brunt of his gradual descent into delusional paranoia. I hope that Nicholas Cage breaks away from the mainstream and does more outlandish comedy like this in the future!! "},{"Title":"Cage's Kiss","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Nicolas Cage is brilliant! Early in his career Cage proves his unique and unforgettable talent as the peculiar Peter Loew. This is the film where I first met and fell in love with Cage's qualities. He plays Peter Loew in a dark humorous and memorable manner. And thus, instilled in me the need to see almost every single film he's done since. This is an unusual rendition of a 'Vampire' movie. The story is set in the midst of modern New York (at the time the film was made), amongst regular folk and the vampire phenomena is casually infected into the plot. This film is strange, yet droll, dark, yet believable... almost like it could happen! Oh and it has a fair amount of sexy women scantily clad for those who are into that type of thing. I wouldn't miss this one if you're a Cage or a vampire fan. "}{"Title":"Rare movie that straddles the line between brilliance and utter stupidity","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Wow..All I have to say is wow, pure Cage gold. I never ever ever take Nick Cage seriously so that might be why I enjoyed this movie so much, but he really needs to only be in movies like this once every 4-5 years as to not let us get used to it. Seriously Cage has been doing it all wrong all these years and needs to learn from his 1988 self. I am convinced that nobody could have performed in this role better.I love the campy 80's vibe and music and clothing, but that's only the beginning of the entertainment. Cage essentially plays the same general character as Christian Bale in American Psycho (which was inspired by this movie FYI, look at the Trivia section) - a fairly well-off businessman who is slowly losing his mind. That is literally the whole plot. Again why this movie is solid gold.This is not a vampire movie. It took me almost the entirety of the movie to realize that fact, and some people who gave it poor ratings probably didn't come to that realization. Cage is dissatisfied with his lifestyle of going out and sleeping with different women every night, so he just cracks. That is what Cage does best. This movie has some of my favorite Cage-isms that I didn't know were in this movie. 1. Nicholas Cage creepy face meme 2. Well, I was really horny at the time. 3. Am I getting through to you, Alva? 4. A! B! C! D! E! F! G!...etc 5. The famous I'm a Vampire! I'm a Vampire!I could literally write about this movie all day, it excites me way too much. It is just so ridiculous but maintains its composure and brilliance in doing so. Get through the opening 30 minutes or so and prepare for a Cage experience that you'd never expect.Also what the f kind of accent does he have? "},{"Title":"Nicolas Cage is going off the rails of the crazy train!","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vampire's Kiss is a pretty original dark comedy/horror film starring Nicolas Cage in one of his best performances. Cage is an executive in NYC that throughout the course of the movie is convinced he is a vampire. Cage's character is on a rapid downward spiral to complete insanity. Whether loneliness or too much stress is a factor, it is never specified. I have no idea what types of drugs Cage was taking, but he is totally bonkers in this film. Maria Conchita Alonso is his office assistant and doormat of which his abuse towards her escalates throughout the course of the film. Once Cage is convinced he is a vampire, he embraces his destiny. He has an aversion to sunlight and sleeps under his couch upside down like it is a coffin. He even bought some three dollar fangs in the local occult store. Now that's commitment to the lifestyle! Combine George A Romero's Martin with American Psycho if you want to get an idea of the style of Vampire's Kiss. Anyway you slice it this is one freaky deaky film and it works due to Cage's wild, eccentric and absolutely unhinged and explosive performance. If you are looking for something dark, offbeat, but well done this is one you won't want to miss. "},{"Title":"I never misfiled anything! Not once. Not one time!","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" What an underrated gem! If you are a fan of Nicolas Cage, this is a must see. Without him, this movie would be awful. Without Nic's tour de force performance this would be a movie you would turn off after the first five minutes of watching it. His performance makes you really wonder how his career would have turned out if he continued to do comedies like this and Raising Arizona. I for one think his career would have been just as successful, if not more. He is absolutely hilarious; every line makes you laugh hysterically. If I had to give this film a letter grade.. Hmm, let me think.. A? B? C? D? E? F? G? H? I? J? K&#x85;? Okay, you get the point. (A+ Comedy) "},{"Title":"Misunderstood, Underrated and Brilliant In defense of vampire's kiss","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. It came out well before American Psycho, and I think it achieved more without the gore. There are many similarities between the two movies. However, I really believe it was this movie that broke the new ground for some later character study movies. It also really hits the mark as a satire of corporate psychopathy. Unfortunately, many people have missed the point, thinking this movie was a straight up comedy with weak gags. It may have been the fault of the marketing people. They do tend to market movies to audience taste rather than the movies strengths. You will read that Cage's character is unlikeable and overacted. Also you will read that the movie goes nowhere. These are true, but are also thematic devices. Peter Loew (Cage) is representing something sick in the system. People who have worked with similar people, whether as colleagues or under them, will know them for the monsters they are. It is over acted, as a way of exploring this character in its nth degree (ie, a movie about a corporate scumbag would be boring, lets see the extreme version). Also as it is a satire of the corporate culture, it makes sense that it is a little hammy. And the final criticism is that there is no great resolution. That is the saddest part. So many of these people just continue on while others make allowances for them. It is supposed to make you angry, with that culture. While the portrayal of the decent into a schizophrenia/delusion was not sensitive, this was justified as it was not about schizophrenia per se, rather the schizophrenia represented the sickness. Overall there are very few films like this one. But if you get what it is trying to say, particularly if you work it out yourself, this is a very rewarding film. I must confess that it is hard to take when there is something that you find beautiful and others can't see it. "},{"Title":"Next time, PUT IT IN THE RIGHT FILE","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Is it possible to praise a film because the lead actor carried the whole movie perfectly? I believe so. I am sure I've done it before. If one actor can carry a whole movie perfectly on his shoulders without signs of struggle, it should clearly be commended. Vampire's Kiss is a funny, sometimes deliciously dark comedy about a man who thinks he is turning into a vampire after encountering a woman who bit him during sex.The man is Peter Loew, played by Nicolas Cage whom I normally am not at all fond of. I suspended my sour feelings and enjoyed watching him play an extremely dysfunctional man as I did in Leaving Las Vegas six years later. For some reason, Nicolas Cage as a wreck is better than watching a normal, functional Nicolas Cage. Loew is a literary agent who believes that satisfaction in life stems from one night stands, power, and money - plenty of it.At times we laugh at how outrageous Loew can be. My favorite scene is when he is reciting the alphabet after ranting and raving about his secretary not placing a very old document in the correct file. Not to mention, it takes an untold amount of commitment and courage to aimlessly wander the streets of New York City yelling I'm a vampire. That's something you just don't see everyday.The script is centered around its characters overacting nearly every chance they get. This sort of style is also seen in John Waters' Serial Mom, and for some reason, that doesn't register with some people. Both films are almost like spoof films. They can't really be critiqued or toyed with. You can't really grade the acting, although I will say Cage gave me one of the biggest surprises in years. Serial Mom was a satire on suburbanite culture and parenting. Vampire's Kiss is a satire on dark humor and vampires. It's funny, poignant, and sometimes so dark you feel dirty laughing at it.Your response to Vampire's Kiss will be determined on how keen you are to satires and corny dramas. Dear readers know I'm very partial to satires, and this one rubbed me the proper way. It's absurd when it needs to be, funny when it should be, and consistently dark to the point where laughing may not be in your best interests.Starring Nicolas Cage, María Conchita Alonso, Jennifer Beals, and Elizabeth Ashley. Robert Bierman. Directed by Robert Bierman. "},{"Title":"Very funny with excellent performances","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a lost gem of a black comedy - worth seeing just for the great turn by Nicolas Cage delivering some of the best OTT rages committed to film! If you are a Cage fan you have to see this performance.Vampire's kiss has a serious story about loneliness and alienation at its heart - the point is made in a clever and amusing way that keeps you guessing and also keeps you laughing.I agree with some of the other comments made that this was probably a bit ahead of its time when released. Post Nolan, Tarantino, Kaufman, Gondry etc. modern film-goers are probably more receptive to the ingredients provided here - black comedy, parody, playing around with identity and perceptions etc.. "},{"Title":"cage plays suit who thinks he becomes a vampire","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I think this is the best role Cage has ever played. Its about middle boss who is unsatisfied with his life. Slowly a change starts that leads to a very strange tale. The story is unusual and very good. Cage does an excellent role and you character isn't flat and empty like most big blockbusters are. I really do recommend this film..it has a lot of dark humour.The vampire saga in a modern version where evil has been substituted with insanity..there is no more evil people..just insane ones. The 80s environment is just a bonus flashback.The connection back to regular folklore is that vampires always was noble people and in the modern version that would be a boss.I think this movies is a gem and its strange you don't see it more often as a rerun. I don't want to spoil the plot even if its not really that complex. "},{"Title":"Best acting by Cage I have ever scene","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film shows Cage's true acting ability without limits. It is a strait out freaky movie. And is the best acting by Cage I have ever scene. If you want to see a freaky movie with great acting that only could have been pulled off by Cage's great and true acting ability I recommend seeing it at least once. I was really surprised when I saw this film for the first time. Cage's acting in it thrilled and surprised me. This is cage at his best. If you don't like the movie you will notice his acting, Cage captivates and makes this movie work. He makes faces and does things only an actor would be asked to do on a high school stage, but he pulls it off with his great acting ability. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" What do we have here then? A vampire film is it? NO! Well, not really anyway. Vampire's Kiss stars Nicolas Cage as a publishing executive who believes that he is turning into a vampire. What makes the film is Cage's incredibly camp, over the top, performance. A pre-Jim Carrey Jim Carrey role that he really grabs by the horns. We follow his character Peter Loew, as he obsesses about a vampire biting him, and proceeds to destroy his attempts at a relationship and terrorise (for seemingly no other reason than fun) his secretary. Whether you like this film or not depends on how dark you like your humour, and if you get the joke. There are too many great moments to point out, this is a great film to watch, with a what is this crazy guy going to do next? thing going on, all resulting in something very funny. "},{"Title":"Hilarious black comedy","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This has to be Nick Cage's most disturbing - and hilarious - performance ever. His sadistic interactions with his secretary (Alva! Alva!...), and his over-the-top interactions with his shrink (A! B! C! D!... are truly priceless bits of black comedy acting.There are some excellent subtleties here, too. For example, notice the look he gives the bat at the beginning, before he leaves the room. Then, note the forced laugh as he gets into the cab, and the look he gives the building before they drive away.This is a truly unique and bizarre performance by Nicj Cage and well worth the price of the rental. If you like black comedy, you will love this film. "}{"Title":"Underrated dark comedy that deserves CLOSE attention.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is pure genius!  Yet, perhaps due to slow progression and it's dark psychological nature, it has been mostly overlooked.Nicolas Cage in his most promising role and portrayal since Raising Arizona. Not to mention he performs one of the most amazing stunts ever filmed, without a stunt double. This film is not what you would expect, especially from the deceiving promotional artwork adorning the video box.  Not really about Vampires so much as it is about a man who is living with the terror of possibly becoming a Vampire. Watch it, and learn the alphabet in an all new way. "},{"Title":"cAGE tRIUMPHS iN tHIS cRITICALLY mISUNDERSTOOD cOMEDY","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In my opinion, this is one of Nic's best performance, especially comedically! He's outta control! It's like that off-center gesture he hints at in all his movies explodes into full-force fury and it's all accented in the hilariously, east-side nihilistic accent he is masked with to make one of the few fully fleshed out characters not to be ruined by a dumb jerry Bruckherimer-produced, music video directed yarn of action movie cliches.The movie was written by Joseph Minion, who also wrote the more brilliant script to AFTER HOURS, another fave. This movie has less characters, but only to pay more attention to the pain going through Loew as he falls deeper and deeper into uncontrolled madness, Loew's a character that's hard to sympathize for, but I still do even as he is a jerk to every woman he comes across (even in his own mind!!--look at how he treats Sharon near the end). He just doesn't understand love like so many others, and he's surrounded by those who are deeply and happily in love that it makes him sick. This is sad.What makes it funny though is the unhealthy direction he takes this problem. Cage turns acts of insanity into a darkly comic ballet and that's where most of the laughs come from, though I can see why some people will find this to be more disturbing that funny. I still find VAMPIRE'S KISS marvelous, especially under a low budget which just inspires for sheer creativity. There are rumors that the movie was an allegory of AIDS, and I can see how some would see that, but I don't think that was the intention at all. I think it's a tragic love story from a mentally-ill narrative- but everyone is entitled to their own opinion, that's what art is for, among other things. "},{"Title":"Just another movie with vampires?","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well, not exactly. Contrary to other shallow and actionbased vamp-movies, this is something really special. It's about Loew, just the ordinary bloke in your neighbour office. After a hot experience with a woman, which includes a neckbiting experience combined with a bat, he starts cracking up. And then it is time for some major laughs. Even if the movie is a bit uneven and a bit slow and unfocused, it is absolutely hilarious. Once again Nicolas Cage lifts a potentially terrible movie up to a kult-classic. He lurches around with (very) fake vamp-teeth, horasses his secretary, and turns his apartment into some savage's nest. IF you appreciate Cage's sense of humour, this is a movie you just have to see!!!  "},{"Title":"Quirky movie about a man decending into madness","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A man decends into madness. His madness distorts his reality to where he believes he is becoming a vampire. Not a vampire movie. Not really a dark comedy either. Cage did a great job but his accent was really bad. I felt at times his character was really cruel and there was no dark fun side to laugh at.However, I gave it high marks because it was different and put a new twist on the whole madness thing. The acting (except for the accent) was good. My wife hated this one. "},{"Title":"Outstanding black comedy","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's Nicholas Cage, all they way. Many many moons ago, I used to think that Cage was a no-good actor. But after having seen several of his films, I admit that I am a no-good reviewer. Cage is mostly outstanding in the films he acts in.. he usually carries the entire film on his lean shoulders. This film is no exception. It is hilarious and sad, depending on the angle from which you view this movie. The Director deserves kudos for extracting every bit of acting ability from Cage. My God!! Some of the scenes are so impacting that they persist for a long time in one's mind, even after the film has come to its tragic end. The way that Cage convinces himself that he is a vampire, the way he asks people to kill him, stake him, and the way people ignore him, forcing him deeper and deeper into an abyss of his own making, is truly spectacular. The final call comes when Cage is shot with blanks from a gun, but not knowing this, he is convinced that he did not die because he had transformed into a full-fledged shape-shifter. His pathetic attempts to suck blood, using plastic fangs (since the real ones refused to grow), his attempts to cobble together a coffin from his own settee, are vignettes which cannot be forgotten.Cage deserves an 8/10, but the Director of the movie, Robert Bierman deserves a 10/10.Awesome stuff. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie I've Ever Seen &#x96; A Masterpiece of Comedy &#x96; Cage at His Very Best and Craziest","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" HOLY CRAP this is the funniest movie I've ever seen! Nicolas Cage, who I already knew as easily the greatest actor working today (if you have a problem with this statement, we'll talk, you will see that it is objectively insane not to hold this belief), is unbelievably amazing. I thought he was crazy in some of his other films, like Bad Lieutenant and Matchstick Men, but that was nothing. By comparison to Vampire's Kiss, his acting in those films was understated. THIS is Cage unhinged. It is INCREDIBLE. I would say that about 95% of the time he was on-screen (or so), I was laughing. This movie had me literally rolling on the floor. Throughout.At the time of this writing, this film holds a 5.5 rating on IMDb; are you kidding me? I was expecting with this film to like Cage in the context of a bad movie. Instead, I immediately (from about the time when the bat flies in the window), recognized it as a brilliant parody of bad movies - like Nicolas Cage was playing like he was a bad actor in a bad movie, but exaggerated in such a self-conscious and pitch-perfect way that it doesn't itself become one of the bad movies it's parodying.But as the film goes on, it becomes so much more even than that! It is such a violently maniacal parody of the whole vampire craze that it's not only masterful as a spoof &#x96; it becomes easily the best thing to do with vampires at all that I've ever seen! Some people use the term so bad it's good for films like this, but I'm beginning to think I have some kind of defect where I can't differentiate so bad it's good from just regular good. If I genuinely enjoy something, how can it be bad? Okay, I can sort of get it with something like C.H.U.D., which I slightly enjoy for its campiness even though it's not actually that good. But THIS, no. THIS is a genuine masterpiece of comedy. "},{"Title":"I found myself laughing at this unsung gem far more than I would at any conventional comedy","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Over the years, Nicolas Cage has developed a reputation for being a 'paycheque actor', the National Treasures, the Ghost Riders and the slew of others have, in the eyes of many, demeaned him as an actor. I can understand this, and agree to a certain extent, but Nicolas Cage is capable of many great things on the big screen, and Vampire's Kiss, a genuinely peculiar piece of work, is a testament to that.Cage is at his unhinged best in this film; his rather idiosyncratic lunacy is perhaps an acquired taste, but I found it to be refreshingly hilarious. It's a truly strange performance, there are many memorable outbursts that leave you rather incredulous, such as a scene of infantile crying that is quickly followed by Cage running down a street shouting 'I'm a vampire! I'm a vampire!'. Aside from the various crazy outbursts, the inflections in Cage's voice are also just&#x85;weird; it's futile to try and describe them, you have to hear them yourself.Cage occupies the role of Peter Loew, a womanising literary agent whose empty existence leads to a major mental breakdown. Peter is sent into a downward spiral of increasingly psychotic episodes, believing he is turning into a vampire after apparently being bitten by a rather more sinister one night stand. As Peter crumbles under the grasp of his psychosis, he begins to antagonise his sweet secretary Alva, obsessively badgering her to fix a painfully daunting and monotonous filing issue.The film charts the descent into madness, but it does it in such a surreal, eccentric manner that you don't take it seriously for a moment, it is indeed difficult to emphasise with Peter. Some have said that this is a detriment of the film, but I don't think it is at all. It is first and foremost a comedy, a black comedy; I bought the film to see a hilariously odd performance, not a grim piece of drama.'Vampire's Kiss' is likely to polarise audiences; I'm sure many viewers would find it plain silly, however I thoroughly enjoyed it, I'm very much part of its cult following. I found myself laughing far more than I would at any conventional comedy.www.hawkensian.com "},{"Title":"VAMPIRE'S KISS Nic Cage insanity or Nic Cage IS insanity?","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" VAMPIRE'S KISS might just contain one of the most brilliantly insane and hilarious comic performances. Ever. Everything about it &#x96; the accent, dialogue, mannerisms, deranged lunacy &#x96; can be summed up with one word perfection. It can be argued what the plot really is about, what's really real in the film, but there's one thing that cannot be argued Nic Cage's manic performance.VK is not only hilarious in its premise and in its performance from Cage. It's also convinced me that this film is some kind of a sick reflection of Cage's actual personality. It's like a semi- documentary into the mind of a brilliantly insane performer. There are some who believe that art is really a reflection of oneself. If so, then how f**ked up is Nic Cage?This film is not only brilliant in capturing Cage's mania for all to see and raising questions but it also portrays a certain idea about the nature of insanity and gives some philosophical insight into the life of one very deranged individual. That individual might very well actually be Nicolas Cage. Nobody really knows. That's what's so f**king scary. And funny.A few reasons highlighting Cage's insanity and why he IS insanity1. Nicolas Cage's entire job seems to consist of harassing Alonso.2. Nicolas Cage running through the streets yelling I'm a vampire! Do we interpret this literally? Is it an existential statement? Perhaps the filmmakers (or 'documentarians') equate vampirism to Cage's soullessness and his ability to drain those around him of their spirit. When it involves Nic Cage, you can never know for sure.3. Nicolas Cage fighting a bat. As he says, I was in mortal combat with a f*cking bat! When are we NOT in mortal combat with a f*cking bat? Exactly what is this f*cking bat? Again, is it to be interpreted literally or does it allude to some kind of symbol or&#x85; allusion, if you will?4. Nicolas Cage admitting he was aroused fighting the bat. Unlike the rest of us, his use of the beloved F word always has an underlying purpose. You see, it's not just *a* bat. It's a *f*cking* bat. Is it any wonder he was turned on? Anyway, Nic Cage admitting he got horny fighting a bat is just plain funny.5. Nicolas Cage running through the streets with fake vampire teeth. This is one of the funniest images ever. If his talking on the phone with plastic teeth to his shrink doesn't make you laugh, you are dead inside. It could maybe, just maybe, also raise questions about insanity. If you were insane that you believed yourself to be a vampire, would you need to buy vampire teeth that you knew were fake? Does knowing that they are not real imply that you know you are not a vampire? Who cares? All that matters is Nic Cage runs around with plastic vampire teeth. That is insane. Ergo, Cage is insane. Or is he insanity?6. Nicolas Cage's arm motions when he yells that he has never misfiled anything in his life. I don't even know how to describe this. Has to be seen to be believed.7. Nicolas Cage's wide-eyed rants.8. Nicolas Cage's accent. Only Cage can pass off that accent as something brilliant. Plus his insane dialogue. He sounds like a whiny kid.9. Nicolas Cage as Count Orlok. You thought Max Schreck was creepy, wait until you get a load of Nic Cage.10. Nicolas Cage chasing pigeons.11. Nicolas Cage eats a cockroach. For real. Everybody likes to hate cockroaches; vile and disgusting, by most people's standards. Yet, nobody hates them enough to eat them. In fact, most people spend their lives eating what they like. Does Nic Cage loathe the cockroach or does he signify his love by eating one? Maybe it's the adage You are what you eat? Is Nic Cage a cockroach? But wait&#x85;12. Nicolas Cage also eats a pigeon. Now, Cage's devouring of a creature that is normally not devoured can be initially viewed as grotesque. But let's really think about this. Pigeons have long held cultural significance. They often symbolized love, divinity and purity. Is Nic Cage so evil as to eat love, divinity and purity? Or what if we are what we eat? Is Nic Cage love, divinity and purity? Should we take it literally and consider him a pigeon? But if you combine the cockroach and the pigeon, then Nic Cage would be divine, pure, evil, loathsome, vile, love and disgusting. Wait, isn't humanity all of those things? Holy hell, is Nic Cage human? I have no f*cking clue, but it's insane just to think about.13. Nicolas Cage bounding around telling people to Kill me! while holding a plank of wood. You also have to put the cross LIKE THIS, he says, while attempting to illustrate the proper method. ME VAMPIRE!14. Nicolas Cage talking to himself about mature relationships and love. While holding a plank of wood. With blood all over his face and shirt. And looking insane.15. Nicolas Cage's and the viewer's inability to discern what is 'real'. This is why Cage's life is so provocative. He begins to spend much of his life in some kind of hallucination. Is this meant to mirror Nic Cage's life? There are several times in the film where the mirror is featured prominently. The viewer can clearly see that Nic Cage is reflected in the mirror. Is the film a reflection of his life? Or is it his life?16. Nicolas Cage doing and/or saying anything. I now believe that Cage didn't even know he was taking part in filming a feature. The crew just followed him around filming his daily escapades and this was the result. "},{"Title":"I couldn't think of a more horrible job if I wanted to.","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Without a doubt, this is the quintessential Nick Cage acting performance. He went over the top in this black comedy about relationships.Maria Conchita Alonso (Moscow on the Hudson) gave a great performance as the lowly secretary that was the repository for Cage's anger at women. What began as harassment ended in a greater crime.Kasi Lemmons gave a skintastic performance as a bar pickup who gave Cage a hot mouthful before being chased away by a bat.Jennifer Beals was the real?/imaginary? vampire that started Cage on the road to destruction. There just isn't any word to describe her hotness in this film.But, it was all about Cage as he completely broke down from his uptight persona to become someone who was totally demented.I am going to have to see My Left Foot as I can't believe Oscar -winner Daniel Day-Lewis outperformed Cage in this film. "},{"Title":"Chasing pigeons","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is in fact quite funny. Nicolas Cage plays the role of a man who get's bitten by a vampire (or atleast HE thinks he gets bitten but I seriously doubt it's a vampire who bites him). And as time goes on he becomes more and more paranoid and starts to play the part of an actual vampire, though he doesn't have any fangs and so he gets some of his own from a small shop selling really weird stuff. His fangs are made from ... like, I don't know, really fine china? But that's not enough. He turns way crazier. Whatching Nicolas Cage running around the street chasing a f*cking pigeon (for dinner) is one of the funniest things I've ever seen. Not because it's particularly funny, but it's way to bizarre to be tragic.Apart from all this, a real highlight in this little flick is the scene in which Nicolas Cage actually eats a real live cocroach. IT'S NOT EVEN A JOKE. HE ACTUALLY EAT'S IT. And this is not just a rumor, it's a fact. That scene alone is almost worth whatching it all. Totally disgusting. "}{"Title":"Deeply dark and delicious","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vampire's kiss is great because it is dark and extreme and funny. One could say it was extremely funny or extremely dark. One would be right on both accounts. This is a story about a publisher, Peter Loew(Nicholas Cage), who descends into a mescaline driven psychotic fantasy where he becomes a vampire. Cage is fantastic as the mad protagonist and he ignites the story with an overbearing, over the top and extremely engaging performance. One of the best parts of the movie is his tyrannical relationship with his secretary, Alva. Only Cage could pull off such a ludicrously vengeful boss. Who will forget the scene where he confronts her in the style of Elvis Presley; hair disheveled, cigarette tenuously hanging from his lips, he trusts a finger in her direction and says, 'Am, I getting through to you....ALVA !!?' Top Stuff ! "},{"Title":"To Be or Not To Be A Vampire","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  While Nicolas Cage's performance in Vampire's Kiss may not have won many awards, it has become a cult classic for more than just vampire movie fans. A great black comedy with noir twists that leave you wondering whether Peter Loew becomes a real vampire or is just hallucinating all the gory details.Jennifer Beals looks great as the vampire Loew believes has brought him the curse of eternal life, and Maria Cochita Alonso looks perfectly frumpy cast against type as Loew's secretary Alva.Some disturbing but oddly funny scenes highlight this film, eating a cockroach is just one thing Loew does that will shock the viewer.Good Halloween movie or late night flick, worth watching! "},{"Title":"One of Cage's top 3 performances","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Nicolas Cage is so vulnerable in this film. When he trys to shoot himself, when he leaves the club near the end, and when he talks to the imaginary phsychiatrist. He's full of so much energy. His performance goes down in my history books as one of the most inspirational performances ever filmed. Nicolas Cage shows us his amazing talent very early on in his career. (other top 2 performances? Leaving Las Vegas and Raising Arizona) "},{"Title":"What was that?","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Nicholas Cage is a terrific actor, and I have enjoyed his work in all the movies I've seen him in.  That said, he does an outstanding job holding one's attention throughout this movie.Nonetheless, this isn't a great movie.  It goes in a few too many directions for it to remain coherent.  It offends too many senses for it to be a good a comedy, and provides too few scares as a horror film.One highlight, as others have mentioned, is with the fake vampire teeth.  But the best part to that bit was the fact that he had to settle for the CHEAP teeth, because he didn't have $20 for the good ones!  That really made me laugh! My rating 6 "},{"Title":"Kafka in The Vampire's Kiss","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I agree with the positive comments of others, and won't add much here. I loved the movie, especially for its excesses, but felt uncomfortable in the late part when Cage terrorizes the woman played by Maria Conchita Alonzo, feeling that it went a bit too far. I have two favorite moments I had begun feeling that the film was Kafkaesque (and Kafka is my favorite writer, so that was a compliment), and then noticed that the little framed photo that the Cage character had in his office was---ta da!--none other than Franz himself! I also loved the moment when he ran into a novelty store, then exited and ran maniacally down the street with the newly purchased plastic vampire teeth protruding out of his mouth. Alas, as with other successful actors, now Cage seems trapped into making the big budget action Hollywooders. It has to happen to the successful ones. (Denzel Washington, anyone?)  "},{"Title":"A Cage Masterpiece","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is by far the most outrageously funny, horrific, brilliant movie I have ever seen. I saw it in 1990 and watched it at least 5 times. It is a masterpiece and anybody who loves Nic Cage should get their hands on this movie, if only to see the character at his best. I wish I could find it and watch it again. Brilliant.....unbelievable acting from the master of over-acting. He's the greatest actor of all time!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 10","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" 10. VAMPIRE'S KISS (horror-comedy, 1988) In the giant-stoic skyscrapers of NY city lives Peter (Nicholas Cage), a successful 'yuppie'. Behind his expensive clothes and expansive apartment he hides a loveless life. He's a regular at clubs and the dating game. On one of his outings, he meets Rachel (Jennifer Beals). While making love, she bites him on the neck. The next morning Peter starts feeling ill. Believing himself to be turning into a vampire, he starts to wear sunglasses, sleeps under his couch, and buys plastic teeth. But is he or isn't he a vampire?Critique A vampire movie with a difference, where's the vampire? Quirky and funny don't even begin to describe this little gem. Let's just call it a sick nightmare. It's like one of those old 'Twilight Zone' episodes where the lead character is always left out of the equation. The film seems to be more of a good natured, black humor homage to the vampire genre. Nicholas Cage gives another explosive-myth-making job similar to his 'Raising Arizona' (1987), though it's 'beefier' this time around. His character is a complete loon. On second viewing, I feel David Lynch would have been a better choice as director, but Robert Bierman still pulls it off. The film, however, belongs to Joseph Minion's ferocious screenplay. This is a vampire film that lacks bite, but more than makes up for it with a unique story.QUOTE Rachel It's all right, it's all right. You chose me. "},{"Title":"Freestyle Nicolas Cage","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In this movie Nicolas Cage does what he does best. Completely freaks out in his own special way. A wickedly funny and immensely deep movie. You can watch it as a thriller about love affecting the human mind, or as a comedy about a man going crazy.If you`re ready for a horror movie, this is not it; But if you want a unique movie-experience totally unlike anything you`ve ever seen, go for Vampire`s Kiss.A TRULY FANTASTIC MOVIE!  "},{"Title":"Nicolas Cage at his best","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The title suggests this being a horror movie! That was the reason why I rented it! To my surprise it was a comedy! The great thing is they play around with the vampire legend and you will keep guessing if something supernatural is going to happen! So there is something of a suspense! But this movie is all about the performance of Nicolas Cage! He desperately tries to become a vampire because he is not really happy with his life! Once he is convinced that he is a vampire the fun begins! Nicolas Cage manages to be funny and tragic at the same time! For me I think he is even acting better in this than Leaving Las Vegas! Nicolas Cage has been around for a time and he is a good actor! Before the action orientated movies he has been around in several comedies! And the comedies he starred in were always great,for example Moonstruck, Raising Arizona! Vampire's Kiss shows Cage's ability in acting to the fullest! Watch this movie and you will be entertained! As a bonus you also will have something to think about! "},{"Title":"The work's not just gonna go away, Alva.  It never just..... GUUUUUOOOOOESS AWEEEEEEYYYY!!","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" WOW..... is all I can say about Vampire's Kiss. Although it pains me to admit this, up until a month ago, I had never seen this film before. But recently I've been following a checklist/document of movies that are highly acclaimed, and I've been ticking off each one as I see them and then ranking them accordingly. This film was on there. It's safe for me to say that Vampire's Kiss has quite possibly nudged its way into my top 10 favourite movies, or, at the VERY LEAST, my top 20.It is very infrequent for me to see a film and then ruminate upon it for hours afterwards. Since last month when I first saw it, I've sort of developed a sick obsession with it. To be honest, when I first saw it and the end credits began rolling, I wasn't entirely sure if I enjoyed what I just watched. I just felt a bizarre air and a little confused, but I had goosebumps! Then I watched it a second time the very next day.Then a third time.I am now thoroughly convinced that Nicolas Cage has earned his stripes to be ranked amongst one of the best actors of all time, with the likes of Marlon Brando and Jack Nicholson. This movie is an exercise in extremely talented acting - a merciless onslaught of maniacal delusions. I don't attest that I empathize nor sympathize with our protagonist (if you can even call him that!), but I don't think that was the intention of the film.Rather, I can't help but feel like this movie was a very clever way to incorporate quirkiness and offbeat humour to stave off the negative stereotypes about a garden variety rom-com. It almost reeks a little bit of a Coen-esque scent.As such, don't expect a traditional narrative here - or even a narrative dealing in vampires in general! You'll be sorely disappointed if you do. Sit back, relax, and take it in as it proceeds. Go with the flow and you'll garner much more from this film than you otherwise would. What makes me love films like these is that it triggers something new in my film-watching technique that wasn't already there. I begin to appreciate new ways in which messages can be conveyed through film and it really opens my eyes to different types of films; it might even make me second-guess past films I hated... in a new light! The quotes, the images of what was seen - all these things continue to pop into my head from time to time. A movie that sticks with you in such a way MUST have some merit, right? This movie succeeds on those fronts.To dissect this film's point would be as futile as telling an infant to stop crying at the snap of your fingers, but if you asked me for my perspective, I would have to surmise that it focuses on how discouraged and heartbroken men can become after several negative dating episodes and how they thusly feel exploited by women in the process. Perhaps Cage is playing the part of a character with deep mental imprisonments who see situations in a jaded light - his past failures begin to mold his attitude into a monstrous hatred towards women.Or it might not have any intrinsic meaning whatsoever other than to be quirky for quirkiness' sake. Either way, I can only concede that this acting tour-de-force was absolutely extraordinary. My advice is that if you don't quite like this movie after the first viewing, put it on hold for awhile and let it sink in over the coming days. If you're destined to watch it a second time, you'll know it! "}{"Title":"Exquisite acting by Nicolas Cage!","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" You've probably seen some movies where there are scenes where actors chew up the scenery, where their acting is so bad it goes all the way around to become exquisite acting. But I'm sure you've never seen a WHOLE movie like this! Enter Vampire's Kiss. Nicolas Cage plays a literary agent who slowly goes insane and begins to think he's been bitten by a vampire an is becoming one himself. Now I'm pretty sure it's not all Nic Cage going nuts, I really think it was meant to be acted like this. Nic Cage takes some inspiration from Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens and adds his own comic sauce to it. But it's a very strange but incredibly funny experience to watch these scenes. We all know Nic Cage can do crazy but here he doesn't go off the rails, he's on another planet completely. He also has this utterly funny snooty accent that just cracked me up. And despite the silliness of this black comedy there are some scenes where really bad things happen. The film does not seem to mock or neither comment on this insane character but just let's you observe, laugh your ass off and think whatever you want. This movie has grown into a cult film and rightfully so. At first glance you might write it off as a bad movie but it's actually a very funny dark comedy and I would recommend everyone to at least have seen this once in your life! You'll not regret the experience "},{"Title":"So Damn Bad It's Good","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is clearly making fun of bad screen writing and bad Hollywood movies and does it well. It also caricatures the 80's Yuppie with his doting shrink, uptight pretensions, cushy power job, and fondness for one night stands. It is so terribly written and shamelessly cliché, and grotesquely shallow, which is difficult to do. How do you know how to write and direct a bad Hollywood movie, it takes awareness of what is good and bad to be able to do that, as well as keen comedy skills. Watching this film is like listening to nails screech down a chalkboard, but somehow it's bearable. I laughed out loud at Cage's feeble attempt at being an authentic vampire, it was so over the top yet finely tuned. He had to make a makeshift coffin from a turned over sofa, and walked around with blood on his face. He could only afford to wear cheap plastic vampire teeth but did remove them to bite the girl in the club. Did this mean that he was a real vampire? And he did kill her after all. Despite the references to Cage's hallucinations the director still leaves it up to the viewer to decide. In addition to relishing Cage's amazing over the top performance I thought that the late 80's nightclub scene in NYC was one of the best nightclub scenes in the history of film. It captured the moment of the music, and was able to display Cage as a true societal pariah with his vampire obsessions in his Yuppie business suit. Worth watching if only for Cage's crazy Vampire performance. Also, there are some good shots of the Twin Towers on the NYC skyline that bring back certain nostalgia. "},{"Title":"cage is a total oddball...","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  ...and I love it. His performance is what makes the film. That, and a totally absurd film that has less to do with Vampires than modern psychology. It's a hilarious film with so many offbeat moments. This is vintage Cage before he started killing his career with movies like Windtalkers and what have you (Adaptation being a marvelous exception to his downward spiral). This is when he was mostly doing more off kilter, indie and art flicks. I just really love when filmmakers make a point of skewering or examining a particular well-tread genre, and doing something different with it. This is a truly original, strange film and totally unpredictable. The fake teeth, the nutty rambling. The theatrical outbursts. Is he a vampire or is he just an average joe deluded into thinking he's a vampire? Is this a comment on our post-modern, existential dilemma as human beings at the cusp of the millennium?Whatever it is, it's brilliant, weird and wonderful.  "},{"Title":"Recommended, for some","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing Nicolas Cage in Honeymoon in Vegas.  He had that one line - Or what?  You'll arrest me and put me in AIRPORT JAIL?  If you liked that, and want to see him at his bizarre, wig-flipping BEST, then this is definitely the movie for you!  I own it, and I can't get enough of it. He performs quite possibly the best recitation of the alphabet EVER!  Of course, a comedy about a vampire isn't for everyone, and you'll have to use your own judgement as to whether or not you think you'd enjoy it, but at the very least, this is a great window into the early stages of what is now Cage's well-documented ability to completely become his character. "},{"Title":"Underappreciated","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  VAMPIRE'S KISS is actually a really great movie. Nicolas Cage gradually goes completely nuts and takes it out on his secretary. Eventually,he's running down the street with fake fangs in his mouth screaming I'm a vampire! I'M A VAMPIRE! This film is a true character study and Cage makes Peter interesting. "},{"Title":"A revision of James's Turn of the Screw","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is an excellent one--not at all confused in aim as some commentators have suggested. The film chooses NOT to decide whether the supernatural is real, leaves it ambiguous--as Henry James left us wondering in The Turn of the Screw whether there really are ghosts or if the governess is mad (or even if there are ghosts AND the governess is mad).The rape of the secretary is a very painful scene, admittedly, but not gratuitous. The status of women in Gothic texts is a big problem what is the effect of representing women as pure victims?  I'm talking about classical Gothic here, where good women are utterly passive, or can act only in immolating themselves (Nina in Nosferatu, for example, who saves everyone by offering her pure white throat to the beast), not the neo-Gothic of, say, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, the heroine of which is a highly active character, who in fact kicks butt.A highly intelligent film, very sensitive to the literary and cinematic traditions in which it participates.   "},{"Title":"YOU CANT LOSE IT !!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Seen this movie is an experience. First time I saw the movie, I think is was ridiculous the actuation of Nicolas Cage, but in the time i recognize that it was one of the best actuation I saw. It is a very difficult paper that Nicolas do, and I am sure that only a few actors con made it so good. Well, I want to thanks the director for give me the experience to see this picture and I said him please do more movies for Cinema or TV.Please, people see this movie, you cant lost it !!  "},{"Title":"The Loss of Masculinity in an Increasingly Superficial World","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is clearly not about vampires it is about a man (in what is arguably our most superficial decade) coping with the loss of masculine power. When we first find Loew, he is discussing the classic morning after problems with his shrink; what always seems to follow intense sexual passion are the antithetical feelings of disgust and boredom. However, Loew soon meets his match a sexually empowered woman. This sexual empowerment is not only indicated by her armpit hair (which is obviously pointed to during the sex scenes) and control of Loew, but by her own antipathy towards Loew (as indicated at the disco)--feelings which parallel his own at the beginning of the film. Soon, the only power Loew can exercise over women is over his secretary (while the the vampiress is the manifestation of female sexual power, the secretary is the manifestation of the stereotypical passive woman). The cut to Nosferatu after Loew imagines the return of the vampiress clearly highlights the reversal of gender roles he is absolutely going crazy over this. The bat is a clear harbinger (not of vampires) but of his sexual arousal and confusion by that which is frightening/mysterious to him. This film blurs the line between the real and unreal--we share in his madness; however, if we cogitate about how this madness manifests itself, we can see that this film is so much more than just some flawed thriller about vampires. "},{"Title":"A scary vampire movie that neither sucks nor bites...","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I thought Nicolas Cage was just superb in this movie, in his depiction of a big-city yuppie making a one-way descent into lunacy. He really is pretty funny (I love the scene where he LEAPS! up on to the office desk to make his demands to a shocked Alva &#150; admirably portrayed by Maria Conchita Alonso. This is where you first start to get the notion that he truly is cracking up).Like many other reviewers here, I regarded this movie more as an enjoyably bizarre, dark comedy. But that was only at first viewing. After several more viewings, and with more time to ponder the events portrayed in the film, I eventually ended up regarding this movie as truly a horror story &#150; i.e., the horror of slowly but surely (and totally) losing your mind; then, being lost in a world that you can no longer comprehend or cope with (and a world totally without pity, that can neither comprehend nor cope with YOU, either - and deals with you so coldly and conveniently, just as portrayed by the actions of Alva's brother. Ooooh, now that's gotta' hurt...).Now THAT, my friends, is scary. That concept (of being a totally hopeless, and helpless, lunatic) is what makes this movie truly disturbing for me.  After seeing the original Exorcist - which scared the holy hell out of me and will no doubt continue to do so for the remainder of my pathetic mortal life - there are few movies of any genre that really succeed in bothering me. This movie is the rare exception. But unlike the Exorcist, with its graphic in-your-face shock and gore, there's really nothing overtly shocking or scary in this movie, with the possible exception of the rape scene. Much like the part where Peter Loew (Nicolas Cage) dons the fake vampire teeth, or where he makes some of his ridiculous, wild-eyed facial expressions, the movie only playfully toys with many of those traditional vampire horror images that we all know by heart. It won't be immediately obvious, but then you'll realize, it's what is *implied* (but not stated) that eventually troubles and scares you. It's subtle, but it's there.So if you haven't seen it, go rent a copy and watch it, but watch it more than once, and *think* about it. You'll laugh. You'll cry. Then... you'll want to go out and adopt a warm little puppy dog.  "},{"Title":"A stake before dying","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILER ALERT*** Obnoxious and so full of himself yuppie literary agent Peter Lowe, Nicolas Cage, gets all that's coming to him in this both hilarious and tragic back comedy about vampires and abusive and manic depressive personality's in New York City circa 1989.Not being wrapped too tight to begin with Peter after standing up his girlfriend Jackie, Kasi Lemmons, lets his both hair and guard down when he goes out to dance the night away at a Manhattan disco club. It just happens that Peter meets this really hot and sexy chick Rachel, Jennifer Beals, who before he can evaluate the situation, in why Rachel is so hung up on him, the two end up in bed together in his East 19th Street, what's known as Yuppieville, Manhattan bachelor pad. During a night of hot and heavy action Rachel puts the hurt, or bite, on an unsuspecting Peter that would later drive the confused young man to the brink of insanity and beyond.Peter soon starts to feel that he's been turned into a blood-sucking vampire by Rachael and starts to act accordingly. It's also during that time in Peter's work as a literary agent that he starts to take his fears and frustrations out at his loyal and hard working secretary Alva, Maria Conchita Alonso. Being the arrogant and uncouth lout that he is Peter drives the poor secretary almost to a nervous breakdown in finding this obscure short story title Rattlesnake Hills. The missing and very important short story is in fact of no importance to anyone! Even the person, or client, whom a very concerned Peter claims so desperately wants it. Peter uses it all throughout the movie to harass and browbeat Alva to the point where she can't come to work anymore!As Peter becomes more and more erratic he seeks help from his psychiatrist Dr. Glaser, Elizabeth Ashley, who in thinking that he's just oversexed and suffering from burn out completely overlooks the danger signs that he's giving off. Without help Peter disintegrates into his own personal hell mimicking a real life, or fictional, vampire. Peter goes so far as both eating live roaches and pigeons as well as murdering a women who foolishly at first lets him fondle her and then rejects his advances.It's Peter's abuse of poor Alva that in fact leads to his end with her car mechanic brother Emilio, Bob Lujan, coming to her aid. By then Peter was so screwed up and suicidal that a shocked Emilio, in seeing the total dump that Peter lived in, didn't need to do that much to do him it. In fact it was Peter himself who more then aided Emilio in putting himself out of his own misery.One of Nicolas Cage's best and at the same time most underrated performance. Despite the movies black comedy theme Peter was a man suffering from real and severe mental problems that drove him to both murder and suicide. It was really cruel and very unprofessional, as she liked to claim that she is, for Peter's psychiatrist Dr. Glaser to break up and laugh at his pressing problems that in fact tipped Peter over the edge. Dr. Glaser was the only hope, or life line, that Peter had left ad she failed him with flying colors. "}{"Title":"No Vampires- Spoiler to twilight hopefuls","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Such a great film. Hilarious throughout with terrific acting by Nic Cage. A must see for vampire and non-vampire fans a like, about a man who thinks he's turning into a vampire. Cheeky at times and dark at others but a very well told story and metaphor for emptiness and longing, much like the story of contemporary vampires. Great movie, definitely a must see if you haven't seen it. This was the film that made me the Nic Cage fan I am today, and I'll be first in line to see his next film Trespass. Check it out the trailer to this movie on Youtube and see for yourself. You won't regret it! http//bitly.com/qN22Cm "},{"Title":"Cows Blood","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is just one hilariously bad movie, i cant believe people  have actually analyized this film.  Nic Cage is ridiculously bad, and the film is ridiculously incoherent.  I think the film may have been written to make a point about sex and psychology, but the film fails miserably to make any points other than to realize just how bad a movie can be.  This film is bad for B movie films, just plain bad, almost Ed Wood bad, I guess this is Cages worst work, along with Captain Corelli, and Con Air, with his ridiculous Elvis accent, don't worry the accent in Vampires is even worse.  "},{"Title":"Just Try to Stick With It","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Okay, I'll admit that when I first started watching this film I was almost ashamed to have it on. I was distracted by the bizarre accent and what seemed like another over-the-top for the sake of ... well nothing... acting from Cage, but I implore anyone who sits down with this film to see it through to the end.First off, I take offense to other reviewers saying that any experienced film goer would dislike this film. Trust me, I've seen more than my share of films and this one was unique to me, even thought provoking. It was yes funny and sad, sometimes at the same time the closer you get to the end. I think that had Cage not gone so over-the-top that the film would have been far too heavy,typical, and one-sided. Truly he does offensive things, but in his mind they aren't, and right or wrong I think it was a refreshing perspective. Secondly, I am not a Nick Cage fan. I don't think that you have to be one to enjoy this movie. I think that he works for this part, and it doesn't have as much to do with talent as it does with fit. He was good for this role.I like that the true plot isn't revealed right away. I think it would take away from the film to have everything handed to you. The truth is, the character doesn't understand what's happening to him, why should we right away. And as for the accent, yes, it will drive you crazy at first, but when you think of his switching persona toward the end when he's talking to his therapist. I think that it all makes sense, he's acting the way he's thinks a person should act. Even the hammy gestures during his transformation then make sense. He's acting how he thinks a vampire should act, the way he's seen it in the movies.I truly enjoyed this film and find myself enjoying even more in retrospect. I don't recommend it for everyone, but I fully support it and believe that it has merit as a film. "},{"Title":"Great Vampire Comedy","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Greatly admired the acting of Nicolas Cage,(Peter Loew),Snake Eyes,,'98, where he finds himself chasing a bat around the room along with a very sexy and hot female VAMP,who makes hot sex and gives him plenty of bite marks on his neck. Peter Loew has a secretary, Maria Conchita Alonso,(Alva Restrepo),Blind Heat,'02; Alva tries to find a missing contract and goes through hell trying to deal with all the abuse that Peter Loew is giving her even at home while she is ironing a blouse in just a bra. Maria Alonso and Nicolas Cage gave outstanding performances in this wonderful VAMPIRE COMEDY which showed their great acting abilities. Don't miss this film, it is GREAT! "},{"Title":"No real vampire but still an unfunny Horror Movie","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" His secretary's brother stabs him with a wooden stake made from a crate slat. It is bloody. (Movie ends.) Nicolas Cage plays Peter Loew, a disturbed literary agent who has no life. He works all day and does disco clubs at night. He bullies his secretary and scares her to death about a stupid old file. He screws anything in sight. One night he takes home beautiful Rachel. Sure, she is a neck biter but is she a real vampire? Does she return time and again to feast on his blood or is he just slowly going insane and imagining it? Probably. He drifts in and out of 3 distinct accents. This appears to be bad acting, but it is really to show all 3 sides of his Jekyll and Hyde personality. He believes he is becoming a vampire, wears dark glasses and avoids sunlight. It turns into a real horror movie when he buys plastic vampire teeth and bites someone to death at the disco. Rachel (Jennifer Beals) appears in the movie several times but is probably all in his mind. Quite campy at the end when he does a bad imitation of a hunched-over madman and has a full conversation with people that aren't even there. (His psychiatrist and Sharon.) Nickolas Cage gives a tour-de-force performance, but I still hate this movie. Until it builds up to the murder, parts of it just drag on. It's a psychotic thriller with nasty swearing and modest nudity. (Jennifer wears very little clothes.) Was it drug use or a brain tumor? We are not given the reason for his dementia. Neither Peter nor Jennifer turn into vampires. It should have been titled This Movie Bites. "},{"Title":"Watch for Bites","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is an older movie but its a funny little film. The movie moves fast and keeps your attention and draws you into the main characters life.Just how hard would you fight off a person who shows up in the middle of the night wanting to please you and seduce you? Life can change faster then you know sometimes though...and for some of us. We may not even understand at first why those changes are going on. The film is funny, face paced and quick witted. Obsession with the night life can cause some interesting personality conflicts at the office at times too. "},{"Title":"Vampire's Miss!!!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Filled with underlying jabs at the traditional Vamp flick, Kiss strokes the mind with a farcical romp that explores it all; lust, blood, humor, insanity.  The sooner you realize that this young man is not of sound mind, the sooner you understand what the writer is trying to go for. Beals and Alonso are still on top but just barely, as a result the movie benefits from their talent and diversity.  Not a great movie but worth a look.  Don't be shocked if you're not too impressed, not exactly the tradition tinsel town tune. "},{"Title":"Oh, dear","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Can you say, Tastes like cardboard? There are only two reasons to see a movie like this one, to see Nicolas Cage eat a live cockroach; and two, do you enjoy watching people with fake vampire teeth bite people?Is this movie original? Maybe. Or maybe it's part of an idea, woefully undeveloped. What's more--is it even an interesting idea? Could be, it we could only understand the character involved. As things stand, we have no understanding of the main character, no real idea who or what he's killing (if he's killing at all), and no real sense of reality. Watching Cage go nuts is interesting only for true Cage fans. For those who don't know him or don't like him, this film offers nothing, nothing, nothing.  "},{"Title":"Cage runs roughshod over some questionable material","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Undead (in the sense of lifeless but still in motion) is the perfect word to describe this lame-brained would-be comedy, memorable only for the out-of-control, over-the-top emoting by Nicholas Cage as an upscale New York City literary agent who imagines himself becoming a creature of the night after some rough sex with Jennifer Beals. Seventy-five minutes later, after throwing several tantrums, brutally raping his secretary, and killing another girl in a misfired attempt to drink her blood, it's finally suggested that his vampire fixation is just a paranoid, misogynist fantasy, and Beals was only another heartless bitch with a taste for S&M. Writer Joseph Minion has an obvious chip on his shoulder, and director Robert Bierman never manages to locate the right tone, allowing his star to indulge himself in a performance of almost compelling badness. What Cage does here can hardly be called acting he's merely killing time (and with good reason), stumbling headlong through each scene like a narcoleptic bull in a cheap china shop. "},{"Title":"A weird, but not too effective horror/drama.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Considering it's a late 80s film, it isn't even that ugly visually, though still quite mediocre. Cage is uniformly praised in this film, which is preposterous when taking into consideration the first hour or so, in which his acting is that of a rank amateur. It's not eccentric it's amateurish. I only like him in the scenes towards the end when he totally loses it. And the accent what the hell is that? What kind of a dumb affected talk did he develop there? He should have talked normally.As for the plot, it turns out there were no vampires and that the whole thing was in Cage's head, i.e. he imagined a vampire attack, etc. After all, he isn't sensitive to light even if he thinks he should be, and he doesn't develop vampire teeth. If this was the point i.e. that he's simply insane, then I like the idea, otherwise this is/would be just another vampire film, albeit a little stranger. The film only gets really interesting towards the end; up inutile then it's quite drawn out.By the way, Cage really does eat that cockroach!!! "}{"Title":"Is this movie a joke?","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I came on here expecting the film to be blasted by a movie going audience I normally agree with, to find this movie rated at a whopping 5.1/10.I watched this movie with a bunch of Nicholas Cage fans, none of which has seen this movie yet (myself included). The entire time, we sat there in disbelief as a poor plot unraveled, acted out by a Keanu Reeves (Bill and Ted era) voiced Nic Cage. Some moments, like Cage running down the street screaming, I'M A VAMPIRE, I'M A VAMPIRE!! or him catching and eating a pigeon had us questioning whether or not this movie was seriously released, and whether or not it was supposed to be taking itself seriously.If you want to laugh at a now professional actor doing dumb things in a slow paced plot with random and confusing things happening in the background of every scene, make sure to watch Vampire's Kiss.Also, take a minute to laugh at how funny Cage's hair is in this movie. Because it's hilarious. "},{"Title":"over the top Cage","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Peter Loew (Nicolas Cage) is a Manhattan literary agent and Alva Restrepo (Maria Conchita Alonso) is his suffering assistant. He party all night and goes to therapist Dr. Glaser. A bat gets in his apartment during a night with a girl which he finds arousing. Another night, he brings Rachel (Jennifer Beals) home from a club. She shows her fangs and feeds on him. He continues to let her feed night after night. He becomes erratic and thinks he's turning into a vampire himself.Cage is going over the top with his performance. The problem is that Peter treats Alva so poorly even before being bite. It's hard to care about him at all. It's fascinating to see Cage overact sometimes but I don't see him hounding Alva as being funny. Maybe if he isn't so mean to Alva early on. "},{"Title":"No Comedy and No Vampires just another American Psycho","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vampire Kiss is actually a pretty good movie. I have read many reviews saying that the movie is a Dark Comedy, uses black humor, and that it is very funny. I actually did not consider this movie funny, and it would be a great mistake to classify it as a Comedy, or even a black comedy. Vampire Kiss is a drama, a deep drama about a young Jewish executive who goes to live to New York and is defeated by the Big City. The guy can not cope, and he loses it. The originality of the movie is to present this drama to the audience through the mental delusions of a pathetic and sick man who believes he is a vampire. It is actually pretty much the same story as American Psycho New York and the dramas of the big city seen through the eyes of a sick person. In both cases, the narrator is an exec. In American Psycho is a Financial Exec, and in Vampire Kiss is a publishing exec. Both are successful, can not cope with reality, and tend to invent worlds, not distinguish between the real world and fiction, and hurt people. So, they are just a reflection of the fears, anxieties, loneliness, alienation, hysteria, delusion and psychosis of the people and society. The theme of loneliness and alienation is emphasized very much in the Vampire Kiss. So, congratulations to the movie guys, because they made a pretty original movie, with a good theme, and a good, oppressive atmosphere. The bad points of the movie, and the reason why i only give it a six, is because in my humble opinion, they were not valiant enough to use a less clownish actor, thinking that this movie would be more watchable through some comic relief. I do not like the over the top(as usual) interpretation of Nicholas Cage, a very overrated interpreter. Also, i must say again that the use of absurdity and grotesque(the cockroach eating, the plastic vamp teeth, for example), do not make this a comedy. They make the movie even more frightening, and they make the character played by Cage even more pathetic and disturbing. So, a great movie, but it could have been much better. This is all the way American Psycho with Vampire Teeth. They did not even change the city¡¡¡¡ "},{"Title":"Nicolas Cage Total Idiot","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Nicolas Cage is pretty much the master of insane acting. Yet, with Vampire's Kiss, this is the movie that makes you want to ask him, What is your major malfunction? His character supposedly gets bitten by a vampire, and he begins to believe he's becoming one. We almost buy into it until he's taking a shower in one scene, he invites a vampire in, and we see no one else other than Cage. It becomes evident that Nicolas Cage is a complete moron. He basically spends the entire movie acting silly, screaming like a maniac, and abusing his secretary. The writing doesn't make matters better. There's no explanation what he's suffering from, why he thinks he was bitten by a vampire, or if he was even bitten by anything at all. This movie is nothing but nonsense. Score 53/100Recommendation As stupid as it is, this movie does get a recommendation, considering it justifies Cage's reputation of acting like a lunatic. "},{"Title":"Talk about 'The Job from Hell'!!","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I don't know how many time's I've mentioned this movie at my job and find that no one has ever seen it!! This movie makes me laugh out loud every time I watch it. Cage wears sunglasses, smokes a cigarette in the office. Screaming 'Alva!! Alva!! jumping on a desk pointing and screaming 'THERE YOU ARE!!' Cage standing in front of two mirrors (and you can see his reflection in both of them) desperately asking, WHERE AM I?? WHERE AM I?? Some other man in the bathroom pleading, Hey, could you keep it down in here? I'm trying to take a Dump. Give this movie a chance people! The camera angles, the shadows on the stairs (definite homage to Nosferatu)and entire atmosphere make this movie a must see! I was so happy to see that's it's out there on Hulu dot com. http//www.hulu.com/watch/17460/vampires-kiss There's a ton of people that agree with me that this is probably Nicholas Cage's best performance. And even though 'It's only a movie' I feel so sorry for Alva and the torment she has to take at work/home. Luckily, It's just a movie folks! Watch this movie Dammit!!! I can't believe it only rated a 5.2 on IMDb. Probably a younger crowd voted for it and don't understand classic movies? Or maybe women voted low ratings on this movie because it reminded them of their Office Manager? LOL "},{"Title":"Riiiiiiiiiiight","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vampire's Kiss is one of the strangest movies I have ever seen in my life. And I guess in some way, that's a positive effect. You know Sylvester Stallone once said When you're hungry, you'll do things you never thought you could do for money, I think this movie is case and point for Nicolas Cage. While this movie has some funny moments and I do love Nick's madness, it wasn't explained enough for the audience to truly enjoy this movie. Things kept on going in and out of this film. My mom said to watch it with the commentary on the DVD in order for the story to make more sense, but my question is, what would have people done back before DVD and commentary? These people must have been on some crazy drug because this is a very strange movie.3/10 "},{"Title":"The Story Has Been Done Before (and better)","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Most movies can be described as mixes of other movies, as most everything has been done before and it often appears that the only way to appear original is to cross the same elements in different ways. Of course there are a lot of possible outcomes depending largely on who is doing the mixing. Vampire's Kiss is one of the less appealing outcomes of mixing Polanski's Repulsion and Kubrick's The Shining.It was one of the a few perfect roles in Jennifer Beals' career. Beals is physically attractive in a kind of misaligned way, making her perfect for this role, as well as for Flashdance and The Bride. Her features seem at war with each other, they do not quite fit making her a walking-talking prop for dissidence. Which means she is ideal for characters that are not quite right, like a dancer-welder or a man-made woman, or in this case a fabricated vampire. I'm not sure if the directors of her three successful performances instinctively picked up on this feature when she was cast. If so, and if there were more of these perceptive directors out there, she would have been used more and used better.The trailer leads you to believe that this is a horror film/dark comedy, and this deception is one of the reasons for its poor box office showing. There is some humor in Peter Loew's (Nicholas Cage) gradual decent into madness; particularly his rant to his psychiatrist (Elizabeth Ashley) about the misfiling of contracts. And his scenes berating his secretary Alva (a great performance by Maria Conchita Alonso) are excessive enough to be funny; if you laughed at Jack Nicholson's self-parodying performance in The Shining you should enjoy Cage's antics here. But it will be a major disappointment for those looking to see a horror film and a minor one for those expecting a lot of comedy.In its favor, Vampire's Kiss looks far better than its less than $2 million budget. Director Robert Bierman did some first-rate directing, got fine performances from everyone in his cast, made creative use of a variety of NYC locations, and kept things in a unifying style. It's very nice work. The problem is the film has no substantial message to convey to its audience and is a little too intellectual to be just a suspense film (remember it is NOT supposed to be a horror film or a dark comedy).Bierman borrowed a lot from Polanski to set up increasingly discordant images and sounds to help advance the story. While much like Repulsion, including the ambiguous question of whether madness causes or is caused by hallucinations/nightmares, Vampire's Kiss fails to convey any substantive basis for Peter's susceptibility to madness. So Cage's character only manages to convince us that he knows how to act mad-not that he is actually going mad. Although Repulsion did not disclose much about the root cause of the madness (at least not until the end), Polanski was able to get a performance out of Catherine Deneuve that convinced you her madness was real.Bottom line, this is well made film with excellent performances but the story could have been a lot better, could have been told more effectively, and could have been promoted more honestly. "},{"Title":"Maybe the Worst Movie I Have Ever Seen!","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is terrible. Even if you are tempted by the possibility of seeing Jennifer Beals partially clothed, DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME WITH THIS DRECK. The plot made no sense whatsoever. The plot line was incoherent in the extreme. I kept wondering if this movie was meant to be a joke, but it kept taking itself so serious that I could never tell. The acting in this waste of film is among the worst and over the top I have ever seen. Nicholas Cage does do a good job of proving many peoples suspicions that he is a poor actor who only has two characters, sad and totally deranged. He chews the scenery like he has a chainsaw. Jason from Friday the 13th has more subtlety to his character than Cage. This could have been a half way watchable flick without Cage. Others do a reasonable job with the standout being Elizabeth Ashley, for once underplaying her role. PLEASE, PLEASE Do not waste you time unless you want to see Ms. Ashley in a rare moment of being on low. "},{"Title":"Not an enjoyable film","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I caught this on TV, and found it disturbing and a little depressing, though not in a meaningful way. Ironically what was good about this film is also what ruined it for me. Cage does an excellent job portraying the sad fool Peter Leow. The movie might have been funny if the acting wasn't so good, and his dark descent into madness wasn't so believable. But the performance and the writing and direction lift this work out of 'the theater of the absurd' where I might have been able to laugh at it, into a 'realism' that transformed even the generous helpings of comedic irony into a growing pile of acute and sorrowful evidences of just how pathetic the main character had become.If you enjoy very dark humor, good acting for acting's own sake, or have a fascination with insanity, you might enjoy this film.This film might be valuable for discussing insanity, the depravity/corruptibility of man, or the fragility of the human psyche. "},{"Title":"Evil rubbish","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a nasty piece of work with another hammy performance from Cage. His sadistic stalking and rape of a work colleague is particularly repellent. In fact the film's whole attitude to rape is beneath contempt, especially in a later scene where the word is banded about in a scene dripping with levity. It's worth checking out for a memorable score which borrows from baroque horror films of the 40's. "}{"Title":"Typical vampire idiocy","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  You might view this review as one big spoiler, Nick Cage seems tohave been studying Bela Lugosi's movements and characteristicsfor his unforgettable, (unfortunately for us and him) portrayal of avampire victim. The scene where a bat appears is another take offof the early Lugosi movies, and not done much better than they didback then. I can't believe I sat through the whole movie. WithElizabeth Ashley and Maria Conchita Alonso, I kept thinking itwould get better. But alas! It was not to be. Don't waste your moneyrenting this one. Watch it on the late show as I did when there wasabsolutely nothing else on. "},{"Title":"Another Nicolas Cage misfire...","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Before Leaving Las Vegas gave his career a boost, and before he became an action star, wiry and eccentric Nicolas Cage was adrift in Hollywood grinding out witless comedies (Peggy Sue Got Married) and heavy-handed dramas (Birdy) wherein his neurotic persona and schizophrenic comic timing were not used for the proper effect. Vampire's Kiss is Exhibit A a toothless horror-comedy with Cage playing New York literary agent who believes he's been bitten by a vampiress (Jennifer Beals, looking lovely but with no character to play). Deadening piece with fake-trendy night-life scenes, an underwhelming script, unsure handling, and an overwrought performance from Cage, affecting some sort of accent--like a laboratory assistant from a 1930s monster movie. * from **** "},{"Title":"This film needs more than a wooden stake...","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  To start this critique off on a good note, let me just say that in the years since the making of Vampire's Kiss, Nicolas Cage has certainly improved upon his acting skills. Although this film has been classified as a comedy/horror movie, it is neither. To think that mental illness and hallucinations in the form that is portrayed in the film is comedic, is absurd. The script was not only violent, but extremely tasteless and the acting...well, to put it bluntly...there was none! It appeared as if Cage and Beals were doing exercises from acting class, and not very good ones at that. Sitting through this film was almost as uncomfortable as sitting in a 120 degree sauna for two hours without the aid of wet towels...it sucks! This film needs more than a wooden stake to kill it, it needs to be burned as well. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know how an actor as talented as Nicholas Cage ever got through the Hollywood machine by doing garbage like this film. Seeing him in this movie I would have never thought he would have amounted to anything.  Not only was the story absolutely stupid, but Cage's performance is bordering on unwatchable. The only thing that kept me watching was my fascination with how bad he was.  I don't know what kind of an accent he was trying to pull off but it was ridiculous. There isn't much I can say about this movie except don't bother watching it. I thought it was going to be mildly amusing, it wasn't even that. "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly bad","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Nicolas Cage is an interesting actor, but this is not one of his finest moments, or rather, he's the only interesting aspect of an otherwise forgettable movie--interesting because his performance is so over-the-top. The film is neither stylish, nor erotic, nor funny (well, the fake teeth scene is funny for a while). The plot is ludicrous and disjointed and the film can't seem to decide it it wants to be comedy, horror, or drama. This isn't a conventional vampire film in any sense of the word, aside from the silly bat at the beginning of the movie and Jennifer Beals as a real vampire (the character Rachel). Since Cage's character is in therapy and obviously quite disturbed, one of the underlying plot threads is that his behavior is really the result of a paranoid mind--that is, he is not, nor has he ever been, a vampire. Oh well. Fortunately Cage went on to make some interesting films with better direction and comprehensible plots.Even though I do like vampire films as a genre, this was one of the worst I've seen.  "},{"Title":"LAME AND PATHETIC TIME-WASTER","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Nicholas Cage is a publishing executive who is supposedly allegedly bitten by a vampire bat, after which he starts behaving erratically, such as sleeping in a makeshift coffin-made from a living room sofa, and being a real a****** to his secretary. Billed as a horror/comedy, it can't seem to make up its mind what it is and fails as a horror or a comedy. After seeing this one for the first (and last) time I felt like putting on any of the Universal Classic Horrors, such as HOUSE OF DRACULA in order to fumigate my mind from this wretched viewing experience.Rating 0 stars out of ***** "},{"Title":"Artsy, pretentious, self-indulgent bore","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I still can't believe Nicolas Cage believes this to be one of his best films. This would normally be the type of movie an actor would cross off his resume. Cage doesn't do many DVD commentaries, yet he chose to do one for this obscure dark comedy. His commentary with the director was definitely amusing, and made the film more fun to watch, but I'm here to rate the movie and not the commentary. The movie is totally confusing, as it keep jumping back and forth from one reality to another. Finally, I understood that it was about Cage going insane and thinking he's a vampire. Confusing or not, Vampire's Kiss is painful to watch. It contains almost no plot, and it's no more than a one-man show for Nick Cage, who gives an outrageously hammy performance. And yes, I'm saying that as a huge Nick Cage fan. Sure, he has a reputation for being over-the-top, but usually it makes sense within his character and rarely does he get to the point where he's a live-action cartoon character. In this case, he's a total cartoon, mugging at any possible opportunity and donning an annoying accent (kind of like his dumb accent in Peggy Sue Got Married). Jennifer Beals is wasted in a small, degrading role. And Kasi Lemmons really should stick to directing. A must-miss! "},{"Title":"Bad one","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This must have had a big budget to get all of the stars to actually be in this atrocious piece of garbage. Nicholas Cage acts like a hammy dork with an I don't no where he came up with it accent. Jessica Beals does look good but again the acting is campy as the lower regions. Why the secretary, played Maria Chonchita Alonso, does an adequate acting job but it must have been difficult with all the bad acting surrounding her. All in all I can not see why such a piece of poorly done trash was one. Looking at the message board headings it seems I am not even close to being the only one who hated this movie. It is a good thing Cage went on to better roles and improved acting on his part. "},{"Title":"When Life Has You by the Throat ... Laugh! (warning review contains spoilers)","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" VAMPIRE'S KISS has so many meanings. There's so much symbolism in this film. On the one hand, it's a parody of early-20th-century vampire flicks, as I have read in comments here on IMDb. On the other hand, I find it's a quirky little existential movie with big messages about modern life.Dig it VAMPIRE'S KISS is a movie made in the 1980s about life during the Reagan era. While in the mid-1970s sexual revolution, the Andrea True Connection sang More, More, More to a disco beat, in the early to late 1980s folks with megamoney and strong nostrils were living the lyrics to the new-wave rendition of Money (That's What I Want). So Nick Cage, as literary agent Peter Loew, is playing a self-centered yuppie. OK, that's an oxymoron. As I was saying, Nicky baby is portraying (and with verve) an egocentric yuppie who sucks the life out of anyone who steps into his path, including his one-night-stands and his secretary.Peter's secretary, the seemingly innocent Alma, is a first-class screw-up. I've been a secretary; I know what not to do, and she does that all too well. (Alma is played by Maria Conchita Alonso, who, outside of the taut drama CAUGHT, does some of her best acting here opposite Cage.) Why am I labeling Alma a grade-A screw-up? She indeed lost that contract just as certifiably as Peter loses his mind. Did Alma deserve poor and violent treatment from a deranged boss? No, but that's part of what makes VAMPIRE'S KISS a guilt-inducing riot. The film is 360 degrees of political incorrectness, so offbeat and yet so hip that it keeps its own rhythm. Just as one example Peter goes all the way to the Bronx, or Jersey -- or wherever it is Alma's family lives -- in a medallion taxi! Then, while waiting for her to get dressed for work, he curses her using the c word even though he knows he has the upper hand and will win at deceiving her. He's fierce one moment, a punk the next. And by punk, I sure don't mean Billy Idol. This guy pukes in the back seat of the cab. Outrageous, but funny! And definitely existential. Where there's the stench of vomit and impending death in a film, there's almost always existentialism in the message or theme.I never fail to recommend VAMPIRE'S KISS to friends and co-workers who lean toward the creative or artistic realm -- and who have an open-minded sense of humor. I am neither highbrow nor lowbrow. Morning can find me perched in front of the screen watching THE UNBEARABLE LIGHTNESS OF BEING, while afternoon may find me extracting meaning through subtitles in Truffaut's 400 BLOWS, so in the evening it feels good to let loose with campy fare such as VAMPIRE'S KISS. I cannot count how often I laugh uncontrollably while watching Nick going overboard.For me, quarterly (and more frequent) doses of VAMPIRE'S KISS and OSS 117 keep my heart healthier than a daily bowl of hot oatmeal. And one last thing if you don't laugh, at least snicker, when Nick as Peter Loew dashes through the Manhattan nightscape euphorically exclaiming, I'm a VAMpire! I'm a VAMpire! I'm a VAMpire! I'm a VAMpire! then I say Somebody done sucked the life outta you. "},{"Title":"Good story, but Nicolas Cage brings it down","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This story was great, and once I got past the uneven accent and horrible portrayal by Nicolas Cage, who took his level of believability as an actor to a new all-time low, I enjoyed it.  In all fairness I must admit that I have never been a big fan of his (with the exception of Raising Arizona), but I digress.The story is complex, but thoroughly engrossing with many interesting plot twists and turns.  It is violent and often unnerving as you watch the main characters life unravel and the affect it has on those around him.It was a GOOD movie, but I still must think that if they had chosen another lead actor, or at least allowed Nicolas Cage to play it straight, it could have been a GREAT movie. "}{"Title":"yes its black comedy, but its not well done","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This arty film is all over the place - confusing in tone, odd in concept, jarring in many moments, and with a central character that is not sympathetic enough to be more than very distantly interesting to the average viewer. It is rather poorly written, lacking in wittiness and elegance. I wonder what another director might have done with the material - either go toward more campy, or more psychological horror? Although I can't imagine either change improving this film very much. Cage gamely gives a fascinating performance, but mostly this film is just disturbing without being either very funny or very creepy - it's just... really odd. "},{"Title":"This vampire doesn't really suck (web)","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The opening credits were promising Manhattan skyscrapers, light by dawn, were a great place for the unnatural. As it has been shown in Ghostbusters, devil's advocate or After hours, NYC has really a touch for that and cruising the city by night can be dangerous it's a old city, its building look Gothic or similar to medieval towers, its nightclubs can really be dark spots.Then, a sort of yuppie that leads an empty bachelor life becomes the prey of a female vampire or believes so the movie isn't clear about that as his symptoms aren't really checked for sure and above all, he is particularly dependent of his shrink (maybe the only one sucker here) who does sessions in a wonderful large windows office. As he falls harder and harder into psychosis, he becomes an abusive boss and really dynamites his senseless life. This aspect is at first interesting as Nic Cage plays the disoriented yuppie. I can't fathom why but Nic has always seems to me like a cool buddy, with a big heart and an engaging soft voice. In all cases, he knows how to play and embody sympathetic poor souls. In addition, the feeling for a bachelor to miss the meaning of life is true as i share it actually and my own personal coffin can be a mess too. However, the vampire theme is awfully played sure, we find the hunger, sexual crave but the movie never expands or details the theme the only thing we know is that Jennifer sucks blood in the bed there aren't any dialogs, any hints, and no interaction between the characters. And what's the use to cast Jennifer if she has just handful scenes with no dialogs, long teethes and a horrible hairstyle (this time, Nic, yours was good...).So, my feelings are mixed good for a free-fall, bad for a vampire movie! "},{"Title":"Over the top, but fun to revisit the 80's","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Maybe it is the passage of time, maybe it is the growth of Nicholis Gage as an actor, maybe Nick just can not do a believable English accent, but I found this movie more distracting then entertaining. Throughout the predictable plot (the biggest surprise was it turned out just like it seemed it would), I kept waiting for a turn. But no it just danced down the road of insanity. But Gage with an accent is really distracting and annoying. It makes it very easy to study what his potential was, and having seen his later work (yes, I watch blockbusters and enjoy them) - glad to see how the process develops.The photography is incredible - so much so it almost seems like was from another movie and dropped in. There are great sunrises and sunsets. They stand out because they are so well done for a movie that seems so plain.Seeing the big hair and clothing styles of the 80's is fun, especially on Jennifer Beals. But certainly not enough to save this movie.Certainly as a psychological study it has some interest, but this is where the over the top part most stands out. The passive secretaries including Alva don't seem realistic for late 80's, when there were so many options for the hard working.Best viewed late on a drunken night, or on a hangover Saturday when nothing else is available. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Definitely belongs in the so bad they're good section of your locally-owned video store. If you can see past the anticlimactic plot and uninteresting supporting cast, you will find that Nicolas Cage delivers a hilarious performance. I liked this film for it's quirky humor. Speaking of, I cracked up just about every time Nicolas Cage simply spoke a line due to his utterly ridiculous New England meets California accent. If you are one of the select few that can actually endure this unusual production, Vampire's Kiss will surely leave you wondering--what the hell just happened? And that is precisely why I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Nicholas Cage's Worst Movie","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A publishing executive is visited and bitten by a vampire and starts exhibiting erratic behavior. He pushes his secretary to extremes as he tries to come to terms with his affliction. The vampire continues to visit and drink his blood, and as his madness deepens, it begins to look as if some of the events he's experiencing may be hallucinations. I Admit Cage's Performance Is So Believable That You Think That He Is Turning Into A Vampire In The Middle Of Shooting But...This Quollifies As Comedy? Rape? Murder? Psychosis? I Can Take Black Comedy But This Drops The Border Between Black & Comedy.When I Say That This Is Cage's Worst Movie True Its Opinion But I Have Seen National Treasure, Knowing, Ghost Rider & I Loved That Last One So I Should Be The Target Market For This Movie. The Clips Of Nosferatu Just Reminded Me Of A Good Movie That I Could've Been Watching Instead & I Bet That Thats Where Cage Got Most Of His Performance Off Max Schreck. Believe Me I Can Take Dumb Jokes But Not So Dumb That You Don't Know WTF They're Doing Jokes.The Only Reason I Would Suggest A Viewing Is So You Could See Nicholas Cage In The Movie Where He Should've Got Nominated For An Oscar For His Role But Otherwise AVOID.P.S. Some Of You May Be Wondering If I'm Schitzophrenic Because Of How Much I Praise Nicholas Cage's Performance & I Will Answer That A Good Performance Does Not Mean Its A Good Movie...Take A Look At The Dark Knight "}]