[{"Title":"An exciting action-packed thriller","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was pretty good. Frank Castle is The Punisher, a former police officer whose family was murdered by mobsters and years later, he comes back and wages a one-man war against crime. Although thought dead, he slowly kills off leading mobsters and criminals, one by one, in the name of street justice. This movie had good music, and Louis Gosset Jr. played his role well as a police chief who was a friend of Castle. This movie had a decent story and exciting well-filmed gunbattles, but there were some bad things too. It relied more on pure action than on acting, for there was little talking in the whole film, just gunfire. It was somewhat fake to the point where it no longer seemed like a film (more like a video game) where a single man kills dozens of mobsters and is only hit by a single bullet in the whole film (in the shoulder!!!). But besides the bad things, this was pretty exciting and I would recommend it to all who enjoy action films. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM THANKS TO THE ACTORS CHOSEN","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"39 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher was one of the better Marvel films adapted from a comic-thanks mainly to the casting.Dolph Lungdren was an excellent choice as The Punisher and I cannot imagine anyone else being able to play it as well as he did. His facial expressions were so convincing throughout the movie;you really could believe that he was Frank Castle, a man whose family had been butchered. It was probably one of Dolph's best roles since playing He-Man in Masters of the Universe. The Punisher is a dangerous and pessimistic character and Dolph played it great.Louis Gossett Jr. played Jake Berkowitz who had been chasing The Punisher for years and the lovely Nancy Everhard played his sidekick.Jeroen Krabbe played crime boss Gianni Franco and he too did a brilliant job. He wasn't the stereotypical gangster. He made Gianni Franco into an intriguing character.The casting for this film was brilliant so all that was needed after that was lots of action. And lots of action is exactly what we got. It was very vicious at times and I found myself flinching at times but it was great action.I do wish there had been a sequel to this film. "},{"Title":"A good adaptation","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this film, it´s true to the comic, and in some parts is better. For example in the comic Frank Castel has a truck full of weapons (most of them hi tech weapons) but were he gets the cash to pays for them. It´s a better adaptation than most flicks from those years (captain America for example) and it´s full with a lot of action and blood, its like a predecesor for Kill Bill. I give the movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better Than People Give Credit For","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No, this is not CITIZEN KANE.  But it is an entertaining film that did make a somewhat unbelievable Marvel hero to celluloid.Lundgren plays Frank Castle, a former NYPD detective (originally a military special ops expert in the comic) who loses his family to a mob hit.  This pushes his already unstable personality over the edge, and he becomes a one-man judge, jury, and executioner.  The VERY underrated Louis Gossett Jr. plays his former partner, determined to find him and keep him out of the gas chamber.This movie is quite a decent action film.  It actually delves quite deeply into the characters' motivations, their histories, their personalities.  I agree with earlier comments that, out of the lot of action stars, Lundgren does bring at least some dramatic chops to the role.  I really couldn't imagine Schwarzenegger playing this part, though Stallone or Willis might have been better choices.The action sequences are done quite well for a low-budget film.  The director, Mark Goldblatt, served as editor on films such as TERMINATOR 1 & 2, the underrated PREDATOR 2, TRUE LIES, STARSHIP TROOPERS, ARMAGEDDON, and PEARL HARBOR, so he definitely has knowledge of how to properly compose an action sequence.  He also served as Paul Verhoeven's 2nd Unit Director on the original ROBOCOP.The movie is rather tough to find, and though it strays away a bit from the source material, it does manage to flesh out a rather one-dimensional character.A new version of THE PUNISHER is now being prepped, starring DREAMCATCHER's Thomas Jane as Frank Castle and directed by Jonathan Hensleigh. "},{"Title":"a darker,more realistic version of the Punisher","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this version of the Punisher is much different than the 2004 version.for one thing it is much darker,and probably more faithful to the comic book version.the pacing is very deliberate in this one,creating more atmosphere.there are some very good fight scenes in this movie.the biggest difference is the antagonist,which is much more deadly in this one and a worthy adversary for the Punisher.Dolph Lundgren plays the role in this incarnation and is much more imposing,with better physical presence.this is mainly due to his size.he definitely would inspire fear in the criminal element.Lundgren is not really a great actor,but he doesn't need to be for this role.overall,this a good movie,more subdued than the 2004 version.there is more physical action,but very little of things blowing up,which works in this film's favor. a strong7/10 "},{"Title":"A much better movie then the big budget remake","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Lungren as The Punisher play the part very well, a man who lost every thing except he need for revenge but in the process of getting his revenge he losses what made him Frank. When the Japnesse mafia move in and kidnap the children of the local crime family he is forced to face the fact that in his pursuit of revenge he has placed the lives of the ones he swore to protect in danger. The action was well done the fight scenes are well done, he is not invincible and receives several wounds for a super hero that is refreshing, granted I think Kill Bill took a bit from this in the fact the body guard of the crime queen is a teenage female a bit on the crazy side. Over all I think this is a much better film then the remake at least the actors act, and not just say lines, the drunk is great. "},{"Title":"One of the better Marvel movies.","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Grosly undervalued, the Punisher is 15 years later still one of the better Marvel Movies. Of course the movie has a weak plot, and sure it never really surprises it's audience, but it captures the spirit of the comic far better than many other Marvel-movies.After the murder of his family, Frank Castle goes on a rampage against organized crime. He starts a war against criminals everywhere. The movie shows the Punisher for what he is, once a broken man, now a killer with a shade of humanity far hidden inside.As a movie, the Punisher is average, there are far better movies in the action-genre. But as a comic-adaptation it is at the very least true to the comic. "},{"Title":"The Gulity will be punished","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dolph Lundgren is the Punisher in my mind after seeing this movie. Yeah the filming was a little cheap and they eliminated the skull on his shirt but Lundgren captured Frank Castle's descent into madness perfectly. The film opens up five years after the death of Frank Castle and his family as we see in flashbacks this pushed Castle over the edge and into a Vendetta for revenge. Top marks go to Lou Gosset Jr as he Carries his end f the movie beautifully Gossett And Lundgren are the movie. Some of the other actors fall Flat and are not really convincing Only Jerome Krabbe Carries his role off with any hint of class or style. Some of the bad acting in this movie is it's downfall but it captures the style and spirit of the comic Something the remake strives to do but not quite. This movie is a Fun shut your brain off for 92 minutes and sit back and enjoy action classic "},{"Title":"One of the Better","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Today, we are inundated with comic-book inspired films, but in 1989 Punisher was one of the better adaptations, right up there with the Superman series(minus the forth film).Like the lackluster, Punisher, starring Thomas Jane, this film has a dark yet balanced view of villainy and plays up the innocence of children that can so easily become corrupted. The viciousness of the two mafia leaders at each other's throat with the vigilante, Punisher wanting both to suffer for their evil deeds, that so often go unpunished for the lack of a better word.As odd as it might sound, this is Dolph Lundgren's best performance despite his appearance as Ivan Drago. In the Punisher he actually speaks and shows some expression. As the PUNISHER--Castle, he is a wounded hero that does horrific things to avenge the death of his family, but he puts the care of innocents above himself that will save him in the end. Lou Gossett, Jr plays a Police detective that suspects that he knows who the mysterious Punisher is. He hunts him down as to find his old friend and end the bloodshed. This is to no avail as the Yakuza resorts to kidnapping their rival mob's children as to claim the city as their undisputed territory. Gossett and Lundgren are complimented by the presence of Dutch actor, Joeurn Krabbe, if you can remember the Living Daylights and yes, Deuce Bigelow European Gigilo. He needed the money, I guess? I hope.The Punisher is a violent monster of a movie that was a lot better than I expected and I was glad to have seen it before the coming remake wipes away the memory of this effort that deserves its due attention. It is well shot, the editing is spotty in places, but it is consistent enough to survive the rigors of this review. NOT AN ESPECIALLY TOP NOTCH DRAMA WITH INFLEXION AND CHARACTER CONFLICTS, BUT ENJOYABLE IF ONE FORGETS ALL THAT HOT AIR BULLSH'T. "},{"Title":"Lighten Up It's a Fun Flick","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Relatively few comic-book-based films are true to their origins. For instance, Spoilers follow.In the first Batman film, The Joker is killed In the second, The Penguin dies. The Swamp Thing films strayed significantly from their ... roots. So, okay this version is markedly different from the comic book.Within that context, the film is entertaining. Dolph Lundgren plays a laconic Punisher, who finds himself in the middle of a war between two crime organizations. As with the second version of Blade, our hero finds himself in a reluctant alliance with some of his enemies to confront a more dangerous group of enemies.Actually, where the newer film (remake?) gives a better origin story, it takes forever to get going; this one gets right into the action. Rather like the Hamlet soliloquy in The Last Action Hero. "}{"Title":"Quite possibly Dolph Lundgren's best film ever","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"24 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsAdapted from a little known comic book of the same name,The Punisher is a ceaselessly exciting thrill-ride with action like you've never seen before.Many consider Dolph the most dramatically talented out the action hero bunch (Willis,Seagal,Van Damme,Schwarzenegger et al)and many may be put off here by what could be interpreted as a blank,stationary performance.In fact,what this is is a frank,startling portrayal of a man unable to emit mercy to his opponents simply because he is emotionally unable to.Like the best,it also has a sensible,compact running time,running in at just under an hour and a half,making it all the more irristible to the action conesseur.**** "},{"Title":"Fans won't be disappointed.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   The following may contain spoilers.  Being a big fan of the comic, when I saw this at a local video store I had to rent it. And despite some origin tweaking, this movie was great! Dolph Lundgren stars as Frank Castle, a dedicated cop whose family was killed by the mob. Believed dead he goes underground and wages a one man war on crime as the ultimate judge, jury and executioner.  Despite what some would have you believe this movie has a powerful script, plenty of action and stays true to it's roots. If you enjoy films like Darkman, The Crow and Batman (which ironically was released the same year, and if Punisher had the same marketing backing Batman did maybe things would have gone differently) then you'll love this. "},{"Title":"My favourite Marvel action hero.","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film may not be the closest adaptation to the Marvel Comic but it does have a lot action and kick a** fighting that makes this a great film. Dolph Lundgren gives a solid performance as Frank Castle/ The Punisher, Barry Otto is great as The Punisher's drunk friend who gives him info about criminal hideouts, Louis Gossett Jr does a great role as the detective that's been searching for five years to get Frank Castle.The skull may be missing on his shirt but that doesn't bother me since he still kicks a**. The skull symbol is still on his knives and his bike so that's something. Their's a lot of action in this film to get anyone interested, if you're a fan of The Punisher like me or into action movies then The Punisher is one to see. 10/10The 2004 Punisher movie is another one to look out for. "},{"Title":"Now THIS is what a comic book film should be!!!","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 1989 version of the Punisher is the perfect example of what a violent comic book based movie should be. It doesn't slow things down with characterization or corny dialog, it gets straight to the point from the start of the film.Most already know Frank Castles's family was killed by the mob which led him to be the most ruthless vigil anti ever conceived The Punisher.Its said that the fight scenes were improvised by the actors and you can tell sort of. Thats not a bad thing either, it adds realism to the fights and they were pulled off really well despite no choreography.A lot of people don't acknowledge how violent this film is. For an action movie its pretty gory. There's a mute female martial artist who can use ear rings like a butcher knife. Not to mention The Punisher himself is so ruthless, he kills and tortures and shows no compassion whatsoever. Hes more sadistic than the villains.Dolph Lungren was so intimidating in this movie. As if his size isn't enough, he looks like a zombie the entire movie with a emotionless look on his face. Common day fans probably want more characterizations, less action and more emotion but lets get real THIS IS THE PUNISHER!!! Not some vigil-anti drama fest. Seriously do you want to see the Punisher show emotion or blow stuff up?The ending can be seen as either conclusive or a setup for a sequel which it never did get. If you want the Hollywood formula then you may hate this movie. If you want the Punisher presented as he should be you should enjoy it. It'll keep you entertained throughout the whole film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Dolph movie","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Punisher has to be one of Dolph's best if not his best film much Better than the new version . Dolph Lundgren plays Frank castle a,k,a The Punisher an ex cop turned vigilante after his wife and kids die from a car bomb.But now he is up against his most deadly enemy the Yakuza who have kidnapped gangsters and other types of criminals Children and now it is up to the punisher to save them. The plot is good pretty original as well and the acting is above standard Dolph's performance is excellent so is Lou Gosset's. The other good the thing about the movie is the action it is Non stop and never lets up. The best action scene is the last one where the punisher and the main bad guy storms the Yakuza base. With explosive shoot outs pulse pounding fight scenes and a brilliant lead the punisher is essential for action junkies. The only low point is Dolph is a bit under used but apart from that the punisher a great film 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The true essence of The Punishers Character","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a Punisher fan from down under,I finally got a chance to watch this Dolph Lundrgen classic among other (i.e showdown in little Tokyo with the late Branden lee). I have to say, he really portrayed the punisher's behavior after the five years of tormented thoughts of his families death.it turns out the movie was shot here in Australia, I got blown away with the 'No Way'look. i found out this when at the end of the film I could see the Centre point Tower from far and the NEC building that was next to where the building with Jake is yelling 'Frank', the same building where the final fight takes place, and it was one bloody Punisher Classic.In the Comics the punisher faces up to a lot of enemies in one go, seeing this movie did bring the comic to life. I have no idea why there was no Punisher Death Skull on his clothes, but at least it was on his knives he left on the dead gangsters.I wont saying anything bad about the recent version because I now take it as a prequel or just a movie that explains how the Punisher came to be. Thomas Jane did a Killer job working out for the role (without using any protein Steroids like Dolph did, 10 points to him) but I now understand Dolph had to do what he needed to and with the situation he had making this movie.What I hate is that bloody things have happened to both in the making of the punisher movies, and it had to be coincidental, but the people who worked on both of them really did a excellent job.Overall I recommend all the Punisher fans to get a hold of this classic by any means necessary. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as the IMDB rating leads you to believe","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In fact, I have a suspicion that I will still like this one better even after the release of the new Punisher (2004).That's because of a couple of reasons. Firstly, the acting. Dolph Lundgren acts very well in this film, portraying a grim, depressed, out of the ordinary action hero whose sole reason for living is revenge. Louis Gossett, jr. also does his best as Lundgren's former best friend. Jeroen Krabbe, in my opinion, is miscast as the big crime boss although he does his best.Secondly, the action sequences are simply good. Lots of guns blazing, some decent camera angles and of course the whole 'red light' sequence near the end of the film, which I liked. The whole atmosphere of this movie is grim, gritty, depressed. Something I think the remake this year will not accomplish.6/10  "},{"Title":"One of the few good comic book adaptations out there.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like all there new Marvel comic book adaptations,they are fun,but as far as casting goes the best two were Christopher Reeves as Superman and Dolph Lungdren as the Punisher.This is a gritty and very violent movie. Tha action is fast and furious and most of the characters are hard to like...a dark movie. Castles, as most of you know, has had his family killed by the Mafia,he goes on a killing rampage as the Punisher...125 dead in 5 years and just does not care...that is the background story.In this movie the Mafia is so weakened by Castles that the Yakuza have stepped in and are taking over, Mafia children are kidnapped and people are dying by the dozen as castle does his thing...Lost of knifes in bodies and lots of lead poisonings in a short compact action film.Neat story,a tortured and emotionally close to dead Dolph Lungdren and good supporting cast makes this one of Dolph better efforts and certainly worth digging up if you can find it. "},{"Title":"Bringing the punishment.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A vigilante already responsible for one hundred and twenty five murders continues to bring the punishment to mobsters and for a little more fun fights off the yakuza. I myself like a good actioner and to enjoy a movie like this, it's no secret that you have to put your brain on hold to take in the action. Dolph Lundgren makes a capable vigilante and there are enough surreal moments that satisfy on the visceral level. However movies like this always suffer from the less than stellar acting, the cheesy villains and a script that is made to never get in the way of the action. On these terms The Punisher succeeds in delivering the required action and remains an adequate Lundgren vehicle. * *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"Lundgren was the perfect choice to play The Punisher!","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Following the basic thread of the Marvel comics anti-hero, the 1989 Punisher film recounts the now well-known tale of cop Frank Castle (Lundgren), a decent man whose family is murdered by Mafiosi. So being the radically awesome dude he is, not only does he get revenge on the scumbags that killed his family, he discovers that vengeance-based hatred of evildoers is like Lay's potato chips you can't murder just one. So he goes to live in the sewer system and dedicates his life to exterminating bad guys, mainly Mafia types.As the tale plays out, we see a gradually developing mob war between the Yakuza, led by the frightening Lady Tanaka (Miyori), and the Franco family of Italian gangsters, led by Gianni Franco (Krabbe). As their war for turf and money and such escalates, the Punisher is there too, picking them off like so many cockroaches. When the children of the Italian Mafiosi are kidnapped and imprisoned, it's up to the Punisher to save them, showing he has a human side and isn't a remorseless killing machine. In an interesting plot occurrence, Castle must actually team up with his despised enemy Franco in order to rescue Franco's son Tommy (Rooney). Meanwhile, grizzled cop Jake Berkowitz (Gossett) has been following Castle's career for years and has teamed up with a new partner, Leary (Everhard), intent on finding him. Can the Punisher get any more awesome? Lundgren was the perfect choice to play The Punisher. Especially when you add the black hair and stubble, his square jaw and outfit, he looks like a comic character (He was also perfectly cast as He-Man for Masters of the Universe, 1987). Speaking of which, the body count in this movie is ridiculously high. Between this, Invasion USA (1985) and No Dead Heroes (1986), the earth has been severely depopulated. But despite the dark tone, this is the type of movie where you cheer every time a baddie bites the big one. The antagonists are made to hiss and boo at, and all the many henchmen are bumped off in a variety of different ways and in different locations, so the copious murders never get boring. Sure, there are countless deaths, but they're FUN deaths. Castle is even credited with killing 125 people before the movie even starts.There are some classic bits, such as the obligatory torture scene, and the drug deal at the docks we've seen many times, but the idea of Mafia vs. Yakuza vs. The Punisher is just too cool. And the movie, thankfully, lives up to that cool idea. We get motorcycle cam of Castle riding around on his chopper, and even the bad guys have a nifty hideout worthy of any James Bond film. Of course, we'd be remiss if we left out the wacky sidekick. This time around it's Shake (Otto), a drunken former actor that rhymes most of his lines. The equivalent character is the one Newman played in Punisher War Zone (2008).Louis Gossett Jr. always brings the goods and here is no exception. He and Dolph must be buddies, as they teamed up again for Cover-Up (1991)...perhaps Gossett wasn't available for The Peacekeeper (1997) so they somehow rounded up Montel Williams to fill his seat. But the heavyweight Gossett can't be easily replaced. For the main baddie they scored a classy actor in Jeroen Krabbe, who, if anything, seems even more evil in his stonewashed jean jacket.On the technical end, this is a New World film, shot mainly in Australia. It was directed by Mark Goldblatt, the man responsible for Dead Heat (1988), the love it-or-hate-it Treat Williams vehicle (we love it). Now for the important part the U.S. VHS is cut, shorn of many violent bits. If you're going to buy this film, and we recommend you do, you have to get the 2-Disc Austrian DVD on the XT Video label. It comes in a hardshell box, and contains the uncut film on one disc, and the workprint on the other, along with some extras. Even though we had previously seen the VHS, to re-watch it on this DVD was a revelation. For a movie that revolves around violence so strongly, it would be crazy to see any other version.To quote Exodus, it's good friendly violent fun so add the (XT Video) DVD to your collection today! For more action insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "}{"Title":"Excellent live-action version based on a comic book character","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher was made in 1990 but it remains my best comic-book adaption on screen ever. The film has captured the dark atmosphere of the comic-book like no other movie I've ever seen. Dolph plays Frank Castle, an ex-cop who retired after his wife was murdered (by the Mafia) to become a heavily-armed vigilante who lives in the sewers, called The Punisher. The story is about the Japanese Yakuza trying to take over the Mafia's business in America, causing a gang war on the streets. When the Mafia refuse to make an agreement, the Yakuza kidnap all the children of of the mob bosses to hold them for ransom. This is where Dolph has to save the day, rescue the children and put an end to the war. Louis Gosset Jr. is excellent as Dolph's ex-partner, Jake, who is now determined to find him. As The Punisher, I couldn't have thought of a better choice than Dolph. He fits the role perfecttly, and is unrelentingly cold throughout the movie. The plot is pure hokum, no doubt, but the movie looks and feels just like the Marvel comic. But this is no children's comic book movie, as the movie is packed with graphic violence that gave it a lot of negative publicity. It's a shame this movie bombed at the US box office, because it really is a great movie. If you haven't seen this gem, go rent it or buy it now! "},{"Title":"Decent comic book actioner!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Frank Castle is the Punisher, a former cop whose family was killed by mobsters. He was presumed dead but has in fact been alive, although not entirely well, for the last five years. Castle is a vigilante on a long lasting mission for revenge, as yet he hasn't reached his limit. Castle lives underground with barely any contact with human life, he is emotionally retarded, a tortured soul, who looks to god for help but as yet receives no answer.This is a B-movie, so high production values and top script is not exactly expected. This is however an enjoyable comic book action film. Its dark and moody and is perfect for the lead character. Dolph Lundgren is good as the Punisher, he has the right look and his voice is excellent in the role. This is a character who holds in his emotions and you would perhaps say it is an ideal character for an action star to play. But Dolph adds something extra, he really comes across as if he is a man suffering, you can see it in his eyes, he is really into his role but being a character with few emotions Dolph gets little credit, the same could be said for Arnold in the Terminator. They both get more credit for the look and actions of their characters instead of nicely played performances, in roles that need to be underplayed, you could almost call it being wooden because of a need to be wooden. The script gives Castle some depth but we never really get to delve to deep into his life before he became the Punisher, and there could have been some more scenes to show Castle on his own, to see more of his actions away from other people. Around others he is unable to act like a normal human being because of his solitude and emotional anguish.The script may have flaws and the film seems fairly cheap, but it has class in other areas. The film is very dark, and it has an almost eerie atmosphere that is key for a comic book film like this. It is nicely shot in that respect, they steer clear of to much colour, they take you into Castles dark, dank world. The action is also good, fast paced with some imaginative moments, nothing amazing because the likes of Woo and the Wachowskis have helped the Hollywood action scene evolve in style since the year this was made, but as far as 80's action goes this is quite stylish.The support cast range from average to just plain awful. The exceptions here are Oscar winner Louis Gossett Junior and Oscar nominee Jeroen Krabbe. They are both in scene stealing form. They have a great scene together at the beginning and also Gossett has a standout scene when he is with the Punisher in a police cell, that was an excellent scene. Krabbe is the show stealer by a whisker though, he is good and his character as a mob boss is more well written than your stereotypical mob boss in most action flicks. Also excellent is Kim Myori, she is delightfully nasty as the head of a Yakuza family looking to take over the business operations of the main mob families. Other than her the rest are not great and some of the henchman are just plain bad. The kid who plays Tommy is good though, he has a good scene with the Punisher right at the end. The rest of the kids in the movie are bad and some are obviously dubbed over by adults putting on child like voices.Anyway this is by no means a classic, it needed adding to some aspects of the story and character, but it had some surprisingly good scenes in which the Oscar Winner and Nominee both excelled, although they had roles they could do in their sleep. This was Dolphs first real step forward as an actor, he is good here, at times doing very well. He has improved immensely since. The film is enjoyable, its a solid comic book movie and while it can't considered a fun and joyous comic book film like Batman or Spiderman, because of its dark characters, it is still worth a watch and is one of Dolphs best. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cut this movie some slack! It's fun action!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie when I was a young kid and I remember thinking ...Eh... However, while browsing Borders, I saw the DVD for $6.99 and decided to give it another shot. I expected a fun action flick with lots of explosions, death-defying stunts, cool death shots, and a badass lead character. I was not disappointed. After reading so many bad reviews here on imdb I decided I need to write a review defending this movie. I don't know what other people expected when they saw this movie, but I certainly didn't expect much more than a cool action flick, and that is exactly what The Punisher gave me plus maybe a little more.First off, Dolph Lundgren's stiff acting and menacing demeanor make him perfect for the part of the hell-bent, socially backwards loner determined to punish the scum of the Earth (His significant acting shortcomings are his assets here). The writer and director did a good job of showing many different facets of his personality and actually created a deeper characterization of the Punisher than I would have expected. Louis Gossett Jr. plays his his part competently enough. In fact, the acting was not all that bad all around (suitable enough for an action flick).The action here is also pretty solid. Some examples The opening sequence where Dolph punishes the trash-talking mob boss and his henchmen with style. In one scene, Dolph is driving a bus with children in tow while a hundred Japanese are firing machine guns and crashing their cars into the side of the bus...way cool.The plot is pretty standard revenge bit with some minor twists and turns, but the ending is pretty cool and less predictable than most action thrillers, but then again thats not saying much -)FINAL RATING 6/10 I doubt it will make anyone's top ten list, but this low budget action genre flick delivers the goods with solid action and semi-interesting characters, which is more than I can say for many big budget Hollywood action flicks (e.g. Cobra, Mercury Rising, The Watcher, the Art of War). Its not a movie to be analyzed, its a movie to enjoy.  Action junkies should dig it, others should probably stay away. "},{"Title":"So much better than the 2004 version","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is so much better than the new 04 version. If Batman Begins is the perfect adaptation from comic book character to big screen hero, The Punisher (2004) is the perfect example of how to destroy a great comic book character. The first thirty minutes are boring and unoriginal. Whereas Christopher Nolan made good use of the first half of Batman Begins to present a credible transition from rich man's son to Dark Knight, Jonathan Hensleigh bores viewers to death by picturing Frank Castle as the perfect American family man who then loses his beautiful wife and perfect son in a cheap Mad Max rip off. In contrast, the 1989 low budget but far superior version started off smack in the middle of the action with a seriously disturbed ex cop already on the rampage and the reason for his decline into madness was gradually explained by means of flashbacks and memories form Louis Gousset Jr trying to bring his old friend back into a sane life. But whereas the comic book Punisher, brought to life by similarly huge 6' 6 Dolph Lundgren in the first movie, becomes a bitter, meaner than hell, cold blooded killer with no compassion whatsoever, the 04 Frank Castle turns into your friendly neighborhood watchman who uses an ice cream cone to torture his first victim. Batman Begins also has its share of humor, but it is subtle and not out of place. The bad guys don't fare much better. Whereas Jeroen Krabbe also had his share of trouble with the Yakuza in the 80s version, at least he was a serious gangster not to be taken lightly. John Travolta is a looser who can't stand his own against other mobsters and is being pushed around by his wife. Message to all Punisher fans go rent the 1989 version or just stick to the written word, but don't spent any money on this monstrosity which shows no respect whatsoever to a great comic book series. "},{"Title":"Even though the skull is missing the movie isn't half bad","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher isn't really complete trash. The movie has a lot of action but the film needed one of The Punisher's nemesises or the black skull t-shirt. Dolph Lundren does play Frank pretty well and once again the action sequences are intense a plentyful. If you want a faithful comic book wait until 2004 but if you want an action movie this is the one for you. "},{"Title":"Marvel's best big screen adaptation.......","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know, I know.......the Punisher does not stay true to its comic roots, yet nonetheless, looking at all the films with a Marvel inspiration behind them, this one remains clearly the best.Many will argue that what I say is b.s., but let me try to put this into perspective.  So far, none of the comic book films have been able to accurately cast a perfect lead role, and none of them have had true actioneers to play them.........now here comes Dolph Lundgren who fits like a glove and blows everything away.  He is the Punisher in every single possible aspect you could think of..........appearance, behavior, the way he holds a machine gun.......wow.  Whatever the story may be here really becomes something irrelevant because everytime I view Dolph on screen in this one, I am convinced......which is why I am more than ever upset that he has not been cast in the re-make which is be released in 2004.  (It makes even more sense now as the Punisher is a character in his 40's, just as Mr. Lundgren currently is.)The movie looks great and defies its small budget to produce something almost over the top, fantastic job here with everything from directing, cinematography....the art department has done a great job here......it would be unjust to mention names as there are too many individuals who deserve credit.  The world of the underworld (Japanese to Western organized crime) comes together and appears in true comic book fashion with non-stop shoot-outs and martial arts.... some additional solid performances by the great Louis Gossett Jr., Jeroen Krabbé, Kim Miyori.......and Zoshka Mizak. (Lady Tanaka's daughter)Forget about the missing skull on his chest, or that this is a film from 1989, if you are a fan of the genre, go check it out.....but only do so on DVD, as it looks best widescreen. "},{"Title":"The PunisherThe Uncut Edition.","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With having last seen the film 10 years ago on a murky,cut UK Video,I was thrilled to recently hear from a friend that the German DVD company Laser Paradise had recently brought out an uncut,DVD edition of the movie,which led to me deciding that it was time to witness Frank Castle take his revenge again.The plotHaving spent the last 5 years living under an alias of The Punisher and also having killed over 100 gangsters who were connected to the brutal murder of his wife and child, former cop Frank Castle receives news that the lead gangster connected with the murder of his family (Gianni Franco) is returning to the city,so that he can take control of the family business.Prepairing to at last find the retribution that he has been searching for,Castle is shocked to discover that his plan may not be as easy to carry out as Frank originally hoped,due to the sudden arrival of a Yakuza gang into the city,who are determined to wipe Gianni's turf clean and transform it into theirs.Finding himself bang in the centre of the turf war between Franco and the Yakuza,Castle decides that the only way he can get revenge for the murder of his family,and to also clean up the streets,is to punish everyone on both sides.View on the filmPulling the movie out of the tar pit that the BBFC had left it in with terrible Video editions, (which had the added bonus of 90 seconds of footage being cut for the UK ratings board)the Laser Paradise editions breaths new life into this raw piece of Comic-Book pulp,with the picture and sound being cleaned up to a pristine condition,which allows the viewer to see and hear everything The Punisher discovers as he walks the grime covered road to revenge,with the added 90 seconds,also finally allowing the film to deliver its bare-knuckle punches.Kicking the movie into high-gear right from the start,with a stylish credits scene that is covered in waves of Dennis Dreith's hummable theme tune,director Mark Goldblatt brilliantly shows Frank Castle being unable to find a place to free himself from the darkness in his heart,thanks to Goldblatt showing that the slime which is rotting the city away is not being hidden underground,but instead overflowing the entire city,with Goldblatt keeping primary colours away until the very end,(where Frank may be about to gain retribution) so as to show that the bleak,filthy city is reflecting Castle's own darkness.Keeping the plot pretty straight forward,the screenplay by Boaz Yakin contrasts the stern,nail-gun nihilism that Castle displays by making each of the Yakuza (who by pure chance,are all martial arts experts!) and Gianni's gang wonderfully deranged and completely unlikeable,with every single member of the gangs being more than happy to shoot/stab the other in the back at the merriest whiff of being the boss of a piece of turf,who if they are extra lucky,may also be looked upon as the person who destroyed The Punisher's rampage of revenge.Despite not wearing the Skull t-shirt that has become the trademark of the character,Dolph Lundgren still gives an excellent performance,that along with having Lundgren show some impressive fighting skills,also allows Dolph to get surprisingly deep to the heart of Castle,with a great,non-fighting scene between The Punisher and his former,fellow cop Jake Berkowitz (played by a very good Louis Gossett Jr.) being a particular highlight of the film.Along with getting to the inner turmoil of Castle,Lundgren makes The Punisher's road to revenge one that is a gritty,action packed thriller,with The Punisher being shown to do everything from blowing up a gangsters entire mansion,to stabbing a Yakuza with a lampoon,as he shows to each of them,that none of them will escape unpunished. "},{"Title":"Fun B-class comic book action movie","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Punisher is a post-Batman movie . Director Mark Goldblatt edited and worked on some of the greatest action films of all time  Terminator ,  Rambo 2 , Commando , Robocop and Terminator 2 . He directs it as an all-out action film , but everything is played absurdly tongue-in-cheek. The body count in this movie is ridiculously high. The main hero is even credited with killing 125 people before the movie even starts. The movie is unapologetically violent, filled with pervasive language and gore.This is a B-movie, so high production values are not exactly expected. It's dark and moody and it takes you into Castle's dark world . The authors of the movie changed quite a lot of Punisher's story . Still , I liked the changes . This movie is also far more enjoyable both in terms of its sense of capturing the comic-book's spirit and in terms of the dark psychology than the next movies. Dolph Lundgren's stiff acting and menacing demeanor make him perfect for the part . Decked out in black leather, motorcycle boots,stubble and decidedly unhealthy drugged-out red eyes, he is rather well suited to the part. Lundgren captured Frank Castle's descent into madness perfectly. They eliminated the skull on his shirt but the skull symbol is on his knives and bike , so I will live with it.Louis Gossett Jr. is good as Berkowitz - a police chief who was a friend of Castle. The strained relationship between him and Castle is done well. The interrogation scene is quite touching . There is also wacky sidekick played by Barry Otto - Shake , a drunken former actor that rhymes most of his lines. He's a good comic relief.Punisher offers you exciting well filmed gun battles and improvised fight scenes ( they are nice and feel real ) . The dialogue comes rather wittily and gives some memorable one-liners.Overall , this is a nice movie . I give it 6/10 . "},{"Title":"They were really on to something with this interpretation...a Dolph classic!","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dolph Lundgren is not really a respected actor, nor did he ever truly break through into the action genre like Stallone or Schwarzenegger but you have to give him some credit he has starred in dozens of films and some of the are considered action classics now years later and I think The Punisher is one of them. This was the very first, and until 2004, the only movie rendition of the classic and very violent Marvel Super hero The Punisher. The difference between this 1989 release and the 2004 release is...well a lot. First of all eighties action flicks were unapologetically violent, filled with pervasive language and gore and The Punisher would have to meet all those criteria to even come close to competing with other films like it. Some would say that this version does not stay true to the comic book from where it came but I think in many respects it comes far closer than the decently made but purposely mild film from '04. Granted Lundgren never dons the trademark skull and that is unfortunate for sure. They also change the story of his family and their death but make it more simplistic for a shorter film and for non-followers of the comics to still appreciate. The important thing The Punisher is exactly that...a Punisher. Who appears to have no emotions outside of vengeance, he's a trained killer and kills with horrible and deadly accuracy but shows physical weakness when overwhelmed by enemies...also a valid point to this film. Also the strained relationship between Castle and his former partner who has been hunting him for years is a great addition to the story and it's just too bad that this film really didn't take off except in cult circles. The film didn't even get American theater release despite having a semi-decent budget.Dolph Lundgren...what can you say about the guy? He has a very unique look and is a massive man with really great skills including actual martial arts experience. He is just downright perfect for The Punisher and does a terrific job, far better than even Thomas Jane did which was a decent performance but Lundgren embodies what I envision The Punisher should be. He only lacks the skull but everything else is dead on. Louis Gossett Jr. is also a pretty kick butt hero and semi-sidekick as the former partner determined to bring Frank in before he is hurt and save him from himself. Gossett gets some decent scenes and still manages to play the hero in some respect. Kim Miyori does a good job as the evil and blood thirsty villainess Lady Tanaka of the Yakuza. Although her and The Punisher really don't have a lot of screen time together and The Punisher kind of lacks the epic final battle although there is a pretty extensive gun fight. Terrific character actor Jeroen Krabbé plays family king pin Gianni Franco. I was quite stunned out how much Krabbé reminded me of Mel Gibson in this film in certain shots. He does a great job as the villain and Castle's #1 nemesis even when they are forced to work together in the end. Barry Otto is also a worthwhile addition to the cast but sadly underused as Frank Castle's only real connection to the outside world, his 'friend' so to speak.The Punisher has some flashy special effects with PLENTY of guns blazing and knife throwing and explosions. However the hand to hand combat appears to be done without the assistance of any real camera tricks or computer editing and I give them kudos for that because although it can look a little campy, it's just more fun to watch Lundgren perform these moves that he is actually trained in. The Punisher's kill scenes are brutal and violent and no holds barred exactly the way The Punisher should be and veteran Oscar nominated director Mark Goldblatt holds back nothing and was able to get away with it although the film had to but cut considerably to get it's 'R' Rating. Goldblatt has not directed a lot but has edited and worked on some of the greatest action films of all time including Terminator 2, and Robocop. This film definitely shows that style of classic eighties action without really getting the enormous budget that some of them would get. Although some very famous eighties action films did take off with the same budget such as Robocop. The fact remains that I think this little gem is under appreciated and well it will never walk away with academy awards or impress critics, it's a kick butt good time and it will entertain and make you wish Lundgren had continued as The Punisher. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The guilty will be Punished!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  May contain spoilersOne of the better comic book turned movie adaptions I've seen. Policeman Frank Castle loses his family in a car bombing, so he quits the force, and becomes a one man vigilante. So since the mob killed his family, Castle retaliates and wipes out 125 (and counting) mobsters in 5 years. The media recieves word of the fallen mobsters and blame it on a mysterious figure deemed The Punisher.All the big shots in town believe that Castle is dead, but his ex partner Jake (Lou Gossett. Jr) believes that it is indeed Castle who is the Punisher.  **1/2/**** "}{"Title":"The punisher. What more do you need?","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great action movie.  If you read the comic you will see that the Punisher is an ex-cop out for right some wrongs.  He has a big white scull on his spandex shirt across his chest and some fat guy in a van that help him out.  I think this movie is good for what they had to work with.  Lets not forget that the punisher has to fight ninjas. But I must say for a good guy movie you can't get much better then this.  Unless you have seen Last Man Standing.  Now that is a good movie "},{"Title":"The Punisher","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher (1990) starring Dolph Lundgren and Louis Gossett, Jr. is a movie adaptation of the Marvel Comics character about a presumed dead police officer who wages a one man war on crime.  In this big screen adaptation, The Punisher (Lundgren) rises from the sewers to battle the Yakuza (Japanese mafia) who have come to America to try to force the current reigning Franco crime family, headed by Gianni Franco (Jeroen Krabbe) out of business.  To do this, the Yakuza headed by Lady Tanaka (Kim Miyori) have kidnapped the children of all the crime bosses.  The Punisher reluctantly enters into this complex triangle to try to rescue the children.   I must say that The Punisher is a rather solid adaptation of the Marvel Comics character of the same name.  Dolph Lundgren proves that he can carry a movie.  He can really kick some a** in this film.   The action scenes may prove to be the best parts of this movie.  Probably the best action sequence is the scene where The Punisher drops through a glass window and begins shooting up a casino.The Punisher get 2 ½ stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Not bad for a Lundgren film.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dolph Lundgren (who recently retired from acting) lights up this action flick as The Punisher, a vigilante out to punish the guilty by his own methods. His real identety is Frank Castle, a cop who people believed perished in a mafia bombing, killing his family as well. One trail leads to another and soon Frank is caught up in this feud against the american mafia and the japanese yakuza gang.This film is decent even for one of Dolph's first big hits.POSSIBLE SPOILERS. There are also a lot of memoral parts in it, like one hilarious scene in one of those japanese paper and wood wall hallways. So in the hallway this skilled female martial artist comes down from a vent of something. And IMEDIATLY Dolph smashes through, takles the girl and they both crash through the other wall!!! I nearly died it was so funny!! And then there's another scene where Dolph is on his knees and this kid is pointing a gun at him. And Dolph keeps saying, doit not DO IT, DOIT! yep, a lot of cool things and good action scenes. If you're a rising Dolph Lundgren fan like I am, rent the punisher. "},{"Title":"A Good Adaptation","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i thought that the punisher was a good movie adaptation of the comic book, it was dark and gritty and came across as more of a internal stuggle story rather than an all out action flick with bad dialog and worse acting, in my opinion this was a well made film but had some low points, mostly costume errors.good film, not fantastic a 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A marvel comics character.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dolph Lundgren is a underappreciated action star in my book..He was made for this role of Frank Castle..Some people complain when the movie version differs from the comic book...such as the costume is not here in this movie..he just wears black .. but this is a good action movie with lots of action,martial arts, and intrigue...Instead of filming in New York. Sydney Australia was its stand it. And i think that is the main failure in this movie..If it could have filmed in New York ..The gritty aspect of the comic could have shown thru some..over all watch it. "},{"Title":"The Role Dolph Was Born To Play.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Aside from missing the trademark skull outfit,you can't deny that Dolph looks like the Punisher. This isn't supposed to be anything more than an action movie,and thats what makes it work. Sure,there are some pretty lame lines uttered,but when it comes to action,this movie delivers the goods. Production values are good and so is the score. If the X-Men movie had had this much action,maybe it wouldn't have been so boring and worthless.  "},{"Title":"What do you expect from a movie called the Punisher?","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It wasn't until recently that I heard that this movie was based on a comic. I had never heard of the Punisher until I saw the movie. Having never seen the comic, I can't compare it to the movie, however, this  is an action packed film. Dolph plays an avenging angel (or rather a demon) all dressed up in tight leather and riding an awesome motorcycle. He lives in the sewer. He was a cop until his family was murdered, now he is out to get to revenge on those who murdered his family and kill anyone who he decides hasn't met justice. Once you get passed Dolph looking like a sewer rat with dark hair, it's a pretty good flick. The whole movie is violent and mostly he just kills people, but what do you expect from a movie called the Punisher. If you want action and violence you have come to the right place. "},{"Title":"cool flick","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is definetely a cool action flick.  Dolph Lundgren plays Frank Castle, a New York cop who's family died in a mafia car bomb.  That car bomb transformed Castle into The Punisher, a shadowy figure who's been waging a one-man war against crime.  Louis Gosset Jr. plays Castle's friend and kindred spirit, a cop who's trying to capture The Punisher before any more damage is done to the public or himself.  Some cool action scenes highlight this cool action flick. "},{"Title":"This movie has it all...","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has it all terrible acting, stupid story and script so poor that only a writer like Boaz Yakin could have written it. Avoid it like a plaque and you'll thank me for saving you two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Lundgren does the job","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't get to see this movie when it first came out. You have to be mindful of the fact that super hero genre wasn't quite that popular back then, and even when made, it was targeted for younger audiences. They also didn't employ as many special effects, or had as big of a budget as we see today. KEEPING ALL THAT IN MIND - this movie does the job of portraying Frank Castle pretty well. Dolph Lundgren was perfect for this role, being martial artist himself and a very big guy to boot. He does show the dark nature of the Punisher - a creepy guy who inhabits the sewer system and does his vigilante work. The violence is pretty high for a super hero movie of the time, and Lundgren brings goods to the table when he starts dishing out his own violence to punish the bad guys. Overall, it was a good movie that not in the least left bad impression for these years. Was it true to the comic ? This question is unfair because none of the comic heroes were true to the comic back then. Did it show that Punisher is a real bad ass guy who inflicts brutality to the bad guys ? You bet, and I'm sure many people know the name Punisher just because they saw this movie, and helped fuel the interest in its latest release starred by Tom Jane. Dolph, you were the first guy to pull off the character of Frank Castle, and you really did the job ! "}{"Title":"Excellent film! One of the best!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher is one of My favorites films.Dolph Lundgren is perfect as the Punisher!Louis Gossett Jr.,Jeroen Krabbé,Kim Miyori,and Nancy Everhard were all very good. The Punisher boasts excellent non-stop action and the two different mafias are good.I just adore the music as it is one of the greatest scores in a movie in My opinion.If you like Lundgren,Gossett Jr.,the Punisher comic, and great action then The Punisher is the one to watch! "},{"Title":"Strange flick","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must say that i was surprised by this film.I didnt expect it to be much more than a usual Dolph-esque buttkicking escapade that always ends the same.Although i must admit i kinda like the guy,because he is a little unusual and innovative for a martial arts actor.Which is very hard to be.Since Bruce Lee noone has done anything new or significant for the uprise of the genre.But,ok...Punisher has some good scenes and is all in all,a good movie with a strange story.What i liked here is that Dolph plays a very different character than otherwise,specially when it comes to image.First of all,it was cool to see him with dark hair and also playing a supposedly Italian-American.Also,pairing of him with Louis Gossett proved quite ok and they brought up the movie quality.The ending was maybe the best part,yes it was without doubt.Having Castle disappear like that and Gossett's character trying to catch him,then resigning helplessly.Its a dark movie and maybe thats why it is better than other Dolph movies.Dolph himself had to expand his range here.I think he did well with the task.The killing scenes were done in an odd way,kind of....like in a film-noir way.Maybe like in Taxi driver,the ending.I wish Dolph had continued to expand his range after this,but it didnt happen.Dont know why,i guess this was a hazard project which wasnt expected to succeed.Maybe the guy didnt wanna take any more risks. "},{"Title":"Awesome Marvel Adaptation","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher is in a word one of the best comic book adaptations in the last decade.  Jokes like Barb Wire and Judge Dredd which try to pass themselves off as movies just can't compare with this awesome tale.The story is about a former New York cop named Frank Castle who becomes the world's most notorious vigilante, with 125 confirmed kills and still counting.  He normally sticks to the Big Apple's indigenous crime families like the Mafia, but when a Japanese crime family called the Yakuza move into the territory and start trouble, the Punisher turns all attention towards them.Extremely low budget, but that's not a problem since unlike films that throw money into empty and poor choreographed stunts, this film delivers some excellent battle sequences, like on the Manhattan docks and the Coney Island funhouse.Some people say that Dolph Lundgren's portrayal of the titular anti-hero was stale and stone-like.  But most people don't realize that true to the original comic book, this is the way someone would behave if they made their whole life into revenge and staying reclusive.If you haven't seen this film, you are missing out on an excellent example of how low-budget films can be just as entertaining as their bigger budgeted brothers.  I would rank this one up there with Die Hard and Escape from New York any day. "},{"Title":"This might be the worse film I have ever seen!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The violence is ludicrous, the plot inane and the dialog insipid.  I couldn't even find a way to laugh at the ridiculous quality of this movie.  Shame on Louis Gossett Jr. for lending his talent to this one. Dolf Lundgren is his normal untalented self.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad, I wished for better reviews","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The cast for The Punisher was not bad, the plot was great, the action was a little weak, the only thing that was missing was the white skull on the shirt. That would have given the movie more credibility. Dolph Lundgren is a big time martial artist, and he had fit the role fine. Despite being the tallest punisher, any laugh at him will be punished. Battling the Yakuza(Japanese mob) would be a plus for Castle. It slightly stunk when he got caught. Luckily for Castle, he was able to unscrew that wing nut, enabling him to give out a sneak attack on the enemy. The only part is when the kid's father got involved with crime, if he had killed the Punisher, he would indeed end up like his father. So Castle told him don't follow that path, or he'll end up like his dad. So he listens, and the kid gets so reprieve. To me this movie is just a starter, a good cast, mediocre results, and a great idea for a remake years later. That one was way closer to the comics. This one was like comparing to the T.V. version of The Incredible Hulk, only better. If you like Marvel Comics, get this one and the remake, and be the judge on which is better. Rating 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Frank is Dead!","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a fan of both Dolph Lundgren and the Punisher I felt that this movie would be a home run for me. I was right for the most part.Frank Castle loses his family to the mobs and decides to wage a one man war against criminals going as the Punisher.Firstly I should say that I love 80s action films, the way they are action packed and have that 80s feel to them. This film is very action packed and really entertains throughout.Dolph Lundren is great as Frank Castle. He really plays the part well and I really bought that the loss of his family really impacted him and changed him totally. In particular the scene in which his friend is visiting him in jail I think Lundgren really does a good job of portraying his emotions and how he is the Punisher now.The story is good, not too hard to follow. I like that the Punisher is already an established character so we don't get a half of the film devoted to origin for him. So its pretty much action packed right off the bat.A few complaints. I know that the company didn't have the right to use the Punisher skull in this film, and that is pretty disappointing cause its such an iconic look. That would have made the movie a little better. The Punisher does get to use skull knives tho, so thats pretty cool.Very good, simple, film. Has a lot of good action in it and I think Lundgren is a great Punisher and a good fit for this film. I highly recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Action Packed!","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing the trailer for this on the video tape rental of hellraiser II and couldn't wait to see it. Then New world pictures went under and it was over a year later before it came to video. When I saw it, I was mostly satisfied. The characters were good yet I feel they cut too much out of the final cut that explains Frank Castle's transformation and souless development into the punisher.The 2004 version should've been combined with this film. The character development was better in that one but the acting and action scenes sucked in that version.This is a very enjoyable film 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Surprised me.","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Compared to the 2004 Punisher and Punisher War Zone, this film was an amazing action film. In general, its really not that bad. Decent action, good casting, with Dolph Lundgren as the Punisher, and Louis Gossett Jr. as the police detective trying to hunt him down. Dolph Lundgren is easily the best punisher by far.Kind of a long opening, but s**t gets started right away. Quite a bit of action in this film, and doesn't get the least bit boring. Unlike the other ones, you can actually relate to the characters.I really liked Dolph Lundgren as the Punisher in this one. Instead of being a lifeless and merciless killing machine, he has sympathy for other people, and isn't completely focused on killing people. Thats what the Punisher truly is. He's vicious, but sympathetic at the same time. Thats what makes him the best Punisher.I did have a few problems with the film. It did kind of drag on a little, and some of the parts of the plot don't make a whole lot of sense. Plus the final scene kind of had some pointless moments, and they could have made it better. But thats about it. Everything else turned out fine.Definitely the best Punisher film, and one of the best action films of the eighties, this is the true film honoring the Punisher. Can't do any better than that. "},{"Title":"I like it better now than I did when it was new...","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When The Punisher first hit video racks in 1989, I was a rabid teenage comic book collector, and at the time The Punisher was one of my favorite Marvel titles. I had a huge collection of Punisher comics and never missed an issue, so needless to say, I was quite stoked to finally see Frank Castle hit the big screen (or I suppose I should say small screen). Unfortunately, on my first viewing of The Punisher I absolutely HATED it. I was so infuriated at how the producers played fast-and-loose with the character's back story and mythology that I actually wrote a letter to Marvel listing off my complaints about the inaccuracies in the film (Why wasn't Frank wearing the Skull Emblem? Why was he living in the sewers like a damned Mutant Ninja Turtle? He's not an ex-cop, he's an ex-Marine! Where was the War Wagon? Where was Microchip? etc., etc...)... what can I say, I was young, and Hell hath no fury like an Enraged Geek.Twenty years have gone by, I'm now a retired Comic Book Geek (I sold off the bulk of my collection, including my Punisher books, in the late '90s), and one day I came across Dolph's Punisher in the $5 bin at Wal-Mart. I had only vague memories of the film by this point so I figured Ehhh, what the hell. Now that enough time has passed that I can separate this film from the original source material (I'm still convinced that when New World Pictures obtained the Punisher license, they didn't bother to read any of the comics -- they just plugged the characters' names into a generic action movie script they already had laying around in a drawer somewhere), I actually enjoyed The Punisher a lot more than I did back in the day. It's still The Punisher in name only, and the lack of attention to detail still bugged me a little, but on its own merits, The Punisher was a pretty decent B-grade action movie. If carnage is your thing, this flick will definitely satisfy in spades. There are crazy gun battles seemingly every two minutes (using approximately 50,000 shell casings per frame of film), martial arts smackdowns with ninjas, a surprising amount of gore, and decent stuntwork for what was obviously a low budget film. I've never been a big fan of Dolph Lundgren but I have to admit he captured the haunted, tortured look in Frank Castle's eyes and he did present a hell of an imposing figure, stalking the underworld in black leather biker gear and carrying Big F'n Guns. The storyline is silly at best (in a nutshell, Frank's war against the Mafia is interrupted by the arrival of a new gang from the Japanese Yakuza who wish to muscle in on the territory, leading Frank into an uneasy truce with his former targets in order to eliminate their common enemy) but the actors play their roles well (particularly the Japanese actress who portrayed the insane Yakuza head Lady Tanaka and the ever-reliable Louis Gossett Jr., adding yet another Angry Cop role to his resume as Castle's former police partner) and the amount of pyrotechnics thrown on screen will ensure the viewer never gets bored.I still have not seen either of the two recent Punisher films that supposedly are more faithful to the character's comic book origins, but I'll probably get to them one of these days. As of right now, this early draft has shot up a few notches in my estimation and I'd say it would make a decent rental/purchase for the action junkies out there. Ignore the ramblings of the Comic Book Geeks who hate this movie. I should know, I used to be one of them. "},{"Title":"Classic Punisher!","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I saw this film, I didn't have a clue that is about a comic book hero. I tought that this was just another low-budget fire-explosion-martial arts film, I was just a kid back then, years later I come across a few issues of Punisher and I liked it very much. Eventually I saw movie again and I found it very entertaining and very faithful to the comic book. It is dark, tough and pretty realistic. Dolph Lundgren is more than impressive in the title role, and I consider him as the best actor who played the Punisher. Thomas Jane was OK, but still... there was something missing in his portrait, while Ray Stevenson was better than Jane, but couldn't top Lundgren. To mention that Dolph looks quite great with dark hair and filthy beard, his bored face, muscular built gives us a real picture of dark avenger. The only weak spot of this film is low budget, but try not to pay attention and enjoy the film. "}{"Title":"Dolph Lundgrens' Junk.","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The time, the late 80's. Batman came out and was huge. So huge that, even if you hated comics or superheros or even movies themselves, you had to see it just to be included in every day conversation. Then came word of a Punisher movie. My little head almost exploded. So I waited, and waited...My head would stay intact. One day it shows up at the video store. I rented it expecting the worst, and surprise, it wasn't to bad. Dolph Lundgren makes a good Punisher. If you don't think so, say it to his face. But it's not just his movie, Louis Gosset Jr. is good in it to. Thats the genius of this movie it plays to there strengths. When it's time for some serious acting Mr.Gosset is there. When it's time for someone to get the living s*** beaten out of them Mr. Lundgren is there. I'll be the first to admit that this movie has not aged well, but as soon as I hear the R/C trucks' tires squeal I know What i'm in for and I love every second of it. "},{"Title":"Lundgren stepping up huge!","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of Dolph Ludngren's best films. He plays the Marvel Comics hero Frank Castle aka The Punisher. After his wife and family are killed in a mob planned car bomb, he quits his job as a cop and becomes a vigilante. He lives in the sewer system and meditates naked. He eventually has to stop a war between the yakuza and the Italian mob. He kills bad guys with swords, knifes, guns, bombs, fire, karate, and even a bus. Lundgren (who has always been a good actor) turns in a believable and fun performance. There's a coo fight scene in an abandoned boardwalk and there are some classic one-liners. This is a classic 80's action film that his far better than the remake. "},{"Title":"Fun, action packed, an all around good time.","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Punisher is based off the famous Marvel comic book. It tells the story of Frank Castle, a detective whose family is murdered by the mob in an attempt to get back at him. Everyone thinks Castle died with them, but he has in fact become the mysterious Punisher, a phantom vigilante who has butchered 125 mobsters in 5 years. When a war between the mob and the Yakuza threatens the lives of innocent children, Castle jumps into action to save the kid's lives. On his trail the whole time is his former partner, desperate to help his friend. This may not be exactly like the comics, but it does a good job at keeping you entertained.Die hard fans of the comics may not enjoy Dolph Ivan Drago Lundgren's take on the character, or the changed story of his origin, or the absence of his trademark skull. I'm a fan of the comics, but I'm pretty open minded, so I didn't mind this movie. There wasn't really much of a plot, and the dialogue was kind of iffy, but the movie certainly delivered on the action end. I din't like how the Punisher lived in the sewer system and was able to ride his motorcycle through it wherever he wanted/ The acting isn't too spectacular. Dolph Lundgren's monotone way of speaking gets a little annoying, but almost every line out of his mouth is awesome, so it's cool. Louis Gosset Jr. isn't too great either. The only character that was useless to the story was the Punisher's sidekick, a homeless man who pops up now and again.Overall, this is a catchy, action packed film that's meant to entertain, and it certainly delivers, even though the quality of the film itself isn't great.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great villainess steal the film (SPOILERS!)","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This the generally kinda movie where one doesn't have to think too much, just sit back and enjoy the dumb but fun action.There is one standout performance though...Zoshka Mizak plays Lady Tanaka's Daughter, and she steals every scene she is in. This icy, mute bodyguard has some great scenes, no better than the brutal fight to the death with Dolph towards the end of the movie. It has to be seen to be believed! Beautiful, elegant and psychotic, the character steal the movie. Look at for her big reveal moment, when various Ninja's are beating Dolph down, the head Ninja, peels away their mask, to reveal...a beautiful woman! Its such a cool moment.Able support too in the villain stakes, from Kim Miyori, as Lady Tanaka herself. "},{"Title":"Another defender...","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all I would like to say that my first review was rotten! So I' decided to write another review.Anyway, The Punisher movie has gotten a lot of defenders, I too am a defender because to call this one of The worst comicbook adaptions is utterly moronic, because simpily The Punisher is a decent movie, sure it has some overall flaws in a few departments, but in all seriousness The Punisher could have turned out a lot worse.The actionscenes are all well done, anyone who says this part is done all wrong is a person who is talking out of their a**,  this is a movie done with imagination and energy in this department. Dolph Lundgren has always been underrated here, and overall as an actionflick it's very successful, a knockout.As an adaption this is disappointing, the missing skull is a serious problem, why make a Punisher movie if you don't use the skull? Well suffice to say the overall production suffered for it, causing quite a lot of turmoil over the suit.So overall The Punisher is recommended for fans of action movies or someone who doesn't mind The Punisher as an actionflick however those looking for a better adaption are better off waiting for the 2004 version.Final thoughts?I'll leave you with a head scratcher. Why would one compare this to The Toxic Avenger and Army Of Darkness, when both movies aren't even in the same genre?   B.movies sure but that's like comparing  Death Wish 4 to Maniac Cop...Both fall under different guidelines.Anyway, the movie should have been better, but still not that bad.***(Out Of Four)   (**1/2 as an adaption) "},{"Title":"amusing, very hard action movie with an acceptable Dolph","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As being an adaption of a comic, I cannot judge if the movie is faithful to it. But as the movie on its own, it certainly is amusing. It's quite hard (and gory) for being a big screen movie, and I like that. Bad guys are hard, merciless people who need to be treated the same way as they do to others, they need to be punished. So then it's normally that this movie isn't going to be for kids.While the action is quite good, there isn't an original story of Oscar-winning acting, though Lundgren and the rest of the cast do not fail, certainly not in comparison with other performances in action movies. The settings of the movie are equal to the action  dark and grim, just what it needs.Of course, you know from the beginning that The Punisher and the inspector will live on until the end, but even this predictability doesn't prevent you from having fun with this.This is entertainment as I like it  it's fast, it's full of action and it's not to complicated. Everyone likes a beautiful, moving movie in a while, but not all the time and that's when this kind of flick comes to mind. Grab a beer with some friends and enjoy it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Ballsy comic book adaptation","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If we put BLADE series out of contention, THE PUNISHER is the best adaptation of a Marvel comic book. It is far better than Raimi`s SPIDERMAN and Singer`s X-MEN. First of all, Goldblatt is the guy who edited the greatest Cameron and Verhoeven movies. He sure knows what action is. And this 1989 flick was made in the eighties when no one was into PC and quick-cutting or CGI. This is why Goldblatt goes for the gritty, realistic violence and he doesn`t try to avoid it any cost. The torture scene when Punisher gets torn apart by some mechanical devices is some of the most brutal stuff you can see in comic book flicks. The final showdown with the Yakuza is one of the most intense gutsy showdowns with high bodycount ever. It`s stuff that borders BETTER TOMORROW 2. It ain`t as bizarre and stylish but it`s in the same vein. This is why THE PUNISHER ought to be revisited. It truly respects the comic book and while it doesn`t have the most inventive script, it delivers the goods in a realistic manner avoiding tight and funny suits that used to define superheroes.  "},{"Title":"Enjoy.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made during a time when a movie based on Marvel Comics meant it sucked, The Punisher is... not the worst thing I've seen. Then again, it's a decent adaption. After all, the comic is about a guy who shoot things. Therefore, the movie is about a guy who shoot things. It's not some major production, but who cares? Watch it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Decent adaption of a cool character.............","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher  remains Dolph Lundgren's best movie (Which isn't saying much at all I only like this movie and a select few) He stars as the comicbook hero who takes on the yakuza when they kidnap the mob's kids.The movie itself is a highly effective action movie it has good action scenes and fine acting from Louis Gosset Jr. and Jeroen Krabbe But the real surprize is Dolph Lundgren who not only looks the part but also gives a really good performance. The movie could have been a lot better though. The script is really simplistic and offers tired dialog such as Have a nice day so the film has simplistic dialog it's still very fun.Overall The Punisher is the third best Marvel adaption (Which like being Dolph's best movie is not saying much at all) And a even better action movie, I had fun with it and you will too.*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Dolph's Citizen Kane","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dolph Lundgren found his macho stride portraying the nasty super-hero known as The Punisher in... well, THE PUNISHER! His minimal acting skills, his beefed up looks, and a menacing glare helped Lundgren over- come the one-dimensional plot of our hero eliminating every mob boss there is. Louis Gossett Jr. provides some humanity as Jake, thePunisher's former buddy, though Gossett looks a little too old andmisplaced, seeing that he had been in artistically great films such as ROOTS and A RAISIN IN THE SUN. Plus, the excessive bloodshed can be tiring. It's like watching GOODFELLAS meets THE TERMINATOR. Still, it's an enjoyable piece of fluff. Real comic-book material for the young at heart, despite the R-rated content. "}{"Title":"The guilty will be punished!!!","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I consider this to be one of the two comic book adaptations that have actually worked and been watchable more than once(the other movie is Blade). The movie is based on the Marvel Comics character, a relentless vigilante who witnessed the death of his family at the hands of mobsters and has now taken it upon himself to destroy every mobster  he can find. He is only known as the Punisher and his phrase if your'e guilty, you will be punished strikes fear into the hearts of mobsters everywhere. Altogether this isn't a bad film considering it is low budget(and due to this Frank Castle's background was changed from ex-military to ex-cop). If you can overlook the fact that the Punisher is missing his trademark uniform with the skull shirt and that there's no Micro(punishers weapon supplier) you'll enjoy this movie, although I'd say Dolph Lungdren wouldn't be my first choice to play The Punisher. One warning though this movie is extremely violent and is rated R in Australia for its frequent violence and some coarse language. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Punisher, great comic adaption and even better action film!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher is truly one of my favorite movies of all time. It is one of many great action movies made in the 80's. Full of excellent action sequences and shoot outs, this film is marvelous. The point of this film is about a man whose family is murdered by gangsters which then turns him into a one man killing machine who takes out any criminal he gets the chance to. In the movie, The Punisher is forced to take out the trash when a Japanese mafia family moves in and tries to take over the Italian mafias drug running and territory rights by killing off their men and kidnapping their children. Blade The Movie and this film are truly the only two comic book adaptions(besides Superman and Batman 1 and 2) to be actually exciting and enjoyable to watch. This movie is highly recommended by myself and I would tell anybody who likes action and comic style writing to rent it. If you liked Blade The Movie, you will love this film! I give it two thumbs way up. RATED R FOR STRONG ACTION, VIOLENCE/GORE, LANGUAGE, AND BRIEF NUDITY. "},{"Title":"Adapted a lot for the big screen","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the first Warner Bros films made in Australia and edited and partly shot at Warner Bros Movie World on the Gold Coast.  Dolph Lundgren was perfectly cast in the role although the pencilled 5 O'clock shadow took a little getting used to!It was true to the character in most respects but for the sake of budget they changed his origins from ex-military (which would have involved more expensive flashback scenes) to ex-cop thereby making Louis Gossett Jr's role more of a kindred spirit to the man he is pursuing. Punisher is a loner and he has a sour taste in his mouth about the way the world is .....the criminals are more viscious than ever and the law seems weaker than ever! Frank Castle is different, he lives by his own code and others die by it!It had an R rating here in Australia and deserved it very muvch so!! The bloodletting element was extreme but then Punisher is not the sort to sprout speeches to bad guys and hand them over to Commissioner Gordon is he?The movie deserved to do better at the box office than it did but I won't be pining. I've bought the video and Frank and I go to work together in the comfort of my living room often.Punisher rules, because there is no justice from fools! "},{"Title":"A decent film...","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Actually, I may be one of the only people on the planet who both enjoyed this film when it first came out.  Plus, I like it whenever I see it on cable or get the urge to rent it.  I am a huge fan of the comic, and while I think the portrayal of Castle as a character (I won't even get into the ridiculous changes to his origin) was a little off, I enjoyed this film nonetheless.  My favorite Dolph Lundgren film along with I Come in Peace and Universal Soldier.    "},{"Title":"I don't want to stretch this out....","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank Castle, an ex-cop who's family was murdered by mobsters. Now legally declared dead, he strikes back from beyond the grave, killing mobsters wherever he can find them.As a result of this, the mobsters families have weakened, forcing Gianni Franco, one of the leaders of one of the families, to come in and take control of the families.Franco has a plan to bring the families together as one unit. However, this has attracted the attention of the Yakuza, Asia's most powerful crime syndicate, who decide to take over the families and all their interests.In order to sway the mobsters to their cause, they kidnap their children.Now the Punisher must fight to save the lives of the children of the people he has fought against for five years...Much better than the Jane movie (although that is till good), Lundgrens Punisher made comic book movies cool before the likes of Spiderman et al.But it's a totally different kind of movie to the comic book ones we see now. It's atypical eighties action movie, which is no bad thing.The type of movie where a shotgun can hold 50 cartridges.The type of movie where a cop who is being held hostage beats two men up and casually walk away eating pizza The type of movie where the hero has a camp thespian as a sidekick.It's the type of movie that makes no sense whatsoever, but tries to cover it up by killing as many people as possible and by firing as many bullets as possible in on scene.Lundgren is good (but fair enough, he doesn't have to do much apart from grunt and look tired. In fact the bags under his eyes are the main stars here) And Gossett.Jr adds that star power, with a little bit of humour.So it's just a fun film that doesn't take itself seriously and provides a lot of action for such a small budget.Plus its the best film ever to feature a scientist on a back rack wearing high heels.Recommended for eighties action fans. "},{"Title":"comic books suck, but this movie is awesome","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  too many complain of this not being like the comic book.  Who cares? Comic books suck.  This movie, on the other hand, is awesome.  If you like the older Arnold movies (commando, predator), you'll like this.  Dolph Lundgren is nowhere near as distinguishable as arnold, but I like hime and the movie nonetheless.  If you appreciate a good action flick with a predicactable but understandable plot (and a few really awesome death scenes), pick this up. Similar to commando, I dare you to keep track of ther death count!!!  "},{"Title":"The Punisher","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Frank Castle was one of the best cops,until his family is murdered. He goes mad,and becomes The Punisher. A mad killer who punishes the guilty. He murders them one by one. Until he gets caught up in a gang war,and has to rescue some missing children,to make up for the loss of his. I liked The Punisher.It was fun. Dolph Lundgren was perfectly cast as The Punisher. Even though he is just an action star. He greatly gave life to the character of Castle. But it did move slowly at times. Not great,but fun3/4 "},{"Title":"Extremely violent","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is perhaps the most violent movie I have watched. It's so full of unnesessary violence that the killings in this movie adds up to a minor war. Body counts - way of in the sky. But the violence is made in a beautiful(?) way that doesn't make you feel sick like Fist of the North Star does. Dolph stars as the hero(?) Punisher who is having his own private war against the mafia. He acts just as stiff as a person with 125 killings on his B-C would be. Louis Gosset Jr is okay as his friend and the most notorious police aimed to track him down. Even if the movie doesn't make it's way to my favorite list it is incredible well made for being a low budget. It's just sad to say that I don't recommend this movie - which (If I'm not misinformed) once was totally forbidden in Sweden. 5/10 "},{"Title":"4.5/10?????","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How can this movie have gotten such a low average?? This is one of the greatest action flics of all time. Sure it's cheesy, but this movie is also just plain fun. Besides, The Punisher was the best Marvel super-hero ever made, and this movie does the comic books justice. Yes, the acting ain't phenomenal, but when action movies were this good, acting wasn't needed. If you're looking to rent a stupid late-80s action, look no further. "},{"Title":"Great comic book adaption","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a great comic book adaption. Dolph is just like what the punisher should be...great cast. Some of the action scenes could be a bit better. If you want to see a good comic book on tv, get this movie, whatever you do, do not get the latest batman movies. "}{"Title":"I just didn't care for this","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can see this movie wasn't that badly reviewed and people have made some good arguements for it, but I just did not enjoy it.  The costume was nothing like the comic book and though Dolph looked like the punisher he did not act like him.  He was to dreary and slow talking the real Punisher is not this silent and brooding.  But overlooking that, this Punisher is always seemingly unprepared.  He runs out of ammo quite often or he is stuck using a 12-gauge when he needs a machine gun.  The villians aren't to great either, but this is Marvel's fault because they sell the rights to their characters to whoever.  The Kingpin or Jigzaw should have been the villians instead we get nondescript mobsters and the Japanese mafia.  If Marvel would just sell the rights to all their characters to a major studio they would be much better off and their movies would not be so cheaply made.  Look what New Line did with Blade and Fox did with X-man, if you sell the rights to your characters to good studios you get a better movie. "},{"Title":"Dolph seems to be just as bored as I am","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you have thought much about who's the worst actor in the world, then please, look at this movie and a swede who drags shame upon his country will automatically be placed on #1 on your Worst actors in the world-list. He cant do anything right, as usual. In this movie, he was probably supposed to be a cold blooded, strong, cool killer, like Schwarzenegger has been in a lot of his movies. But Dolph screws it up. Even Tara Reid would be a better punisher! He cant speak without a boring voice, he cant have the killer-look in his face, he cant do his best even in fight scenes, which is the only place where Jean Claude Van Damme pursue his best, he cant even run trustworthy. Sorry Dolph, but I cant handle you.Of course, the entire movie cant be blamed on one single person. Why don't we instead blame everyone that has anything to do with it? I mean, just think of what the script probably look like! Fight scene, talk, fight scene, talk, blood, fight scene, talk, murder, fight scene, gunfire, talk, over and over again. The person who wrote the script has put in a few jokes in it. Are they funny? No. He put in some sentimental moments (but those are very few, of course). Are they trustworthy? No. He must have laid out several details of every fight. Do they make the fight scenes cooler? No. He made the characters kinda immortal. Does that make the anything at all better? No. If were a morbid person, then I would demand the person who wrote the script to be executed. Since I'm not morbid, torture is OK.What about the other details? The soundtrack? Is made a few irritating noises and other disgusting sounds. The camera-work? Badly planned, badly performed. The production? Flat, boring and is only making the script even worse (if possible). The other actors? Not quite as bad as Dolph, since that's impossible, but they still don't get higher than a simple Van Damme grade. *****SPOILER*****The involvement of kidnapped kids where one of them tries to be a hero? It made me feel sicker than I have been for a VERY long time. Could have been a good thing if it haven't been for the thing about the kid who is trying to be heroic.*****SPOILER'S OUT***** How do I summarize this movie then? Well, if people say Best Dolph Lundgren movie ever, then please have in mind that it don't say a thing, since the intersection of his movies are one of the lowest things in the entire universe (I don't count A View To Kill since he wasn't in that movie so much). Please don't watch this movie unless you want to waste one and a half hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Probably the coolest comic adaption ever made","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  He's dressed in black, rides his motorcycle through the sewers, and kicks people in the head. Dolph Lundgren plays the Punisher as the Punisher should be played. If you like braindead action, and a touch of the romantic 80's comedy-style movie feeling, this film will get you off. If you loved Sense and Sensibility, you'll be better off not watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"The Guilty will be punished-ain't that the truth","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was by far the worst movie I have ever seen. the guilty will be punished huh! Well the only ones Guilty here are the producers and filmmakers for daring to make such an awful movie and the only ones being punished is the audience for making us sit through this horrible horrendous movie. wait saith that up the only ones guilty are the audience for watching this movie and the ones who should be punished are the filmmakers for making it.The story Frank Castle's family is killed in a mob hit. then he goes after the yakuza led by Kim Myori-man she scares the crap out a me. she recently appeared in the Grudge 2 and boy was she scary. Back to the punisher. He goes around destroying everything e can. Gets his butt kicked a few times gets tortured kills a bunch of people etc....Here Dolph Lundgren demonstrates he has the acting ability of a dog house. and what is Louis Gossett Jr. doing in this picture. May be he just wanted a free trip to Australia-where the movie was shot. ultimately this is the worst movie I have ever seen. Hopefully we wont get no more like this "},{"Title":"The definition of a 'comic book movie'","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Punisher is based on the - particularly violent - Marvel comic book of the same name from the seventies, where a former FBI agent has his family murdered and goes out for revenge his own way.Whereas today, Marvel movies are given huge budgets ala The Avengers, Thor and Iron Man, this one was handed out to a little-known Australian company to make. The results being that The Avengers, Thor and Iron man it is not.Every character is pretty stereotypical and one-dimensional. The dialogue is a bit forced. The budget is slim and the story hardly inspired. All in all, it has all the hallmarks of a disaster in the making. Yet it's actually pretty cool... if you know what you're getting.It's a blatant B-movie. It's like actually watching a live action comic book. You wouldn't expect Oscar-worthy dialogue and acting from a comic book, would you? Hopefully not. So don't expect it here. It's a movie designed to munch popcorn to. It has plenty of explosions, killing of badguys and cheeky one-liners from our strong and silent hero, The Punisher.They ever remade it (twice), but, despite having bigger budgets, better acting and more bankable stars, neither seemed to quite capture the raw comicbook style which the 1989 version managed.If you're a fan of cheesy eighties action (think Commando, Rambo and almost any Jean Claude Van Damme film) then give this one a go. It's short and to the point, but mainly great mindless fun. "},{"Title":"A super hero action movie made in Australia","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are two things that I remember about this movie it is set in New York and there is a map of Los Angeles on the wall of the police station, and in one scene the detective walks past a CES (Commonwealth Employment Service - and Australian government organisation) sign. That simply makes me cackle in hysteria. How do I know that it is set in New York - the fairground scene. They take Luna Park and change the signs to Coney Island (Luna Park is an amusement park on the North Shore of Sydney, which happens to be owned by the same company that owns the amusement park on Coney Island). I thought it was seriously an appalling movie but watching it recently I actually thought it was half decent.The movie stars Dolph Lungrun and Louis Gossett Junior. Lungrun is a very mediocre actor and spends most of this movie with his mouth closed, and when he does speak he simply grunts. This I didn't really mind considering it adds to the imposing nature of the character. He was once a cop named Frank Castle, and he watched his wife and children die when the mafia rigged their car to explode. Now he has become a vigilante who is determined to bring swift justice to a world where there seems to be none. This theme I will look at a little later.Louis Gossett Junior is actually a rather decent actor, though he doesn't seem to be in that many movies of late. In fact I can't quite remember if he has been in any block buster movies. He tends to play the old mentor - the veteran who the younger hero approaches to learn from. He played this in Iron Eagles and though he takes a similar role in the Punisher, the mentoring period is in the past and now he is on a quest to find and arrest the Punisher.The major theme of this movie, which is based upon a comic book of the same name, is punishment and justice. There is no push towards the foolishness of taking the law into one's own hands, but it is more focused on the action. The movie tries to capture the indecisiveness of the Punisher, who believes that God has bestowed upon him the mission to bring justice to an unjust world. This is clearly outlined at the start of the movie where a mafia boss is acquitted of murder. This angers the Punisher so he sees that it is job to punish him. The thing is that he asks God if what he does is right and says that until God answers him he will assume that he is doing right and continue to punish people. This is not God's response and he does speak to us in the Bible, yet few of us are willing to turn there and are expecting great signs and wonders. God does work like that but very rarely. Anyway we are told to obey the law of the land (no vigilantes) and to submit to our leaders. Ignorance of the law (and thus of the Bible) is no defence in a court of law nor is it a defence before God.Well, the Punisher is an Australian action movie - a very rare sight, especially were action movies are concerned. It is trying too hard to be an American film (and is most likely made with American money) but it is purely Australian. They say that Australia does not have the finances to make blockbuster action movies. It does in a way but unfortunately this movie tries to be something that it is not. It would have been a lot better if they had stayed as far away from the comic book as possible. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a movie ensuing from a comic","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rather often movies based on comic strips end up dumb as they do not satisfy the interests both comic fans and non-fans, especially during non-digital era when special effects were nothing special. The Punisher does not include supernatural phenomena - although many scenes related to appearance and disappearance of the vigilante Frank Castle are not very feasible - but focuses on punishing the bad not convicted by courts, the idea being so popular since the Death Wish series. The plot has some nice twists and fighting scenes are catchy to follow. Dolph Lundgren has proper character to play and is better than usual, inclusion of decent actors such as Louis Gossett, Jr., Jeroen Krabbé, Kim Miyori provides additional value to the movie. Thus, not a bad movie, and a must to admirers of Lundgren and those not tired of the 1980ies filming and outfit style. "},{"Title":"if socioty won't punish the guilty, HE will","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The punisher is a classic action/thriller based on the marvel comics of the same name, dolph lundgren plays frank castle a man who turned revenge fueled vigilante after the mob murders his family. as an action movie you cannot go wrong with this as it's ultra violence city as dolph takes out the garbage punisher style. although it's not as faithful to the comic books as 2004's the punisher and 2009's the punisherwar zone, i think this punisher is by far the most fun, and dolph lundgren looks every bit the part as the puniser. sure it's not on the level of big budget comic book to film adaptions like 1989's batman but it's still a dark brooding action packed classic, all in all a must see action movie and definitely recommended to dolph lundgren fans and punisher fans. "},{"Title":"The best action movie ever!","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Five years after his family has been murdered, a former cop FRANK CASTLE retaliates & racks up the body count on the Newyork City punks, mob members, murderers, rapists, arsonists & anyone else on the wrong side of the law that are seemingly let out always with a slap on the wrist by an unjust law system (125 dead criminals & still counting is Franks current record when the film starts) this time however, a former partner & friend, seeks to stop him from his murderous rampage before Frank is caught & executed himself, while a deadly Japanise crime group who are more cold blooded & deadly than anyone Castle has ever dealt with before, who is kidnapping kids of the cities top mobsters which soon has the law believing that the Punisher is doing it himself. Soon Castle finds himself teaming up with the very mobsters he's been wiping out, in order to not only save the kids, but himself & gain a chance to clear his name. THE PUNISHER is a film I have wanted to see for so long but for some reason this baby kept slipping from my grasp, recently I rented all three films & watched them back to back & thus far, this one is the best! now true this isn't a true adoption of the comic but in terms of the kills & violent action, it's right up to par! The acting & directing are awesome! & better yet the action never lets up! as there's a fight & plenty of kills seemingly every five minutes & yet surprisingly the constant action & violent bloodshed amazingly doesn't hamper the story or characterization! DOLPH LUNDGREN is down right awesome as Castle. Highly recommended to all PUNISHER & even non PUNISHER fans, you won't regret seeing this! After waiting for years to see this, this film was far more better than what I thought it would be. My all time favourite action picture, honestly there is not enough good things I can say about this movie! I could talk forever on how awesome it all is! Note to Hollywood This is how to make an action movie! Followed by two remakes, one in 2004 (Titled simply) THE PUNISHER & THE PUNISHER WAR ZONE.**** stars "},{"Title":"Great Punisher movie","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has got to be the 2nd best Punisher movie after the 04 one. Sure Dolph seems an odd choice but he is brilliant in one of his best performances as the one man army Frank Castle violent and angry yet still human at then same time the way the Punisher should be it truly this one of his most underrated performances. The plot isn't the best but at least it has one and it really fits in as a 1980's action movie lots of killing and a ruthless Punisher wanting vengeance. And if you really wanted you could see this as a sequel to the 04 movie which really gives it a series feel to it.If your a fan of the Punisher or just a action movie lover see this movie. "}{"Title":"Great lines","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite the low budget, the lines are great, as are the beautiful prayers the Punisher says.One reviewer says that it never made it to theaters? Why not? What are they trying to hide? Yes, I wish it was closer to the Punisher of the comics - and who decided to change it? Sad.Worth a watch? Sure, if you like punishing the guilty.) Could have been much better, probably with a different Punisher, thought Dolph is not bad in it, I think he played much better roles in other flicks. His Russian Specialist - fairly low budget too - is better for him.7/10 "},{"Title":"Something tells me that man has problems that make mine look like a birthday party.","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That was what Spider-Man said to himself at the end of the first issue that introduced him to the Punisher back in 1974. The Punisher debuted as a somewhat sinister and somewhat ethical vigilante with a background in the Marines and a hatred of criminals. Working with a goofy green villain called the Jackal, the Punisher was under the misunderstanding that Spider-Man was a criminal (this was after the deaths of Gwen Stacy and the original Green Goblin, Norman Osborne). I don't know if he was meant to be a one shot character or not, but the writers soon found that whenever they used the Punisher in a Spider-Man comic book, that issue sold well. Initially conceived as a hit man who killed criminals for money, this idea was dropped and he became a full blown vigilante, but he was not above taking the dirty money of the thugs he killed. After crossing paths with Spider-Man a few more times, we found out that he was Frank Castle, a Vietnam vet and father of two who was going for a walk in the park one day with his wife, son and daughter when they witnessed a mob execution and they were brutally gunned down for it. Frank survived and, emotionally heart broken and shattered by the unnecessary death of his family and his inability to protect them, he became the Punisher in response, utilizing his military training to outwit and overpower the various thugs, murderers, gangsters, rapists and drug dealers that populated America and ruined the common man's ability to enjoy the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  After mixing it up with guys like Daredevil and Captain America, the Punisher got his own book in the mid 1980s when crime was on the rise and at the height of his popularity this film was made.After changing it around to make Frank Castle a cop instead of a soldier and dressing him up like the Terminator and instead of giving him his Pirate flag shirt, this film opens with our hero (played with deadpan malice by Dolph Lundgren) having been up to his antics for about 5 years and killing one of the bosses in connection with the man who tried to kill him - only to kill his wife and daughters - in a car bombing. That villain is played by veteran villain actor Jereon Krabbe, and he plays his part well as he tries to unite the other New York gangs, only to run into trouble with the Japanese mafia, the Yakuza, and their icy bitch leader. At first the Punisher figures he can just sit back and let the two gangs kill each other and then he'll kill the winner, but his Shakesperean informant Barry Otto (father of the lovely Miranda Otto from Lord of the Rings) asks him to step in when the children of the American thugs are kidnapped.Louis Gossett Jr. supplies the humanity as Frank's old partner.May not be very true to the comic book (even less so in light of the more accurate remake starring Baltimore native Thomas Jane), but it holds up better than 2003's Daredevil as an action film. Daredevil couldn't make up its mind over what it wanted to be, whereas this adaptation of The Punisher at least knows it wants to be a standard, mostly serious action film, and the camera work here actually allows you to see who and/or what the Punisher is either shooting or beating to a pulp. Gossett and Krabbe do most of the acting, but there's no denying that Dolph Lundgren, in a role very different from his user friendly He- Man in 1987's Masters of the Universe, is a menacing figure. He's also got some mean moves and some big guns and these nifty little knives with skull heads on them. Too bad they didn't ask Dolph to play Thor, God of Thunder.Maybe one day the Punisher and Spider-Man will meet on film.  "},{"Title":"decent movie","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lundgren put in a decent turn in this flick, playing an expressionless vigilante, robbed by the mob of his his family and deciding to make them pay for it.  I think it's his lack of expression that makes the Punisher watchable, we recognise the underdog here and either hate or love him. Dolph Does Good!!! "},{"Title":"Great Marvel Comics Based Movie","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I'm not super familiar with the Punisher Comics, but I do have a vague understanding of the Punisher mythos. As with all comic books turned films, there presentations most definately vary, just as comic books do in their printed formats when different writers take on the franchise.As a movie, the Punisher was pretty well made, fairly high budget, above average scripting, especially in the incredible final scene/ monolouge with Frank in his underground hideout, which sums up the entire feel of The Punisher. Also, one of the most memorable scenes in all comic book adaptions where Berkowitz(Gossett), who represents Castle's(Lundgren) other half, stands atop a skyscraper and screams his name after his their final encounter in the movie. As far as story goes, it's not bad, but it left a need for sequels in it's tracks if only to make this one forgetable, as this movie feels incomplete in ways. As for the setting, it was fantastic, especially compared to the linear feeling a viewer can get from a regular visit to Metropolis or Gotham City. In the end, with or without the comic book liscence, this would've been a great movie, although forgettable for many, it should be viewed by those who can tollerate the usual PG/R rated shoot 'em up action fare.  "},{"Title":"The Punisher","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dolph Lundgren wasn't the best choice to play The Punisher, however he was a very interesting choice.Dolph Lundgren has quite the Russian accent, hearing speak the Punishers lines is kind of eerie in a way.Louis Gossett Jr. saved this picture with his glorified presence, he made all the worth while to watch.The Drunk is excellent comic relief.Every movie based on a comic always screws up the original story as does this one, it screws up the Punishers origin, his family wasn't killed in a car bomb explosion they were killed in a crossfire in the comicbook, I can understand why the writers of this movie made this change, the original used in the comic would be too graphic for the theatres, they had to clean it up a bit.One more discrepency is the fact we don't see Dolph Lundgren with a skull shirt on this movie, in the comic the hero does, as a matter of fact he is well known for the skull emblem.I give this movie a 5 out of 10 even though I own a copy of it.It's very entertaining.  "},{"Title":"The guilty will be punished!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think what a lot of Punisher fans forget when it comes to this movie is that concessions had to be made for a mainstream audience not familiar with the subject....it could be argued that the Punisher costume from the comic books is not realistic enough to suit a motion picture, and it would be impossible to put in everyone's favourite characters - you get my point. The movie has bad points  the complete inaccuracy of Dolph's accent, the amount of knives used (WTF? We wanna see some guns, man!), the ludicrous sidekick Frank is lumbered with (where the hell is Microchip?!?), and the whole sewer/naked meditating thing which doesn't serve much purpose at all. However, good factors include the movie's overall dark theme despite being a Marvel-endorsed feature, the violence (c'mon, it rules in places), Dolph actually looking the part as Frank Castle (about as physically close to Frank Castle as we could hope for), Louis Gosset Jr. (he is *made* for parts like this), and a generally reasonable plot (for a no-brain action flick, that is). Overall, I'd recommend 'The Punisher' highly to any fans of Arnie/Stallone/Van Damme action pictures, and definitely to followers of the comic book. It's a nice way to be entertained for 90 minutes without taxing the ol' brain cells.One last note  with the spate of superhero films in the pipeline (Spidey, Daredevil, FF, Superman/Batman), isn't it time someone had another pop at doing a Punisher movie? It's dying to be done, and done well..... "},{"Title":"One of Dolph´s best.","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of Dolph´s best. The action is great and the acting is good. The best acting comes from Louis Gossett, JR. This is a perfect low budget movie. If you love action this movie is like made for you. "},{"Title":"A Marvel adaption that's...okay","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Punisher perhaps doesn't quite reach the levels of Blade (the latter has a bigger budget, if nothing else), but neither does it descend to the depths of Captain America).  Dolph Lundgren is an...interesting choice to play the black-haired, vaguely Italian Frank Castle of the comic books, and the movie doesn't seem quite sure if it's a satire of the Death Wish movies, or a salute to them.  It's entertaining enough, in a brain-dead kind of way. Watching Louis Gossett Jr. trying not to look to embarrassed is probably enough to divert your attention. "},{"Title":"The first Punisher Is Above-Average.","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Terminator editor Mark Goldblatt helmed the first The Punisher with Dolph Lungren. Sadly, this snappy little above-average opus with a Boaz Yakin screenplay went straight to video because New World Pictures was suffering from financial woes. The muscle-bound Lungren is well cast as the anti-heroic vigilante. Louis Gossett, Jr., is effective as his former police partner, while Jeroen Krabbe and Kim Miyori make solid villains. The action is swift but lightweight.The Punisher opens with a TV news bulletin about the acquittal of Mafia crime lieutenant Dino Moretti (Bryan Marshall of Mosquito Squadron) of all charges in connection with the murders of police officer Frank Castle and his family. Moretti's lawyers have spent five years appealing his murder conviction. Moretti maintained his innocence and claimed he had no idea who was responsible for the 125 mysterious gangland slayings often attributed to a shadowy figure known as 'The Punisher' which occurred in the city over the last half-decade.The news media surround Moretti and his thugs as they exit the courthouse, praising the American jurisprudence before heading home to his mansion. The black-clad Punisher (Dolph Lungren of Rocky IV) follows them on his motorcycle and slips unobtrusively into Moretti's mansion. He stabs one bodyguard through a ceiling vent, hurls another off a balcony, and hangs the third by the neck to the chagrin of Moretti. Afterward, explosions erupt from every window. Moretti stumbles out the front door and falls dead on his knees with a skull-headed knife protruding from his back. The figure of the Punisher stands framed in the open doorway as the media scramble to capture images of him before more explosions engulf the mansion.Lieutenant Jake Berkowitz (Louis Gossett, Jr. of An Officer and a Gentleman) inspects the rubble of the Moretti mansion later that evening. Jake doesn't believe that Frank Castle is dead and insists that Frank is responsible for the killings. The chief of detectives delivers a message to him that Frank Castle is dead. No more talk about him being alive. You toe the line or you get the boot. The chief warns Jake We cannot let the public think that there is some psychotic ex-cop running around whacking out wiseguys like he has a hunting license. Typically, Jake works alone, but plainclothes female detective Sam Leary (Nancy Everhard of DeepStar Six), appears on the crime scene and pleads to be his partner. Sam explains that she is the second youngest member of the force to ever make detective the first time up. I'm not after a free ride. I can carry my share of the load. She informs Jake that she graduated at the top of her police academy class, is a crack shot, and agrees that Frank Castle is the Punisher. Jake orders her to be in his office at 9 AM sharp.The Punisher plunges us into the sewers. We see Frank Castle naked with a five 0'clock shadow, sunken eyes, and a haggard look pondering life. Come on, God, answer me. For years I've been asking you why? Or have you already answered? Or have you already said to the world here is justice. Here is punishment . . . Here in me? Why are the innocent dead and the guilty alive? Where is justice? Where is the punishment? Frank relives the tragic deaths of his wife and two young daughters who died in a car bomb explosion, similar to the fiery fate of Glenn Ford's wife and daughter in the Fritz Lang movie The Big Heat where they died from a car bomb meant for him. Frank struggles futilely to rescue his family, but the vehicle turns into a raging inferno.Gianni Franco (Jeroen Krabbe of The Living Daylights) leaves the airport on his return from Europe to take over as head of the Franco crime family. He ignores the media when they quiz him about The Punisher and he accuses them of creating The Punisher the way some people create boogeymen. Jake watches as Franco deals with the press. The new Mafia chieftain approaches Berkowitz and inquires how he can assist him. Jake chuckles, Kind of like a worm helps a fisherman. I'm glad you finally came home. I'm running out of bait. Later, Gianni informs the second-in-command of the Franco family that changes are about to occur. He explains that he is going to abolish the families. Franco explains that he has brokered a deal that will unit the families. He has arranged for 600 kilos of pure junk--$500 million dollars worth of product--to be shipped into the city. Everyone gets a share, providing they work together to make it happen. First, we consolidate, then we obliterate. The Yakuza muscle in on Gianni's good will deal and kill seven of the wise guys just as the Punisher had prepared his own reception for the Mafia. Lady Tanaka (Kim Miyori of Zoot Suit) spearheads the Asian invasion. Frank takes a knife in the chest and ends up in the river with a van loaded with the junk. He manages to get back to his lair in the sewer and cauterize the wound with a glowing knife. Detectives Berkowitz and Leary learn about the botched shipment.Meanwhile, Idiko Tanaka, who graduated from the Harvard Business School, shows up in town with her mute, adopted American girl who never leaves her side and wears a deadly pair of ear rings, dictates terms to the outraged Mafia. They will run the daily operations as executives and split the loot 75/25 per cent. The Mafia declares war on the Yakuza. The Japanese Mafia kidnaps the American Mafia's children. Lady Tanaka is ruthless. She cooked her twin brother a meal and then slit his throat. The Mafia sends the Japanese the ransom money.The Marvel Comics character makes quite an impression, but the low-budget Punisher lacks the punch of later Punishers. He also doesn't have the death's head symbol. "},{"Title":"EPIC comic book movie","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I Love this movie, waaaaaay better than any other punisher flicks. One of the last great action movies with a body count. Everything nowadays seems so cookie cutter, this movie has it all. Within the first 30 minutes, Gang on gang violence, brutal killings, Boot knifes, Scuba Ninjas, cauterizing of a wound with a fricken Bowie knife, motorcycles in sewer tunnels, Children being kidnapped, and hit in the face, and put up for sale as slaves. I swear I could watch Dolph shoot up casinos for a week. I don't know what all the fuss is about the skull not being on his chest, I mean really!? Your trying to be stealth, not wear a big skull like hey look at me over hear in the shadows It makes sense really. More realistic and believable, many times throughout the movie you think the punisher will not make it. The struggle is real. Not to mention he technically isn't a superhero Just a mortal in that sense, no need for a silly cape and suit. And as far as how close it is to the comic book.. Stan Lee himself was the Executive Consultant of the movie so I don't know how much more of a accurate depiction of the the punisher you can ever get. *8 out of 10 stars . "}{"Title":"BEST Comic book movie ever made","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, I'm serious and which is not to say that it is perfect. But...You want a movie that perfectly captures the tone of the comic book it was based on? This is it. I should know, I was a huge Punisher fan long before this came around and well after. I'm not a comic book know-it-all and other than this and Daredevil and Wolverine (solo) can't say I'm particularly knowledgeable.But this movie rocks. It's down and dirty and violent and fun. Yes, it's technique is old-school, lots of out-of-place looking inserts and editing to disguise things that computers now do. But still great fun.Dolph Lundgren is PERFECT. Holy Jesus does he look like hell in this film. Instead of WEARING the skull costume, he IS the skull costume. A great performance. Thomas Jane, who I like in other things, was just awful, not too mention far too weak-looking. And the movie was silly, and Travolta was a joke. Ray (Winstone? Stevenson? I don't know) from War Zone was better, as was the tone of the movie, but they course-corrected too much. The Punisher is tough and strong- but he can't punch through people's faces. Come on now.Rest of the cast is solid, 80's hairstyles and all. Packed with action, and quite brisk at 90min (which feels more like 60) which is a welcome relief from the nearly 3hr long stuff we've seen lately. Nobody is trying to destroy the world in this movie, or save. The Punisher is punishing the guilty, and that's all you need. "},{"Title":"80s Grindhouse","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Deciding at long last to try their hand at theatrical superhero movies (Howard the Duck doesn't count) Marvel Comics decided to licence The Punisher, one of their grittier properties, to a production and distribution company named New World Films who went on to make Felix the Cat The Movie. Get out from under the bed. There are lots of things in this movie I like; the acting is good even among smaller characters, Lundgren swaps his usual charisma in for a broken protagonist who has filled the void in his life left by his dead family with a desire for brutal punishment against the guilty, though fans of Lundgren's charisma will get a little bit of it from time to time, the action in this movie is well choreographed, the camera-work is nice with long uninterrupted steady shots, the score is ominous and heavy, the story is also surprisingly well thought out with more grey characters then you'd think, my favourite aspect of the story is that the whole conflict is a result of the unexpected consequences of the Punisher's actions; his five year relentless killing spree has weakened the mafia enough to allow a greater menace to enter the fray, a situation to which there is no easy answer. Now this movie does have some problems; it's a tad goofy at times like the unnecessary comic relief sidekick who is pretty useless, the movie also feels a bit slow at times, it never stops completely but it feels like it moves slowly at times, and I would be loath to forget the horrendously awkward and outdated Japanese stereotypes. All in all this is a movie that barely qualifies as a superhero film but if you love gritty 80s action (The Exterminator, Cobra etc) then you'll like this movie, I'd at least give it a watch. "},{"Title":"I don't care what anyone else says, so far this is my favorite 'Punisher' film to date...","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In preparation for the second season of Marvel's DareDevil I decided to take a look back into the filmography of the two characters that will be going head to head, DareDevil and the Punisher. I just took another look at the first live action appearance of Matt Murdock's alter ego, so now it's time to go back to Frank Castle's. A man, who's family was gunned down by the mafia, takes it upon himself to punish anyone he finds guilty of the crimes against New York City in a way to never let what has happened to him happen to anyone else. In his current crusade against crime, things start to heat up between New York's mob against the Japanese while Castle is stuck right in the middle of it. His old partner in the midst of the chaos is attempting to bring Frank out of the vigilante life before it gets him killed. Comparing this film to the 2004 Thomas Jane Punisher and 2008 Ray Stevenson Punisher War Zone films, this probably comes out on top with being the better movie while also coming closest to representing its source material. Not saying that it pulls it off perfectly because it isn't the most faithful adaptation ever put into a comic book film, but in comparison to the other feature films that were later made, this has more things done right while still being a good movie. The title character is portrayed fantastically by Dolph Lundgren, capturing the tortured loneliness that comes with the man who lost his whole family while simultaneously handling all of the action scenes with ease. His ex-partner, Louis Gossett Jr., also handles the emotional aspects of being apart of Castle's past and being a bad- ass perfectly. With these two I was able to get a real sense of the men they used to be and deep down wanting to go back to the way things were before Castle took on being the Punisher, but they sadly just can't. All the action is well filmed and choreographed, it holds a lot of fun to be had with this movie. No, I can't say that this is the definitive Punisher movie because in the end in its routes it is mostly a straight-up 80s action film. In terms of the depressingly dark tone and over-the-top violence that is known to be affiliated with the comic is only touched upon here. It is not 100% faithful to its source material in terms of some of the characters that come to play either, but Lundgren is without a doubt Frank Castle. He owns this role and I wish that it had done better in its theatrical run so maybe I could have seen him reprise his role for another film. On its own, it is a really fun sit with a slight edge that comes from the dynamic relationship between Lundgren and Gossett. For anyone who likes or misses some 80s action, this is made for you. "},{"Title":"I need your boots, your clothes, your motorcycle and your skull t-shirt (but I'll settle for three out of four)","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If Marvel Comics - at the time only a feeble, fledgling studio barely breaking into major motion pictures, rather than the infallible box office juggernaut of today - could only have made one live-action feature film in the '80s, they chose wisely with the Punisher. While other major sellers could likely have been permanently laughed out of circulation by the dubious special effects or invariable camp of the decade (let's not look at the gnarlier early '90s Fantastic Four and Captain America adaptations and say we did&#x85;), the gritty, gun-crazy Frank Castle was best equipped to ride out the melodrama and mullets of the Miami Vice/Arnold Schwarzenegger era without warping his image irreparably. In fact, fitting like a glove with the excesses and clichés of '80s action cinema is what elevates 1989's The Punisher to the top of the 'terrible early Marvel films' echelon ('the best of the worst' is about as high praise as the film is every likely to get). It's biggest casualty? Feigning to take itself so seriously and distancing itself from the comic to the point of committing the unforgivable sin leaving out the skull shirt. You had ONE job, guys. If we're being entirely honest, 1989's clunky crack at Castle is about as good a Punisher movie as we've seen to date (sorry Tom Jane and Ray Stevenson) - just more upfront about its glorious cheese. Director Mark Goldblatt is evidently well- versed in the action genre (he's credited as editor on Rambo, Commando, and later Predator 2 and Terminator 2), as he's kind enough to hit every genre cliché with the impeccable fastidiousness of a Simpsons parody, right down to cheerfully hammering exposition with Every. Single. Line (let me tell you a story&#x85; is the film's favourite device). But the '80s clichés don't stop with the dialogue - we also get some prime bits with grumpy, angsty cops, outspoken kids, old computers(!), and grim monologuing to God, while the film's fuzzy camera-work and droves of Australians trying their g'dang hardest to pass as 'Murricans (and failing) adds to the campy, student film calibre fun. In fact, it's really only in the action sequences where Goldblatt's Punisher rears its head beyond chuckle-worthy silliness. Here we have a smörgåsbord of villains for Castle to blow away in various ways (the mob AND the Yakuza? Excellent!), and a plethora of shootouts and throw-downs that are actually quite entertaining in their gregarious excess, including a climactic blowout in the Yakuza lair making suspenseful and even artistic (gasp!!) use of Japanese Shoji screens concealing upcoming antagonists, even if a follow-up stomp-fight with Jeroen Krabbé is&#x85;not as thrilling. Granted, I'm not convinced Goldblatt fully thinks through the moral ramifications of inciting audiences to cheer as Castle saves a bus-load of abducted mobster-children even as he blows away their crime lord fathers within eye's range (the film's climax takes this to the next level, with a Kill Bill-foreshadowing moment that is too downright disturbing not to be effectively bleak amidst the shootout stupidity). But hey - comics! Woo&#x85;!All the while, everyone's third favourite '80s action meathead, Dolph Lundgren, clomps through the movie like a stoned Terminator (his stretching rack torture sequence even allows him to showcase his best GNYYAAAAARRRGGHHH Arnold bellows). He certainly looks the part, and his blank dead-behind-the-eyes look would almost be enough to imbue Castle with the correct tortured humanity if he were a capable enough actor to contextualize them in any way, though his '80s one-liners, wholly uncharacteristic as they are, are lots of sassy fun (Who sent you? Batman) - though it's an undeniable shame no one thought to push the envelope enough to unleash a bona fida 'Pun-isher'. Otherwise, Louis Gossett Jr's renowned stilted delivery makes for an excellent vintage existential '80s cop, even as he seals the deal with a violent, almost tender wrestling plea for his ol' buddy Castle to LET ME IIIIINNNNNN. Feel the love. Feel the testosterone. Former Bond and soon-to-be- Fugitive villain Jeroen Krabbé easily out-acts all of his co-stars with his impressively composed turn as a mob boss striving to eliminate competition in favour of sharing (aww), while Kim Miyori is commandingly icy and terrifying as his Yakuza-helming co- fiend. Finally, Barry Otto as Castle's drunken, homeless, former actor collaborator is an eyebrow-raising but overall pleasant surprise, as hearing him beg Castle to save the children in near-Iambic Pentameter is simply too weird and fun not to love, as out of place as it is. It's no secret that the 1989 Punisher is, at best, a fairly silly relic of the decade showcasing some some decently entertaining action, and liable to play better to fans of disposable '80s bloodbaths than those expecting a faithful comics adaptation. Said fans may have found their appetites for Castle whetted by 2004 and 2008's cracks at the character - otherwise, it's hopefully not too much of a punishment to hold out for Netflix's take on the character in the upcoming season 2 of Daredevil. Suffice to say, dopily fun as it may be, very few are ever likely to lean on Lundgren as the definitive take on the character.-5/10 "},{"Title":"Dolph was and is the best Punisher!","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As far as 80's action movie actors go, Dolph Lundgren never received the same level of stardom as Stallone, Arnold, or even Van Damme. Dolph has made some pretty good action movies over the years and the Punisher is definitely one of his best and one of my favorites. Growing up in the late 80's and 90's, the Punisher was one of the first Dolph Lundgren movies I ever watched. As sacrilegious as this might sound, I never watched the Rocky movies growing up so I never saw him as Drago. For me, the Punisher was my introduction to Dolph. As a huge comic book fan and a Punisher fan I loved this movie. In comparison to the more recent adaptations I still think that this is the best version of the Punisher to hit the screen. The action is nitty gritty, the kill count is high and Dolph plays the character like a man who simple doesn't care if he lives or dies just as long as the criminals get what they deserve.....Death! This movie is far from perfect but anyone who is a fan of Dolph, 80's action movies, and the Punisher, this movie is for you. My only complaint with this film is that the Punisher doesn't wear his trademark skull shirt. This simple fact can be overlooked due to the overall enjoyment of the movie. "},{"Title":"Dolph Lundgren's best work ever.","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most people don't even know this movie exists and that's just sad.I didn't watch it when it was new because I assumed Lundgren would suck and I was drifting away from comics too. Anyway,this is Lundgren's best work ever.He is a very believable Punisher, a much better performance than Rocky IV.For a low budget movie,they hit a home run.It's basically the same movie as the newer Punisher flick,it's just his origin.This never had a theatrical release and Marvel really dropped the ball on the that one.It's their character and it's a good movie, they should have done whatever needed to be done for this to be released.It would have been a huge success but they just let it go straight to video.What a shame. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Bleak and unoriginal","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" *WARNING MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* The Punisher has had three movies, and this was the first. I haven't seen War Zone, but this is the weakest out of the two I've seen. It isn't exactly bad, but it won't really commit to telling a Punisher movie. They leave out the skull shirt, which is y'know, the Punisher's costume. I think Dolph Lundergen looks like a good Punisher, but he looks half-asleep throughout the entire movie, which makes it hard to get into his character at all. Louis Gosset Jr. plays Frank's former partner, who is looking for him. That was a good sub-plot, but it was never utilized. The two finally meet, but Frank won't even talk to him much at all, so it lessens the impact. I could not stand the head Yakuza woman, something about her was just so grating, I don't know why. Her mute daughter was a pretty good concept though, and she got a good fight with the Punisher, but it didn't have enough impact. I think the Yakuza boss should've gotten enraged to see her daughter dead, and released the kid to kill Punisher, instead of just being killed by a thrown knife. There are some good shoot-outs. I liked that Frank was portrayed as a real person, and not just an unstoppable killing machine, but seeing him use martial arts styled combat just doesn't work for me. He doesn't use his guns enough throughout a lot of the movie, aside from the epic fight at the docks. I also like that the Punisher does go to save the mobster's kids, but only after his conscience gets the better of him. The aspect of the Punisher's conscience was something that was missing from the Thomas Jane version. But aside from that, this movie is just kind of... bland. The bleak tone suffocates any fun to be had from the violence and fighting, and, while the score is good, it just adds to the depressing atmosphere. In conclusion, The Punisher isn't a great movie, it has sub-par acting, decent action, an okay story, and a poor tone. "},{"Title":"an interesting attempt but a small miss","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank Castle (Dolph Lundgren) is a former cop who lives in the sewers as The Punisher after his wife and kids were murdered. Mob boss Dino Moretti is responsible but is released after the court fails to convict him. The Punisher kills him and his henchmen. Frank's former partner Jake Berkowitz (Louis Gossett Jr.) gets hounded by Sam Leary to be his new partner. She believes that Frank Castle is still alive as The Punisher despite official denial. Gangster Gianni Franco (Jeroen Krabbé) returns to town while Lady Tanaka of the Japanese Yakuza proposes a partnership with his organization weaken by The Punisher.I appreciate the strip down attempt at a hard-nosed comic book movie. They even kick around some kids. However Mark Goldblatt is not a good enough director. The style and look of it is solidly in a lower level. The action isn't that exciting. Lundgren doesn't do much acting-wise. It gets a bit boring without any compelling acting. "},{"Title":"Campy action movie before Hollywood managed to turn The Punisher into something big...","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember this movie from my youth, especially when Dolph Lundgren was riding his motorcycle in the sewers. For some reason that particular scene stuck with me for years.Having seen the newer movies and thinking them to be adequate action movies, I decided to give this movie a go once again, just for old times sakes.Sure, this movie is from 1989 and yes it bears witness to that, but the movie is still entertaining for what it is. Sure, it is not fully up to par with the newer The Punisher movies, but it still holds it own for what it is worth.And yes, the iconic skull is missing from the shirt, but at least the essence of The Punisher is there, and at least the knives have the skull on it.It is kind of funny to see Dolph Lundgren with dark hair and that fake five o'clock shadow going on. But he does bring something goofy and campy to the movie and to The Punisher franchise. One thing I just didn't get was the sleepy eyes, was that something everyone had to do back in the 80's?There is a lot of action throughout the entire movie, so that at least counts for something, despite the fact that there is a lot of mistakes throughout the movie as well. I mean, for example where they gun down a whole room full of Japanese people, but not a single bullet managed to miss someone and tear a hole in the paper walls behind them. That was just a wonderful scene. Or not to mention when a woman pulls off her earrings to slash The Punisher, but then they had magically reattached themselves to the ears in the very next scene. Was she really that fast? Despite its campy atmosphere, then this 1989 version of The Punisher is fun enough to watch once every now and again when you need something completely brainless to watch.And on the plus side, that logo they used for the movie just screams 1980's all over. It looked like something from a Commodore 64 game. It was just priceless. "},{"Title":"Miscast Lead, Lackluster Action and Flawed Pacing Hurt What Could Have Been an Excellent Action Film","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With Marvel's success with all their big name superheroes recently, one character that's remained out of the spotlight is the Punisher. There's been multiple attempts at introducing the Punisher to a mainstream audience(this film, the '04 Punisher, and Punisher War Zone) but for whatever reason, none of these attempts have completely worked as none of them made much money and they don't fare any better with the critics either. It seems like the Punisher character will, at least for now, remain only as a fan favorite character of Marvel and not a multi- million dollar movie franchise like Batman or Spider-Man. But does Marvel's first attempt at introducing the character to a wide audience work, or does it deserve to be... punished? Let's find out!The plot starts off with Frank Castle already being the Punisher, the most wanted and mysterious vigilante of the city. Frank became the Punisher due to him losing his family to a car bombing by notorious mobster Gianni Franco, causing him to begin his war on crime. Over the past five years, Frank has weakened so much of the mob, Franco decides to come in and take control. This, however, has attracted the Yakuza. Lady Tanaka, the leader of the Yakuza, decides to take over all the mob families and their interests by kidnapping their children and holding them for ransom.What this film does the best, is its portrayal of the Punisher. While Dolph Lundgren was very miscast in the role, the way The Punisher himself is written is very interesting. This film surprisingly doesn't portray the Punisher as a full-on hero nor an anti- hero either. Instead, they make him out to be this very GREY moral figure that the film never completely makes its mind on whether or not is he the good guy. Sure, he kicks a lot of a$$ throughout the film but he's also shown to be a bit of a sociopath as he shows no mercy at all to crime and considers anyone who's even ASSOCIATED with the mob deserving of death. This makes him a very extreme and dangerous individual who's not even sure himself that he's doing the right thing and that's what makes his character fascinating. On one hand, we can sympathize with him and understand where he's coming from but on the other hand, he's a sociopath and his simplistic black and white view of the world certainly isn't completely true. Thankfully, the film ends on a very ambiguous note, leaving the audience decide on their own whether or not is he the good guy.The film also has pretty stylish direction for what is, essentially, an 80's B-grade action flick. The director of the film is Mark Goldblatt, who's well-known in the industry as editor for films such as The Terminator, True Lies, Terminator 2, Starship Troopers, Rise of the Planet of the Apes, and many more but he's not too well-known as a DIRECTOR but I think he did a pretty solid job on this film. He told the story in a very dynamic way with very dynamic camera-work and a very brutal, gritty feel but didn't go too far with the violence like in Punisher War Zone, it felt more realistic than comic-bookish. I think he should have been given more chances to direct after this film.The score by Dennis Dreath is typical 80's action movie music and it's awesome. I love the theme for the Punisher, it sounds very tough and menacing and it fits the character very well. The score also helped heighten the excitement with the action scenes which, to be honest, weren't anything special.The action for the film just felt very weak. There's some cool hand-to- hand combat scenes here and there and seeing traditional blood squibs is always better than the digital crap we get today but the problem with the action in this movie is that it's all really forgettable. A lot of it's really short, and there's not a whole lot of exciting stunts being pulled off. All the Punisher does, is run right into enemy fire and mows them down with a machine-gun Rambo style. I would've liked to see a bit more strategy with the Punisher's killing methods and some more dangerous stunts but, I guess the action in the film's acceptable for a movie made with $9 million dollars.The pacing of the film is another problem. It moves a bit too fast for the audience to know Frank well as a character. I like what they did with him but I think they could have done more had if the film slowed down a bit and focused on HIM a bit more as opposed to the action or the other characters.The cast in the film is mostly pretty good, but Lundgren just seems really uncomfortable in the part. He seems far too lumbering and brutish for a guy who's supposed to be a very sharp, calculated assassin. I think the part should have been given to someone like Bruce Willis or Mel Gibson instead. Louis Gossett, Jr. is very believable as Jake, the cop Frank used to befriend. I buy his previous friendship with Frank very well. Jeroen Krabbe does a good job playing both Franco as a silmy mobster and a family man. But for me, the biggest scene stealer was Kim Miyori as Lady Tanaka. She came off genuinely sinister and evil but also with a sense of intelligence and manipulation. And plus, she's kinda hot. The rest of the cast did fine.Overall, The Punisher is certainly not a perfect film. Its action is underwhelming, Lundgren is miscast in the lead role, and the pacing's a little off. However, because of how interesting I found the Punisher to be as a character, and how stylish the direction was and how cool the score was, I'd say... give it a watch. Just don't expect a masterpiece. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Viloent fuelled archetype 80's action","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When his family are murdered Frank Castle wages a one-man war against organized crime, but this time he may have gone too far as the crime-lords make an uneasy alliance to stop him and the police want him put away once and for all.Archetype 80's actioner with Dolph Lundgren in the lead role, with elements reminiscent of Stallone's Cobra (1986) complete with voice over. The acting is sometime wooden, the action at times stilted but never the less director Mark Goldblatt delivers lots of blood, shootings and stabbings as Frank punishes his way through the film with a different weapon each time.Boaz Yakin's screenplay delivers some interesting touches, there's a DC Marvel comic crossover with Frank mentioning Batman, credit to Yakin the story has been sorely overlooked as it's has some interesting subtext elements regarding organised crime, corruption, back handed and double cross dealings and Franks actions being the cause of an unlikely alliance as the 'families' have weakened. Franks drunken informant gives the proceedings moments of levity, while Lundgren's zip wiring and wiping out a whole dojo and a dead doctor wearing red high-heels for no reason resonate.Dyed haired Lundgren play's Frank debatably fittingly as a robotic emotionless killer although his five O'Clock shadow which appears to be drawn on and changes scene to scene can be distracting (but that's being picky). Bond bad guy Jeroen Krabbé is solid as the evading mafia mob boss, Louis Gossett Jr. is on his usual form as Frank's the disheartened ex-partner, finally Kim Miyori is menacing as the Yakuza boss and Zoshka Mizak strikingly stands out as Tanaka's Daughter.This may not be the perfect comic adaptation nor the most memorable but it doesn't hold back on punches as a piece of violent comic-book entertainment. "},{"Title":"Appropriately dark and grim, but missing several key things.","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thematically this pseudo-adaptation of the infamous comic-book vigilante is right on the money. It depicts a dark, grim, and violent world through the eyes of man who's on a seemingly unstoppable quest for vengeance. Viscerally it is pretty much on the money too with Frank Castle having an impressive array of weapons and plenty of criminals to use them on. However, this second area is where the movie strays away from the source in portraying several things from the comic-book in a totally different way. Notably the infamous skull logo is nowhere to be seen and Frank Castle's back-story has been drastically altered. Here he is a police officer and not a soldier of the Marine Corps. That might not seem like too much, but the skull shirt is a key visual aspect of The Punisher and the fact that he was a decorated military officer explains his lethal skill with all sorts of weapons, that city cops don't use. It's a minor idiosyncratic absurdity, but an absurdity nonetheless to see a former city cop fight like a world class military grade mercenary.This was most likely the result of copyright issues and the film makers didn't secure the rights to the character they were adapting, thus they had to change him around a bit. The result is somewhere between the actual Marvel Comics character and the titular character from the Max Payne games. Fans of vigilante justice and brutal action films will most likely be impressed as Dolph Lundgren does his own stunt-work and fits the role perfectly. Fans looking for a true adaptation, however, will likely be put off with the deviations. It's almost The Punisher, but not quite. --- 6/10BsCDb Classification 16+ --- violence "},{"Title":"The Guilty shall be punished...","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... And so weren't comic book fans who longed for a legitimate Marvel Comics flick.Though an OK action yarn, it followed the comic lore lightly, simply hoping to catch on to the coattails of 'Batman'.Lundgren made a great effort to portray the gritty, often evil hearted vigilante, but just couldn't carry the flick alone.Looked upon as a comic setback, Marvel never got a great film off the ground until 'Blade' and the vastly surprising hit 'X-Men' well over a decade later.If Marvel to movie blunders are your thing, check out the vastly forgotten 'Captain America'. "},{"Title":"If you're guilty, you're dead.","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have never read any of the comics' of Marvels' 'The Punisher', and hardly knew anything about this creation. Anyhow the film adaptation (remembering I don't know much about the sources) was a lot better than you would believe, but still it seems to be missing something (mainly in the second half). This can be attributed to the moodily dark set-up with its brutally tasty violence (watch the slow-motion explosions and over-the-top combat sequences) and leering psychologically imprint (the haunted and slightly psychotic mind of the vigilante Frank Castle), being side-tracked by a one-note, and often satirical script. Nonetheless it gladly didn't succumb to something overbearing and grating, but favoured slight remarks. But still the latter end isn't as engaging. While the vengeful violence is sadistic, there's also a real cheekiness and pleasure in how these characters are dispatched. At heart, its comic-book pulp with a brooding atmosphere, over-the-top action and with a simple plot structure of outlandish developments. After making 'Dead Heat (1988)', Mark Goldblatt (who has also edited such a impressive range of action and horror films) directs in a stylish and expeditious manner that piles on the colourful (if loud and dumb) mayhem and stunts. Some do impress. The visual décor and positioning in some passages are very well arranged and lensed. Infused in the background is a humidly bluesy score with a baneful edge. The production does look cheap (with it being shot on location in Sydney, Australia), and the acting is above-average. Dolph Lundgren is typically monotone and blank face, but strangely this emotionally void etched persona makes his character's presence appealing and appearance suitable. Just listen to his grasping voice to feel the torture and pain! It's effective. Louis Gossett, Jr. is sturdy and likewise Jeroen Krabbe. However stealing the show is the gleefully biting and vile Kim Miyori as a Yakuza head boss. "},{"Title":"Violent crime chiller about a relentless revenger","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a gripping story of one man's vendetta. An ex-cop named Frank Castle(Dolph Lundgren) whose family is wiped by a mobster(Jeroen Krabbe), executes a revenge, originating a bodycount with several enemies. Frank is moved to brutal violence and metes out his own justice when his wife and sons are murdered. He kills 125 baddies in five years, as tells a TV newsreader and still going on. Meanwhile, he attempts to stop the Japanese mafia ruled by Lady Tanaka(Kim Miyori). Castle sets out to killing gangsters, such as an one army man. Frank's ex-partner named Jake(Louis Gossett) and a cop(Nancy Everhard) try to catch him.The picture packs action packed, thrills, shootouts, chills and lots of violence and explosion. The tale bears a remarkable resemblance with Charles Bronson films of the series 'Death wish', for the matter, the vengeance,as the starring becomes a hit man and making as judge, jury and executioner and no better the mobsters he's pursuing. Adapted for a Marvel Comics Group character and written and drawn by Gerry Conway and consultant by the famous Stan Lee. Exhibited direct to video in United States, though in Europe showed in theatres years later being realized. The movie is set in US but filmed in Australian Outback. The motion picture is professionally directed by Mark Goldblatt, he's a prestigious editor and occasionally director(Dead heat). This adaptation was a flop and obtained lukewarm reception by the public. The recent and superior version(2004) directed by Jonathan Hensleigh and starred by Thomas Jane, Rebeca Romijin Stamos and John Travolta achieved much success in the box office, in spite of the extreme violence and crude scenes. It's a must see for Dolph Lundgren fans. "},{"Title":"enjoyable but not amazing.","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank Castle (Dolph Lundgren) and his family are blown up in a car bomb and Castle survives to become the vigilante known only as The Punisher, a man who punish's the guilty, anyone who commits a crime faces justice from a shotgun or a gets a knife in their back.The 1989 Punisher is a basic no brainer action revenge story based on the Marvel comic book,it has some good fight scenes and gun fights it's a pretty hard movie to find because the company that made it apparently went bankrupt before it was released so it was only in the cinemas in Europe i managed to find the DVD in Germany and got it posted over to England, Dolph like most action stars isn't an amazing actor but he performs OK and was probably the best person to play Frank Castle at the time, he wasn't as good as Tomas Jane in the 2003 version of The Punisher since it was a better movie and Jane can actually act, the rest of the cast perform OK but arn't anything special.I didn't like that they got rid of the skull t-shirt that was the punisher symbol and it kind of cut away from the idea that he is the punisher it's kind of like replacing the Xmen costume with jeans and a shirt if you know what i mean. I found it hard to believe that an ordinary police officer can be so highly trained but i guess with planning, information and some martial arts training a dead cop could Wac the odd criminal or two.The 1989 Punisher is an enjoyable action movie and if its ever on TV i would recommend watching it.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"When society doesn't punish wiseguys Dolph does cuz it's his job","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was not fond of Dolph Lundgren or gave him respect the only movie I had seen him in was Rocky IV as the mentally handicapped Russian musclebound boxer who couldn't finish his own sentences without starting a new one but he was killer in this. His character feels no emotion not even hate or rage just like the comic book character his only outlets are cynicism and pumping bullets/throwing knives into mobsters. Filmed in Australia the movie is very dark both in lighting and plot. It also keeps you entertained from start to finish. The martial arts violence is there choreographed flawlessly every step of the way and the shooting never lets you down. Features Academy Award winner Louis Gossett, Jr. and also Jeroen Krabbe as the villainous Italian-American Mafia boss who has to deal with Castle's murderous antics til the very bloody end. A great way to spend a Saturday evening before you go out and party like a fiend at your fav nightclub. "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore, which is a damned shame","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Back in the late 1980s, the Australia R rating used to mean something. Where action films were concerned, it often meant quality, or at least that the director and studio were going out of their way to please the hardcore audience that sought out action films. In this day and age, where studios like Fox are throwing hundreds of millions behind films that try to please everyone and, as a result, please no one, one must bemoan the fact that nobody makes films like The Punisher anymore.Okay, it's a well-established fact that this adaptation of The Punisher is not very faithful to its source material. There are adaptations that get worse the more they diss their source material, the recent Lord Of The Rings trilogy being a classic example. The Punisher, however, is not one of them. This incarnation of The Punisher delivers wall-to-wall carnage, and was created with the specific goal of doing so. The total bodycount numbers well over a hundred, making it legend in comparison to the so-called action films of today that hover in the two-digit nowhere land.Dolph Lundgren was an excellent choice to play the titular character, in contrast to Thomas Jane. Where Jane just doesn't carry himself like a superhero given invincibility by the loss of all hope, Lundgren's massive swagger and dialogue economy make him far more convincing. The fact that he also looks like the kind of man half a dozen muggers wouldn't want to meet at once also helps. Of course, as Universal Soldier demonstrated, a problem exists when one casts Lundgren in a starring role. Namely that of ensuring that the rest of the cast is not utterly Dwarfed by him in comparison.No visual explanation of the character is offered in this film. The Punisher starts off by simply killing a target, and from then on, the mayhem doesn't let up. The exposition sequences are only offered when absolutely necessary, and they stick to the point. During the film's ninety-odd minutes, I counted maybe ten to fifteen minutes of speech, and most of that was merely startup for more violence. Films in general were consistently better before the MPAA decided everything had to be suitable only for four-year-olds, and this especially applies to action films.The problem with the 1989 production of The Punisher was that it was done very cheaply. The negatives, the set designs, the props, and even the support cast, scream low-rent at the top of their proverbial lungs. Dolph Lundgren, Louis Gossett junior, and Jeroen Krabbé aside, the whole cast is so no-name that one has to wonder if the studio even bothered to contact the screen actors' guild. The Japanese actors in particular take overacting to a height not witnessed since the heady days of early television. It could not be more obvious that the studio who paid for this film to be made were an independent, low-yield concern that simply didn't have the cash to finance what people generally expect from an adaptation of a big-name comic.I gave The Punisher, circa 1989, a three out of ten. It is an excellent example of how sometimes the best examples of a genre come out of the least conducive circumstances. Perhaps when Hollywood gets the imaginary spending contest out of their heads, accidental gems such as this can begin rising once again. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dolph Lundgren(Who's not Itallion) stars as Frank Castle a cop who turns vigilante after the murder of his family, however when the Yakuza decides to muscle in on the Mafia's business, Frank Castle finds himself giving the mob a break to wipe out the Yakuza. Undistinguished actionflick benefits from suspenseful actionscenes as well as good acting from Louis Gosset Jr., Jeroen Krabbe and (surprisingly) Dolph Lundgren. Action fans can certainly do worse. "},{"Title":"Looks good, sounds bad","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"    This movie was probably the comedy hit of 1989.  Dolph Lundrin's only direction in this move was probably You don't care about anything.  He looks great in action sequences, but the minute he opens his mouth, it comes out sounding like Brenden Fraiser on drugs.   On the plus side, Lewis Gosset Jr. does a fantastic performance as Frank Castle's old partner.  Any scene with him has an instant amount of gravity, which unfortunately cannot hold up the rest of the movie. "}{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher wasn't too bad of a movie. But, that's about all the praise it gets.Dolph Lundgren definitely would not have been my first choice, but he plays the role...not well, but he works. Same with the rest of the actors, though Mr. Franco kind of got on my nerves.The atmosphere seemed a little off, probably due to the Australia setting. Not that Aussieland is bad, but it lacked the New York feel. The film quality kind of sucked too, but I blame that on budget. I was also disappointed that the skull was removed off his uniform. Even a darker gray skull would've been nice.The movie basically plays out the same as many others of the time. Nothing spectacular, nothing new. It's just a halfway decent action flick with 'The Punisher' slapped on it. "},{"Title":"Worth checking out if you don't mind hokey acting.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This really is a good movie, but Dolph Lundgren's portrayal of the Punisher isn't at all like the comics. One could point that out as the director's fault, so blame isn't very placable at all. The problem is that Castle (the Punisher) seems very stiff and emotionless while the character in the comics often showed emotion. Granted, it was all anger and focus, but the character had good dialogue and was interesting. Sadly, Lundgren just lumbers about, drearily says his lines, and shoots people. Not very focused or angry in emotion.The plot of the movie is actually pretty cool. Frank Castle is a former police officer (changed from a Marine like in the comics, which would have been funner and would make the character's abilities seem more natural, but if you can swallow any other action movie you'll be fine with this.) He's angry about the mob attack that took the life of his wife and children, and turns in to the vigilante known as the Punisher. He rules the roost in New York, killing all of the mobsters he can get his hands on. His ex-partner is trying to prove that Frank is the Punisher in order to bring him to justice and to help him emotionally. A drug deal for the Mafia is ruined by the Yakuza, who also kidnap the Mafia council's children. Frank feels guilty for the kidnappings (having spurred conflict,) and tries to save the children. The movie escalates beyond this (as any good movie does) but it shouldn't be spoiled for those who haven't seen it.The movie does a lot of things right. It's fast paced, most of the sequencing makes sense, and while the gunfights are entertaining it's the hand to hand combat that makes it interesting. It helps that Lundgren is (in real life) a martial arts expert, giving the movie a chance to show off a little. Now, the problem with this movie is the acting. Not just on the portrayal of the Punisher, but many of the other characters just botch their lines horribly as well. The only good actor in this movie is Louis Gosett Jr, who brings the only true respect this film version of the comic will ever have.If you want to see a movie great in concept and plot (especially if you like 80's cop movies like Black Rain,) check this out. But if you absolutely can't stand cheesy acting, hold back. Great movie for fans of The Evil Dead and Army of Darkness movies in terms of believability. "},{"Title":"An okay action film.","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When this movie was about to be released, I repeatedly visited the store and annoyed the clerk in wanting to see it. As a Marvel Comics fan, all my Marvel-based movies were Captain America and Howard the Duck. When I finally got to see it, I liked it. Only I was really annoyed that Dolph Lundgren was sleepwalking through it as the Italian Frank Castle a.k.a. The Punisher, sans the white skull on his chest. I've watched it a few more times since then, even taped it off HBO for posterity. It's nice and dark, with good action and some fine acting from the supporting cast.Unfortunately, Dolph's character was totally superfluous to the halfway decent story. The lack of skull on Castle's chest obliterates The Punisher image, too. The skull was on the damn throwing knife! I haven't seen the tape on my shelf in quite some time, probably cause I felt no need to watch it anymore, with Blade, X-men and 2004's The Punisher around. I do commend Dolph for shedding his thick Rocky 4 accent specifically for this movie. But still, he can't act. This movie was undeservedly Punished for having him. "},{"Title":"Cartoon PBS type movie","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like the cartoon Rambo/Batman movie when they are done well. This one is, and I can watch it no matter how many times TBS shows it.  The comic book goes over well in film, and I get laughs.  I like his death wish destructive side, because of the murder of his family.  If you run out of ideas; rent this one.PS  The music score is good. "},{"Title":"Low budget movie that could have been better, but should not be forgotten.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What I wanna know is, since DVDs are coming out with deleted scenes and extended editions...I wish someone would have the scenes that explained what happened before he became THE PUNISHER.  If you look at the back of the video case you see a scene with dolph as FRANK, Louis Gossett Jr. and the girl that GOSSETT teams up with later, as a hooker.  WHere the hell is that scene.  From what I know they do a bust on the Franco family which drives the Franco family to kill Frank Castle and his family.  This could be up to 30 min of footage, that I think would make the audience sympathize more with frank Castle/The Punisher.  This could be not a direct-to-video typical movie at 92 min..  This could of been 2 hours.  I'm a big Punisher fan, and I'm sure that the only people who have really seen this movie and loved are the same people as I am.  I ask for an uncut version damn it!It is a entertaining movie and stands alone without the cut footage..but like I said, I think with the new scenes it could be better. "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger wannabe","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In my honest opinion, Dolph Lundgren has only turned out ONE good acting performance(out of his 28 movies so far)-- Rocky IV. The only other movie I'll recommend is Red Scorpion, and that's only when you want to test the ground-pounders on your surround-sound stereo system with its helicopter scenes.Lundgren's Schwarzeneggerian one-liners fall flatter than a Kansas skyline. The last thing I would do if somebody finished torturing me on an electric version of the medieval rack is smile and say Hey. Have a nice day.WHY must heroes always have irritatingly quirky sidekicks? Certainly not to make Castle look like he has some semblance of sanity in this movie.The scene in the carnival funhouse was astonishingly lame. The bad guys have machine guns, so why can't they hit Castle? He wasn't moving. It's so typical of one-man-against-the-odds action movies to have highly trained assassins who can't hit the broad side of a barn at point-blank range, while the heroes can successfully shoot the villains(with pistols) without even looking.And the Yakuza villains! Wearing shiny black leather to look diabolical is SO cliche! Plus, walking and talking slowly to show smug superiority is even worse.Lou Gossett Jr. does a good job, but the expressions on his face show that he can't hide his embarrassment to be in this totally crappy movie. Same thing about his role in Firewalker.Two thumbs so far down, they're six feet under, which is where this movie should be. Few comic books adapt well to live-action venues. Remember 1992's Captain America? Bomb-o-rama!SPOILER HERE --I'm sure the writers could have come up with some better way for Castle to escape than to enable the discovery that he has wingnuts on his hand restraints. Villains wouldn't be rich and successful if they were THAT stupid. "},{"Title":"It was low budget and reflects that.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If this film had a bigger budget they could've hired a better writer, director, and production designer which would have saved this film. As it is now though it's pretty lame. This is a shame since Dolph is the most perfect man to play the Punisher. Imagining anyone else doing it would be like trying to imagine someone else playing Indiana Jones. The movie only vaguely resembles the comics on which it was based and is nothing more than a B grade action movie that makes Rambo look like Oscar material. But if you're starved for Punisher content... This movie will have to do. If not... See something else. -/  "},{"Title":"One of the better comic adaptations, but that's not saying much...","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher is... okay, if it's three in the morning and you're still watching cable.  Nothing special.The movie takes off from the hyper-violent Marvel comic series of the same name.  After his family, including his two children, are senselessly and brutally murdered by the Mob, Frank Castle launches himself into a one-man war on crime to avenge them.  In the movie, The Punisher, in the midst of a five-year campaign of rising up from the sewers to kill 125 people and break the back of the mob, faces a new threat.  Against his weakened foe enters the Yakuza, the Japanese organized-crime faction, playing to a bid to oust the Mafia for control.  When the children of the remaining power-players within the mob are kidnapped by the upstart Japanese gangsters, The Punisher must take up arms with his old enemies to rescue them.The changes from the comic book were numerous and jarring to a long-time fan of the series.  Castle's background was changed from Marine Corps Vietnam veteran to police detective (presumably, it was cheaper to film and set up the conflict with his old partner still searching for him).  Rather than living (relatively) high in various safe-houses and depots paid for with vigilante bounties and money seized from his victims, as does Marvel's Punisher, the movie version tools around in the sewer tunnels under the city.  His sidekick and link with the aboveground world has been changed from Marvel's Microchip, a super-genius computer hacker and weapons procurer, apparently to a former stage actor turned drunken bum.  The change of villains from the mix of sundry drug-dealers and other upstart criminal entrepreneurs and old Marvel standbies, like The Kingpin, to a mix of Italian mobsters and Yakuza is another change.  Lastly, Lundgren plays the Punisher as a brooding, sullen, half-dead avenger 5 years into his career, instead of the somewhat more energetic, aggressive, and happy, for want of a better word, Punisher more than 20 years down the line.  As a side note, the nordic Lundgren (even with dyed-black hair) isn't quite the same as the Brooklyn native whose birth name was Castiglione.None of this is serious, it can simply be said to be an interpretation or inspiration on the part of the writers.  Or just the various exigencies of having to tell a different kind of story in a different medium.The movie itself is largely mindless violence and stereotypes.  The criminals are super-powerful and totally above the law, making the Punisher necessary.  In a strage way, this turns into a curious mix.  We have somewhat retrograde stereotypes of crime (a very Italian mafia in natty suits, peddling heroin; criminals acting with no concern for legal ramifications, doing stupid things like kidnapping for ransom or killing cops, etc.) mixed with newer ideas (the introduction of the Yakuza, for example).  It's sort of like The Professional's interpretation of the New York mob, but written more larger-than-life.  The Punisher has gotten into the middle of a mob war, set up to set tension for the movie.The gangsters themselves are a complex of strange stereotypes.  For one, the Italian mob is incompetent, unsophisticated, and apparently always eating. Their leader, played in a strange twist by Jeroen Krabbe, is the only one with a brain.  The Yakuza are portrayed as dangerous, ruthless and alien invaders who mean business.  They all, it seems, are incredible, super-human ninjas who possess incredible martial arts skill, and they act in incredibly vicious and bold ways, performing child kidnappings, open assasinations, torture, etc.  In short, we have a pair of competing stereotypes, largely ethnically based.The backstory of his former partner, played by Louis Gossett Jr. (he just shows up everywhere, doesn't he?), is interesting, and personalizes the story more.  Castle, as a cop, was Gossett's partner and is obssessed with finding his old comrade turned above the law.  This adds to the story, setting up a second fold in things, but is poorly handled.  A new female partner, who turns into an otherwise useless and totally wasted character, finds The Punisher's hideout in 30 minutes when the seasoned veteran couldn't do it in five years.  Ultimately, any conflict gets left to the wayside, as Gossett's character proves to have little impact on the outcome. This whole aspect to the story had potential, but should've been done much better if, for example, the ex-partner was more like Tommy Lee Jones in The Fugitive, a relentless and capable detective always just one step behind his quarry.The battle scenes are interesting and much different in style from the comic book.  Marvel's Punisher, in his war on crime, was a man of big guns, big presence and big entrances.  His means of fighting as one man against many was to use stealth, speed, surprise, firepower, intimidation.  A typical comic Punisher move would be to sneak in first and get set, set off an explosive in an ambush and then dash in quick and waste as many bad guys as possible with the biggest guns available, evening the odds and shocking the rest into panic, and then usually getting away before the cops showed up. This Punisher is a little lower in scope (it was probably cheaper anyways). He's even sneakier and stealthier sometimes, but he tends towards using less firepower in a more cinematic type of way (no armed vehicles, rocket launchers or machineguns for this fellow), wading through, firing a weapon at full-auto, and not taking any sort of cover or moving in and out quick. Realism, if that's important, slips a bit as he also gets into hand-to-hand fights a lot more and uses throwing knives as much, if not more, than guns. In fact, for both the Punisher and the Yakuza, throwing knives or other thrown weapons seem to be preferred to guns.  Whoever made this movie really liked throwing knives, and it's used as a metaphor.  The incompetent cops and Mafia never use knives and the message is that they are too unsophisticated and clumsy for them and are no match for either the Yakuza or the Punisher, with their sneakiness and their hundreds of pieces of hand-launched steel.Dolph Lundgren, as I said, does the Punisher in his own way.  He's laconic, droll, half-dead seeming.  Perfect for Dolph.  He actually didn't do bad, as I'm sure this is what he was going for.  He plays the Punisher as a walking dead man rather well.  Even his eyes look dead, almost as though he were stoned.  The shaving job, the penciled five o'clock shadow, was a neat touch, and was (deliberately or not) shaped just right to evoke the Punisher's skull motif that is noticably missing from his chest here. Gossett does... Gossett here.  The good man trying to do right.  He got the part of the cop who owes something to his former friend well enough. Jeroen Krabbe did well, as the embattled but visionary and very snaky mob boss.  The lady who played the Yakuza boss did very well, evoking sufficient menace and arrogance to nearly make one's skin crawl.The movie is an interesting take on the Punisher theme.  Execution could have been a bit better, but they got their money's worth I think.  If you like action and are looking for an action-packed Death Wish homage, check it out.  Just don't expect either the comic book or anything really challenging or new here.Just one question that has bothered me ever since I saw this movie.  Why is Louis Gossett Jr.'s detective, who (obviously) is black, named Berkowitz? Now that left me scratching my head a few.  "},{"Title":"the guilty will be punished","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the punisher is first of all a good action movie, being at times a little dumb. as the film to be an adaptation of the marvel comic the punisher i think is good, but it could be better. Dolph Lundgreen is great as Frank Castle and Louis Gossett Jr. gives a good supporting role.in short is worth to see as an action movie but it could be better. "},{"Title":"The Guilty Must Be Punished!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a movie!  The Punisher, based on the Marvel Comics, is one of a kind.  So stupid, so violent, so badly acted, it could only star Dolph Lungren.  He's the Punisher.  And he punishes people.Dirty Harry meets Rambo in The Punisher where cop Frank Castle has his family killed by the mob and he vows revenge by killing just about anyone who gets in his way.  Meanwhile, the Yakuza move in and try to take over.  The Punisher then gets caught in a deadly game of cat and mouse.  Hilarity ensues.Dolph Lungren is the ideal choice to play a bad Punisher.  He physically looks the part, but he has the acting ability of small lifeless algae.  The whole movie he wears this extremely glazed look over his eyes, basically he looks stoned.  The few times he moves his mouth, he looks downright ridiculous (Shooting his gun at an EMPTY room of gambling equipment he puckers his lips, steering a bus he winces painfully).  And he speaks in a very, very low raspy toneless voice.  He sounds like a Speak-N-Say with low batteries.  When he narrates, it's inaudible drivel.  Then they show us shots of him naked in the sewers.  What a movie!The dialogue is pretty lame, and the characters, both Italian and Japanese, are horrific stereotypes (All the Italians do is eat, the Japanese practice martial arts).  The story is weak, the comics they are based on are far superior.  And I especially liked the character of the upstart female cop who comes in and figures out everything about the case that veteran Louis Gossett Jr. couldn't solve in 5 years on it.  In 30 seconds, she figures out where he hideout is.  He was quite embarassed, let me tell you.This film is very stupid, and a lot of fun.  From start to finish, it's just mindless violence with some great cheesy acting and direction.  So enjoy with my recommendations, and look out for my favorite line, by a reporter when he spots a shadowy figure in some wreckage Holy #(*%!  It's the Punisher! "}{"Title":"It's the viewer who is punished","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dolph Lundgren, either by choice or deficiency, plays Frank Castle (AKA The Punisher) with all the intensity of someone who has a very, very bad hangover. It's one thing for an anti-hero to be laconic, quite another to be almost catatonic. As always, co-star Louis Gossett Jr. gives a performance that suggests that he believes he's in a much better film, here playing Castle's former Partner Jake Berkowitz (I'm guessing the character was named before Mr. Gossett was cast).This first cinematic incarnation of Marvel's 'The Punisher' is moderately diverting when something is being kicked, cut, shot or blown up, but sadly they decided to let people talk as well. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't like the Punisher character and this was from the time before Marvel made good movies, but it turned out to be quite acceptable. I found it pretty entertaining. I thought Dolph Lundgreen in the main role was just an imposing figure and an impassive face. It turns out that his expressions while shooting were hilarious (especially when he shoots up a clandestine casino) and that action-wise, he held his own, perhaps even better when fighting hand-to-hand. I read that they took real martial artists and that Dolph was a former karate champion, so although there's no elaborate fight choreography, it works anyway. The scene where he shoots a crossbow in a guy's chest and rappels down a rope while shooting bad guys made me laugh out loud. Of course, he has an apparently fake beard that distracts and sometimes awkward, yet enjoyable, lines, but his physique makes up for it. He looks the part despite the lack of skull emblem. The story involving the Japanese mafia trying to take over the Italian one could have been worse despite involving the kidnapping of kids.Other scenes of interest were Dolph taking down guys silently one by one at the start, him against a bunch of Yakuzas in a carnival house, and the brawl near the end when the lights go red. Yeah, the Punisher is unbelievably lucky in not being shot so much, especially the way he moves while shooting instead of taking cover, but I didn't mind. What impressed me perhaps the most was the acting by the 2 main bad guys, especially the mafia boss Franco. They were serious, not campy at all and they were credible in their roles. The Italian mobsters were more corny, while the Japanese were just expressionless fighting machines. So for an 80s action movie, it's far from the top, but it deserves a better reputation than it has. Of the 3 Punisher movies, I still prefer the second one with Thomas Jane though.Rating 6.5 out of 10 (good) "},{"Title":"Not bad for what it tells you it'll give","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the 1980's Marvel comic book movies were just beginning to make their way into theaters. The only other film based on a Marvel comic to be released to the public was Howard the Duck (1986), produced by George Lucas and also did not impress audiences at all. In a second attempt, Marvel now tries to bring the violent anti-hero, The Punisher, to fans. And as many people would say now, this particular Punisher installment, compared to other two from 2004 & 2008, is the weakest of them all. However, it is watchable. I'm really not going to go into plot details here because the concept behind this character is fairly straightforward.Here is what most fans don't like about this particular adaptation - costume design, props, dialog and casting. The costume; I can sympathize with fans on this point. What really defines the character of Frank Castle was the skull T-shirt, and it is not displayed here. It is the whole symbol that sends criminals in fear because they see that skull. If I were them, I would have no idea who's busting my dealings. Also fans didn't like that Castle rode a motorcycle. I actually found that it made him look tougher,...but it is Ghost Rider that rides a motorcycle...not The Punisher.Dialog also might be an issue for some because this movie was filmed in the 80's, and a lot of the wording for most films at that time were cheesy. But for me, I didn't feel that way when I was finished watching it. There weren't many puns that I heard of, if any at all. However, I do have to pick at the casting. I give props to Dolph Lundgren for putting in his best performance, but seeing him as The Punisher just didn't cut it. It's like casting Sylvester Stallone as Superman. On a realistic level, how many people could take Stallone as the man of steel seriously? I couldn't. It's films like these that require an actor with not much on his plate to make a role like this. Thomas Jane & Ray Stevenson worked well for the role of Frank Castle because they haven't been the main star in a lot of films. Sure Lundgren was just getting started in the 80's too, but, he had already established a name for himself as Ivan Drago from Rocky IV (1985) so case closed.Those are the things I wanted to confront about what most people would find as a put-off to this movie. I'm also sure people were also not pleased that Microchip was not considered into the script, or that it was never explained to how Castle got his hands on so many weapons. As well the other characters being anywhere close to the comic but after all this, the adaptation isn't really bad. The movie does at least touch upon Castle's family being killed and showing his anguish.Also Lundgren is tough enough to pull his own weight in the picture. The supporting cast isn't terrible either. Louis Gossett Jr. as Frank Castle's ex-cop partner shows enthusiasm in his scenes too. Even the main villain played by Kim Miyori was ruthless in her acts of violence. Speaking of which, the violence was good too. Perhaps tamer than Punisher War Zone (2008) but more frequent than the 2004 version, just not as gruelingly slow. I even liked Dennis Dreith's score to the film to a point. He gave The Punisher a theme and it did sound like an orchestra but it did also lack the emotion that both scores from the other two films had. Guess Dreith missed that.The casting department should have started with a no name actor. So because of this, Dolph Lundgren is not as believable as he should be in the main role. This makes this entry the weakest out of the three films that have been released. But it does its best to entertain with the resources that it was given. "},{"Title":"it's not very good, but it's certainly nothing to put off as being too stupid or poorly crafted","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The original Punisher movie angered some comic book fans at the likeness; this Punisher, played by Dolph Lundgren, doesn't have that trademark skull shirt (this is still debatable as to if it's needed, though it is the only real way of *seeing* the character as an iconic anti-hero form the comics). But there really are more legitimate reasons to find the film, directed by Mark Goldblatt and written by Boaz Yakin, flawed and not satisfying some twenty years after its release. It still carries that 80's action feel and not always in a good way. Some of the story its just silly, even if it is based off the comics, such as Frank Castle having as his place of residence after his wife and son are killed being the sewers. Unless you're a Ninja Turtle, does it make much sense to squat in the sewers? Perhaps if you're into being naked and meditating before going out and killing whatever comes one's way.There's a lot of violence in this Punisher, but only a handful of instances where the action really connects on a YES! level. There's a shootout at at a harbor between lots of bad-guys (Castle looking on with a sniper's view) and it's competently staged and with some brutal blood, but its not really exciting. There's a scene where Frank Castle, on the look-out for the last BIG mob to kill (this being the Yakuza or whatever), finds the children of the mobsters that have been kidnapped by the Yakuza-whatevers, and gets them on a bus. There's a near-great chase here, kind of like the switcharoo of the climax of Dirty Harry. There's some decent acting (decent but only on-par with other action vehicles of the period) between Lou Gossett Jr and Lundgren when he is finally captured (for the moment) and is scolded for his form of vengeance.And there's the climax, but that starts to unravel and go between the silly pre-Kill Bill style theatrics of action staged rampantly among dojo-looking sets, and some legitimate drama involving the son of the BIG baddie who did such horrors onto Castle's family. A lot of the plot is very basic so it's not even worth repeating here, but worse is anything resembling decent acting. Lundgren does alright with his character, but rarely do we see any life put into him. In a seemingly daring scene where Lundgren is tied up and threatened with some weapon that might cut off his arm or other, there's not much drama because of how lax the actor looks in the scene. When he's over-the-top, Lundgren can do wonders. As a simple hero going through the beats, it's just... OK.The whole film is really overall just OK, but will this be alright for Punisher fans who come to this after the two recent 21st century offerings that have left some wanting more (the Thomas Jane and Ray Stevenson Punisher movies)? Perhaps. It is guilty-pleasure territory with a good deal of its awfully ramped up violence and kills, and some of the baddie-acting crosses over into delicious camp. But not quite enough really; when it comes to that era of Marvel movies before they really started to come into their own in the late 90's and early 00's (think Howard the Duck and the unreleased Fantastic Four, or 1992 Captain America while we're at it), it's one of the better ones, but that isn't saying much. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Definitely from the Comic","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This comment was the result of me watching this movie which was the result of going into an old video store, shutting my eyes and having my sister point me towards the action movies.Basically there's this guy, Frank. His family was killed my the mob, so he decides he's not going to 'get on with his life' like a total loser, he's going to go out there and kick mob bad guy butt! This makes for some spiffy action scenes, and some that make you want to cringe a little and watch The Terminator just to remember how action CAN be done.Anyway, it ends up that this new gang has come in from Tokyo to beat up and take-over the American mob scene. In order to do this, they kidnap mob children. This leads to a lot of confusion over why they wouldn't just kill the bosses if they have access to their children, why the bosses would all HAVE children, and why some of the bosses act so STUPID.In the end, what you get is a nice little action movie with okay side-characters and a predictable, yet still vaguely interesting plot. You end up with a good laugh at some of the duologue, as well. The one thing this movie does do, whether it is a good or bad thing, is that it looks like it came from a comic book. You can often picture the violence happening on the page as clearly as you can see it one screen.Watch it if you can find no other action flicks and are in need of a fix. "},{"Title":"Sort of...","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  More comic book than reality this film was made back when those making films based on comics still thought it had to be comic like. There is a silliness and unrealness to a good part of this movie.Dolph is fine as Castle but he's nothing special. I don't know if thats the was he played it or it was written.The action is good and the film is somewhat close to the comic in the right places. The problem is that you end up with an over riding sense that it should have been better. I think its more disappointing then anything, though once you get past that its pretty good. Try it, you could do worse on a rainy Sunday afternoon, just don't expect greatness. "},{"Title":"my opinion","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on tv and despite cheap special effects of the time and the absence of the skull it wasnt half bad. new one. Im sure a lot of the good stuff was also cut out of this edited version. But theres still plenty of gore to go around. anticipating new punisher. "},{"Title":"Ahh whatever happend to New Line down under eh?","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well if you were expecting something good, your so dumb you deserve to be disappointed.This ain't art. This ain't quality. This is sick sick sick nasty fun. Nothin really very much to do with the comic book from what I can tell I'm a DC man myself. However this film does have a use or two.I have this ideology on life and especially films. Yeah it's easy enough to find quality. But finding qualities within bad films is far more difficult.This film really doesn't have a lot going for it. In fact it has literally nothing at all going for it. But if you watch it, and if you watch it with an open mind, with maybe a beer or two late on a friday night, you will be entertained by it.I watch this film when I find the need for sickening, bloody and excessive violence. Strangely enough you'll find it hard to beleive how often a man in touch with his feelings needs to enjoy such guilty sensations.Yeah this is tripe. But hey, it doesn't bore anyone, which is a crime 'classy' films do to more than half of their audience. "},{"Title":"While I love Dolph, Thomas Jane just did it better","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't decide whether or not Dolph did not apply himself to this role in the slightest and ended up turning in a monotone performance or because the character is supposed to be dark and depressed. Either way it's slightly depressing to watch. The plot concerns Frank Castle AKA The Punisher and his effort to rid Washington DC (actually Melbourne, Australia) of criminal scum. He's wiped out a million guys in a couple of years and the cops want to send him to prison. Frank Castle used to be a cop and since the Mob killed his family he's lived in the sewer. As you do&#133;This film has been cut to shreds. I know there was more story and action filmed than what was actually shown in the film. It's criminally short but seems to go on for an eternity. The director is Mark Goldblatt. He edited 'Total Recall', 'Starship Troopers' and 'Hollow Man'. The action is quite dull and Dolph has no one-liners and no emotion. Dolph can usually be relied upon to deliver the goods but not here. I guess in 1989 he couldn't pick and choose his roles. This film followed the abysmal 'Red Scorpion', his clout wasn't as such so he could so 'no'.Dolph has enjoyed some decent roles but in recent years he has been offered some really bad scripts. I think it's time he realised he should be getting back into A-List films. This is not his best. Watch 'Joshua Tree' instead or the brilliant 2004 remake. "},{"Title":"Ultra-violent, ultra-bad movie, which does a terrible disservice to its comic book origins.","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The latter half of the 1980s saw a growing interest in reviving comic book heroes for the big screen. While Tim Burton's Batman was one of the major success stories in the genre, The Punisher was quite the opposite. An ultra-violent, cheap-looking, poorly acted action movie, The Punisher is an absolute disaster that serves up lots of gruesome killings but completely misses out on wit and style. Fans of the original Marvel Comics character have been awfully short-changed with this one &#150; the potential for an exciting, dark and moody revenge flick has been totally overlooked.The Punisher (Dolph Lundgren) was once a normal, honest cop called Frank Castle working against crime in New York City. Infuriated by his activities against them, the Mafia attempt to kill Castle&#133; but instead they succeed only in wiping out his family. Castle hides out in the sewers where he builds an underground lair and reinvents himself as The Punisher, a bitter and fearsome avenger who surfaces from time to time to kill various crime-lords around the city. At the start of the film, The Punisher has already wiped out 125 criminals in the 5 years since his family were slain. In fact, the Mob is in such disarray thanks to the Punisher's campaign against them that the Yakuza (Japanese Mafia) has moved in to restore some control. Meanwhile, Castle's former partner Jake Berkowitz (Lou Gosset Jr) slowly figures out The Punisher's true identity and tries to track him down in order to see if he can talk some reason into his old buddy. With the Yakuza and the Mob inflicting heavy gang warfare upon each other, The Punisher is perfectly happy to stand back and let them destroy each other. But then the Yakuza go too far by kidnapping some children. If he can rescue the children and complete his self-appointed mission of wiping out organised crime, The Punisher realises he may finally fulfil his own redemption.Lundgren is a blank presence in the film, unwisely relying on his intimidating bulk to disguise his absolute lack of talent for expression, dialogue and emotion. It wouldn't matter one jot if he COULD act anyway, since the script is so committed to action and violence that it doesn't show a single thought for character. Gossett Jr and Krabbe &#150; two movie stars who CAN act, when the script allows them to &#150; are also utterly wasted in The Punisher. In terms of action, the film has too low a budget to deliver the required spectacle. Instead, an unhealthy emphasis is placed upon violence. I don't have any problem with violent movies, per se&#133;. but The Punisher is self-indulgently violent, with nastiness that is presented with gloating glee, as if the director gets turned on by it and wants us to share his love of gratuitous gore. Action lovers and comic book fans will no doubt expect this film to deliver what they're looking for, but in all honesty it's a massive let-down. A remake followed in 2004. "}{"Title":"Isn't The Title Punishment Enough? No!","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before Thomas Jane played The Punisher in 2004, there was Dolph Lundgren in 1989. Yes, the one who played Russian boxer Drago in Rocky 4 and He-Man in 1987's disaster Masters Of The Universe. And trust me, he's so terrible in this low-budget, worthless piece of crap he isn't even Marvel Comics hero material. Instead, he's a gun-toting bozo on a creaky old Harley killing almost everybody he considers guilty. Plus, he looks like he needs some clean clothes, a shave, and a long bath. Most of all, he's a WIMP of WIMPS. I watched this movie and couldn't believe how pathetic it was. Lundgren lets a bunch of Ninjas kick the snot out of him in perhaps one of the most dumbest scenes in the film. This guy probably would let a bunch of strict nuns do the same if he let him. And in almost every few minutes early on in the movie, someone who isn't a bad guy gets killed, such as some lady who's sitting with a bunch of little kids. Talk about traumatic! What's worse is that Punisher's skull outfit is missing throughout this movie because according to sources, it was deemed too comic-booky for the film. Hey, The Punisher without his skull outfit is like Batman's suit without the Bat symbol or Superman's suit without the big S. Thankfully, Thomas Jane's 2004 film version got it right. Sadly, this film remains in my collection, and I doubt I can ever watch it again without getting sick. At least I confessed that I have it my collection. All I can say is this movie is trash with a capital T. "},{"Title":"Why God.... Why?","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I would rather listen to Gilbert Gottfried narrate the bible than sit through this piece of crap again.I really can not beg people enough not to watch this. If you hate someone this would make a perfect Christmas gift. Dolph Lundgren's acting ability rivals that of Koko the gorilla. At least Koko had a kitten... I am not sure how this movie did not end up on the bottom 100 list on this site yet. Apparently, Dolph Lungren must create spare accounts in his free time (not that he has a movie career to worry about) and rate this movie a 10, because that is the only reason I can come up with. Stay far, far away and you will live a much better life. "},{"Title":"The icon Punisher is never seen to defend the poor and involve themselves more in urban crimes like rape and robbery.","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It should have been a film about a man who is so stricken by the loss of his family that he vows to protect the weak and helpless and destitute and battle a lot more common criminals, wife beaters, rapists and perverts as well as the big time hoods.But it is (alas) never so. He only battles the big-time Dons and the Yakuza.No doubt Dolph Lundgren is excellent as Frank Castle a.k.a Punisher and the action sequences were a way ahead of their time and cannot even be duplicated now with the same budget they had then.Film paces and races well to the not so good climax. The character of the Punisher is not deeply explored and developed upon as it should have.The story goes Crimelord Gianni Franco (as Jeroen Krabbe) business is being taken over by the Yakuza. The Yakuza kidnap Franco's and the rest of his associates sons and daughters and hold them for ransom. Punisher intervenes to rescue the children and is caught between the crossfire. The only good scene being the very moving dialogue in the cell between Jake Berkowitz (Louis Gossett Jr.) and Frank Castle in the jail cell where he says that he has been searching for him for years but could not find him. Jake tries to appeal to the humanity left in Frank, which almost succeeds as we see afterward in the film.After the van transporting Frank is attacked, Frank reverts to fighting again as the Punisher.The end dialogue is very scary when Frank tells Tommy Franco (Brian Rooney) that if he ever broke his promise an became a bad person following his father's steps, he would be waiting.We definitely need a real Punisher in real life helping us fight evil and protecting the poor and oppressed. I hope some director reads this and makes a much more better film.GOD BLESS THE PUNISHER. "},{"Title":"Shoot First, Ask Questions Never!","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Punisher is really my purest guilty pleasure of late 80's cheesy action cinema and the reasons why are quite simple. This is an extremely straightforward and rudimentary simplistic action flick with a no- nonsense plot, delightfully clichéd situations and copious amounts of harsh and uncompromising violence. The script is full of little details that don't make sense and actually the overall impression this film gives is bad, but it's nevertheless tremendously exciting orgy of gunfire, explosions and merciless villains. Ever since the Franco mafia clan killed his beloved wife and daughters, Frank Castle lives as a mentally tormented vigilante underneath the city, in the sewers, where he occasionally nags to God and exclusively has contact with an eloquent hermit. Castle killed no less than 125 bad guys in five years, which is an average of at least one per month, and yet his former partner Jake Berkowitz doesn't have a clue how to find him. With the return of crime lord Gianni Franco, Castle can plot his ultimate act of revenge. But the mafia has concerns that even surpass the punisher, as the Japanese Yakuza &#x96; led by a really mean lady who apparently slit the throat of her own twin brother to prove her loyalty &#x96; intends to take over the American crime market with force. The Japanese even kidnap the mafia bosses' children, which kind of pressurizes our hero to do the right thing and free the children first before killing their dads. Ha-ha! The Punisher is a movie full of delightful exaggeration. The shoot-outs are over-the-top, like the massacre inside an ice cream salon where suddenly everybody reaches for a gun, and the stereotypical character drawings are hysterical. All the Japanese gangsters are ninja-experts, for example, and they're throwing pointy stars and storming through paper walls. In spite of the bad scenario and really nonsensical twists, The Punisher is quite dark and depressing with its Gotham city like atmosphere and Dolph Lundren's melancholic performance. With the overload of flamboyant comic book adaptations lately, it's refreshing to re-watch an old-fashioned bitter and uncompromisingly violent action movie like The Punisher. "},{"Title":"this was an alright film with a few mistakes","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was sort of the middle of the road as far as comic book based movies are concerned. This film was good, the acting was alright, the characters were well portrayed. the few things that went wrong with this film are the facts that the punisher isn't wearing his trademark skull T-shirt, nor is wear his trench coat, and secondly his 5 o'clock shadow is just make-up, you can tell this because in many of the scenes his beard runs onto his ear-lobe. but back to the point, this movie was by far no where near as good as its 2004 version, but it was for the better part, on of the best marvel comic book movie adaptations in the pre-spidey world of the 1980's, it has typical 80's brutal action sequences, and is a thousand times better then any of the marvel movies to come out before it. cough*fantastic four*cough "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if you don't read or enjoy the comic","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I, myself, am a fan of The Punisher comic book series, so I was happy to hear that a movie had been made out of it.  I was slightly less happy to see that Swedish actor Dolph Lundgren (or as I like to call him Van Damme-in-training) was playing Italian New Yorker Frank Castle.  My dreams of a good, straight-from-the-comic movie turned out to be just that dreams. Right from the start, I could tell that the writers had taken a few creative liberties in writing the script.  In the first half hour I was wondering Since when does the Punisher have an underground lair in the sewers?  They showed flashbacks of Frank as a cop, which he never was (he was in the Army).  They even changed the way his family was killed!  Quite frankly, if you like the comic, I wouldn't recommend it.  If you've never read the comic and are looking for a good action movie like The Terminator or XXX, without caring about how good or bad the acting is, rent this one. For those of you who are the former, hold out for the next Punisher movie in 2003; let's hope it does this one some justice. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but only for those with time and brain cells to kill","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. the plot entertained me, the action was impressive considering the budget the movie was allotted, and Dolph Lundgren was perfectly cast.having said that, a word of caution THIS IS NOT A QUALITY FLICK. If you (like me) enjoy movies that make the unwary bleed from the ears, this is the movie for you. you'll grin at the dialogue between the crime bosses and laugh at loud at the child actors who were probably recruited from the filmmakers' families. The rhyming drunken sidekick employed by the punisher is almost too good for this movie.but the action is fun, with the climax in particular blending (as seamlessly as frankenstein) martial arts and uzis. Dolph does his part by displaying just enough emotion during the flash backs to remain a step above the terminator.bottom line Go ahead, rent it, but see if you can negotiate with the rental person for a discount.   "},{"Title":"Marvel Comics failed again.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Until Blade, Marvel Comics movies just plain stunk.  The Punisher was probably their best effort to date, but still it was not all that it could have been.  The reason for Marvel's woes just might be the characters.  DC Comics characters are much more flashy and have less depth than Marvel Characters.  Marvel characters usually have a complex origin that simply can not be fleshed out in a two hour film. To show The Incredible Hulk or Spider Man's origin effectively would take at least an hour.  That may very well be the reason the Punisher didn't make it.  We get a couple of quick flashbacks of Frank Castle's past and then jump to an action-shoot'em up flick.  Marvel finally hit the mark with Blade, missed again with Spawn, and hit again with X-Men.  Let's hope they do Spider Man right!  John 316 <>< "},{"Title":"Seems like the pilot episode of a proposed television series","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The right-wing fascism of the Marvel comics character was incredibly well suited to the increasingly comic-book violence of late-'80's action cinema. With an ex-actor as the American president, and his campaign of reform that benefited the rich, it was inevitable that the heroes of cinema would move away from the morally ambiguous characters of the 1970's, and move to the more clearly defined, shoot first ask later, machismo of revenge against perceived evil. In Frank Castle, Gerry Conway and John Romita Jr, created a simplistic, one-dimensional man who fights the city's criminal organisation, after the mob had been involved in the murder of his family. After this event, Frank (dubbed The Punisher by police and the media) leaves the police force, and lives a subterranean life, disposing of those he sees as morally objectionable. In the comic world, Punisher was a very '70's creation (first appearing in 1974), but would not become as relevant to a wider audience until the excessive nature of the 80's action genre.With such an easily defined origin, the film begins after Frank Castle (played by Dolph Lundgren) who is suspected by many to be the Punisher, has been in hiding for five years, and the accumulation of dead criminals are increasing. With the mob families combining their efforts, creating a syndicate, the Japanese Yakuza arrive to assimilate these groups and over take the city crime activities. Castle's ex-police partner, Jake Berkowitz (Louis Gossett Jr.), is on the case of the merging families, and the new threat of the foreign mafia, but is fundamentally after the famous vigilante. The inclusion of the Japanese elements seems to reflect America's entrenched fear of outsiders, and particularly the oriental superiority in technological advancement, and of course, a sewer-dwelling vigilante (and a tough American) can easily dispose of technology with his bare hands.The Punisher is a pretty standard right-wing action film of the decade, and offers little excitement, and most certainly offers nothing new to the genre. It seems that life is disposable if those bodies are foreign. Like so many of these explosion-fuelled, testosterone enhanced films, The Punisher takes itself far too seriously. Lundgren's dialogue and delivery is so clichéd, that even by 1989, this gravelly, monotone dialogue was ridiculous, and forged from what must have been the universal book of bad statements. (Even when Lundgren shoots large weaponry, his mouth seems to be filled with marbles.) With the major threat that the Yakuza has kidnapped the mob bosses kids, it is a pretty lame premise, and one which could easily have been solved by the Brady Bunch (in other words, the threat was limited, with no need for bulging biceps). The whole package though released cinematically (outside of America and Sweden at least), seems much like the pilot episode for a proposed television series, than a wholly satisfactory film experience, and fails as action or drama.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Deadly New York vigilante Frank Castle goes out for vengeance against the mafia!","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Punisher today is one of Marvel comics' greatest characters in history and is ever growing in popularity, having two permanent publications. One belongs to the main Marvel Universe, 616, where he regularly stands off against costumed superheroes and villains such as Spiderman and Daredevil, Rhino and Bullseye etc. The other is Marvel's adult orientated MAX series where he is the more realistically aged vigilante violently ending the lives of mafia members and corrupt intelligence services agents.Back in the day, things weren't much different from either of today's offerings, only as the 1989 Punisher movie came about, he was simpler; a happier, more fresh-faced but terminally misunderstood hero. The opposite of the borderline psychotic anti-hero he is today. He was never a New York cop though. In fact he was a veteran Special Forces captain who'd served in Vietnam before the mafia gunned down his family in a gangland shootout.In this very first of three Punisher movies, Frank Castle is a burned out cop gone AWOL/almost robotic automaton seeking vengeance for the death of his family to a car bomb set up by the mafia. His biggest target is Gianni Franco, the mafia crime lord he believes is responsible. Only the Japanese Yakuza are now encroaching on their New York territory and to make sure the mafia respect their wishes to assume control, Lady Tanaka has had all their children kidnapped and held for ransom.Upon crashing a few parties and introducing himself, The Punisher discovers that one of the children he rescues is the only son of Gianni Franco but fails to save him along with the others. Wanted on Death Row, his former partner Jake (Louis Gossett Jr.) the only cop on the force hunting him down, being wanted for execution by the Yakuza and then needed by Franco to help rescue his son, Frank Castle works his way into the centre of a twisted web of deceit, having to play one crime family off against the other in order to bring down both. But deep down in his black heart, he cannot bring himself to let an innocent boy die, no matter how dead his father is about to become! As a Punisher film, this original version gets two things right.Dolph Lundgren's look - tall, muscular, athletic and with the correct hairstyle along with the black leather and stompin' boots.And his fighting style - mixed brawling and military styled martial arts for hand to hand combat and then as many different blades, guns and explosives as possible including The Hog aka the M60, a personal Punisher favourite frequently displayed in the comics.Otherwise everything about him is completely off. There is no white skull on the black tee-shirt, he lives in the sewer, prays to God butt-naked, talks like a drunk and has no sense of humour like he's been the victim of a nervous and mental breakdown. And none of his original enemies feature in this film either.Saying that, it makes for a good watch despite the script being awful. It's the '80's, we expect it, we can deal with it. The action scenes are straight out of a Schwarzenegger/Stallone movie, the supporting cast is decent and despite his name never being in the fantasy league polls, I still believe Lundgren could have made a pass at a sequel! "}{"Title":"Action yes, acting no","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First off, I like how everyone on here writes a comment like their the world's best movie critic. Thanks for the laughs, everyone! Oh, and people are whining on here about how Dolph wasn't wearing the skull! Getout of your parent's basement. The skull doesn't make the Punisher, you morons. Did you see the 2004 Punisher and how they tried to incorporate the skull? Lame.The 1989 Punisher movie has some bad acting, but has a darker edge than the remake. Dolph's Punisher was missing the human element and that's okay, because his life is consumed with taking justice into his own hands. Unlike Thomas Jane's Punisher befriends an apartment full of life's rejects. Ha ha, so bad. So you have to decide whether you like the cold-blooded killings of Dolph Lundgren, or the sensitive thumb-twiddling I'll kill them once I remember they killed my family Thomas Jane. "},{"Title":"Okay... I guess the new movie was necessary","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a big fan of The Punisher, but allow me to assure you that it wasn't this movie that promoted that. The new movie is by far much better, because this one is too centralized on Frank Castle being a vigilante assassin and not on him being a man. This one fails to actually show you what happened to his family, which I was very disappointed with. This movie could have been so much better.I saw the new movie starring Tom Jane first, and then when I found out that there was an old 1989 film as well, I immediately decided that I wanted to see it too. I'm glad I did, because I got to see a different version of the film and most importantly, the comic book, but I just wish that this movie would have been better than it was.I'm not saying that I hate this movie, because I'm far from that, but I most certainly don't love it either. There isn't enough of a storyline, as it is too action-packed. Also, Frank Castle (Dolph Lundgren) has no character, because all you are pretty much allowed to know about him is that he is an assassin, but you don't get to discover his personality or his human traits (which would point to a tortured and desperate man who does what he does as a way of driving his grief and his pain away). The new movie causes you to feel sympathetic and it almost makes you cry when you see his family slaughtered. However, you don't even get to see that enactment happen in this one. Why? I don't know, but it killed the movie.The only aspect of the movie that I did enjoy was the torture rack scene. Call me a sadist if you want, but those things are cool! I thought it was so cool when Castle got the thug on the torture rack, turned it on and left him cuffed to it. That scene was cool.If there's a way that you can see this for free, then go for it. Otherwise, don't waste your money on it unless you really feel that it's something that you are desperate to see. 6/10 "},{"Title":"could have been better","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie before i saw the new and and let me tell you if you really want to see the story of the punisher the 2002 release does it a lot better than this one does. Dolph is great in the movie though but i think that the movie has a lot of script problems in it. there is a lot of action in it though and the movie is not that bad but we do not get the whole story here like we do in the newer version. I thought though that it wasn't that bad so 6 out of 10 for this movie. The acting is pretty good and so is the rest of the movie but it would be better if we got more of a story. we really don't get to see how Nick Castle became the punisher like we do in the first but if you are curious about this movie go for it there are some really good parts to it. "},{"Title":"Fun cheesy movie loosely based upon one of Marvel Comics coolest character!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Punisher (1989) was one of the few movies that New World Pictures put out featuring Marvel Comics characters during the late 80's. New World Pictures owned quite a bit of Marvel Comics during this time period. D.C. comics had Warner Brothers whilst Marvel had New World, hmmm. Who would produce a better film? Warner Brothers had Batman whilst New World came out with The Punisher!!!Loosely based upon the Marvel Comics character, Dolph Lundgren stars as the title character. A former cop turned vigilante who wages a one man war against the mob. Although the Punisher's background and look is not dead on, the tone of the movie more than makes up for it. Filled with graphic violence and cheesy one liners, it accomplishes what it set out to be. A comic book movie!! Fun for all! Lou Gossett Jr. co-stars as Frank Castle's former cop buddy and friend.Sadly their are two things that keep this movie down, 1.) The movie was heavily edited for American release and 2.) The movie was shot in Australia. You can't film the punisher in Sydney!! He's an American pop icon. Oh well, such trivial complaints. Besides that I highly recommend this popcorn movie!Recommended. "},{"Title":"OMG, please someone shoot me","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I know this movie was made in an era of the Captain America fiasco, but this movie is truly horrible. Dolph Lundgren is one of the worst actors to ever grace the movie screen. The plot was weak, the acting a joke and it strayed so far from the comic book, that it should have had another title completely, like not punisher. They only you should ever see this movie is if they are paying you take this video from the video store. God it was horrible. I know this was a cheesy era of movie making and I can understand that, to be honest. Still, Dolph, if you ever read this.......you suck. Lou Gossett Jr. is okay, but this is so not a good Lethal Weapon rip off. "},{"Title":"Too cartoony","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Of the three movies based on the Punisher this 1990 version is easily the worst. I normally dislike the word cheesy, but that's a fitting word for this movie. It's just got a really cartoonish, by-the-numbers vibe.Dolph Lundgren is good in the title role, although he's not the best actor. The Punisher -- the character -- is very one-dimensional and fittingly so; he has nothing to live for but his war against crime (since the mob murdered his wife and kids).Unfortunately, the way the film is made is so pedestrian that I gave up by the end of the first act the first two times I tried to watch it. I recently decided to give it another chance and, even though I was tempted to turn it off (again), I persevered and was able to enter into the comic book world of the film. I'm glad I did because I was able to glean some positive items.For one, I like the passion Louis Gossett Jr and his female assistant give to their roles as detectives who suspect that the supposedly-deceased Frank Castle is the vigilante wiping out members of the mob. For instance, the two scenes when each radically confront Castle. And Jeroene Krabbe is effective as the Italian mob boss the Punisher reluctantly teams up with.I also like the way Castle grapples with God, the injustice done to his family and the rightness or wrongness of his continuing vengeance.So, it's by far the least of the three movie versions of The Punisher, but it has enough positives to give it an unenthusiastic mediocre grade. There's definitely a lot of action, pedestrian as it is.GRADE C "},{"Title":"This movie should be punished","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Vigilante tale in gross numbers, this video game turned movie sees stone faced Lundgren (don't expect much acting or facial movement from this guy) as thought to be dead cop, turned punisher Frank Castle. He's out to execute the guilty who go free, all in the name of justice. Behind all that anger, is a personal revenge, where our vengeful vigilante, Dolph's out to kill mob guy (Krabbe) believed to be responsible for accidentally killing his family. While also being an Australian effort, it features some recognizable stars, none more than the great, Barry Otto as Shakes, a drunken bum and stoolie for Lundgren who shares residence underground. Violence here and there, plus some Asian feminine mafia, you don't want to get on the wrong side of, and some other nasties below this a below par actioner watchable but forgettable garbage which again waste high quality actors of merit (and I'm not talking about you know who) in a vigilante of excess. Besides the vengeance angle, the real plot has Krabbe's son (G.P's Brian Rooney) abducted with a bunch of other children in exchange for guess who, so we pretty much know Krabbe's intentions when working with Lundgren to get his son back. Memorable poster, unlike it's movie. "},{"Title":"Misconceived Film.","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The thing about this feature film adaptation of the memorable comic book character that bothered me was how the story started five years later(!) than it should have. No proper introduction scenes about how and why Frank Castle(Dolph Lundgren,who plays the world-weariness well) became this ruthless vigilante bent on wiping out crime, no matter the cost. To start this film like it is Part II(or even III!) is bizarre, and throws the narrative balance off kilter.Otherwise, this is still standard stuff, done with some humor and style, but not enough. Made in 1989, but shelved for two years...never a good sign. "},{"Title":"Not MY Punisher","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll try to review this movie fairly, as i'm a huge fan of the character. Is this a good movie? It's alright for an action movie and if the film had a different name i would have liked it a bit more. But when all is said and done it's supposed to be a Punisher movie & as such it fails to respect the comic books. Don't get me wrong, there are MUCH worst Marvel-comic related movies (Howard the Duck and the Fantastic Four, come to mind). But a movie based on Frank Castle has SOOOOOOO much potential and this film wastes it.DVD extras just the theatrical trailer & cast biosMy grade As an action movie C+ As a Punisher film D- "},{"Title":"Mediocre...","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This Movie is mediocre through and through. Mediocre acting, mediocre story, mediocre action and mediocre cinematography. I can't believe, Stan Lee green-lit this movie back in the 80s. The Story behind the Punisher has so much potential that is not used by this movie. It lacks most of the drama-elements used in the comic-book and it reduces the Punisher to a mindless killing-machine. All this could be put aside, if the movie would be fun action-wise. But even this is not the case. It is done in a very routine and boring kind of way that is so typical for B-Movies from the late 80s...If you want to see, how it is done - mostly - right, then watch the 2004-Version of The Punisher by Jonathan Hensleigh. "}{"Title":"ONE OF THE WORST","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, I would like to comment of the acting skills of a Mr. Dolph Lundgren. I don't even know what it is he does in this move! It's not acting. He honest to God looks like he is drunk throughout this whole movie. Ever scene you see him he looks wasted. We see him in jail; wasted. Fighting two ninjas; hammered. Standing anywhere; drunk. Even the final hero moment he has it looks like an accident, like he just fell through the wall or something. Louis Gossett Jr, c'mon man. What the hell are you doing here? The dialogue is just stupid, the bad guys are the worst bad guys. The opening scene with a head mob boss walking out of court just shows you what you're in for. This movie just doesn't deserve to be. The only reason I have it is because it was $2's at a local video store. That could have been two double cheeseburgers at   McDonald's. One final note. I wasn't a hardcore fan of the comic but I read every now and then. In the movie, why the hell does The Punisher live in the sewers like a ninja turtle and decide to be naked like the bad guy from Die Hard 2?   "},{"Title":"Fraaaaank!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *very minor spoilers follow*What a delightfully daft motion picture.  The Punisher is basically meritless, but it TRIES hard, and I rejoice in its failure.  Susan Sontag would probably label it a piece of pure Camp and stick it on her mantle.  Or not.Surely the best part is Gossett Jr.'s escape from prison, which is achieved by feigning the need to urinate.  Other highlights include the poetry-spouting homeless sidekick and Krabbe actually taking it pretty seriously.  Another power moment is Lundgren's destruction of the casino - surely the greatest scene ever filmed, if you have a personal vendetta against slot machines.Best watched with friends (and maybe a few Pina Coladas), the 1989 Punisher will delight those who have a taste for cheese and a tolerance for rank amateurism.  Unlike, say, From Dusk 'Till Dawn, it's not gross and it doesn't pretend to be any good; it embraces its own stupidity, and you'll find yourself wanting to share the hug.Sorry folks, I'm in a weird mood!  I'm also a big fan of this fine piece of cinema.  Go buy the DVD, it's probably on sale for something like $3.50.  "},{"Title":"what a waste...","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  too bad this film didn't had a better budget, cause I think it has a good story and characterisation but the action choreographies are just like kid's playing in the school yard pretending to be the heroes they saw in TV, DAMN THOSE FIGHTS ARE LAME...AND HOW ABOUT WHEN HE IS CHASING AND SHOOTING? U-G-L-Y.... AND THOSE FIGHTS IN THE END???? in a fight where a vigilantee kicks ninjas asses they should look like they knoe what they're doing... they look like I could kick they're ass with out even watching... I'm not fully optimistical about the new one, I think if there was a time when this movie should have been made in the rightfull way that time was in the 80's like predator and aliens... he didn't need the skull and he looked like the brute castle would be... thomas jane looks like christopher lambert's none-gayish version "},{"Title":"This is a movie about a conflicted hero, with little screen time.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The 80's were a different time then today. Miami Vice was a hit. Movies like Rambo and Death Wish were quite the rave. People loved to watch the A-team take no crap and a talking car fight crime in Knight Rider. It seemed wherever you looked there was a movie or TV show about people taking on crime. Why was that? In the real world crime was on a steady uprising. Before the rave drugs of today came to be. The 80's set the tracks for Crack and Cocaine to reach global heights in popularity. The decline of organized crime in the late 70's left the streets gangs' new territory. Society as a whole was looking for heroes.To the folks at Marvel comics it only seamed right to release a movie about their one-man army against crime The Punisher. After his family gets killed by the mob. Frank Castle (Dolph Lundgren) goes on a killing spree for the people he feels are responsible for his family's untimely demise.The movie opens with a newscast that explains that over the past 5 years 125 murders took place with The Punisher as the key suspect. From there on the movie went down hill. Gently, but still down.Now I'm not saying that this is a bad movie. Because it's not. I think it could be far worse then it is. I gave it a 7/10. Let me explain. This movie has the name of the hero as the title. It called The Punisher the only problem is the filmmakers gave the mob leaders Gianni Franco (Jeroen Krabbé), Lady Tanaka (Kim Miyori) and Detective Jake Berkowitz (Louis Gossett Jr.) almost all of the screen time. Sure there are three separate shoot outs that The Punisher part takes in. But almost of the story driven dialog is put under the entire supporting cast. I think it's possible that the town Drunk (Arthur Sherman) had more lines then Castle.Unless you're making a sequel for Disney most filmmakers try not to go straight to video. Unfortunately this film fell into that void. I imagine that the big wigs in Hollywood did have too much faith in this movie. With its lack luster action scenes that are put into the dust when compared to today's Matrix and Terminator films. It's not hard to tell why. Once again the main problem with this film was the lack of screen time with the title character unless he was in those lack luster action scenes. A close up of a throwing star fallowed with a villain already holding his neck spewing out blood is a budget saving tactic that should have been left at film school.I despite the limited screen time for Mr. Lundgren had and the weak actions scenes. This movie sticks to the Punisher's comic roots better then expected. Yes I'm fully aware that he does not wear a black Kevlar body suit with the trademark white skull on his chest. But once you get past that.Emotion wise, Castle is more or less straight out of the pages of The Marvel Universe. Unless you're a die-hard fan like myself you wouldn't understand what all Punisher is fully capable of doing. Or why he does it in the first place. Put best by comic writer Carl Potts `He's not just punishing the criminals. He's punishing himself.' With his limited screen time Lundgren still showed the lack of humanity Castle has remaining. Along with the daily suffering he endures for not being there when his family needed him.I've spent the last week reading reviews from people expressing how letdown that Matrix Reloaded was to them. That it has holes in its main characters. While the action is some of the best yet to be brought on screen. The Punisher (1989) is more or less the complete opposite.If you want to see an action film for its action see something else. If you want to see a movie about a guy that suffers because his family was killed and now he want revenge on the criminals that were responsible then check this movie out. Just don't expect the main guy to have much screen time.  "},{"Title":"Very Disappointed","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Punisher has been one of my favorite comic book characters since I first read it. I love the story and I love the characters. Frank Castle, an average guy who becomes a not so loveable hero. He's no superman, he's no Spiderman, and he has no super powers. He is just a guy, a normal guy. Castle is a good shot, that's the extent of his powers, nothing more. But he becomes a hero in the worst way! His family gunned down for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. He fights crime by doing what he knows best, killing the guilty. It's a great idea, but the movie really let me down. I hoped it would follow the comic closely, it would show Frank's personal struggle, his demons...it didn't. Hell it didn't even put the trademark skull on the chest. It was just Dolph blowing things up...it wasn't even really the Punisher to me...I hope now that Marvel is throwing out new movies they go back to the drawing board with this one and make a real Punisher movie, one that captures the comic book story. "},{"Title":"Complete trash!","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was awful. I first wanted to see it because I had seen the other Punisher and wanted to see the older one, and because I'm a comic book geek. So i bought it, and that was a big mistake. You could tell this was an extremely low budget movie and didn't hit very many theaters. The acting is awful as well, Dolph Lundgren??? What were they thinking, just because he's big and tall doesn't mean he can act. I wouldn't even recommend it as a cheap rental or I wouldn't even waste a blank disc to copy it. The perfect rainy afternoon cable TV movies or midnight matinée on TV. Do not expect as good as a movie as the 2004 version with Tom Jane and John Travolta, nothing like it. The story isn't even the same. "},{"Title":"tom Jane is better","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i love this movie it is awesome Dolph lundgren is amazing as the punisher he really is i think out of all the old superhero/vigilante movies this one is the BEST!!! but the new one with tom Jane is way way better tom Jane IS the punisher full stop. He simply rules and no one else could play the punisher ever!! and john travolta kicked ass as Howard saint he really played that role like a classic villain he was truelly believable as a bad guy.i for one cant wait for the sequel it is gonna be way darker way more violent and way better and the 2004 punisher is not a remake at all!! its a way different movie all together than the old one oh and tom Jane actually did 90% of his stunts. tom Jane rules simple as he is the punisher and no one could play him better.this is not vengeance, this is punishment "},{"Title":"I Promise All Punisher Fans This Is A Waste Of Time","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Where To Start Okay Dolph Lundgen Is One Of The Worlds Worst Actor This Movie Made It Fact Not A Rumor This Punisher Movie's Plot Is That He Tries To Save These Italian Mobsters Kids From The Yazuka Okay He Was Supposed To Punish The Guilty This Movie Did Not Do Any Punishing Except To Me This Movie Is No. 7 On The Worst Comic Book Movies Ever Made This Movie Could Suck Star Trek 2009 Oh My God I Could Go On For A 1000 Words About How Bad This Movie Really Is Okay Flaws 1) Punisher In The Comic Books Doesn't Have Super Speed However He Caught Up To A Van 2) His Family Died At A Mob Execution Not A Car Bombing 3) He Didn't Have The Skull 4) Punisher IS Supposed To Look Scary I Don't Think Nowaday's People Wouldn't Be Scared Of The 50's Biker Look & Many More Okay So People Might Say Hey I'm Being Harsh But I Am A Huge Fan Of The Punisher & This Movie Sucks So Bad I Cannot Put It Into Just One Comment So No One Should Be Punished Except The Filmmakers They Were Causing The Crimes Here "},{"Title":"A disappointment on more than one level","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  New World Pictures went bankrupt shortly after completion of this movie, which resulted in a complete theatrical bypass in the U.S. territory (except, reportedly, in Puerto Rico.) But it's highly unlikely the movie would have drummed up serious business stateside had it been theatrically released.For one thing - as many people here have commented - the movie is not a very faithful adaptation of the comic book. The white skull is missing. The Punisher is not a motorcycle rider. His family tragedy is completely different. And on and on. Supposedly, the filmmakers were restricted in their use of the licence of the character - you have to then wonder why New World even bothered in the first place instead of making their own vigilante character.But how about looking at the movie in another angle, as a straightforward action movie? Well, it's not much betterACTION - There are a few action moments that aren't bad - the dock shootout, the samurai massacre - but otherwise the action is mediocre at best. One reoccuring problem is the action doesn't flow smoothly from shot to shot, either from bad editing or a poor choice in direction.ACTING - It's not that the actors can't act, it's just that the screenplay gives them very little to do. Lundgren actually has a few (very) brief moments when he actually gives a convincing display of his character's madness. But he has hardly any dialogue, and in fact almost becomes a supporting character. Gossett's character spends much of the movie just hanging and snooping around.PRODUCTION VALUES - Pretty cheap, for one thing. There's an early restaurant scene that shot in the far corner of the restaurant, and only showing one other customer! But cheapness isn't the only thing wrong. The movie was shot in Australia, and in just about every scene you see something that doesn't belong in an American setting, like the police cars for example. (And don't get me started on the Australian accents that keep creeping in.)THE SCREENPLAY - As I mentioned earlier, the characters are thin and with nothing to make them stand out. The movie also refuses to carry out the few interesting (and more original) ideas that do come across, and make them into something that's *really* memorable. Mostly the story seems to be a patchwork of ideas we've both seen before and in the way they are presented here.Very disappointing... but I'll admit it could have been much worse. "}]