[{"Title":"A film that makes me confront my deepest fears.","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"64 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Santa Sangre is one of Jodorowsky's most accessible films. Although not as strange as El Topo and the Holy Mountain, it is still very bizarre ..... A colorful, horrifying and hallucinatory masterpiece. Many have compared it to Psycho, Freaks and Fellini. In my opinion, you can't compare it to anything because it's in its own category. Produced by Claudio Argento, brother of Dario Argento; the film does have a similar color style to Suspiria. Santa Sangre is the story of Fenix, a man in a mental institution at the films beginning. A flashback shows Fenix as a child, growing up in the circus. His mother, Concha is a trapeze artist and religious fanatic who worships an armless god. His father Olgo is a knife thrower, who is constantly having flirtatious encounters with the ugly, cruel tattooed women. Fenix's closest friends are a mute mime, a dwarf and of course clowns. After a circus performance, Fenix's mother catches Olgo having an affair with the tattooed lady. In a fit of jealous rage, she dumps acid on their genital regions. Then Olgo cuts off Concha's arms like the goddess, and then cuts his own throat. Poor Fenix witnesses the death of his father, and the Tattooed women drives away with his mute friend Alma. Years later Fenix is reunited with his armless mother, she's out for revenge. In order for her to throw knives, he has to stand behind her and put his arms through her sleeves. It's as if she controls his arms with her mind. Santa Sangre is very bloody, disturbing and surreal, but at the same time beautiful and dreamlike. It contains bizarre images such as an elephant funeral, chickens falling from the sky, and mentally handicapped kids tricked into snorting cocaine. (the last being a metaphor for societies corruption of the innocent) Because the film is psychologically disturbing, it makes me confront my deepest subconscious fears; loss of arms, genitals or sanity. I have watched the film more than several times, and it is one of my favorite movies. Every time I watch it, I cringe as I'm challenged by both its beauty and disturbing intensity. So it's not really a horror film, but a surreal masterpiece with horrifying images. It will haunt you long after it's over. "},{"Title":"This One Stays With You","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"49 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie in 1990 in a tiny cinema in London, on a date. As we walked from the theater and got on the tube, neither of us said a word for 20 minutes.  Finally, she said, you have a strange taste in films.Back then, I was heavily into Luis Bunuel.  This was one of the few post-Bunuel movies that embodied the essential creepiness and odd humor of the Surrealists (the other one that comes to mind is Videodrome). There's the obvious Freudian stuff, the obvious shock stuff, but leaving all that aside, there are indelible moments of cinematic poetry.  The elephant; the son's arms; the final shot.  It feels, more than 10 years later, like a repressed dream/nightmare.I don't consider this a horror movie, in the sense that there are no slasher, monster, alien, demon, zombie, cannibal, haunted house, supernatural, dread disease, or giallo elements.  I don't remember this movie being particularly scary or gory; just creepy.  Maybe it's in a similar genre to Eyes Without a Face, but only in the sense that both movies deal with mutilation and revenge.  (Then again, I remember seeing Un Chien Andalou and In the Realm of the Senses in the horror section of a video store -- a sign of either ignorance or insight, I could never figure out.)  This one truly belongs in the Foreign Films section, but not just for being non-Hollywood.   "},{"Title":"Unforgettable, but not for everyone","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"44 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There's so much you can say about this work. Vivid characters, colours, and situations that practically leap off the screen into the theatre next to you. A wonderfully quirky, repeatedly startling story. Graceful low-key cinematography that turns slums and sideshows into an eerily beautiful netherworld, countless images that look like you could freeze them and hang them as inspirational totems for cults we have to hope don't exist. Jodorowsky paints with a heavy, vibrant brush, but it's the perfect tone for this primal-yet-humanizing tale.But I should post a warning. As far as I'm concerned, my first viewing of this film was one of the more worthwhile two hours or so I've ever spent in a theatre, and I think based on my experience that this sadly neglected wonder deserves every bit of word-of-mouth promotion it can get. But I'm betting it's not to everyone's taste.So this is my advice if you found Storaro's green and red/jungle foliage and human remains canvasses in Apocalypse Now unsettlingly beautiful the first time you saw them, and wondered momentarily whether still prints were available for hanging before realizing what you were actually suggesting to yourself, here's a film for you. If you found Delicatessan's celebration of the paradoxical beauty hiding in human ugliness and stupidity a bit too sanitized for your taste, Santa Sangre's rather murkier depths await. You will love this work.If, on the other hand, you have no taste for painters who work best in human blood as opposed to oils, and/or don't appreciate a bloody carnality mixed in with your religious metaphor, you will quite probably hate it with a passion that exceeds my affection. And I don't really blame you or judge you for walking out early. It takes all kinds.Either way, fondly or with revulsion, you will remember it vividly, ten years later. I can say this confidently, as that's how long it was from the first time I saw this film to the day I wrote this review. Don't say I didn't warn you.  "},{"Title":"You will remember this movie!","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw the U.S. premiere of this movie at the DC FilmFest.  I was intrigued by the thought of a man who makes movies once every 15 years.Well, I'll tell you.  The people sitting next to me left 10 - 15 minutes into the movie.  If you can get through the first 30 minutes, it is worthwhile.Of course, I am into very surrealistic movies and ones that address the question of what is real and what is not.After seeing it, the visuals have stayed with me over the years.  A powerful movie for the adventurous. "},{"Title":"A fantastic film","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Once again, Alejandro Jodorowsky has managed to come up with a film that defies genrification even as it defies description. Santa Sangre is, on its surface, something of a suspense/horror film, but under the surface, it's a psychological drama, a black comedy, and about a hundred other genres all meshing in such perfect harmony that it's impossible to easily categorize this masterpiece.All I can say is, if you have a chance to see this film, definitely do so. While the film is not recommended for those under 18 on the box, it is unrated. Much of the violence here is suggested rather than shown, and what nudity there is is more allegorical and less prurient. Probably not for the squeamish, but never crosses that line between the disturbing and the gross-out. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The eerie atmosphere, and alien characters to every day life, draws those who are artistic and learners.  The character development and strange situations will keep you glued to the set.Santa Sangre means `Blood of the Saint'.  The saint is a young virgin that a young Fenix sees his Mom worshiping in a strange cult like church.  It is explained that this saint was an abused girl that got her arms cut off.  This all takes place in a circus, with clowns as stand-ins and musicians playing music wherever Fenix goes.  There is a very surrealistic scene when the Circus elephant dies of natural causes.  This scene is very spectacular in how it was presented.Later, Fenix sees his mom get her arms cut off by his father.  This of course twists his mind into thinking of his Mom as a saint, but she is a very spiteful woman.  This puts him in terrible situations, and he then cannot distinguish between unnecessary death and natural death.  They make money when he is older by being his Moms arms during performances.At any point in the movie, you really cannot tell what is real and what are insane delusions.  It will not be reveled until the last few minutes of the film, which will surprise you.Not too bloody if you get the blockbuster version.  You can watch this, or watch some guy hurting himself while falling down funniest home videos, so I guess it's a matter of taste. "},{"Title":"Close to perfect","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"33 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First let me say that this is my frist movie by the director.  I have not seen El Topo, or any of his others.  This is a great movie, in my opinion.  Not quite perfect, but still great.  It, more than any other movie I have seen, exudes the most raw emotion without saying a single word.  One of the movies characters is a deaf mute.  There is hardly any dialogue, but it is all the better without it.  It oozes the emotion that it needs to pass by through camera work, style, and acting.The story is not your normal story, and in fact is a bit creepy.  I will not tell you one single part of it, because I only knew very little going in to see it.  But, let me tell you that it is not for the weak of mind or heart.  But, the emotion of the movie is completely there, and I highly recommend this to the people who don't mind thinking to be slightly scared.  And this is a movie that doesn't feel it has to explain everything away, and so is all the better for it.9/10 "},{"Title":"a masterpiece, indeed","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a startling work, a truly artistic masterpiece, which did achieve some mainstream recognition for Jodorowoski but not what the film deserved. Filled with unsettling images, grotesque displays of violence and sexuality, and subtle but comic references, Santa Sangre is Jodorowoski's most coherent work. It is also a thoroughly artistic work, with a greater emphasis on representation than drama or morality. If you have not seen this movie, rent it. You will not soon forget it whatever your final evaluation might be. Too bad its not available on DVD (hint).  "},{"Title":"A walk through Santa Sangre.","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is truly a shocking film crammed with bizarre and grotesque violence both explicit and lurking beyond the 'five-senses perception'.A sick masterpiece by a sick genius.Santa Sangre evolves into the strange universe of its creator ,Alejandro Jodorowsky.This is not at least surprising because most of his worksfilms (El Topo etc.),comics (The cast of the Metabarons,Inkal etc.)etc etc,are pieces of the very same puzzle,Alejandro's universe.Santa Sangre (Holy Blood) is a pure surrealistic work.Symbols,insanity, Life and Death mix up the wild beauty of Ancient Greek Tragedy.In conclusion this is not a film for everyone,but if you are open minded you will be able to make a step further,beyond the image itself and face the deep brutal truth of this movie.This is how it would look like a movie shot by Salvator Dali himself.  "},{"Title":"You can't atone for your sins with nightmares.","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is fitting that the circus plays a prominent role in this film, as the entire film is a circus under Ringmaster Alejandro Jodorowsky.It is a kaleidescope of color, and fanciful imagery. What is real and what is imaginary? That is your mission in watching this film.Felix is crazy and the story is told in flashbacks. It is no surprise as his father committed suicide after being caught with the tattoo lady, and his mother had her arms cut off. But, did this really happen this way? He is in an insane asylum, after all.The film is filled with psychological themes and surrealistic imagery with heavy influence of Federico Fellini and Luis Bunuel. The graveyard scene is fantastic! It is an original in a mass of copycats. "}{"Title":"Refreshingly unique and loaded with some of the best moments in cinema history.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Jodorowsky improves upon ideas he touched upon in his debut film, El Topo, with this exquisitely crafted gem.  Santa Sangre depicts a truly original perspective on a mother-son relationship and while the first half of the film is all set-up, the second half is of the oh-my-god-jaw-to-the-ground-excellent variety. "},{"Title":"Surreal, scabrous, but seemingly moving","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a long absence Jodorowsky returned with this surreal but more accessible offering than his earlier work, focusing on a circus and starring Jodorowsky's son and grandson as Fenix, a young boy who witnesses his father cut off the arms of his mother before committing suicide. Then we see Fenix grown up and finding his mother again, and she uses him as her slave, using his hands for her various needs and also to commit murder. There are the trademark Jodorowsky images in parts with deformed people on a trip out from an asylum, and powerful scenes like the elephant being savaged for food. But it somehow has a more warmer and humble feel to it than his previous work. "},{"Title":"Holy Mother of God, Jesus Christ and everything else that is sacred! What a stunning experience!","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is not just a movie&#133;THIS is a cinematic orgasm! For start to finish, Santa Sangre stands for one brilliant sequence after another, a staggering use of color shades, sensational musical guidance, disturbing themes and some of the most original story ideas that never ever featured in cinema before! To sum the film up in simply one word, it would be AMAZING! I caught myself staring at the screen with my eyes and mouth wide open most of the time and I kept on thinking how I never wanted this movie to end. Santa Sangre unhesitatingly catapulted itself in my top-5 movies of all-time and I sincerely think it's there to stay. It's not very often that you encounter a film that is impossible to categorize under simply one genre, yet the masterful director Alejandro Jodorowsky here successfully assembles various genres like it's no trouble at all. To define Santa Sangre as just another foreign horror movie would be obvious, but at the same time truly short-sighted, as it contains an equally large amount of genuine drama that is actually a lot more captivating than most Oscar-winning (and hugely overrated) motion pictures. And if that isn't enough yet, this simultaneously is an immensely artistic and experimental effort that brings forward uniquely bizarre visions and dared symbolism.The story is composed of two main chapters that are set in different eras, but both revolving on protagonist Fenix, who is briefly introduced as a resident in a mental institution. The fist (and most dazzling) part of the film is a 40 minutes long flashback in which we get an illustration of Fenix' unpleasant childhood. He's the son of traveling circus artists, and a promising young magician himself, but they don't exactly form a model family. Fenix' alcoholic and aggressive father has an affair with the obscene tattooed woman and his mother is the leader of a dangerously fanatic cult that worships an armless Goddess. Another violent argument between the parents results in a real tragedy that settles young Fenix up with an everlasting trauma. This brilliantly choreographed flashback is indescribably unsettling, and this without showing much graphic images. Tod Browning's classic film Freaks already made clear that a circus can be a truly petrifying place and the wide versatility of eerie characters (midgets, clowns, white-faced acrobats, magicians&#133;) is well represented in Jodorowsky's imagination as well. Particularly Fenix' father is a disturbing man, not in the least because he subjects his own son to bloody rituals that supposedly make a 'real man' out of him. Despite the constant atmosphere of surrealism, these were some of the most shocking 40 minutes of my life.The second and larger part of the film is slightly less powerful, mainly because Jodorowsky's script tries to convince us of something that clearly is implausible. Under the influence of his mother who returns after many years, Fenix escapes the mental clinic and starts to give shows again with a totally new act. The mother is still very dominating, though, and merely sees her son as an instrument with killer arms that she can use to avenge herself. Only the reuniting with his long lost love can bring some peace and quiet in Fenix' unbalanced life. This second part is far bloodier than the first and the uncanny circus setting has been replaced with grim big city ghettos where drug abuse and prostitution are the most natural things in the world. This surrounding is still disturbing but definitely less overwhelming than the circus, also because you're more familiar with it. The clear references towards Freud and the infamous Oedipus syndrome still work but they aren't new things anymore. Thank God everything is still filmed in a hugely fascinating way, with camera angles and color shades that pretty much make your head spin, and most characters actually evoke real sentiments of compassion and admiration. Especially Alma, I loved her! In conclusion, Santa Sangre is a terribly neglected movie that deserves a ranking in the IMDb top-250 (honestly!) and I wish I could reward it with a rating higher than 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Presentations of madness amidst images of grotesque beauty","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Santa Sangre (1988) is an absolute curio; a surrealist satire on the absurdities of organised religion, a violent pastiche of slasher cinema and an infernal parody of Hitchcock's classic Psycho (1960) all rolled into one. These particular ideas are further tied together by director Alejandro Jodorowsky's continuing preoccupations with circus themes, childhood, murder and performance art; as vivid colours and bold strokes of character and ideology are thrown wildly around the screen amidst surreal visions, childhood reflections and elements of satire. It perhaps lacks the obvious depth and esoteric mysticism of his earlier films - that trio of surrealist masterworks Fando and Lis (1968), El Topo (1970) and The Holy Mountain (1973) - but it remains, nonetheless, a visually impressive and psychologically deep experience that manages to be moving and emotionally demanding, despite the often grotesque and uncomfortable presentation of theme and imagery.Given the superficial aspects of the narrative, many people have chosen to see the film as a work of horror; something that is entirely plausible given the definite themes of psychological breakdown, madness and inner-torment; not to mention a number of violent murders that propel the story back and forth between enigmatic moments of nightmarish abandon and more colourful and darkly comic moments of parody, farce and cinematic self-reference. However, it is wrong to box the film in with such limited interpretations or categorisations of genre, given the very obvious fact that the film has a number of more interesting layers at work beneath these more blatant surface elements. If anything, I would call the film a psychological fantasy and leave the individual viewer to project their own ideas and interpretations onto it, without having their opinions swayed or pre-led by the hyperbolic platitudes of reviews like this.However, even with that in mind, Santa Sangre is one of those films that simply demands such discussion, and perhaps requires reviews like this one, not for the benefit of other people, but as an attempt by me to piece together all aspects of the film's bizarre, patch-work like approach to storytelling, and the deeper themes and references that Jodorowksy toys with amidst the continual barrage of visual and aural stimulation. The presentation of the film involves a number of different aspects, some referential, others purely fantasy, moving from an almost Felliniesque portrait of carnival life and idyllic youth - as we are introduced to our central character as a young boy - before shifting further into the young man's life and becoming something of a darkly comic send-up along the lines of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) or Bad Boy Bubby (1993). From here the film becomes darker still, with Jodorowsky establishing the murderous sub-plot, which reaches something of a peak with one of the most insanely violent murder scenes ever witnessed in contemporary cinema.Nevertheless, anyone expecting a straight murder film - something more akin to the work of producer Claudio Argento's brother Dario - will probably be disappointed. Jodorowsky's intentions for the film go beyond such notions, as he instead ties together a number of disparate concerns to create a grotesque, yet strangely beautiful film that manages to reference the Hollywood melodrama of Sunset Blvd. (1950) and the Gothic horror of the films of James Whale within a story of murder, innocence and Freudian psychology. The impact of the film is certainly within its bizarre symbolism and surreal beauty; the elephant's death-scene for example is one of the most extraordinarily moving things I've ever seen, and ties in nicely with the feelings of the character towards the end of the film, in which the ghosts of the past return amidst a series of startling and frightening recollections, fairy-tale like abstraction and moments of absurd humour.The film creates an astounding atmosphere from the very start, particularly in the early scenes set within the circus, churches and sweaty streets of Mexico City; with Jodorowsky demonstrating a real understanding and feel for the place, with its sad incongruities of dwarfs and giants and that air of suffocating and claustrophobic dread. The direction, production design, music and photography really capture the dangerous and somewhat confusing tone of the environment, whilst simultaneously retaining a sense of childlike wonderment; particularly in one of the film's most astounding sequences, in which the corpse of an African-elephant is carried through the streets in a giant coffin, dumped into a ravine by a concoction of carnival mourners, only to be savaged and ripped to pieces moments later by a pack of hungry peasants. This scene acts as a grand metaphor for the supporting characters here, and how they send our anti-hero-like protagonist into a spiral of madness, murder and forgiveness. "},{"Title":"in my opinion, a fascinating, disturbing, metaphysical film","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A very fascinating but disturbing film. Luckily I had the chance to see it in the late-night screening in a small cinema in my city.The blood in the title reappears in different contexts as theme in the film, from colored water claimed as saint´s blood, over that drained in a tattooing resembling an initiation rite, to that of murdered women. I would not recommend it for people sensitive to such sights. For others it shows that `blood is a very special liquid' in all its metaphysical contexts.There is some very powerful imagery in this film a bleeding, dying elephant and its bizarre burial, cut-off arms, white-painted corpses, etc., images that haunt you not because of their goriness but their unique intensity.The story is based on that of  a Mexican mass murderer so I was a  bit biased before I went to the cinema, but was surprised when the story unrolled it was not about some ugly, monstrous guy like I expected, but that the protagonist was portrayed as a troubled young man for whom one could have sympathies despite his killings. I won´t summarize the plot once again, just read the summary on  this site for that. What made the film especially interesting is that Jodorowsky packs his film full of different motifs Christian saint´s cult, Freud´s Oedipus complex, the ancient story of Phoenix. As even names are filled with significance in this film it is no coincidence the main character is called Fenix and has an eagle tattooed on his breast. Resembling the ancient myth, Phoenix has to be destroyed first, in this case through freeing his own self from his omnipresent mother figure that holds a grasp on his soul, before he can be reborn again.  "},{"Title":"It's so complete","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a wonderful movie. It's so complete. Every single detail must be carefully observed because there's information in every word and every gesture (especially gestures). The images are so shocking. The script is so crazy, but have a very special logic. It's a very good option. "},{"Title":"beautifully disgusting","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not exactly sure what Jodorowsky was going for in this film, yet I was rather blown away.  The bloody imagery and Catholic symbolism mixed well though I think this might have been more powerful in spanish.  I can't think of any other movies off hand to compare it to so I won't even try.  This should be seen to be believed, though not for the weak stomached. "},{"Title":"seminal cinema","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie during its first run early in 1990, and found it more affecting and cathartic than anything seen before or since.  A crucial shot in the arm during a bleak period in feature-length pictures, this film inspired many people now making their own stuff. "},{"Title":"better than alfred hitchcock's psycho","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  in 1998, gus van sant remade alfred hitchcock's Psycho. i have not seen the new psycho and don't plan on it.  it's not because i dislike van sant, i just don't understand why he would want to try the same EXACT story. Jodorowsky's film contains the same elements (oedipus complex. serial killer, etc) and he took it to another insane level.  he shows the killers background and his long buried reasons for killing (which psycho IV failed to do).  it also contains awe inspiring cinematography and surreal images that will haunt the viewer for days.  this is truly jordorowsky's masterpiece!  if hitchcock were still alive he would remake Santa Sangre because it is ten times the film he envisioned with Psycho. "},{"Title":"Buffoonery","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love Alejandro Jodorowsky, the person, who is charismatic and funny and interesting. But, man, he must have been smoking some righteous substances when he made this amateurish and borderline incoherent mess. After looking at the glowing reviews, I feel compelled to exclaim that the emperor has no clothes here. In a way, I get why the adulation. Jodorowsky is a seriously cool guy, and it is commendable whenever a filmmaker goes out on a limb to make something with zero mainstream appeal. He is probably a genius, based on the quality of his comics more so than his movies. But come on. Bad is bad. I never for a single moment forgot that I was watching a movie during this. The histrionic acting was laughable. I did not care about a single character. The symbolism was obvious and clunky. The special effects were cartoonish. I became increasingly bored and had to pause the film twice just to get up the energy to finish it. I did like one scene - the piano scene - which was genuinely impressive. His son apparently can act when given the right material. But the rest of it was insufferably dumb. "}{"Title":"Temptation, with an integral counterpart in violence.","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Santa Sangre was Chilean-born director, Alejandro Jodorowsky's fourth film in a twenty three year span since making Fando and Lis. It reportedly took six years to write, however, lucky us Jodorwsky doesn't rouse himself to make a movie very often. This heady mix of circus freaks (a tattooed lady, an exotic midget, sad-faced clowns) and weird religious and hallucinatory imagery (an armless virgin saint, writhing snakes, zombie brides) is pregnant with disturbing psychological undercurrents.The result of Santa Sangre can be considered complete nonsense of a very extravagant, alienating, private sort. It is as familiarly esoteric as Jodorowsky's other efforts, but it possesses very pronounced influences, including Psycho, Freaks (Tod Browning is Jodorowsky's cinematic father), Tommy, The Invisible Man, and even Fellini's partiality to the circus. Nonetheless, citing influences for this film only contests its individuality and imagination.At best the movie can be embraced as colorful, lavishly eccentric non sequitur. In the basic narrative sense, Santa Sangre never comes close to making sense. Or at least not any sense that wouldn't require a monumental decoding. And who would want to go to the trouble? In the place of a coherently ordered story, the picture strings together a series of banal Freudianisms involving a circus family that falls into ruin when the father, the Great Orgo (Guy Stockwell), is caught by his aerialist wife, Concha (Blanca Guerra), in flagrante delicto with the Tattooed Woman (Thelma Tixou), and as revenge for being doused with acid, slices off Concha's arms, then kills himself.Enough of this horrific bloodletting is witnessed by the couple's young son, Fenix (Adan Jodorowsky, the director's son), who grows up to be a raving mass murderer (played by Axel Jodorowsky, the director's other son) who believes he is driven by his rampaging, armless mother to kill every woman who attracts him. Never mind that (shades of Psycho) the mother turns out to be a puppet. Or that Fenix is rescued from madness by Alma (Sabrina Dennison), the white-faced, deaf and mute girl he fell in love with as a boy.Though often lacking a concise, cohesive narrative for the average, typical mind, but for one with an eye for bizarre and surreal visuals, you'll understand there's an intriguing story buried inside of Santa Sangre. "},{"Title":"An excellent tale of psychological terror.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is one of my top ten all-time favorite films.  Jodorowsky paints a semi-epic tale of tragedy and despair. It's both intriguing and bothersome at the same time, and well worth seeing.  Excellent visuals, great casting, and a fascinating story are the things that make this film so meritable.  "},{"Title":"Pain and self-destruction were never this surreal and beautiful.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SANTA SANGRE is visually shocking, deeply moving in substance, and haunting in atmosphere. Truly, an unforgettable experience. Please, watch it with regular expectations and don't let anyone tell you what's it about. That way, the viewing experience is more than satisfying. It's memorable, and will haunt you forever.Jodorowsky's direction is masterful. I can't remember any other film with such classy, inventive, macabre, camera angles such as these. EVERY SINGLE scene is memorable and that's why it might get dull for some people; I just wanted more running time than just two hours. The bizarre nightmares (the graveyard mimes, the falling chickens, etc.) demonstrate Jodorowsky's unique powerful imagery and bizarre early Buñuel influences. Nonsense visual shocks were never this real and haunting. He created a bizarre world for his main character. Fènix's situation is an anthem for unwanted self-destruction. It always makes me sad because he is a tormented soul that couldn't face his inner fears mainly because of his condition. He wasn't a serial killer by choice, he just followed his naive but macabre feelings mainly because of his mother's orders. The Freudian references were just consequences of his hallucinations and displayed how much he depended of his mother (as a child, it's perfectly shown when he runs and holds her after the church demolition). He's a devastated human being with a beautiful twisted mind. Every single scene is perfectly ambiented and that's highly important for the plot. Dialogs are important but not essential and that could give you an idea of how visually impressive and memorable is. The atmosphere of the movie is dark by nature but the colorful art direction and extremely detailed cinematography make it a unique visual experience. The scenes where the church is demolished and the poetic elephant funeral are perfect examples. The settings are dark but beautiful. The church is simply impressive; the holy blood river, the shrine... the place where Fènix's dad tattoos him, And that's just to name a few. The symbolism in each scene is something unique. Impressive, delightful direction, art direction, cinematography, score. The acting is from another world. Axel Jodorowsky and Blanca Guerra steal the show with memorable, blowing mind experience. Axel is simply magnificent. His performance is unreal, moving. Guerra delivers the best performance in her honorable career. The girls who played Alma are simply fantastic (not to mention beautiful). Their eyes can tell many things and display strong emotions. Now, that's a lesson in corporal acting.Some scenes have haunted me for long time and even gave my nightmares. Some of them have truly moved me; for example, when Fènix and a clown are holding each other and Fènix while crying says my mommy is dead, that's when he realizes about everything. A moving, sad, tender scene. Some of them didn't have a reason to exist but Jodorowsky thought they would be necessary to re-affirm Fènix's confrontation with his twisted mind and the struggle with his mother for control of his life (for example, the anaconda struggle scene). Everyone I know goes away in the end, and you could have it all, my empire of dirt.The music is simply brilliant (some of Mèxico's most influential songs and lyrics). I never thought of a weirdest way to play Besame Mucho. Some of these songs are haunting alone but the way Jodorowsky uses them is much more intense. My favorite piece of score is when Concha is about to throw acid on her husband's genitals; the same score repeats when Concha tries to stab Almita (near the ending). The middle part of the movie focuses on making you believe you are living a dream in the flesh.The ending deserves a standing ovation. The moment where Concha tries to stab Alma is simply nerve tensing and macabre. Alma just standing with her arms wide open, the background lightning and dark. A memorable moment! Also, the very last scene when Fènix realizes that he has finally the control of his hands is a beautiful scene that metaphors how he recovered his own life. The biblical quote/passage re-affirms it. The movie can be divided in two different periods. First deals with the tormented childhood of the principal character. Meet Fènix, a young, tender, boy who lives with his family in a circus. He's an aspiring magician whose only friends are a pretty deaf-mute girl, and a midget named Aladino. Fènix parents are disturbed people who are a display of Mèxico's lower discriminated class. The father is a ragging alcoholic who abuses and cheats on his wife. The mother suffers from sick jealousy and she worships a strange saint whose status is explained through a retablo (a typical Mexican tradition that deals with painting and drawing the events of WHY someone has reached a saint status). Fènix's life is colorful but sad. He learns how to be a man in the hard way, and he witnesses how his mother gets in trouble to the point of risking her life just to defend the saint's holy blood. He also deals with the death of an elephant he loved too much. His life is predetermined to be painful  dealing with prostitutes, alcoholic beggars, and more social wastes. But his life changes when he witnesses how his father kills himself after cutting her mother's arms. At the same time, his only friend and (future) tender love interest goes away. The second part is stronger in content because of the nasty death sequences and strong criticism against society (down syndrome boys inhaling coke and hooking up with prostitutes, drunken soldiers, pimps in Pachuco style, discrimination, etc.). It also has a resolution for Fènix's inner struggle against his mother.My favorite movie of all time, hands down. Join the macabre, beautiful, dark, symbolic, haunting world of SANTA SANGRE. An underrated masterpiece that deserves recognition and a shrine. "},{"Title":"Saw it 16 years ago","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Three words Yankee Go Home. The Oedipal parody that was this movie made a strong political statement regarding the USA's relationship with Latin America. Went with some friends to the River Oaks cinema in Houston, TX in 1990 to view it and haven't forgotten it, much of the graphic nature of the film left indelible impressions. Not sure if it's been re released in DVD format, or if it will ever run on Bravo network - but definitely a must-see for indie film fans. Reading several of the comments at IMDb showed that many people failed to grasp Jodorowsky's irony and panned it as a horror film instead, which is kind of shameful since Jodorowsky has a remarkable talent. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Repulsive Art","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Possible spoilersAlejandro Jodorowsky's (El Topo, The Holy Mountain) SANTA SANGRE was produced by Dario Argento's brother. It contains the same brutal violence towards women as Argento's pictures; although one man (Stockwell) is castrated via acid to the nether regions negating this as an anti feminist film. But this is not a horror movie in any way, shape or form as this is as beautiful as it is repulsive.The strange Oedipus tale resembles Hitchcock's PSYCHO but this is a whole new kettle of fish. Elaborate colours, (the cemetery scene with the victims painted white resurrecting is similar to the climax in MANIAC but more effective) recalls Japanese films, e.g. Kwaidan. The OTT horror is occasionally camp but this is intended and the closing line &#145;MY HANDS' will either make you laugh or cry. Love the film and you'll cry. The emotional soundtrack will enhance this effect, so be warned.    "},{"Title":"Strange+ bad= entertaining","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one strange film that (surprisingly)never actually bores. Is there a story of importance in this film? I shouldn't know. What was the director trying to accomplish? Beats me. Did it work? Yes, in a certain, bizarre way. I saw this movie recently in a theater nearby.(in a flashback-series) A dozen or so people were in the theater(half of them stayed til the end). When it started out, I expected a Spanish, totally incomprehensible mess. But not only did the actors speak English, the film also succeeded in delivering some of the goods. It seemed the director did his best to put every possible freak(played by Jodorowsky's entire film I think)in the picture. Whatever you can think of, it's there! All of this was so over-the-top that this actually bad film became good, with some (unintended?)very funny scenes in it. I know, there's a lot of blood and there are some very sadistic scenes in it, but I happen to like films that don't play by the rules(across the edge).  Although it's not the best horror film I have ever seen (BRAINDEAD,EL DIA DE LA BESTIA and even BAD TASTE are better, funnier and more clever), but it's certainly something worth seeing. That is not for the faint of heart. 4/10 OR 8/10?(my vote was 7 but it could have easily been something else)  "},{"Title":"Another suprise ending -stunning cast of 100s","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Memorable, visually stunning; a peak into a sort of sick world. Circus performers, religious zealots, mock patriotism, underworld masterminds, barely-human dirt-dwellers, mental multi-polarity -no wonder Jodorowsky started in comic books. The ending is far less hinted-at than, say, that of Sixth Sense. Weird window into latino-horror; also recommend Cronos. See the NC-17 version for politically incorrect drug use by mongoloid inmates and projectile blood (not integral to the story, but definitely added to the eerie first-viewing)  "},{"Title":"Umm, BIZARRE kind of sums it up!","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The big question about this film is this Do you need to be on drugs to watch it or was the director on enough for all of us when he made it? I guess since I'm drug free it must be the latter.Certainly bizarre, one passage sees a group of down syndrome people excitedly eating fruit, three of whom are then taken into the city where a pimp offers them some cocaine which they snort & then proceed down a street of prostitutes who sing and dance like they're in a Hollywood musical and then the three of them walk off with the biggest, fattest, ugliest hooker you ever did see. Or maybe she was a Madam, to be honest I gave up trying to understand, it barely matters with this one! Oh, there's a midget, an elephant that's torn apart, cripples, a tattooed lady, a mute, a muscle bound female wrestler (or to be more accurate, a man with breasts wearing a wig!), not to mention a band of annoying clowns that follow people around playing songs, in there too.Did I mention the word bizarre? I didn't even get to the part where it rains chickens. The fact that I've missed out dozens of other things I could've mentioned points to the fact that there are just far too many ideas being thrown together for any real coherence and chances are that you will lose interest several times due to your brain liquidising. Although that said, thankfully the plot is pretty simple, believe it or not, and it is kind of a fun ride all the same.Add all this to the boy who's so traumatized after witnessing the death of his father (wonderful sequence including wig removing, throat cutting, acid to the genitals & slicing off of arms) he takes to sleeping in a basket and living up a tree like a monkey. I think I'll join him. "},{"Title":"4 points for originality and some successful imagery","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thrive on unconventional, personal cinema. I adore Bunuel, Lynch, Greenaway, E. Elias Merhiges' Begotten and almost anything that steers away from the cookie-cutter variety of film-making. This film however, and Jodorowsky's work in general, is difficult for me to sit through and find enjoyment. Perhaps I would have appreciated it more if the overall quality and acting had been better. The ideas and situations are outrageous, crazy and certainly more original than anything I can think of but the audio/visual quality, horrible acting and extremely low budget look of this film prevented me from appreciating it in any way. I'm much more impressed with the low budget film Begotten where the low quality is one of the main attributes of this films power. I feel that this is where Jodorowski fails. He has not been able to use his limited budget to greatest effect. "},{"Title":"Be amazed","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A sensational cascade of images and ideas again from Jodorowsky, some of which leave you gasping with admiration. Religion is a major thread as usual - a woman sets up a church for a girl who had her arms cut off, only to achieve a horrific beatification when she has her own arms cut off by her enraged, philandering circus-master husband. Witness to these and other events is their child, who becomes deranged as a result. Later in life, he 'lends' his arms to his domineering mother (by standing behind her - they become a stage act), who then uses them to wreak revenge on other women. It's basically a phantasmagorical variation of Psycho. Along the way there's an elephant's funeral (the thing is tipped into the ravine where a horde of starving wraiths from the shanty opposite descend on it), a splendid midget, a tattoo'd woman, a thousand chickens raining down over a crucifixion, a terrific murder scene done to a Prez Prado mambo (HUNH!), and a hundred other arresting images. Quite something. "}{"Title":"Oh That Crazy Guy","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young man is confined in a mental hospital. Through a flashback we see that he was traumatized as a child, when he and his family were circus performers he saw his father cut off the arms of his mother, a religious fanatic and leader of the heretical church of Santa Sangre (Holy Blood), and then commit suicide.Santa Sangre did not receive a wide release in the U.S. since its original premiere, only screening at a few theaters familiar with Jodorowsky's previous work. On January 25, 2011, Severin Film gave the film a release on both DVD and Blu-ray with more than five hours of exclusive extras. If you have seen the film, this is probably where you saw it (though it was on Netflix for a while).Roger Ebert gave the film a positive review, and said that he believed it carried the moral message of genuinely opposing evil, rather than celebrating it like most contemporary horror films. Ebert described it as a horror film, one of the greatest, and after waiting patiently through countless Dead Teenager Movies, I am reminded by Alejandro Jodorowsky that true psychic horror is possible on the screen &#x96; horror, poetry, surrealism, psychological pain and wicked humor, all at once. Although I like the dead teenager films Ebert has a problem with, he is right to praise this film. It is glorious, and really captures the strange imagery we come to expect. Perhaps not as strange as Holy Mountain, still strange enough to astound. "},{"Title":"Sweet Mother of Earth ...","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Woahou ... What a masterpiece ! I've bought Jodorowsky's movies without knowing what's going to happen, result  I've gain so much maturity by watching all of them, and Santa Sangre is definitively with The Holy Mountain the duo that clearly change my way of enjoying REAL art. This is just pure madness, surrealism at it best. Stunning soundtrack mixed with circus fantasy, an absolute mind trip to Jodorowsky dimension. Everything is beautiful in this movie, everything is well linked, all actors play fantastically, there's no mistake. I'm really happy that this kind of movie isn't mainstream like other sci-fi sh*t massively sponsoring by media and people. I just wish to see more like them, and it's a hard job finding them because of their rareness. The only regret, as an audiophile, is that few tracks on the movie are unfortunately NOT present on the Original Soundtrack released on vinyl and CD, result > horrible DVDRIP MP3 audio for a frightening sound in the graveyard part (and also from the DVD menu) . Anyway, I just stand up like I did at the end of the movie, clap my hand loudly and say proudly with a tear drop  BRAVO - BRAVO !!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Jodorowsky's Epitome","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you're not into surrealism, you might want to reconsider your movie tastes.I'm a huge fan of Alejandro Jodorowsky's movies because they're full of symbolism,psychological themes,deep lines and gestures, and frameworks that'll make you feel like you're staring at a moving painting.Before I found out about Jodorowsky, I thought David Lynch was the master of surrealism but now I totally disagree.What I'm trying to say is that Jodorowsky's movies can portray perfectly the director's vision.Santa Sangre, in my opinion is his best movie considering the story, script, directing and acting.I'm not going to spoil the plot so you're gonna have to find out.Don't watch any trailers of this movie and don't look at posters.This movie is a spiritual and an initial journey into surrealistic world.Indeed, it has some disturbing scenes, but you have to keep an open mind and try to visualize the message that the director wants to send.It needs time to be fully understood but believe me,it's not a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Rise of the Phenix","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alejandro Jodorosky is one of my favorite movie directors, his films are the kind you don't see every day and still don't. He really breaks conventions and pushes the boundaries all to give us not just great visual but substance backed by great intelligence to make it more of an experience; this either makes him a genius or half insane, or probably a combo of both due to what I see.Believe it or not out of his films this one is my favorite one from him and it's one of my favorite films in general. Because this film has the most emotion and a character to feel pathos for.It's hard to really talk about this film because it's one of those one's you have to see to believe and would take more than one watch to uncover more, plus I don't want to give too much away. The production value is great, this was done on a low or modest budget but it was used well and right, the effort really shows. From the use of the location but mainly of all of the set pieces. The music is also really great, some of it is fun mainly that music from the beginning but others express a degree of emotion.But most importantly I really love the visuals and the story that accompanies it. The film in a very weird sense is sort of a story about rising to freedom, I really like how the Greek myth of the Phenix is incorporated into the film. From the fact the main character Fenix has a tattoo of the Phoenix on his chest and his name ironically.This is a character you can't help but feel constant pathos for as he has been tormented by both the past, but his fanatical mom whom somehow psychically controls him. It sort of reflects our subconscious fear of either growing up to be just like our parents, or their ideals and desires interfering with our own. Indeed we see that, from scenes whenever she talks Fenix acts as her hands which I'll admit is impressive the way he moves them to act in sync with her feelings, which isn't an easy feat. This makes it all the more tragic because it shows he has no will of her own, even when she gives an order we know he shouldn't obey but he has no choice.Fenix's mom Bianca is no doubt a monster whom I feel is a villain you just plain hate. She has heavy believe in purity but she is the ultimate hypocrite as she is not pure herself. She is no doubt sexist as she doesn't have a high opinion of men but nor of women as most or all in her mind are impure which is why she believes her son should have no one in his life. Which is why you can say she is unable to fly again, without love you can never really soar to heights.Just like in the myth the Phenix doesn't rise until it is destroyed first and Fenix's life sadly is no bed of roses, as he is tormented internally and externally from the forces from the past and the forces in the present.The world in this film as usual with most of Jodorosky's films is truly a live surreal world where it's dark, strange, dreamlike but all the same fascinating, just about anything can happen here and does. There is always so much going on in the background almost as much as in a Where's Waldo art illustration it might take more than one watch to see it all. Let alone there are some constant symbols and overtones, some on sexuality and innocence.One of the best scenes that stick out no doubt are the elepahant funeral scene which is probably the daftest thing I've ever seen in my life, the only other big funeral for an animal is Lil Sepashian in the TV show Parks and Rec. But the big coffin is dropped down a cliff as food for some white powered villagers storm after it and cut it out and passes parts of the dead elephant. This is obviously metaphor of sexuality and the loss of innocence.Also there is a lot of use with the hands and arms that correlate with the Phenix myth. We see Bianca's religious sect that she possibly created based on a innocent virgin girl that got her arms cut off by some rapists and of course the same fate happens to her. In a way I feel it once again represents the destruction of the Phenix, in a way both women's wings get cut off.But also the back and forth between both Fenix and the deaf mute girl Alna which I think is sweet even though she doesn't talk it was thought her words and facial expressions toward him. The chemistry between both is beautiful because she is the one that can truly give him him freedom because she can give him the one thing he sorely lacks, love. And this is reflected from her constantly giving him the sign of the Phoenix flight. Alna is the protagonist that we bet on and throughout the film are constantly hoping that she will find him and save him, because she herself is a true Phoenix and can make him truly fly.After destruction comes the rise.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"a startling film I am surprised no remake has been made","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" a startling film I am surprised no remake has been made! How it came that a friend and my self came to be in a city where a theater actually shows this film on the big screen I do not know. (there were not that many bookings) Anyway we walked in no idea except my friend was Spanish and it was an art film theater and we usually went to see a lot of art and foreign films. Needless to say we were blown away and saw it a couple times. I saw the film recently DEC 2013 on net flix streaming in my TV room and it just did not translate well to a 65 inch screen. I wish this film would be re released. In the passing of 25 years the films scenes seem to be a little long but there are many many surprises in this film. I wish Net flix published its figures. I wonder how many people streamed it. I hope it got a wider audience. Really this is not a film for everyone and not a film for the feint of heart. Read Eberts review. Now its available on Blu Ray also. This is Axel Jodorowsky most accessible. his other films are TOO surrealist. really you need to watch this film 2 or 3 times to absorb the whole thing and the millions of bizarre details of the bizarre profound film! "},{"Title":"The Master's Master Work","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now that Jodorowsky is finally coming out with a new movie, I am sure there are hordes of new cinephiles who have only recently discovered the magic of El Topo, Holy Mountain, and hopefully - this.Many years ago, I showed this movie to a cousin of mine. She was not from the US, and didn't have much exposure to cinema other than the stuff her home country makes (which is quite a sizable chunk of world cinema, to be fair). Afterwards, dumbfounded and speechless, she merely said, I didn't know movies like that existed...The sad truth is they don't. This is a deeply affecting film of great beauty and dark, melancholy magic. It will stay with you for many years to come, if not for the rest of your life. It's definitely not as out there as Holy Mountain, but it uses that visual style much more effectively; whereas Holy Mountain is a monstrous sensual buffet that ultimately leaves the first-time viewer bewildered and scourged, this is a finely-crafted gourmet meal that does a much more surgically-precise job on the soul. You still get the bizarre circus imagery, the lurid back-alley scenes, the jabs at Catholicism, the hallucinatory nightmare sequences - but you also end up caring about the characters, and their world. Though it's fairly simple on paper (Freudian slasher flick, basically), the story is the ultimate organizing force here, and all the great surreal visual elements that make this a true Jodorowsky film are fully ready to serve it and its themes. The music should also get an honorable mention, since it's responsible for carrying many magical moments in the film Felix and Concha's Dejame Llorar duet (which translates to let me cry) is devastating - perhaps because it is both lurid and heartbreaking at the same time.I am not sure if NOT calling this a horror flick is the right attitude - I would be very happy if hundreds of unsuspecting, stoned teenage gore-hounds across American white suburbia were exposed to this. But though it's not really Tobe Hooper or Tom Savini material, it's definitely not for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"Holy Blood!!","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is an experience no doubt.It contains the story of a young circus boy who ends up in an insane asylum. After a brief opening of him in the asylum eating raw fish we are taken back to an extended flashback of his days as a boy in the circus where his Mom is a high wire performer and his Dads the knife throwing lord of the circus.Times were hard for the lad, for instance when he cries at the circus elephants death his Dads way to help him through this pain is to carve a large tattoo on his wee sons chest with a large knife, thanks Dad!This is a movie with many shocks and twists, it's all very colourful and very artfully done. It has very enjoyable music and the acting is adequate to good. When the story calls for some blood, it is done well. Small details like pigs in the street lapping up spilled blood lend an authentic air to the violence. I could go on and on since I saw this movie multiple times in the 90s, it's a really unique and unforgettable cult film. Sure it's not for everyone, but what movie is? "},{"Title":"Highly original - A pure trip","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I recently got into weird, arty & surreal films and this one is right up there. It's so bizarre and strange yet beautifully poetic and dreamy at the same time.There's something about the circus that fascinates me, the constant touring, the mystery, the colourful images, the sadness and detachment away from normality.The great thing about this film is subtle enough for you to actually work out what's going on. It won't be everyones kind of film but it's definitely mine. I was totally gripped from the opening scene.If you want to feel like you're on magic mushrooms then I would recommend this hands down, pardon the pun there! "},{"Title":"One of the Most Bizarre Great Movies of All Time","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This now out of print movie is perhaps one of the best movies that nobody will get to see. The visuals are absolutely fantastic from the circus performers to the prostitutes. Every single character in this movie is odd, deformed or ugly in one way or another and often all of the above. The story centers around Felix who witnesses his mother killed by his father (cutting off her arms) and his father then killing himself. But that doesn't happen until about 30 minutes in. The scenes leading up to that are interesting to watch and necessary to show the full picture of Felix then and Felix in the future. After the killing the scene goes to this boy who is now all grown up where he manages to escape from the the institution he was locked up. My only beef with the movie is how easily he escapes. Putting that aside this man is totally psychotic, delusional and has hallucinations that have him killing people because his armless mother is driving him to. I would also like to point out that the movie plays homage to several great horror movies from the past including, Psycho, The Cabinet of Dr. Caligar, and The Invisible Man to name a few even though that's truly what it is in every aspect horrible acts, characters and images sustain throughout this great movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is better than many other films with a similar story","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How many times have been made movies about serial killers that had preference for beautiful women? I guess that the whole genre has turned into something predictable and formulaic. But not here. What is more, I think that Santa Sangre deserves all the praise that it receives, being one of the best thrillers ever made, just like Psycho of Alfred Hitchcok. Alejandro Jodorowsky returns after the failure of Tusk, using all the imagery and bizarre characters that made him so popular and controversial. However, Santa Sangre follows a more logical story, and that makes this film more accessible to a wider audience. And despite that, the direction of Jodorowsky proves again to be unique showing us scenes that are beautiful and grotesque at the same time. Sequences as The Creation of the World, the burial of the elephant and the brutal murders as well of the city were hard to forget, considering the strangeness and visual impact of those scenes. Alejandro Jodorowsky made only one film after this The Rainbow Thief a film more light-hearted and (very much)less violent than this one, but I found it good. It will be interesting to see the results of his upcoming project King Shot Meanwhile, I strongly recommend you this film. "}{"Title":"A powerful and bloody piece of surreal cinema.","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When circus performer Concha catches her knife-thrower husband getting it on with a slutty tattooed lady, she emasculates him by throwing acid on his tackle. He retaliates by slicing off both of her arms before cutting his own throat. Their young son Fenix witnesses the tragedy and unsurprisingly winds up in an mental hospital.Years later, Fenix escapes from the asylum and reunites with his mother, for whom he acts as a pair of replacement arms. Consumed by her hatred for lustful, moral-free women, Concha convinces her psychologically fragile son to aid her in a series of grisly murders.I first saw Alejandro Jodorowsky's Santa Sangre in 1989 as part of an all-night horror film festival, and I thought it was fantastic; however, since seeing a couple of the director's other films and finding them totally incomprehensible, I have often wondered whether my enjoyment of Santa Sangre was somehow enhanced that night by an extreme lack of sleep and a massive caffeine intake (lots of Pro-Plus washed down with Coke, I seem to remember).After nearly two decades of uncertainty, I have finally re-watched the film, and this time I was well rested and clear of artificial stimulants. Now I am finally sure... the film IS a masterpiece! Poetic and beautiful, yet twisted and savage, Santa Sangre is surreal art-house cinema with blood, meaning that it appeals to me on two very distinct levels the pretentious film snob in me can appreciate the artistry, the intriguing study of a fractured psyche, the religious symbolism, and the technical brilliance; and the gore-hound in me can get a kick out of the extreme violence.And, as if that wasn't enough, the film also features such bizarre delights as a dwarf in an Aladdin outfit, some coke-snorting Down's Syndrome kids partying with a fat whore, a dead elephant being torn apart by slum dwellers, brilliant music by Simon Boswell, several cool hallucinatory sequences, and an amazing twist ending that puts anything by M. Night Shyalaman to shame.In fact, I enjoyed Santa Sangre so much second time around, that perhaps I ought to give Jodorowsky's other films another chance to impress me. "},{"Title":"Alejandro Jodorowksy is positively brilliant - this film needs a DVD release now!","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alejandro Jodorowsky is long regarded as one of cinema's most masterful surrealists. His films El Topo and The Holy Mountain have long been considered cult classics. They're pretentious and possibly meaningless, but they work because of how sincere Jodorowsky is in creating bizarre and mind blowing movies. They never feel like weirdness for the sake of being weird. His comeback movie Santa Sangre is equally great, but unfortunately it seems forgotten. This is a shame, because it combines Jodorowsky's style of transcendent strangeness with an involving and emotional storyline. As much as I enjoy El Topo and The Holy Mountain, I'll admit they don't exactly contain compelling characters. Santa Sangre on the other hand, always has characters who you're interested in.On a technical level, the film is brilliant as well. Even Jodorowsky's detractors will admit hes a master craftsman. The film moves at the right pace - not too fast but never too slow to be disengaging. Plus, its also an effective horror film. The plot is kind of like Psycho on a lot of acid, but there's some moments of real dread and almost Gothic style unease. Its full of unforgettably dreamlike images, another trademark of Jodorowsky. Plus, the acting is really good across the board, especially Adan Jodorowsky as the young Fenix (for a child actor, his nuances are really good). Santa Sangre is a film with weirdness overload and a compelling storyline - in short, a masterpiece. This needs to be released to DVD now! (9/10) "},{"Title":"Finally on the right track (the director, not the characters)","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, it's good to finally see Jodorowsky make something that doesn't make itself not worth watching. Santa Sangre is a horror film, of sorts, though it is mostly an exercise in Freudianism with a few other things thrown in as well. Jodorowsky is up to his usual tricks, throwing in circus freaks, dying animals, mixed religious imagery, and hyper-sexualized conduct. This time he manages, however, to keep the story generally in mind, plus actually let his symbolism mean things.The plot deals with a man named Fenix who, after a traumatic childhood experience involving his adulterous father and jealous fundamentalist mother attacking each other, gets confined to a mental institution where he suffers from flashbacks and other delusions. He manages to escape at the bidding of his now armless mother (who matches up with the armless Santa Sangre she worships earlier in the film), and the two end up having a demented and jealous relationship with him as her arms and her as a will that takes over and forces him to kill every girl he's interested in... except perhaps for the saving grace of the deaf-mute he fell in love with as a child.At this point Jodorowsky has finally come to his own as a director, managing to imbue his frames not only with aesthetically realized imagery but also with a sense of character and proportion. This movie is not only a lot more effective as a Jodorowsky movie, but it's also a lot more effective than a lot of horror films. It's also really funny, which helps make it as enjoyable as it is artistic.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Full of small flaws, but still great weird flick for quirkiness lovers","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is not a movie for all audiences, needless to say. One has to have a hunch towards quirky, strange, weird movies to enjoy the ride. I do... ;-) Many such movies are confusing or far too arty. Not the case here. Yes you have a bunch of weird characters and situations, a twisted and quite insane plot, but the story unfolds very smoothly and the grotesque elements actually help the narrative.There are many small flaws, a signature of directors who have a vision but are self-taught and don't make many movies, but they are easily forgiven considering the commitment and risk-taking at play here.Visually, it's really visionary. Jodorowsky is a great directing talent that sadly couldn't evolve into a mature director due to the lack of interest from the industry.You could love Santa Sangre if you're fond of some of the following movies Naked lunch, Erendira, Delicatessen, Freaks, Tideland, Psycho (the latter being much more 'mainstream' but yet...).Probably Jodorowsky's best effort. Stay away if you're offended by weirdness and extreme quirk. "},{"Title":"The most unique horror movie ever made","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Santa Sangre is indeed, a film unlike any other you've ever seen, be it horror film or otherwise - thus, it is almost impossible to put it down in words, but I'll try. Director Alejandro Jorodowsky brings back art-house surrealism so predominant in the works of Fellini and Bunuel, to a new generation, combining it with the sleaze and over-the-top brutality of the 80's splatter. On top of it, Jorodowsky also makes plenty of references to silent cinema, so much so that the film has hardly any dialog, relying solely on body language and raw emotions rather than spoken lines, with some truly impressive and jaw-dropping performances by the whole cast. The final result is a truly unforgettable and visceral experience, filled with some of the most beautifully disturbing imagery and haunting poetry ever caught on celluloid. Granted, it's not a film for everyone, as some might be repelled by it's demented visual style, but those who will let themselves to get into the bizarre, disturbing and captivating world of Santa Sangre, will surely be rewarded. 10/10 "},{"Title":"When films aim for your soul","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unsettling, beautiful, sad, violent and insanely imaginative. Santa Sangre is an experience and not a movie. It's so heavy in it's atmosphere and the whole intensity of it's images strikes you with no mercy, you will feel numb after watching it. Few are the films that can claim to confront the audience with their inner beasts, and this one's a nice pill to swallow if you're into that kind of thing. I don't think you should understand it, but more likely to live it. To bring it close to your mind and find whatever you have hiding in there. You know the story from all the reviews out there. And maybe you want to know if it's really worth watching if you're looking for some strange cult film after trying so many times and finding a lot of frustrating wannabe stuff. Well, this one's worth the hype. I put it right there with Buñuel's Un Perro Andaluz and David Lynch's Ereaserhead. It is demonic and seductive and will show you a side of Mexico you never get to see in recent crap like Amores Perros or Y Tu Mamá También. I'm sorry, but it is Santa Sangre the one that delivers the actual Mexican landscape of flavors and odors. It's decadence and sheer beauty. If you thought Lost Highway was too weird, then stay away from this one. But if you couldn't get enough of Lynch's mind and style, then you should kill to get a DVD copy of Santa Sangre. You will get stoned by all the amazing things and sounds it throws away at you. "},{"Title":"very beautiful","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why have I failed for so many years to see any of this man's films? Now, having seen this little gem I shall have to see them all! A real firecracker of a movie, this starts sensationally and just does not stop. Fantastic looking scene after fantastic looking scene. At times it is almost too rich, with colour and shape and sounds, then something appalling happens and we are brought back to earth. Then off we rush again. Larger than life characters, even if some are played by little people, amuse, enthral and perturb, sometimes all at once. Jodorowsky is confidently setting out his view that the 'abnormal' is far more interesting and deserving of our attention than the boringly 'normal'. 'Art comes from madness', I paraphrase but this is his gist and at the same time he wishes to thrill at the possibility of the crazy killer becoming redeemed. Hence we get a truly cathartic ride as if through hell itself. Should mention though that it is also touching, moving, amusing, sexy and very beautiful. "},{"Title":"Another 'masterpiece' from the 'master' Jodorowsky","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In an attempt to get to know some of Jodorowsky's work, I watched both &#145;El Topo' and &#145;Santa Sangre' recently. I don't get his stuff, but I don't care to. &#145;Santa Sangre' was quite a bit more accessible, and had a more linear plot structure, but it still wasn't any good. The only reason I can see why people give Jodorowsky so much praise is because he uses images in his films that have not been seen before, which admittedly is cool at times. His stories are original as well, which there's something to be said for, but what happened to sympathizing with the characters, caring enough about the movie to watch it a second or third time. His films seem like the types that require multiple viewings, but he gives the viewer no reason to want to come back for seconds. He seems like a very smart man whose films are meant to be treated like a textbook and dissected. That can be fun, but, unfortunately, not on &#145;Santa Sangre'. Rating 12/40 "},{"Title":"Alchemy,and sybolism, dipped in blood","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***  It is one of the most rewarding and powerful films ever made, but you better ready for it. It deals with the female parental controll over Fenix, the protagonist of the film, life. Shot in Mexico, spoken in English, Concha, his mother is the all smothering ruler over his soul, she rises from death to rule his very existance. Even her name is a South American slang for vagina based on a seashell.The colors that pop up on the film Black White and Red are actually based on spiritual alchemy which I wont get into here,but it is good to know to really grasp the amount of thought that goes into every second of this film. It is amazing to watch the Directors Son Axel Jodorowsky actually have to be the arms for his armless mother. When she controlls him he is forced by her will to slip his arms through her sleaves from behind her so that his arms move as if they actually belong to the actress Blanca Guerra who plays his mother. The sequences in the film are even more jaw dropping in that there is literally no editing in any of these sceans, unlike a Hollywood film the actor and actress actually have to have to perform perfectly to pull it off, the result is amazing. The Sybolism in this film is also amazing. Even his childhood in the circus is symbolic on all levels. The most outragious scean being the death and dumping of the body of the circus Elephant. The funeral procession of mourning circus performers march through the street all in black except Fenix who is waring the red robe of his mothers religious temple which itself was based on menstration and smothering femininity, Fenix is crying like a girl. Next the giant Elephant casket is on a ramp over a gourge suspended from falling by a single rope, as a clown plays a sad bugal starving villagers from the oppisite cliff face facing theirs start to line up and pile out of their tin roofed huts waiting for the sacrifice to fall into the dumpsite below, they are all the more gastly in that they seem coated in flour as if they are filthy clay people, at the same time this completes the black red and white alchemy colors noted earlier. The father who is a fat ogre named the Great Orgo, is waving one of his throwing knives phalicly. On the last note he cuts the rope sending the casket to the trash pile below. A loud cheer wails from the croud of staving peasents who then proceed to slid by the hundreds on their backs and over the top of one another to reach the casket first for the meat inside. Fenix watches crying as they tear into the casket and toss chunks of the dead elephant out on top of the mass of their fellow starving peasents. The horror and vividness of this scean is amplified not only by the sybolism of alchemy but when you relize that you just saw the creation of life in all this trama. The egg fell to the womb and was fertilized by the sperm. The starving peasants were doused in flour for more then just the sybolism of alchemy. Hopefully this gives you an idea of what is required of you to see this fantastic experiance of a film. "},{"Title":"Santa sensatinal","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" when i first saw this movie i thought it was horrible and unset-tiling, the next day i couldn't get it out of my head i re-watched it a few days later and realized this was a damn good movie. its the kind of movie you have to watch with an open mind like a David lynch movie except this movie wont leave you confused in the end. it showcases the talent of an extremely talented director. although it does have the basis of psycho in it, it is totally different even though the title character has some major mommy issues. its really one of those weird movies you love and your friends hate or don't understand. so grab a drink bring an open mind and sit back and enjoy one of my favorite movies, just remember it will give you the creeps. "}{"Title":"Beautiful Film from a brilliant Director","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film has affected me more deeply than 99% of other films I've seen. It is a wonderfully soulful story about love, but not in the traditional sense. Jodorowsky is not afraid to address issues that would be taboo for most films (that we see in America). This film, and its director, Alejandro Jodorowsky, have changed my life. Anyone with an interest in mysticism and occult should explore Jodorowsky's work. I believe him to be one of the finest beings on the planet. Other works I've enjoyed by this director are El Topo and The Holy Mountain. "},{"Title":"different level of experience","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I couldn't believe my eyes during the film. Hallucinatory images and surreal event help to create the most unforgettable film I have ever seen. I couldn't make any judgment on it, it's just out of the world. If I can watch any film equivalent of this in my life, I am very lucky.Jodorowsky, he is an utter genius.You can find this film in horror sections, but this is more than that.Circus Boys (1989, Japan) is a rip-off of this masterpiece, but not a disaster.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Terrifying Dream","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not so much a movie as a waking dream I have seen this film several times and each time I see something I thought was from a dream of MINE. Some of the most beautiful images ever filmed, but sensitive viewers beware- This IS a horror film.By the way, avoid the R- rated censored tape.  "},{"Title":"Surreal cult masterpiece","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Santa Sangre is one weird movie, and I'm certainly not saying that as a bad thing! Surrealist cult director Alejandro Jodorowsky got the family together for this flick (Axel, Adan, Teo, Brontis) and, along with a bunch of unknown actors; has put together a film that stands alone as far as genre is concerned. The first thing you will notice about this film is that a lot of seemingly unrelated events take place. This bugged me a bit at first, until I realised where it was going; Jodorowski is excellent at putting his story together! This is my first taste of this man's work, but I already want to see more of it. The plot is a great base for a surrealist movie, and we follow a young circus boy who saves his mother from being bulldozed after she puts her life on the line to save her church, which is dedicated to some false deity. She takes offence to the leader of the circus and his activities with the voluptuous tattooed woman, and after interfering with the two of them; she finds herself armless. Some years later, she is thirsty for revenge...and needs the use of her son's arms to get it.The first half of the film is interesting, but nothing more. The second half is where Santa Sangre really picks up, as Jodorowsky bombards the audience with a series of bizarre and beautiful incidents. The first knife killing is one of the bloodiest and most brutal I have ever seen; but the haunting scenes involving the son allowing the mother the use of his arms top even this in terms of merging beauty with horror. The idea behind the plot doesn't sound all that great; but the director ensures that it is once it gets on the screen. The only other film that I can compare this one to in terms of atmospheric beauty is the French masterpiece 'Eyes Without a Face' - and that is high praise indeed. Being a surrealist movie, some things appear to happen at random and don't make a lot of sense - but this is where the true brilliance of Jodorowsky's storytelling comes in. No matter how bizarre or weird this film gets - it can always be made sense of. Santa Sangre comes with huge recommendations to anyone that is a fan of wayward cinema. Haunting, beautiful, brutal and anything but cliché - do not miss this. "},{"Title":"Buñuel+Lynch+Fellini+Beckett+Argento","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you love David Lynch's raw stuff, Fellini's circus madness, Buñuel's blasphemes, Dario Argento's italian gore and Samuel Beckett absurd theater, you must love this crazy, bizarre, even sick movie. But Santa Sangre is (unlike other examples of this kind of cinema) very, very funny, plenty of hilarious sketches, ironic dialogs and nasty sexplotation. A gem.A complaint dialogs in original english are not credible in this mexican tophet.   "},{"Title":"a beautiful kitsch","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best movies ever made, a perfect kitsch stylization with lots of holy blood (or paint?), fear, lust and despair. You will find larger than insanity love story, life-long operetta-style vengeance, religious fanaticism and Marcel Marceau-inspired pantomime. Amazingly singular and not like any other director, Jodorowsky is always wandering on the border between desolate tragedy and visually stunning grotesque and you'll never know if the border is crossed. Disturbing images and music will keep haunting you until you appease the cinema demigods by watching all Jodorowsky movies you can get a hold of. "},{"Title":"Brilliance","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was left in a state of disbelief after  viewing this film, like somehow I know  when I wake up tomorrow I'll think it was  all a dream. Don't try to analyse it, you  don't need to understand it. It's a  subconscious expierience, one that can be  interpreted a million different ways.  Jorodowsky is a prime example of what  happens when an artist let's God  speak through him.  "},{"Title":"The best horror movie ever made!!!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Santa Sangre is my favorite horror movie.  It is unlike anything I have ever seen before, and Alejandro Jodorowsky really created something special with this movie.  It is a perfect mix of Fellini and Freudian symbolism that should arouse the interest in most.  Santa Sangre boldly created something new and different, without following the horror movie template used and over-used since the 70s.  It is a great experience in the culture of these people and a love story that will live true. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT BUT STILL NO MASTER PIECE","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I approached this Jodorowsky´s work with high expectations, ´cause almost all reviews of Santa Sangre I´ve read praised the movie as a master-piece. So, with this in my mind, after watching it I was a little dissapointed. I found some parts of the movie nonconsistent and the ending was a little bit too predictable and rushed. But overall, this is a very important picture, original and disturbing. The scenes with mother´s hands, atmospheric cinematography and poetic sens, make it really intense and unique. Still not the best work of Jodorowsky and still not the master piece, but very, very close.  "},{"Title":"Opus Magnum!!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     (To Raffaella Scorza, a Perugia).    It is not a horror film (please).    It is a tribute to a Latin American artistic movement the magic realism which continues feeding our Literature.     I think we are in front of a inexhaustible fountain, an obligatory point of reference to many other films, like Underground and Magnolia (both of them, were done later).    The director was great (many times the money is not well-invested; Jodorowsky has employ any cent to making real a mountainous dream). It is difficult to summarize the plot without a description of the episodes. I don't want to do it. What can I write? well, a lot of blood, nightmares, flashbacks, violence; all combined artistically, the product is not disgusting.    I give 9 points to this film. Believe me, you will enjoy it, like Raffaella and me. "}{"Title":"crappiness with some borderline schizophrenia","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think schizophrenia is a terrible disease, which strangely is understood perfectly by the maker of this crap movie. True, the motive of the killings is understood perfectly, but that doesn't make it any less or better to watch. Also I found the Fenix character to be annoyingly gay. So, what do you have, a group of believers, praying for some girl who was raped and have had her arms cut of by the rapists, the church is been destroyed for some unclear reason, a child who says goodbye to a dying elephant, a jealous mother, who plays in the circus and was the former priest of this strange church. She gets her arms cut of after she poors a bottle of H2NO4, which lies around in a cupboard (?), on her unfaithfull husband who's about to have sex with a tattooed woman with an enormous ass and there you have the motive, this is all presented to you in the first half an hour and then you'll have to sit it through all the way, the child grows up and hears his mother constantly telling him to cut of other women's arms or at least to kill them.. I rated this movie a 1 "},{"Title":"El Poopoo","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horrible. Be grateful that you can watch this film at home on your VCR, because you're gonna want to fast-forward through tiresomely amateurish, painfully unedited, faux-grotesque buffoonery being passed off as what? Horror? Art? Allegory? Nahhhh.Every scene is too long and too concrete -- NOTHING is left for the viewer to imagine, because it's all played out with leaden heavy-handedness. How can you respect a film which assumes that its viewers are half-bright 11-year-olds? Jodorowsky likes to spill his guts, a concept which is exactly as interesting as it sounds. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning and Graphic","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You will never see a film quite like Santa Sangre! It is a uniquely artistic and well made horror film that presents the viewer with some of the most graphic, yet visually stunning and artistic scenes imaginable. The film concerns a young man named Fenix (played as a child by the director's young son then as an adult by his older son) who was born the son of a religiously obsessed woman who is part of a strange cult that worships a woman who was murdered and had both arms removed. This woman soon meets up with a circus owner who takes her and her son in but then begins an elicit affair with a woman who works for the circus who is covered from head to toe with tattoos! When Fenix's mother walks in on the two of them doing the deed, she douses her philandering husband's private parts with acid and he retaliates by cutting both her arms off before slicing his own throat! A few years later, Fenix (who witnessed this entire spectacle) is now in a mental institution and there is an unusual scene involving his leaving the institution for a night and roaming the streets with several mentally deficient patients while high on cocaine! Fenix is eventually freed from the institution by his mother, who miraculously survived the previous attack but is now without her arms. She takes her son under her wing and the two create a strange illusion type stage show involving Fenix standing behind his mother during the performance using his own arms to simulate her missing arms! He becomes his mother's arms during their everyday life as well in some intricately thought out scenes involving the two of them playing the piano and performing other daily tasks! Anytime Fenix becomes to closely attached to any female his mother compels him to kill her using her body and his arms until eventually Fenix can take no more leading to the film's unusual and unpredictable ending. This film is an absolute assault on your senses and even though it is graphic it must be seen to be fully appreciated! "},{"Title":"Woweeeeeeeee","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not a big fan of horror or El Topo or Holy mountain, to be honest I just found them tedious and pretentious,maybe I should watch them again? but this is just such a fantastic film. Its completely mad,bonkers,crazy,insane. So imaginative,so witty, so clever,so moving, a feast for the eyes and brain. I would have to rate it as one of my all time greats. I have nothing else to say but I have to have at least ten lines of text. Watch and be amazed. Watch and be amazed. Really watch it you will not be disappointed.I have nothing else to say but I have to have at least ten lines of text. Watch and be amazed. Watch and be amazed. Really watch it you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Opus Magnum!!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     (To Raffaella Scorza, in Perugia).    It is not a horror film (please).    It is a tribute to a Latin American artistic movement the magic realism which continues feeding our Literature.     I think we are in front of a inexhaustible fountain, an obligatory point of reference to many other films, like Underground and Magnolia (both of them, were done later).    The director was great (many times the money is not well-invested; Jodorowsky has employ any cent to making real a mountainous dream). It is difficult to summarize the plot without a description of the episodes. I don't want to do it. What can I write? well, a lot of blood, nightmares, flashbacks, violence; all combined artistically, the product is not disgusting.    I give 9 points to this film. Believe me, you will enjoy it, like Raffaella and me. "},{"Title":"A grand and haunting tale","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film makes me perch like a biting creature, though I've seen it several times - a carnival Psycho with allegory and colorful jaunts backwards from sentience to an earlier remembrance of horror.  I love it with all of my soul.Alma is home - never stop crying to remember her beatific face. "},{"Title":"I saw this movie 10 minutes ago , here is what i think","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i love all alejandro's work , as moviemaker , but i can say this movie , realy gets you involved in the story  its very emotional and shocking , but more elegant and smart than the others.It reminds me a old japanese movie i saw for hallowen , that was about the ghost of a girl who died in a water tank in a building...This conection is not extrange , and maybe thats why in japan a lot of people like's jodorosky's art "},{"Title":"one of the best to see ever.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The best I have ever seen, Great movie, unique story, amazing twist at the end, powerful actors and actresses. I saw the movie 13 years ago and I did not know the name of it or even the name of the actor or actress, but I didn't forget the movie, I have searched IMDB using some key words, then I rented it the same day.  "},{"Title":"I don't think it's just me","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you like obscure films with lingering images of so called social commentary which add nothing - but then if you took them away then there wouldn't be much to see - then this is for you....Its a real throwback - there are better ways of expressing an opinion and probably more importantly - there are more deserving causes to have an opinion on in the first place....This is just a hackneyed piece which explains away an unhappy ending - with an unhappy beginning...This is the first review that I've done which is unfortunate as...I don't think I can really pad out 10 lines trying to describe anything much about it....If you are at all tempted then try and find an excerpt on youtube or similar - what you see is what you will get - all the way through! "},{"Title":"Proof positive that something can be both extraordinarily pretentious AND all kinds of awesome","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Never thought this would appear on DVD, but now here it is both there and on Blu Ray. I watched it on the latter format, and it looks great, of course. This film is important in my development as a film buff. I probably owe my love of cult films to it more than to any other film. I caught it in that important summer right after college, where I saw just a ton of great films. I had never heard of this, but I saw it in the foreign section and the cover intrigued me. It instantly became one of my favorites, and I rented it several more times over the years. I haven't seen it for well over a decade now, which means that I was a tad worried about whether it would hold up.I wasn't that worried, though, because I have watched Fando and Lis, El Topo and The Holy Mountain in the meantime, and I do still like all of those movies fine. Yes, Santa Sangre holds up very nicely. I realized in the intervening years that Jodorowsky isn't a director to take seriously, no matter how seriously he takes himself (he definitely thinks he's one of the greatest geniuses to walk the Earth). Though one would think that it should be Bunuel to fill the roll, I think of Jodorowsky as the Salvador Dali of cinema. I don't like to put Bunuel in that spot because, unlike Dali, Bunuel is a fully fledged artist. Dali just liked to draw weird crap. But, hey, it's neat and fun to look at. Jodorowsky has an imagination much like Dali, throwing a bunch of weird, neat, fun crap on the screen for me to ogle. I do still think Santa Sangre is Jodorowsky's strongest work, because there's enough of a story (which is pretty much a take on Psycho) to keep it from getting boring. "}{"Title":"Another Jodorowsky Masterpiece","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alejandro Jodorowsky is known for his very surreal, inimitable style of film-making. After El Topo (1970) and The Holy Mountain (1973), Santa Sangre of 1989 is yet another masterpiece by this fearless and unique filmmaker that must not be missed. I have seen the movie several times, and I am still absolutely stunned each time I see it again. Some people might not like Jodorowsky's surreal style of film-making, and the incredibly many-sided, astonishing character of Santa Sangre in particular, but everybody, even those who don't like this ingenious movie will have to admit that it is almost incomparable to anything else. Santa Sangre has been compared to Hitchcock's Psycho as well as to the work of Tod Browning, but while some elements do certainly resemble, Santa Sangre is unique and comparable only to Jodorowsky's other work.- WARNING! SPOILERS AHEAD! - The movie, which is basically divided in two parts, begins with a man named Fenix (Axel Jodorowsky, the director's son) living in an insane asylum. The first part of the movie is a 40 minute flashback to Fenix' grim childhood. Growing up in a traveling circus, Fenix works as a magician from a very young age. His mother Concha (Blanca Guerra), an acrobat, is also priestess of a bizarre cult worshiping a saint without arms and her 'holy blood'. His father Orgo (Guy Stockwell), a knife thrower and loathsome cynical alcoholic, has an affair with a dancer, a lady whose entire body is tattooed with colorful images of wild animals and bizarre-looking plants, and doesn't even shrink away from performing bizarre, violent rituals on his own son in order to make a man out of him. Fenix' love of a deaf-mute tightrope artist (a girl of about his age), and his mutual friendship with a midget are two bright aspects of his young life. After one of Fenix' parents' disputes comes to an ultra-violent escalation, it becomes clear why grown-up Fenix is living in a mental institution&#x85; In the second part of the movie, Fenix, who has in the meanwhile grown up, leaves the mental institution to start a new life with his mother, who has returned after an obviously long period of absence. Fenix is now entirely under the influence of his mother, who longs for bloody revenge against those she holds responsible for the awful strokes of fate in her life&#x85; This surreal gem is one of the most visually astonishing cinematic experiences I ever had, and the musical score goes brilliantly in line with the visual style. The atmosphere of Santa Sangre is indescribable. Santa Sangre is a movie that will shock in many aspects. There are several disturbingly violent scenes, but it is not the gore that shocks in this movie, but the ingenious atmosphere of madness, schizophrenia and constant hallucinations featured in this unique film. As Jodorowsky's other masterpieces, such as El Topo, The Holy Mountain and Fando y Lis, Santa Sangre has some elements of certain genres (Horror, Drama, Fantasy), but overall defies genre classification. The performances are excellent, be it Axel Jorodowsky in the lead, Blanca Guerra and Guy Stockwell as his parents or Sabrina Dennison as the deaf-mute, angelic love. This movie may not be everybody's taste, it is beyond doubt inimitable, brilliant and the only one of its kind. Rarely has a movie left me as impressed as this surreal masterpiece did. I short Santa Sangre is a brilliant and unique film and no true lover of cinema can afford to miss it! "},{"Title":"a one-of-a-kind film about a young man and his magical arms","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nearly twenty years after coming forth with his second 'cult' film, El Topo, Alejandro Jodorowsky practically outdid himself, so to speak, with Santa Sangre. Here is a film that is a bit more polished than El Topo's very rough, exploitation style of art-house movie-making. It's a film with some symbolic touches that, unlike the former, actually hit the mark. It's a filmmaker totally in tune with what he wants to say on film, however absurd it might be sometimes on screen, and it comes off in a very particular, memorable way. One of the things that kept me riveted to the film was, above all else, it really worked most of the time like a silent film. In general, the director is not heavy at all on dialog, and it suits the way he tells his story to a T; you could turn off the sound on the TV during some pivotal points in the story and not miss much at all. Jodorowsky fills his frames with actors that are very pronounced, close to abstract figures, and aside from the lead male (played by Axel Jodorowsky) and his no-armed mother, are a one-foot man, a mute/dumb girl, a very large man with a tattoo on his chest (who, by the way, puts the story into motion), and a muscle-bound female wrestler, among many others. This is a modern supernatural classic that works on some religious imagery, and forms of magic ranging from circus acts to invisible tricks.There isn't too much of a story to report, except that a young boy has a Mother who is rather fundamentalist about her temple, Holy Blood, being destroyed. When it is, she joins with him to the circus, but becomes enraged with the big male brute and tattoo lady. Then a series of events cuts, no pun intended, the story ahead several years after the young man escapes from a mental home and rejoins with his 'armless' mother. Santa Sangre, basically, incorporates elements of the very darkly hilarious moments of the visuals along with the overwhelming, visceral violent scenes that gave El Topo its following. But here, there is an allegorical level, one where the theme of keeping hold to the dead, and being connected to it, is linked all within the boundaries of this character. Religion is tackled here as well, and with a subtext that cuts to the heart of many a scene. Sometimes the violence is (especially in the NC-17 cut) amazingly graphic, with one scene in particular (not saying which but it's about half-way through the film) may be one of the most harrowing in its depiction in the past twenty years.Also, Jodorowsky near the end includes a certain 'twist' to the story, but unlike many other films I could mention I did not mind when it came around. If anything, it helped put another high level of pure surrealism to the subject matter. And ironically, there's nothing way over the top about Jodorowsky's style (aside from maybe the violence and a tragic-comic funeral of an elephant) in terms of the camera. Here his drama is at a level of potency that comes from the emotional strengths on the actors faces and mannerisms, as well as just the choices of the actors themselves on appearance. Whether you come out of Santa Sangre feeling you've seen a work of a master director or the un-Godly harpings of a madman of cinema, it's definitely not like much else out there today. For me, it's the peak of Jodorowsky's small body of work (Holy Mountain comes close though). A+ "},{"Title":"Acting vs. (surreal) story","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I's a big struggle. As a story that is surreal, this movie could've been great (as great as it is rated by some here), but mixed with the acting (director and relatives playing major roles, due to financial reasons I reckon) found in here ... although calling this acting, is not only a stretch of that word, it's giving it a new meaning! A whole new meaning! If you are into surreal movies (there are some that I do like actually, see the Japanese Strange Circus for example), you might be able to overlook the flaws (see above) and enjoy this more. There are great ideas here, after all! Many great metaphors and ambiguous scenes, but while watching this (with a group of friends) almost all of us, just couldn't stop laughing ... not the intention of the director of course! Again, everyone has their own liking, as one can see by the high rating of this movie, but I could only recommend the movie if you're aware of the work that Alejandro Jodorowsky has done and/or are a fan of his! "},{"Title":"a disturbing classic from a master","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Am I the only one who has read Jodorowsky's comments on this film? The comments here are almost uniformly complimentary, but it seems that nobody has ever seen Jodorowsky's comments. He holds that this film was inspired by Tod Browning's The Unknown. The armless woman is the most obvious link between the two, but there is a good deal more, for those who care to look. SS is a lovely, complex film, and while it is filled with disturbing imagery, it does not require it, or openly exploit it. Those who know The Unknown, will find many similarities and references. Unknown remains one of the most perverse films ever made (featuring a very young Joan Crawford). Santa Sangre doesn't quite match its level of perversity, but it comes about as close as you can, without a remake.  "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The plot is very simple, but there is always a lot going on in this picture. At least two viewings is required to catch everything. This film has lots of startling images and weird, but highly original visuals. It also is very disturbing and very creepy. The film is about a young man who is forced to murder women by his armless mother. Unlike anything else you have ever seen.Rated NC-17; Strong Graphic Violence and Sexual Content. "},{"Title":"Overlooked and brilliant","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many who remember Jodorowski's El Topo have never even seen this brilliant and bizarre masterpiece, which was shockingly neglected by the marketplace. What a strange conception A cult of women who cut off their arms to honor their saint. And the strange passions of a tattooed circus knife-thrower, the gothic horror of a son condemned to act as his mother's substitute arms, and the beautiful enchantment of an outing for a group of retarded people. "},{"Title":"Terrible, dreadful and","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What the @#$%?! I'm a fan of David Lynch's work so don't tell me I'm the kind of person who probably doesn't understand non-conventional movies. But this....? I have no idea what to make of it. So many far-fetched symbolic references (the elephant?), strange characters that, IMHO, serve no real purpose (the superwoman?), and pretty much two hours of I don't care how we do it, but let's just create something that people could consider ARTY. Well artsy fartsy is more like it! A bunch of pretentious hullabaloo, inconsistent drama, and a fair trigger for activating your whatever-gen. Then, some people calling it horror!? I thought horror was supposed to be SCARY. Santa Sangre isn't. Bizarre, sure, but not anywhere close to horror. Anything good about this movie, then? Well yeah, two things. Alma (the one played by Sabrina Dennison, cause she's hot), and the ending (It's over! *insert sigh of relief here*). If I'd have to choose between watching this movie again and having both my arms being cut off, I'd choose the latter in a second. What a load of boing. Seriously. "},{"Title":"Incredibly unique, probably the best modern horror flick not directed by Dario Argento","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An artistic masterpiece. This movie is probably unlike any that's ever been made, both for the look and story (which actually spans many genres). It presents such a bizarre spectacle of visuals, which are incredible in their own right, but what truly makes them stand is there's so much emotion and tension in/created by them. It's really hard to describe this movie, maybe I just need to say it's an experience and leave it at that. Certainly it's totally engrossing and you'll react to what you are seeing one way or another. There's not a lot of talking (especially since a key character is a mute), but there doesn't need to be because the visuals are so atmospheric and powerful that they say it all. Alejandro Jodorowsky did an awesome job here. Rarely do you see such attention to detail. There's hardly a few wasted frame, and everything included in the director's version, no matter how unconventional, grotesque, or explicit, needs to be there (so, as always, avoid chastized versions). The film is certainly not for everyone (not for adults with no taste that want more regurgitated happy Hollywood movies or people that aren't mature enough for unrated movies), but it's an experience that will stay with you for years. Recently, The (brainless) Cell seems to have lifted from Santa Sangre, but it had the visual aspect (in portions) without doing much of anything with them or the rest of the movie, so it doesn't hold a candle to this classic. 10/10 "},{"Title":"WARPED AND TWISTED.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Santa Sangre is one of the best horor films ever made. It is warped and twisted.It's a re-working of Norman Bates, but is based on a real life serial killer who now lives in Mexico. The real life killer was put in a loony bin for being mad, but was later released and is now living a 'normal' life.The story is familiar, I'll say no more than that, but the way it is handled is fantastic. It makes for uncomfortable viewing.For a cheap laugh, watch the credits - keep an eye out for someone listed as 'Fat Prostitute'!The soundtrack is very good too.Buy or rent this now and FORGET EVERYTHING YOU HAVE EVER SEEN.  "},{"Title":"Overated, and hard to sit through, and not because it was scary","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How can ANYONE say that this film, Sante Sangre is good? HOW? its trashy, corny, cliched, and downright stupid! Its trying overly hard, trying to create 'haunting' images, and trying to strike terror into the viewer. The only scary part that struck me was that i wasted 3 bucks to see this cheap wannabee shocking film. The plot was totally out there but not in a good, artistic way, and it was downright corny, and trying WAY too hard, and is made worse by the fact that people positively responded to such utter garbage! I have yet to check out the other films of Jadorwosky, but I hope they're not as bad.  "}{"Title":"Santa Sangre","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young man escapes an insane asylum and meets up with his arm-less mother. As a young boy, Fenix(Axel Jodorowsky)was a performing magician for a circus where his father was a portly knife-thrower and his mom did acrobatics while dangling by her hair way in the air. His mother, Concha(Blanc Guerra), is the leader of a cult whose church is named Santa Sangre and has enshrined their tabernacle with the arm-less mannequin of this female who was brutally murdered and raped by two men while fighting them. Her sanctuary was bulldozed, but that wasn't what really harms her. Her husband, the knife-thrower, was seen often flirting with the tattooed lady who made her message known that she desired him greatly. As they are about to have passionate sex, Concha burns them both with acid(he receives his in the crotch for his act). Dear ole husband retaliates by cutting off Concha's arms as Fenix watches in horror as he slits his throat as no hope for a decent life after his scarring.The film provides Fenix with a paramour..a sad, deaf mute named Alma(Sabrina Dennison)who has the misfortune of being under the care of the tattooed lady. As Fenix sees the bodies of his parents taken away, he's mentally wounded and perhaps any hope for a normal life is in doubt. However, inside Fenix's mind, Concha has found a place to flourish.As a young adult, the director AJ masterfully creates a surreal, unpredictable portrait of one man's madness as he is the arms for his mother who is now a performing artist. Someone finds the tattooed lady, now working as a hooker, and slaughters her graphically. Any woman who dares to try to lure Fenix into a lustful sexual relationship are to be exterminated because Concha will not allow anyone to take her boy away from her. In an interesting twist, anytime Concha desires for him to kill, Fenix can not control what his hands do. He fights and fights to no avail. She has created a link to his mental willpower so strong, Fenix is a tragic victim.I was blown away by this film because we see what lies inside Fenix's fractured, tortured mind. He was stained mentally at such a young age, from seeing an elephant die(this is a constant in the film and a haunting scene)to his parents' ultimate falling out. His visions become so surreal, we never know what is real and what isn't providing us with the fact that Fenix is a tarnished soul in need of rest from his weary trauma.Graphic, colorful, and truly unforgettable..AJ is a true artist who is not afraid to bleach his screen with the macabre, bizarre, and strange. "},{"Title":"woah","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie had a whole lot of sybalism that I am not even about to understand.  This is a very mesmeric film that is very bloody at times yet always captivating.  I guess it is as good a place as any to start from if you are going to start watching this guys stuff.  His stuff only get crazier, and even more mesmeric. "},{"Title":"Incredibly disturbing","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SANTA SANGRE is an awesome, disturbing, and creepy horror film. A mental illed man commits murders in order to please her mother. PSYCHO? DON'T GO IN THE HOUSE?No, this is something you haven't seen. This is one of those horror movies that will be always remembered for it's creepiness. This man's mother has no arms or legs, she's pure evil! Well that's not everything, you have to watch out for some more weirdenss.The director knows perfectly how to mix the gore factor with suspense. Watch SANTA SANGRE, if you think you've seen all you're totally wrong. This movie will surely disturb your sleep the day you watch it.Welcome to Fright Night!...for real  "},{"Title":"An okay film marred by its disturbance","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not shy of watching bizarre films, but this was too much for me. It was just far too odd, and if it weren't for the graveyard scene (the most disturbing scene given that it triggered a phobia), then this would probably get a higher mark. It scores points for its quirkiness in its characters, the acting quality and the score, but the rest of it was a little nasty. I watched this in World Cinema a couple of months ago, and it made me cry. I'd give it a few more years before a re-watch, personally. The cinematography was great as well. Apart from the title - and this is not anything against its creators or the nationalities of its creators - you couldn't tell it was a Mexican/ Italian film. The quality of quirkiness gave it away. "},{"Title":"This very strange film will appeal to few people.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is Freud with a sledge hammer! The father is very sadistic, the mother is very jealous, and the son kills women who are sexually attractive. Nothing is subtle in this film. Roger Ebert gives the film 4 stars because it is different. I'm being very generous to give it 2 because it is so different you have to ask why was this film ever made? It is a horrible horror film.  "},{"Title":"totally confused","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has moments. On the whole though it's confused >and lacks coherence. The plot line wanders, and seems at >times to be only a vehicle for moving from one set shot >to the next. The directors vision out strips his ability. the Elephants funiral is a gorgeously shot scene and could >have stood on it's own as a short film. ON THE WHOLE THE BEST THING I CAN SAY IS IT WAS ALMOST >ALL IN FOCUS. "},{"Title":"Utter Foolishness","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is ridiculous.  Do not waste your time.  I've lost the last couple hours of my life and I'll never be able to get them back.  MY IQ dropped by several points and I am now more socially backward for having watched this movie. "}]