[{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies ever!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"115 out of 131 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not too long ago I finally got around to seeing this film, I'd heard so much about it that I had to see it. After seeing it the first time I thought it was good, but I have to say that I liked it even more on my second viewing. The film is absolutely wonderful! The story is very amusing and keeps you interested in the characters from start to finish.I literally couldn't wait to see what would happen in the next scene. This is one of those movies that goes by very quickly. I think that's a sign of a good movie, when you just can't believe that you're already an hour or so into the movie. The story really flows nicely from scene to scene.The cast is great in the film as well. Billy Crystal pulls off one of his best performances, and has a slew of great jokes throughout the film. Meg Ryan looks as beautiful as ever and has such a cute way about her. Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher definitely deserve a great deal of credit too, they both did superb jobs as well. Director Rob Reiner did a great job with the film, keep up the good work Rob.If you're into romantic comedies, then you definitely should see this film. Even if you aren't really into the whole romantic part of it, the comedy is great and worth seeing. I would most definitely recommend seeing this film.I hope you like it. Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"An Icon","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"79 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie grows like a good wine. I really didn't get it when it was first released; I avoided it like the plague. But people have a curious tendency to mature and change their POVs with time, and so was it with me. This movie opened me up to a lot of things - believe it or not, I didn't get the 'Call Me' sequence at first I was lost, and admit it. But I am not lost now, and this movie is partly responsible.Meg might be the reason guys want to see this movie, again and again, but after a while you begin to appreciate the contribution Crystal made to the film. The dialogue has his name all over it. The dialogue in this film is at times simply amazing - check the memorable quotes here if you've seen the movie and have forgot.I would not pick this movie out of a barrel as most likely to be so influential, but it's a fact that it is, and rightfully so. Great support from Kirby and Fisher. Today it's Hanks and Ryan who are paired, thanks undoubtedly to Sleepless in Seattle, but one wonders why no one has tried to get Crystal and Ryan back together again. They're fantastic.This is one of the all-time best movies ever made. All-time 10? Or 20? or 1000? I don't know; it's just one of the best - it has that quality about it. Keeper.  "},{"Title":"When romance met sheer genius","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"73 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am no expert on the genre, but I'd have to say When Harry met Sally is, besides the plethora of truly wonderful films made by Woody Allen, the wittiest and most funny romantic comdedy waiting for you out there in video world. I'd only wished I'd seen the film sooner because this seems like that perfect film for discussion with a circle of good friends at Pizzaria Uno. The movie came out in 1989, but for some reason, I think this is one even our kids may like.Like all good films coming from the genere, this film thrives most on its witty dialgue and cleverness in not sentimnetalizing it too much. In other words, there is that perfect equilibrium between scenes of sheer poignancy and scenes of brutal comic relief. The thespians involved, of course, have a lot to do with the film's success and overall appeal. Ryan and Crystal are perfect for the roles assigned, each one of them bringing their charisma and fresh breath of life to the screen. Crystal fits snugly into that character we find all too obnoxious but can't help but loving and Ryan, well, she is as adorable as always.The issue the film tackles is an important one, I think. It asks us a question of universal importance, namely, can women and men ever be friends?. I'll leave that for you and your friends to talk about at Pizzaria Uno. For now, I'll just say that with heaps of quirky, funny dialogue, a taut script from Nora Ephron, and clean directing form Reiner, When Harry met Sally is a highly enjoyable film that unsurprisingly has held strong a decade after its inception.dan  "},{"Title":"peerless","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"69 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love romantic comedies, and this may be my all-time favorite. Nora Ephron's writing is sharp and VERY funny, and the perfect cast delivers the dialogue with flawless timing. I own it on DVD, and will almost invariably turn to it for at least a couple of minutes when I see it in the TV schedule. There are so many priceless moments that I can't pick out one to highlight; most of them are subtler and funnier than the famous Simulated Orgasm scene. Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher are perfect in their supporting roles, and Rob Reiner's direction couldn't be better. I'm afraid that I'm doing nothing but gushing in this review, but great is great, and it's hard to say anything else. "},{"Title":"Famous romantic comedy","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"53 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can men and women ever be merely friends, without the temptation of sex rearing its ugly head? This is the question that this movie so famously posed - and so glibly answered - almost fifteen years ago. As it follows the progression of Harry and Sally - a pair of charming, if neurotic, Manhattanites - from enemies to confidants to lovers, it seems to smugly relish the fact that it has proven its point men and women can never just  be friends - sex is always the bond that unites them. But the film is so manipulative, so dogged in its pursuit of this goal, that it never appears an alternative position was ever considered. So, as philosophy, chalk When Harry Met Sally up to around zilch.Now, disregard the above paragraph. Because When Harry Met Sally makes up for its slights to credibility and lack of rigorous thought by being easily the funniest movie of its year (1989). This humor flows mainly from the beautifully crafted scenes and dialogue; indeed, each scene is a dialogue set piece (and could be transferred to the stage quite easily - surprising no one's ever done it, actually), which flows with the firm and confident rapidity of a 20th century Shaw or Oscar Wilde. Of course, this approach has its downside, too mainly that the lead characters seem less and less like real people and more like tools for the brilliant lines and conceits of the screenwriter (Nora Ephron - never better; in fact, never even remotely close ever again). This may have something to do with the film's inability to seem completely real or true to human nature as it actually plays out - but with lines like these, who's complaining?For, what is great about the movie is not its originality (it steals from all over, especially Woody Allen movies, and the few ideas it can truly call its own are, as I've said, not particularly bright or well-thought out), but its ability to hone in on stereotypes of character and situation and offer pithy and hilarious precis of the male-female condition through the witty banter and interaction of its characters. As such, the film is less like a conventional movie and more like a stand-up routine dealing with life and love in the Big City it is to be judged not by its content, but by the dexterity of its put-ons and one-liners. (It is not surprising, for example, that several of its set-pieces and comic notions were revisited just a few years later, and in much the same manner, on Seinfeld.) In that regard, it succeeds flawlessly.Just think of all the conventions it gets in, and skewers the one-track mind male (Harry); the sensitive and practical female, repulsed yet intrigued by said male (Sally); the emotionally unsettled mistress playing the field (Carrie Fisher, who keeps an index card file of available men); the live-ins who can't commit (Sally and her ex-boyfriend); women's concern with middle age and their biological clock (I'm gonna be 40, weeps Sally. When? asks Harry. Someday.); the male's tendency to skip out after making love; the horror and unpredictability of blind dates; and, in a scene which is almost passe to mention anymore, women's ability to fake orgasm. The way this film jumps from one familiar convention to another would be embarrassing if it weren't for the fact that each one is handled with such economy, humor and grace.Billy Crystal acquits himself well as Harry - predictably, perhaps, as it's a part tailor made for a standup comedian. Still, seeing him in this after years of half-baked movies and fawning Oscar presentations, it's a revelation how glib and unlikable he can allow himself to be . . . and *still* be likable. Yo, Billy, if you're listening out there try incorporating some of Harry's darker shadings and more egocentric traits into your future roles; it gives you a more complete palette to work from and keeps you from being too generic and schticky. And your charm and humor will always shine through anyway.If Billy needs to edge a little bit closer back to Harry, though, Meg Ryan needs to get Sally completely out of her system. This role, deservedly, made her a star - but she has tried to go back to this particular well once too many times, and it's become way too familiar you know, the adorable, bright-eyed bit - mentally disheveled, prissy around the edges with just a wisp of klutziness, all topped by that cute, mega-watt smile.  It has become now the Meg Ryan character, but back when Sally came along it was still fresh, and it was tied to a particular personality. Ryan gives Sally a shy-cum-toughness as well as a moody, slightly cynical and self-deprecating wit that is just totally right. She and Crystal play off each other like two old pros, and they weave in and out of some charming and hilarious verbal music. It's funny, but I just recently saw this movie on a Saturday afternoon television marathon of Romantic Weepies - and it struck me as an odd designation, because this movie is anything but a weeper. It takes a clear-eyed, almost cynical view of love and companionship, and creates around it a charming tapestry of bracing wit and crunching dialogue. So save the violins and the handkerchiefs for romantic comedies less sure on their feet - whose deficiency in wit must be made up for by a surfeit of melodrama and manipulation. This movie is manipulative too, of course, but its manipulation is almost beside the point. It's the laughs along the way we remember here, not the big kiss or the grand embrace. That Harry and Sally were meant for each other and that the film proves it is much less important than the fact that Sally does one hell of a great orgasm.Waiter, I'll have what they're having . . .  "},{"Title":"Beautiful film, giving hope to all those seemingly unrequited loves.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"41 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can you beat some of the lines in this film? As a guy, which I am, I identified with Harry's lines so much, and you can't help but side with him. The chemistry between the two actors, Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan is superb, and you believe in them when they talk, you feel for them when they look at each other. Even the friends are well casted, Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby. It's such relaxed acting and filming that you do nothing but watch these people fall in love, and pretty soon you feel like you're involved as well. With a fantastic soundtrack, direction, script and acting, it's a great film. "},{"Title":"not just a chick flick","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not just your average chick flick tearjerker romance movie. I'm sure that a lot of guys can relate to this movie as well.First of all, there are some hilarious lines in this movie that will appeal to men and women. Second, the orgasm scene in the restaurant has got to be one of the funniest scenes in movie history. And finally, the guys will be cheering on Billy Crystal, as he makes love to a LOT of women in this movie. I really enjoyed this movie, and I'm pretty sure that I am a guy (I'll check later). Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan will remind everyone of their everyday lives in this true-to-life (and very funny) movie. So guys, don't reject When Harry Met Sally... just because women cried at it. And girls, if you see this movie, you will probably want to see it another 50 times.  "},{"Title":"the perfect modern take on a classic idea","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aside from freer language and more explicitly sexual humour, When Harry met Sally is a very traditional romantic comedy, very much in the mould established in 1934 by It Happened One Night. Two very different but evenly-matched people are thrown together by circumstance. They are initially hostile to one another, but over the course of the film, this hostility turns to love as their personalities are softened by exposure to their opposites. Indeed, the central traits of Harry and Sally correspond very directly to those of Peter and Ellen in IHON - he worldly-wise and cynical, she spoiled and certain of what's what. Neither of them, it turns out, is as right or as self-confidant as they believe. What's very modern about WHMS is its attitude to long-term relationships. It's no longer enough for the couple simply to fall in love and live happily ever after. They must have a full and real understanding of exactly what, or who, they're letting themselves in for. They must also be sexually compatible (hence the importance of their having slept with one another before they finally get together). Within this framework of traditional romance in an unromantic world, WHMS is almost perfect. Structurally, there are no gaps or implausibilities. Even the central coincidence of these people running into each other under these circumstances is answered. The short but affecting intermissions of successful old couples describing their relationships are not only crucial to the pacing of the film, they also make the point that Harry and Sally are just another couple with an unusual and interesting story. There's an element of luck and coincidence in every successful relationship. The effectiveness of the film's structure is perhaps best highlighted by the soundtrack. There's a perfectly selected Louis Armstrong track for every phase of their relationship - the soundtrack not only complements the mood of the film, it comments on the action. The acting is superb, with the two main protagonists as well as their two foils (Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher) all giving career-best comic performances. Without such fantastic performances, it's very possible that the film could have failed these are essentially self-indulgent people, that we sympathise with them and recognise them is in great measure down to the stars. Finally, the script is fantastic. Of course nobody really speaks like that, but like all great scripts it distills emotions and points of view into a few lines. And it's funny. The one-liners are still sharp and amusing on the twentieth viewing, and the set-pieces are beautifully realised (the orgasm scene is only the most famous - check out Harry's olympic sex-dream speech - Must have been the dismount - or the I'm through making a schmuck out of myself phone call). All this, and a dinner party talking point about male and female relationships. Can we ever be just friends? Not even with an ugly girl? Nah, you pretty much want to nail them too. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Someone","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"40 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is Billy Crystal's show.  He has an understated, ordinary, humble screen presence.  It's not the case that every single line HAS to be funny in order for us to like him - with Crystal, a joke can fall flat and somehow it doesn't make him personally look bad.  But here every line IS funny, so he has charm to burn.I know people like Meg Ryan - I guess I do, too, in this particular film - and I know that there are people who find her `orgasm' scene amusing, but Sally is really just someone for Harry to meet and ultimately fall in love with.  She's completely clueless.  Most of the jokes are at her expense rather than his.  The genuine wit, the power of observation, the theoretical insight, all lie with Harry.  Is this a problem?  Not in the least.  Unlike most romantic comedies this is not some kind of duel - it's the more realistic study of many, many separate encounters.Also unlike most romantic comedies, this one is funny.  I think I mentioned that.The film benefits from its second rank support good performances by Carrie Fischer and that guy whose name doesn't matter, locations someone actually went to some trouble to look for, and a song-score that is doesn't intrude and hit us repeatedly over the head.  Allegedly `When Harry Met Sally' has been imitated by later productions, but I can't think of a case where the imitation is accurate enough to even be recognisable. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally - Stands the Test of Time","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally may not at first seem to be the kind of film that remains classic and timeless. In this very cute exploration of an age-old question Can men and women truly just be friends?, Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan play the kind of characters we have come to love to see them play. No surprises there as they skillfully banter back and forth between adorable, hysterical and morose as the plot rolls on. But upon closer inspection, this film is actually full of nice surprises, including its durability. Watch carefully and you will find one of the best examples of the way an excellent script can propel the plot, character development and pacing of a film perfectly from start to finish. Many lines may seem to be merely entertaining one-liners, but they also serve these other purposes simultaneously. This is a well crafted and well acted script. Even the most dated aspect of the film, the intentional focus on clothing, hair and makeup styles as they change throughout the decades, has taken an unexpected poignancy now that the styles we may remember as current at the time have come to be old-fashioned themselves. The end result is that When Harry Met Sally speaks to us if we remember the times portrayed in the film or not. We're still asking questions about men and women and friendship, and films such as this still help us answer them. "}{"Title":"Would you like to have dinner?... Just friends","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There have only been but a very few films that have tackled the friendship-turned-to-love theme as beautifully as 'When Harry Met Sally' did. There have been numerous attempts thereafter, the most recent one being 'A Lot Like Love' but none of them come close to this wonderful gem. Nora Ephron's writing is top class as it provides clever one-liners, great dialogues, well-written characters and a lovely story. Rob Reiner tells a common story in a very uncommon way. A lot of the movie is based on both Ephron and Reiner's experience. Similarly the characters of Harry and Sally are based on themselves. However, they allow the actors to insert their own input which leads to the electrifying chemistry between the lead actors. The cast and crew have had a lot of fun during the making and the amount of heart that's been put into the film is quite obvious. The story obviously revolves around Billy Crystal's Harry and Meg Ryan's Sally. The two actors are fantastic to say the least and bring magic on screen. I wonder why they were never paired again. Perhaps it's for the best as they are remembered for this movie rather than what happened with Gere and Roberts after 'Runaway Bride'. Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher deserve mention too for their great support as Harry and Sally's friends. Together with Crystal and Ryan, they create some of the funniest scenes. The background music flows in a subtle way, giving voice to the city and the songs fantastically add to the narration. Without a doubt, 'When Harry Met Sally' is one of the finest films of its genre and one of the very few that stood the test of time. Even today people vividly remember Meg Ryan's memorable orgasm scene. Not that that's the only great scene in the movie. There are too many to list but to mention a few that I liked include the scene where Harry and Sally date each other's best friend but things take an unexpected turn, the car-ride to New York, the scene where Sally for the first time opens up to Harry about herself...For some people the film raised a question whether men and woman can be platonic friends without having sex ruining it. I don't think it was the intention of the movie as it's only about these two characters who have very different viewpoints and when they meet the first time, there's a very strong attraction which stays throughout the end and Crystal and Ryan display that in a very subtle way. As the friendship grows stronger, so does the attraction because it's not just physical anymore. The more they know each other the more they're drawn towards one another and the love gets stronger. Thus, it's not about whether men and woman can have a successful platonic friendship but about two people who were always fond of each other, become friends and gradually realize their love. 'When Harry Met Sally' isn't only for those who like romantic comedies because it can absolutely be enjoyed as a hilarious comedy. "},{"Title":"When Neil Met Woody","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Man, 127 comments so far and all but two are breathless raves. I just saw this movie for the first time, and I gotta say, Woody Allen should be getting royalty checks.  I'm stunned how many Allen trademarks were borrowed for this film (starting with neurotic Jewish male / flakey Shiksa princess romance all the way on down to the use of It Had To Be You -- ANNIE HALL's theme song).  I can just imagine the pitch meeting  It's like ANNIE HALL, only re-imagined by Neil Simon as a sitcom pilot!  I mean, it's a sweet movie, but I think its classic status is way overscaled. Plus, the notorious fake orgasm scene was rather, uh, anticlimactic.  It was so over-the-top (anyone really behaving like that in a public NY establishment would be escorted out immediately), it felt more like an SNL sketch than a romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"hard to imagine a more pedestrian romance","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It isn't exactly love at first sight Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan share a car from Chicago to New York, and after a decade of chance encounters finally become close friends. But by mutual consent the two are determined not to sleep together, thinking that a commitment between lovers would somehow jeopardize the casual rapport they otherwise enjoy. Will they or won't they? It's a ridiculous argument at any rate men and women can of course be just friends, but there's no reason for this couple to prove the point, since both are young, single, compatible, obviously attracted to each other, and have no luck with other partners. Nora Ephron's overwritten screenplay benefits from two stars with plenty of chemistry, playing characters with very little appeal Harry is smug; Sally is cuddly; and neither is able to define him- or herself outside of a sexual relationship. Meg Ryan fakes a good orgasm, and the film in general does an even more convincing imitation of 'Annie Hall', to a point where it could easily suffer from charges of plagiarism. "},{"Title":"Arguably the best romantic comedy of recent years.","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" By the late eighties, the romantic comedy as a movie genre had been in a sort of disturbed sleep for twenty years with only an occasional and disappointing movie outing between snores.Yet when they released 'When Harry met Sally' in 1989, it signified to the world that the RomCom was not only out of bed but it was showered, shaved, dressed in a brand new suit and ready to take on the world once more with new found confidence.It's 1977 and Harry Burns (Billy Crystal) has just graduated from the University of Chicago and is moving to New York to start his career. He's a nice enough guy who's only flaw seems to be his apparent misogynistic and macabre outlook on life.Also New York bound is fellow graduate Sally Albright (Meg Ryan) who as a favour for a friend agrees to take Harry along. The two have never met before and almost immediately Sally takes a dislike to him. His brash and over flirtatious demeanour irritates her intensely and her quirky prissiness becomes a natural target for his humour. He even sexually propositions her, which she of course rejects outright.In view of all this coupled with Harry's somewhat blinkered idea that men and women can never be friends without sexual attraction becoming an issue, they reach New York and mutually call an abrupt halt to their 18 hour friendship, both convinced it has lasted 18 hours too long.Fast forward five years and Harry and Sally meet again at an airport and when he discovers they are on the same flight, he approaches her to rekindle their friendship and this time things are even worse.Despite both finding love and success in New York, the years have done nothing to kerb Harry's sexist and irritating views and Sally's abject disapproval of everything that he stands for seems even more pronounced. They part once again at journeys end, this time with Sally making it quite clear she wants nothing whatsoever to do with him again.Another five years pass and both Harry and Sally meet in a bookshop both having recently lost the loves referred to in the previous paragraph. Harry is divorcing his unfaithful wife and Sally has just dumped her long-term relationship as it was becoming clear to her that it was never going to end in an 'I Do'.This time however, possibly due to them both being humbled by recent events in their life, they find that they have empathy with each other and a friendship starts to build, a true platonic friendship to the extent where they finally become inseparable and reliant on each other almost on a brother and sister level.They partner each other at functions when neither have a date, they set each other up on blind dates and even take day trips together to the museum, and by using each other as an emotional crutch they finally learn to settle the demons of their previous relationships.It seems like Harry has finally realised and now thoroughly excepts that men and women CAN be friends without a sexual entanglement. In fact so secure are they in their beliefs that they are nothing more than just good friends, they seem completely oblivious to the fact that they have in fact fallen head of heals in love with each other.Billy Crystal is on fine form in one of his most memorable and hilarious performances and Meg Ryan 'Fakes' her way into movie history in that now famous restaurant scene. With great direction by Rob Reiner, a superb script by Nora Ephron and wonderful support from Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby, 'When Harry Met Sally' is the Crème de la Crème of all the modern day RomComs. "},{"Title":"Capra, Allen, Cosmo","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're going to like this, it will basically come down to a few things.Do you like Capra and old Hollywood? Which is to say, do you cherish movies where we can pretend that people are struggling in the real world, while knowing every step of the way they're falling in love in a movie? And that life ought to work a bit like this, love as unpredictable fate.Do you not mind Woody Allen? Enough to accept the roundly toned-down narrative tricks, neurosis, cynical wit as disillusioned truth and reference to other movies as blueprint for life, in our case (linking back to #1) Casablanca. (if you like Allen too much, this will grate as second-rate compromise)Can you still stomach Allen's movie image of the cute, jazzy New York?Do you watch endless reruns of Friends, just because of the cozy mood?Can you kid yourself for a while that Cosmo blurbs can substitute for relationship insights?None of it means you are a bad person. You just want from time to time some comfort food for the eyes. So if half of those are true, Rob Reiner has made for you this sticky-sweet film from Nora Ephron's smart recipe, much better than Ephron's own with Hanks and Ryan, Sleepless and You've Got Mail. "},{"Title":"When everything changed...","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Whenever I hear something about him, I wonder; what ever happened to Rob Reiner's career? What ever happen to that man that could direct any genre? The man who made us cry in Stand by me or made us scare to death in Misery is now out of the focus. I saw his last film, Alex & Emma (which I tried to tolerate because of the actors who starred in it) and it was shameful to see he was promoting it with and advertisement saying from the director of&#133; The director of When Harry met Sally, this movie, Reiner's most successful romantic comedy and film ever and by now probably a classic, because of Meg Ryan's famous scene and because of its general charm. Believe, everything is pink in this film, and the romantic story it proposes is something everyone has experienced. In some ways it reminded me to The mirror has to faces, but that couple relationship was totally different.Here there are two guys in their 20's, travelling to New York for a better life, arguing about the things they think, do, and expect of their future, and so on. These scenes in the car driving to New York could be extremely boring, but writer Nora Ephron (who would write for Meg Ryan again in You've got mail) makes them very interesting. How can't you be afraid of death?, Sally tells Harry, and he answers I'm just prepared, when I read a book I always read the ending first in case I die and I can't finish it.Years later that trip is history, and they both have various encounters through the years. She pretends he doesn't recognize her, because she remembers him perfectly. She was actually captivated by him on that trip but never told him. On the other hand, he pretends to be casual, but hasn't erased her from his mind; after more than a decade! Soon they start hanging out, telling each other everything, and become best friends; but if you saw them on the street you wouldn't doubt to think they are a couple.Why don't they confess their feelings? You've got to see the film to figure it out; you've got to witness what happens, how it happens and most importantly why. In our original time, Rob Reiner did this picture more than a decade ago, and he directed it simply and honestly. Without knowing he also brought us one of the first climatic endings in a romantic comedy; those when the guy declares his love in the last minutes, in a powerful touching final speech, you know.But what he actually got right was the cast. Yes, he got together two actors that achieved a unique chemistry in a movie that needed it entirely. Billy Crystal, showing that way of speaking that is only his and a mark for any good comedian. Rob Reiner helped him to become the super comedic star he was already becoming. And Meg Ryan will be ever grateful to this opportunity that showed her unusual beauty, natural talent and all the other things that would make her the queen of the romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Woody Lite","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The relationship between the title characters is explored over the course of a dozen years. This treads the same ground that Woody Allen's romantic comedies have been exploring for decades except that this feels like one of his lesser efforts because Reiner is not in the same league as Allen. This is an uninspired, by-the-numbers exercise that is fondly remembered by audiences primarily for its single funny scene - the fake orgasm by Ryan at a deli. Unfortunately, everything else about this witless comedy also seems fake, including the emotions and the relationships. The intermittent interviews with the couples is meant to be touching, but comes across as pathetically contrived. "},{"Title":"Sleepless in New York","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Harry Met Sally... is one of those rare, one in a million motion pictures that becomes a cultural icon. It's been needlessly ripped off, and endlessly spoofed since its release in 1989. In fact, this year's Dumb and Dumberer When Harry Met Lloyd is even a pun on it. At least the title, anyway.Many people will tell you the plot is weak, but the movie is good because of characters. Okay, well, I disagree. I think the plot, the characters and the script all work together to form an excellent romantic comedy. Whether it be the irony in the script, the characters' quirks or the smart, snappy, crisp dialogue thrown between Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan, When Harry Met Sally not only meets every expectation, but exceeds.The film opens up with Harry Burns (Crystal) and Sally Albright (Ryan) driving to New York. Sally is best friends with Harry's girlfriend, Amanda. As they drive along, Harry and Sally start getting into a heated debate over Casablanca. This discussion ends in discussing something a bit more risque If men and women can sleep together and still be friends in the morning. Harry's standpoint is a no. Sally says yes. Harry explains that no man can be friends with a woman that he finds attractive. He always wants to have sex with her. Sally replies, So, you're saying that a man can be friends with a woman he finds unattractive? Harry comes back with, No. You pretty much want to nail 'em too.That's the kind of dialogue you get a lot in this movie. If you want to compare Crystal's character to another fictional one, it would be George from Seinfeld. George has all these intricate theories worked out about everything, from double-dipping to violating the splash zone. (If you've seen the episode I'm talking about you'll get it.) Harry Burns is the same way. Only his theories are all on sex, and/or the differences between men and women. You could call him pessimistic. He admits he has a dark side. Sally says, I have as much of a dark side as the next person. Harry replies, When I get a new book, I read the last page first so I know what happens in case I die. That, my friend, is a dark side. Funny, I do the same thing and I've never really thought about it.Writer Nora Ephron based her screenplay on none other than the director of the film - Rob Reiner - and his love life. She sat down with him and another person once, and listened intently to his stories. According to her, she then coughed up a screenplay, handed it to Rob, and they made the film.Rob Reiner is one of the most talented and dependable directors in Hollywood. He adds a certain innocence, a certain charm, and a certain chemistry to his films that is hard to miss. His last great (or very good) film was The American President, but everyone finds themself in a ditch after a while, and I think as far as directors go, Reiner was one of the most consistently dependable directors during the eighties and nineties. Check this out This is Spinal Tap, The Princess Bride, When Harry Met Sally, Misery, Sleepless in Seattle, The American President All very good - some great - motion pictures that have become as famous as I don't know what.Coming to the cast, Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan are an absolute comic and romantic pairing. Every line is real. Every inch of attraction doesn't seem artificial. I swear that the first fifteen minutes of this film has some of the most interesting, engaging and downright smart dialogue I have ever seen in a film. Crystal and Ryan - especially Crystal - really break down everything and kind of make rules out of everything. Like Harry's amendment in the beginning, or how they dissect everything later on in the film and analyze it. I like when characters in films are quirky and have theories on everything. To me, people that have theories on life might as well hold the meaning of life in their hands, because to them, they are.When Harry Met Sally is a keen observation on modern life, romance, men, women, friendship, and sex. And if you want something a bit tamer and more for the general audience, I recommend Sleepless in Seattle, which has just as much chemistry and observation going on as When Harry Met Sally does.In a time of cheap teen romance films, artificial dialogue and downright uninteresting stories, rarely does a romantic comedy like this come along, and it's an honor to watch something as observational, true, sweet, engaging, humorous, and lovely as When Harry Met Sally.4.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Acerbic insights wrapped up in Woody Allen-isms and corny, autumnal romanticism...","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally..., astutely concocted by screenwriter Nora Ephron, brought back the spirit of a pointed, yet romantic-minded, battle-of-the-sexes comedy not seen since Woody Allen's films of the 1970s. It instantly got off on the right foot with audiences circa 1989, circling many dryly acerbic truths about men and women while not causing folks to bristle too much (it was the perfect crowd-pleaser mush underneath a world-weary shell). Yet, it's that precise desire to jab--but not too hard!--which causes the movie to seem a bit fatigued today (the puppy doggedness hasn't aged well). A single man and woman (he the chauvinistic one, she being headstrong, but insecure about it) are thrown together for a one-time car trip, which leads to numerous such meetings in which both characters constantly square off against the other for their respective teams. Ephron's world (as well as director Rob Reiner's) isn't peopled with living, breathing human beings (despite the chapter stops, filmed in Hollywood-ized documentary style, showcasing different love stories); no, she's interested in sound-bites, catch phrases, sight gags, and lyrical humdingers--zingers designed to reduce hungry audiences to laughs, then to tears. Some of it works, especially early on before the 'plot' takes its formula shape. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan manage to create a sandpaper-ish rapport which isn't always convincing, but is likable. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A Cute Little Love Story","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has one of the most classic scenes in the history of cinema. The scene where Sally tells Harry how easy it is for a woman to fake an orgasm and then, demonstrates it in the restaurant is straight classic!! That part alone, is worth watching the movie. On a whole, it's a cute story about falling in love, and finding love where you least expect it. The principle characters Harry (Billy Crystal) & Sally (Meg Ryan) find their paths keep crossing after a chance meeting while driving to New York. They try to set their friends up with each other, before realizing that they are the ones who are meant for each other. A cute film. "}{"Title":"Not to miss","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a great movie. The dialogues between Harry and Sally are extremely funny and interesting, they're basically everything that I like to think and talk about with my best friend. Who is a guy, and not a girl, a thing that is perfectly explained in the movie by Billy Crystal. Except for the dark side thing his character is somebody I really relate to, we just think alike. Great acting, great music, great dialogues(especially by Crystal who, at moments looks like Jerry Seinfeld;I don't know if i's those white sneakers or the dialogues) and a bunch of very funny jokes make this movie a must see for everyone. Oh and a nice touch with those scenes where old married couples explain the (sometimes almost unbelievable) circumstances in which they met. Old people had Casablanca, this is a movie for the younger generations. And you don't even need the hankies.  9/10  "},{"Title":"I'll have what Reiner was directing in the 80's","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I came here tonight because when you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible.My favorite Rob Reiner film has always been When Harry Met Sally, a romantic comedy that I never expected to enjoy as much as I did. It's the best Woody Allen film not directed by Woody Allen. Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal's quirky chemistry in this movie is probably one of the best I've seen in any film. Reiner is a director that is hard to categorize since he has worked with different genres thriller with Misery, fantasy/adventure with The Princess Bride, coming of age with Stand by Me, mockumentary with This is Spinal Tap, drama with A Few Good Men, and comedy with The Bucket List. He's made his share of bad films (his latest films are probably his weakest), but he seems to have excelled in every genre without establishing a common trademark. You could watch When Harry Met Sally back to back with Misery and you'd never guess it was directed by the same person. The secret to his success with this rom-com is that the relationship feels true to life as he first introduces these flawed characters that don't seem to care too much for each other, but over the years they begin bonding and establishing a strong friendship. These characters are so relatable and we can see ourselves or our friends in the film. It reminds us of that friend of the opposite sex we had and how easy it was to blur the line between friendship and love. It makes us think of that universal question Can a man and a woman be best friends without falling in love with each other? A lot of credit must be given to Nora Ephron's Oscar nominated screenplay because the dialogue and debates between the main characters are authentic and sharp at the same time. There are so many memorable scenes, including the fake orgasm which turned Meg Ryan into such a star, but the final tear jerking scene is my favorite because Billy Crystal delivered his lines in such a perfect way. Even the scenes where old couples are being interviewed in documentary style works perfectly and serves a purpose other than simply serving as transitions taking place in the story. The honesty that comes through in each conversation between Harry and Sally and the incredible chemistry between them is what makes this one of my go to films when it comes to recommending a romantic movie. Did I mention that the film takes place in New York of all places? http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Can Men & Women Be Friends Or Does Sex Always Get In The Way?","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From the director of Stand by Me, The Princess Bride & A Few Good Men, When Harry Met Sally is an elegantly crafted, cleverly composed & wonderfully narrated romance comedy that raises a pretty interesting question of if a man & a woman can just remain friends without sex coming in their way and also covers many other fascinating ideas about relationships with a zestful spirit & endless charm.The story of When Harry Met Sally follows its titular characters from the time they finish school & share a cross-country drive to New York City to the next 12 years or so when they keep bumping into each other on chance encounters, eventually become friends & try to help each other through the various hardships of their respective lives while unaware of the mutual feelings they have for each other.Amazingly well-directed by Rob Reiner, the film exhibits an immense charm from start to finish and also includes many brief segments of old couples telling us how they met each other which leaves a flavour of its own plus acts as a filler in between the various time leaps its story takes. Written by Nora Ephron, the various concepts of relationships are nicely presented with enough wit to keep it fresh in the viewers' conscious without halting its entertainment.Cinematography covers many beautiful locations in Manhattan which contrasts with the colourless lives its characters have been living, editing keeps the narrative smoothly flowing & the music department makes excellent choices in the selection of songs. Coming to the performances, both Billy Crystal & Meg Ryan are very impressive in their given roles and their on-screen chemistry feels incredibly natural & is sizzling with passion at the same time.On an overall scale, it's been 25 years since When Harry Met Sally was released on the big screen and yet, its magic hasn't diminished by one bit plus it continues to age like wine. Featuring one of cinema's most notable sequences followed by an even more memorable punchline, When Harry Met Sally is a film for the ages that will remain relevant no matter how many generations pass by it. Delightfully recommended. "},{"Title":"This movie has one of the best conversations ever.","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has one of the best conversations ever.The best part its like the icing on the cake and while the cake is just the temptation to have, we have a delicious taste of a fine icing. And all through it asks one pertinent question that can a man and a woman be friends without the sex coming in between.We all beautiful movies, romantic movies and we shall surely love this one coz it's both beautiful and romantic. It's romantic and it speaks for the most part about sex and then later on to the small things that we surely appreciate about the other person. It's the small things that make the big picture of life and those are shown beautifully like Sally ordering a dish at a restaurant. Also, this one has of the best embarrassing moments in cinema that is Sally faking an orgasm in a restaurant and situation of Harry. Immediately the woman on the other table tells I'll have what she's having.Screenplay by Nora Ephron is just wonderful; the poignancy is maintained by bringing in elderly couples that have held on to each other for years and letting us know how they had met or got convinced to tie the knot.More than anything it simply works because of the chemistry between the two leads. Bill Crystal (Harry) and Meg Ryan (Sally) are wonderful in their roles. It's a treat to let them be the characters and giving them space and time to know each other, to understand and then realize what they truly need.It's 4/5 for a cinema that celebrates romance but it in a funny way. "},{"Title":"A Sad Statement on Relationship","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was terrible. I watched it once, many years ago, on cable, but this time, I only lasted up until the scene where they were walking in the park and she evidently was allowing him to become a part of her life. There was no character development in the movie. Who are these two people? What are their dreams, their history? Why are they together? It seems that neither of them have any solid identity. Maybe that is their greatest commonality.I did get the impression that Sally was somewhat enthusiastic about life. What, in the world, did she see in him? I was trying to look at Harry psychologically, but could not come up with any specific pathology, but some warped blend of anhedonia and delusions of grandeur. Crystal sounds like he is reading all his lines does not help things, and this give the movie a droning tempo. The fact that his character expects his assuming, pompous and otherwise rude nature to earn him friends and lovers is bad enough. When relatively-normal but easily-influenced Sally started actually accepting Harry's depressive confrontationalism, I could see where the movie was heading. I loved Billy Crystal in City Slickers and Meg Ryan was great in Addicted To Love, but When Harry Met Sally reminded me of The Mirror Has Two Faces, in that it inadvertently explores the issue of women settling for less in a relationship and allowing themselves to be there-by abused. I am frankly offended by When Harry Met Sally, and can only imagine how the movie would have run if Meg Ryan's character had stood her ground and demanded more More than Harry, as well as the putz she was with at the airport. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fantastic, funny, moving, feel-good romantic-comedy. Unlike many romantic-comedies, doesn't get overly bogged down in sentimentality. Despite the high emotional content, the movie glides along effortlessly.Well written. Good plot and the dialogue is intelligently funny and couldn't be more snappy. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan were perfectly cast as Harry and Sally. The chemistry between them was spot-on and contributes enormously to the watchability of the movie. I'm generally not a fan of Meg Ryan, as she tends to act in vapid romantic dramas, but she is great here. Billy Crystal is very well known in comedy circles, but here he gets to shine in a more serious role. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest In It's Genre","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At one point in everyone's life, they are able to show some sort of soft spot for films like these. When Harry Met Sally is the film that stand out against it's competitors and was able to stick with me with multiple viewings. I adore this film and the film was able to draw out certain emotions from me, which is rare in romantic comedies, that it blinds me from watching this film objectively. This is a prime example of a film that defines the genre it belongs to.Nora Ephron is regarded by some as the greatest writer for romantic-comedy/drama films. I have not seen all of her films but so far I hold When Harry Met Sally as her magnum opus. Ephron has written a story that explores the concept of friendship between man and woman, the role of sex in relationships, and the basic construct of a man and a woman. The film examines the role of fate in love, showing that people self sabotages or be in situations that destroys relationships in order to be with the love of their life at the end of the story. The choice of having New York was a great choice as it allowed the theme of fated love to be much more effective. Dialogue in this film is a stand out because it's what drives the characters in this film, because neither characters have any strong intentions to be with the other for the bulk of the film. The dialogue, and also the strength of the actors, deliver the comedy of the film and it gets me every time because it felt natural and was also able to come off as sweet and endearing.Rob Reiner, from his first feature film This is Spinal Tap and to A Few Good Men, has made a string of very well made films and sometimes it's hard to choose which one is his best of the bunch. Reiner wanted the film to be very optimistic, which made it so accessible, and he has made something that is so natural and relatable. The film can appeal to people searching for love, allowing us to understand or think that there is a much larger work going on in finding it, or to people who have already found it. Reiner did not allow the film to really show the other people that Harry or Sally have dated and how these people are not for them, instead the director just has these characters talk to each other about it allowing the film to spend more time with these characters together. The film has the ability to have us be attached to these characters. I love that the film takes it's time with the characters', allowing them to grow and allow us to see the growth of the maturity of the relationship/friendship and the personal maturity of these characters. I was very glad that Reiner didn't congest the film in humor and allowed it to feel organic instead, like it could come out of our own mouths too. I also adore that the film's humor is driven more by the characters and the conversations that takes place rather than the story or the use of physical humor, aside from the diner scene. The film, even in multiple viewings, doesn't lose it's genuine touch which is why it is one of my favorite films of all time.Barry Sonnenfeld as the director of photography for the film was a good choice by Reiner. Sonnenfeld was able to connect with Reiner's vision for the film capturing the relationship between these characters through a long period of time with such accessibility and optimism. Sonnenfeld wants shots to be a bit stretched out in order to get the most out of the scene and allowing the actors to feel more natural and not just act in service to the story. Because the film is focused more on it's characters rather than the environment they are in, preventing the film from feeling like flashy and pretty though at times there are a few beautiful wide shots of New York like on the winter and autumn seasons.The film is soundtrack driven rather than a score driven film and I thought this was a great decision because Reiner chose songs that keep in tone with one another and the tone of the film. The songs are usually big band type of songs which was able to project a sort of class that other films lack. This though has made a big impact on future films/TV shows set in New York.Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal demonstrated amazing chemistry as they both look and play roles that clearly show in paper that they are meant to be together. Both actors deliver their lines so naturally that certain moments can allow us to really relate to conversations and events in our own lives. Crystal's humor may not appeal to everyone but in my opinion it really worked here, he wasn't too over the top and instead of being the center of attention on screen, he was able to share it with Ryan which supports in making the film amazing. It's nice to see Carrie Fisher do something great instead of the Star Wars franchise. Fisher has amazing comedic timing and she doesn't try to distract us from the lead characters. This also applies to Bruno Kirby who has moments that just has you laughing.When Harry Met Sally is one of the greatest of it's genre and it contains such likable leads and played by actors that are able to drive the film forward. Ephron has written an accessible and relatable script and Reiner has crafted a brilliant film that enhances the themes that drives Ephron's script. This is a film that I would recommend to everyone due to it's universal themes. "},{"Title":"An Review","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie describes the relationship of a man and woman named Harry and Sally. When first they meet at their university, they had bad impressions each other, but the more they meet and talk, they come to be friends. Since then, they go round for many years just as friends, however, one day at a new year's dance, their relation starts to change&#x85;The main theme of this movie, Can a man and woman become real friends? is a really difficult problem. At the beginning of story, Harry and Sally both have another lover. At first Harry and Sally see each other as her friend's lover and not as object of feeling of love. And I was fussed but enjoyed the way of their feelings change but can't take a step because of their high pride while and after I watch this story. Not only the two, their friends, Jess and Marie is also charming. They hold each other dear and also are concerned about Harry and Sally. They are admirable as a couple and friends! "},{"Title":"Iconic rom-com","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Written by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob Reiner, this has become the flag bearer of all rom-coms.Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) first meet when she gives him a ride to New York after they both graduate from the University of Chicago. They have a spirited and cantankerous debate. They would keep bumping into each other over the years until finally they have to decide whether they can just be friends, or if they can be more.This movie ask the big question. Can a man and a woman just be friends? It has some of the most iconic scenes of all times, and none is bigger than the fake orgasm scene. Billy Crystal is quick and smart. It shows on screen and gives reason to why Sally would fall for Harry. At the time, Meg Ryan is about to start her rein as the rom-com queen. She is at maximum cuteness, and quick enough to play with Billy Crystal and Rob Reiner. "},{"Title":"Pretty good -- but episodic -- love/hate/love story","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure why I never caught this move before...after all. it's been out there for 24 years. But, I'm glad I did. It's not a GREAT movie, but it's a very good movie.I know. Some of you are upset that I don't think it's great. I'm not totally into what I'll refer to as episodic movies. I like a movie that flows. And this one really didn't. Various episodes were punctuated by old couples briefly telling how they met. I enjoyed those little vignettes between episodes...but I just don't like episodicness (and yes, I know that's not a word).Now, aside from that, it's a good movie. Boy meets girl. Boy and girl grate on each other. Boy and girl keep running into each other every few years. Eventually boy and girl fall in love, but not until they've annoyed the hell out of each other every once in a while. And every once in a while along the way, there's a heckuva funny line.There are really only 4 actors worth mentioning here. To begin with, Billy Crystal as the male lead. I'd forgotten he was once young; like back when he was on Soap. But what I found interesting about his performance was that in terms of phrasing, he's still sorta the same. Meg Ryan...well, I've come to like her as an actress, but I never really noticed her until 4 years later in Sleepless In Seattle. Here...well, she's an actress...but not quite Meg Ryan, yet. Here, I was not overly impressed with her as the female lead. Carrie Fisher is her best friend, and does nicely. She's pleasant enough, but not good enough to have maintained her star status from Star Wars. Bruno Kirby was pretty good as the best friend's husband and pal to Crystal. He had a period of playing this sort of role rather well.It's interesting to watch this Rob Reiner film in what would have been his formative years.So for me, this film doesn't set the world on fire, but it's pretty good. "}{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful romantic comedy (one of the best and most memorable from the 80s) focuses on two friends (Harry, a political consultant, Sally, a journalist) who find themselves struggling not to fall in love, attempting to date other people while secretly pining for each other, and soon no longer able to resist the urgings for more than just conversation over long walks and lunches discussing the love-making they could have together. Look, the conversations (with lots of clever and funny banter back and forth, mostly about sex and relationships, what men and women truly think and feel despite what they say and seem to convey) are a major asset between Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan, but the stars' chemistry (this really sets Ryan's career off) is impeccable. I love the quiet discomfort and inability to dismiss their first sexual encounter as a mistake, and their New Years Eve confrontation, addressing how they truly feel for each other, was a nice way to close the film, the conclusion fitting and satisfying.With Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher perfectly cast as Crystal and Ryan's best buds, a fake orgasm in a deli (&#x85;as Ryan (effectively) convinces Crystal that you can fool a man into believing he's successfully pleased his female partner, with the I'll have what she's having line an absolute classic), several early encounters between Ryan and Crystal that has them arguing about what men and women really want (Crystal often just aggravating Ryan, getting her emotionally all out of sorts because mostly what he says is true and she can't accept it), and those passing glances of aching and acknowledgment (I had forgotten just how good Crystal, in particular, was at that; Ryan has a character that tries hard to pass off as if nothing about break-ups and mistaken sex bothers her, but it all eventually spills out when she simply wants a real relationship, meaningful and of depth), as well as, excerpts from real older marrieds commenting on how they wound up together, helped make When Harry Met Sally such an enduring treasure. Include the New York setting as the obviously appropriate backdrop and the likability of the stars amidst it, and why wouldn't this film remain such a valued and cherished romantic comedy? "},{"Title":"An excellent romantic comedy that's able to remain fresh and original even today","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, I'd like to say that I pretty much hate romantic comedies. I can't stand them at all. They're all the same, have the same plots, the same characters (in most cases) and even the same actors. The only thing that changes in these kinds of movies is the background in which the characters live. But of course there are exceptions, such as the Hepburn/Grant 1938 flick 'Bringing Up Baby', Woody Allen's Best Picture winner 'Annie Hall', and this movie. 'When Harry Met Sally...' is a romantic comedy that was able to be original in 1989 and remains fresh even nowadays, when most movies from this genre copy what it introduced back then.'When Harry Met Sally...' story focuses on the relationship of Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan), covering 12 years of their lives, starting in 1977, when they met in a trip (hence the title), and ending in 1989, the year the movie was made. In these 12 years, Harry and Sally go through many phases. First they hated each other, then they became friends, until they finally realized they loved each other. The story may seem simple enough, but the script written by Nora Ephron - who even got an Oscar nomination for it - manages to tell it in a simple but yet complicated matter, a matter that holds the attention of the viewer during the whole movie. Throughout it, Ephron deals with many themes regarding love, and throws a lot of questions to the viewer, such as Can men and women be friends? and so on. The script also introduces us to concepts that were used in most of other romantic comedies to come, like the idea of both the main characters having close friends who also fall in love, the feelings that the main characters have for each other, going from hate to love during the movie, and so on. And speaking of the main characters, the character development here is nothing but marvelous, which reflects in Harry's case for example a character that starts off as a ladies' man, and finishes the movie as guy in love for his then- friend. And it's just this change in the characters that makes the movie so great, and specially, believable. Add this to some fantastic well- written dialog, and you got yourself an excellent script.There's really not much to praise in what regards the acting here. Both the main actors do a pretty good job in portraying their characters, but it's not really that stand-off job. Surprisingly, the best member of the cast is Meg Ryan, in probably the best performance of her career. She manages to deliver a very strong performance and convince as that's Sally, appealing to both men and women - like the movie itself. And she did a hell of a job in the infamous fake orgasm scene, which has got to be one of the most funny scenes ever. Like Meg Ryan, Billy Crystal also does an amazing job. In this movie, he's the guy every man wants to be. Apart from the main duo, the other two important characters are jess (Bruno Kirby) and Marie (Carrie Fisher), who do an average job.'When Harry Met Sally...' is directed by the always-great Rob Reiner. I've watched most of his movies, and although this definitely ain't his best work, all can say that Mr. Reiner did a pretty good job directing this picture. Most of the shots don't have much to them, but there are a few scenes where you can watch and say Rob Reiner certainly shot that. And the way he tells the story, interpolating Harry and Sally's story with real couples telling their love-story is a pretty good addiction to the script. I also thought the cinematography here was quite well-done, giving the feeling of New York to the viewer brilliantly.Overall, 'When Harry Met Sally...' is an excellent romantic comedy, that's able to appeal to both men and women. The best thing here is Nora Ephron's very well-written script. The acting is not so great, but it could be worst, though. Rob Reiner's directing made the movie what it is a romantic comedy that was fresh and original back then and remains so nowadays, even with a lot of the movies from this genre copying many things from 'When Harry Met Sally...'9/10 "},{"Title":"Where Harry met Sally... Hope you have what they had","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie that would make Woody Allen proud of - funny, touching, witty, sparkling as champagne, stylish, sunny and clever. It may not consist of the original situations but it looks at the familiar situations from some very special angle which makes it romantic, sweet but not cloyingly saccharine-sentimental. This movie proves what a talented director Rob Reiner is or at least was back in the 80s-early 90s when he made This Is Spinal Tap (1984), Stand by Me (1986), The Princess Bride (1987), When Harry Met Sally...(1989), Misery (1990), and A Few Good Men (1992).New York where Harry and Sally keep bumping to each other is beautiful as Paris and attractive, like a dream. Musical score goes directly to a viewer's (at least, this viewer's) heart. But the most interesting in the movie are the two main characters, Harry and Sally, complete opposites, friends for 12 years, the confidants and supporters in each other past relationships gone wrong and broken hearts these relationships cause. Harry and Sally are destined to be together, and the fates stubbornly drove them close until they finally realize that happiness is only a phone call away. Meg Ryan is extraordinarily sweet and cute in the movie; Billy Crystal - funny and charming. The film forever has the place in history as one of the best romantic comedies ever, and it deserves it status fully. Almost ten years before the famous television series Sex and the City, Rob Reiner, Nora Ephron (screenwriter), Meg Ryan, Billy Crystal along with Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby told a great story about the search for a kindred soul in the Big city, for the unique half that makes us complete. Is just friendship possible between young and attractive heterosexual man and woman? Probably yes, but I'm glad that this film's friendship gradually and naturally turns in true love, when you know your partner all too well with their pros and cons, and cons are just as dear as cons. Nora Ephron, who wrote the script that based the main characters on herself (Sally) and Rob Reiner (Harry), was nominated for writer's Oscar. Ephron wrote the scripts to and directed such popular films as Sleepless in Seattle, You've Got Mail, and Julie & Julia, but her masterpiece, in my opinion, is the screenplay about Harry and Sally in NYC back in the end of the 1980s. Interviews with the real couples, added to the film, perfectly complement and bring out the story of Harry and Sally. The scene in the restaurant is considered one of the funniest of all time, and very deservingly so. Bravo, Meg! Incidentally, an older woman at the next table, which tells the waiter, I'll have what she is having, is the director’s mother, Mrs. Estelle Reiner. The scene was filmed at the Katz's Delicatessens in Manhattan. At the table, where Sally (Meg Ryan) and Harry (Billy Crystal) sat, to this day there is a sign Where Harry met Sally... hope you have what she had "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Is there honestly a better Romantic comedy out there than this? So many movies you see are more comedy than there is Romance or any serious plot. This ones hits all the right notes. I think allot of people can relate to this movie, because we see some of ourselves in the characters that are portrayed. Having seen this in the theater when released, it has become one of my favorite movies. Countless great scenes. Even small scenes like when Harry tells his friend Jess about the movers arriving at his place has a combo. of humor but also sadness because Harry knows his marriage is kaput. Sorta the way life is. Crystal has one great one liner after another. And all the actors in this movie are great. Its a ones in a blue moon good movie. And thats what makes it a classic. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy That Most People Can Relate To","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is easily one of my favorite romantic comedies of all time. I don't like giving spoilers so I'll just put out some points so you can decide whether or not to rent/buy this If you like Billy Crystal as a comedian, then you will love this movie. He makes his signature subtle, pessimistic jokes throughout the movie.Meg Ryan is also great. Although her character develops from a snobby, sheltered young woman to a mature, open-minded woman, she maintains this innocence that makes this fun to watch because you get to kind of feel what she feels -- she speaks what comes to mind, and you see her emotions all over her face. It kind of reminds me of her role in Sleepless in Seattle and her other earlier roles.Together, Billy and Meg have this great chemistry on screen, and this makes the movie feel like you're watching a real story. The way the relationship develops is probably the most interesting thing, so even if you know what happens, you will enjoy watching it happen. If you don't know what happens, it's a perfect feel-good movie with a happy ending, but it's not easy to predict how it gets to the happy ending.Overall, this movie is a great choice if you're looking for something uplifting, romantic, and funny but also realistic and not too mushy. "},{"Title":"An ultimate classic that has the eternal question","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Can a guy and a girl just be friends? Never wondering what it's like to sleep together or have some kind of attraction? Now, I have heard it endlessly about the orgasm scene and I knew I had to see this movie. This actually is now one of my favorite romantic comedies. It's such a classic and is so touching. Rob Reiner is without a doubt one of the finest directors of the 80's. He took a simple story and turned it into something incredible.The chemistry between Meg and Billy is so wonderful and you just keep rooting for their characters to get together because you know how perfect they are for each other. EVERY scene is so memorable and I love the little interventions with the married couples. Just so cute and lovable to watch. I would highly recommend this movie for anyone, it's so easy to fall in love with.7/10 "},{"Title":"When Harry met Sally","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was excellent. Can men and women ever be friends? No, really can they? This is a question asked since the first man and woman. In the movie Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal did a good performance as a guy who can't have a female friend because the sex issue will always get in the way, and a woman who believes just the opposite. But it turns out they are both right. When after many years they become friends. I really enjoyed this movie because the content was funny, things that happened in it was funny, and well I enjoyed it more than the next person I guess I can say. Billy Crystal and meg ryan were funnier and more entertaining in this movie more than I would have expected. "},{"Title":"Timeless Classic","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally. One of the greatest movies of our time. True I was only a year when it came out but once I discovered it many a year later I can not stop watching. It is one of the most timeless and most relatable films. Everyone can find something to relate to in this movie as it attempts to answer the age old question Can men and women be friends? Or does the sex thing always get in the way? From Sally's sweet naiveness to Harry's outspoken ways the characters always feel like old friends. The quotes are memorable from days of the week underpants Sally They don't make Sunday HarryWhy not? Sally Because of God to Answering Machine ramblings Harry The fact that you're not answering leads me to believe that (a) You're not home, (b) You're home but you don't want to talk to me, or (c) You're home, desperately want to talk to me, but you're trapped under something heavy. If it's either (a) or (c), please give me a call.Rob Reiner and Nora Ephron could not have possibly written a better screenplay. It's witty. It's charming. It's simply wonderful and this review does absolutely no justice to the film. You just have to watch it and fall in love with it yourself because trust me you will. "},{"Title":"My ultimate, all-time, favourite movie","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's got great acting and great scenes. The cinematography (spelling?) is amazing it's shot throughout NYC, all these beautiful places like the Museum of Natural History and of course, Central Park. It's about realistic people trying to find themselves, trying to find a connection. You get to watch the characters develop from 'young adults' to full blown adults, complete with hair and clothing changes as the times themselves changed. What's amazing about this film, is that although the characters are very normal they're still quirky. This was NOT the norm for films or TV shows of that time frame (they generally had only 1 quirky character). It's honest about sex and relationships. Funny and romantic. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Required viewing for teens before dating","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Remembering a line from the Lion in the Wizard of Oz, Ain't it da truth! So much of the dialogue in this movie rings true, and the situations people are placed therein (although contrived somewhat to make the 2 hour movie instead of a 200 hour movie) still ring true today (in coaching our three (3) daughters).If you're a parent, ask your 14+ year olds to give it a shot, and tell them to rate it on a scale of 1 - 10. What's interesting is I have found that the teens from this generation (2000+) seems to like it more than the teens from the 80s and 90s.(Our teens were 90s teens) What's THAT about? Does it say that teens are beginning to communicate better interpersonally at earlier ages, and therefore can appreciate a movie like When Harry met Sally better today than 5, 10 or even 15 years ago? Interesting, huh? "}{"Title":"The best dialog in romantic comedies!!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't look! Just listen. It'll work. Of course you can enjoy watching it as well. But if you think Billy Crystal is not handsome enough to play a leading role in romantic comedies, or if you think Meg Ryan is still so cute to make you feel sick, it'd be better for you to listen to the movie with your eyes closed. Because the dialog is the best part of the movie, which is witty, piercing and memorable. The cast did a wonderful job in the dialog. Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal seemed to be mismatched together at first. But soon you'll find that they are not only making a miraculous harmony but also enhanced the quality of the dialog itself. Billy Crystal especially makes you giggle or laugh with his well-known sense of humor. The supporting cast is also appropriate. In their conversations you hardly find flowery words. They are always dry and blunt, and it makes this movie different from other mainstream sweet romantic comedies. And the screenplay is also good. Men and women can never be friends. This topic keeps appealing to you throughout the dialog, which is really sensible and you can really identify yourself with the characters. Don't you think it's nice to have someone, who you believed was your best friend for a long time, turns out to be the one you really really love? "},{"Title":"amazing movie for both men and women","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" THIS IS MY ALL- TIME FAVORITE MOVIE! I can totally relate to it and, and even with some drama, they cleverly add hilarious comic relief and make a wonderful, unforgettable film.OMG this is such an excellent movie that every generation will love.Its a movie about love, and friendship, and at the same time a comedy! So many lines from this movie are memorable for anyone who sees this.Everyone who watches this will relate to at least one of the characters sensitive, smart Sally; immature, but caring Harry; clueless and hilarious Marie and Jess; or even the couples that are shown as a tribute to marriage. Nobody who sees this will be disappointed,although i can only give it a 10/10, if i could i would give it like a 15/10...........GO AND SEE THIS BRILLIANT MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"The Perfect RomCom","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The primary purpose of a film is to entertain. If it happens to make you think then, so much the better. When Harry met Sally will certainly entertain, although you'll probably not need to do too much in the thinking department. This film is a classic of it's genre and it has certainly inspired many other films since it's release. It's almost certainly true that Ryan and Crystal were forever typecast in roles similar to Harry and Sally.The story follows the slowly simmering relationship of Harry and Sally played out over a decade from an unpromising start during the pairs move from Chicago to New York. It's a very warm film that promotes the concept that opposites attract. 7/10/  "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film about relationships between two individuals with their own opinions and discussing all kinds of different issues and their look on life, relationship, sex and more. The script is excellent, It has great character development, the acting is great and the music too. A feel good romantic comedy which is both for men and women  "},{"Title":"THE romantic comedy","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film in the theatre in 1989. I went with a very good female friend. At the time, we had been platonic friends for a few years and did everything together. I'd like to say that our story ended the same, but, alas, she is married and has three children. That's okay though, she is still a friend. The reality of this film is, of course, that a relationship like Harry's and Sally's is next to impossible.If you haven't figured it out yet, I'm a man. What's more, this film is truly my favourite. This movie is a romantic comedy defined. Is it odd that, as a man, this film should be my favourite? Well, no. I wish I could define why in terms of specifics.Perhaps it was because Harry, throughout the movie, tells Sally the many truths about men that even most men won't admit (after sex, they just want to go home, etc). Perhaps it was because it gave hope to all men that that great woman he was friends with would eventually stop dating all the losers and choose him to be his wife. Perhaps it is because Meg Ryan is so adorable and plays the roll so convincingly. Maybe it was that, in spite of all the atrocious things Harry tells Sally about men (specifically, himself), she still falls in love with him. In the end I believe that it was just the overall picture and impression it created. This film, even with the storybook ending, was very believable because of the writing and talent of the actors.This movie is executed perfectly on so many levels. The comedy is side-splitting, but subtle. The writing, as we know from the DVD, was based in the reality of being single in your thirties and men and women's attitudes toward it. The direction was careful not to take away from the scenes. The chemistry between Crystal and Ryan was magical (the scene where Meg is repeating Billy's statements in that strange voice is impossible to imagine with other actors). There is so much going on in this film to make it work, how could it lose?Kudos to Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher as well for their performances. My particular scene with them is where they hail a taxi together after Harry and Sally's poor attempt at setting them up with, well, Harry and Sally.If you are a man and can't relate to SOMETHING in this film, then you are not human. We have all been in Harry's shoes. Sally gives us hope and reminds us that being in love is not always easy, but still one of the greatest things to happen to you. It also stresses the importance of friendship. I admit it, even after several watches, I get a bit misty in the end. After 11 years of being friends, Harry finally admits to Sally that he loves her. When she asks him why he tells her this, he says because I realize that when you want to spend the rest of your life with someone, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"cute, sweet, romantic movie","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  when i first saw the previews for this movie i didnt think i would like it much at all, but when i saw it, it was a good, sweet, funny, cute movie and the acting in the movie was great. So was casting billy crystal and meg ryan as harry and sally, overall this was a great movie for anyone, well i dont think guys would like it much but girls would  "},{"Title":"It's about living on the outskirts of love and fearing the commute.","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What makes this movie click is  the fine comedic actress Meg Ryan whose every facial posture perfectly punctuates her lines. How any man can walk away from her, as Billy Crystal does in the opening scene, is difficult to fathom. I'm laughing out loud many times, an oddity for me. Such perfect retorts, such flashing wit...and Crystal's and Ryan's genuine intelligence made the lines live. I've read a critique saying that no woman would DO what ryan does in the famous restaurant-orgasm scene. Not true. I dated a woman who would. She got away. Life does not duplicate art. If you haven't seen it, you've missed one of the best romantic comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic-comedies of all time","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is simply a good movie. I have not seen many movies in this genre,but I know a great movie when I see it. In the leading roles we find Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan. Meg Ryan is as made for this genre,and she delivers a great performance and so does Billy Crystal. The story is fun and entertaining and has a great dialogue along with lots of humor.This movie is especially great for those rainy days. "},{"Title":"Awfully funny","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw When Harry met Sally, I didn't like it, simply because I was too young - meaning that this movie is not fot everybody. you have to know things to like it, and as soon as you do, it's one of the funniest movies ever.  The best thing about this movie is, or are, without a doubt, the dialogue. Sharp as a razor, well performed, and desperately funny. Billy Chistal is great as Harry, but he tends to act Meg Ryan off the screen. Meg Ryan isn't bad either, but it's hard to stand up to Billy Christal; but she's doing fine anyway. I think it's one of her best movies sofar. But anyway, this is one of the few really fine feel-good-movies.  "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies ever","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't care whether you like the genre or not; it's impossible to not pay tribute to this film.  It was at the time a fresh idea made into a brilliant script that was executed by top notch actors.  Probably the very best thing about this film is the way it flawlessly incorporates everyday real conversations into the story, without the typical Hollywood melodrama.  It's subtle enough to satisfy those who consider themselves too sophisticated for the genre and romantic enough to satisfy those like myself who for some reason can't seem to get enough.  The final word?  This one is destined to be a classic along the lines of _It Happened One Night._ "}{"Title":"The epitome of the Yuppie Romantic Comedy","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoy this movie. It's cute, Meg Ryan is cute, the story is cute. A lot of awwwwww moments. Little to jar the nerves or expectations. This movie is set solidly in the late 80s early 90s Yuppie era and the symbols are all here. Everyone is highly successful in their chosen fields, they all dress well, look well and share witty repartee at every turn. Yuppie symbols are seen as well, the principles shop at The Sharper Image, drink a lot of coffee and Evian water and get invited to all the best parties. It will rank as a great romantic romantic comedy of the early 90s like It Happened One Night typified the 1930s, It's A Wonderful Like, the 1940s, Annie Hall, the 1970s and so on.The movie looks very nice, the seasons are well represented and color coordinated. The fall and winter scenes are just gorgeous.Recommended if in the mood for love and romance and don't mind a little sentimentality. "},{"Title":"A modern masterpiece","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Harry Met Sally is certainly the wittiest romantic comedy of all time.  It is also perhaps the most daring romantic-comedy ever produced, and I say this out of respect for its sheer honesty about the roles of physical attraction, sex, and friendship between men and women.  For a long time I accidentally avoided the film, though as a graduate of The University of Chicago (where Harry met Sally at the beginning of the film), I finally decided to rent the film, a decade after its original release.  As it turns out, all this time I have been missing one of modern cinema's greatest masterpieces.  Rob Reiner has brought to life a gem of a screenplay, and the inspired performances of Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan, as well as the supporting cast, create scenes that capture the true essence of people and relationships as they are in life; I never felt that either Harry or Sally were merely characters.   The chemistry between them worked for me; though at times I did feel that Meg Ryan took Sally Allbright's wilful, almost wooden naivete a bit far.  (And to be honest, I fail to see how The University of Chicago could have ever produced a Sally Allbright, whereas Billy Crystal's Harry, with his skepticism, quirky humor, and his insight and questions on the subject of human nature, *would* feel right at home at the U of C. )  All the same, this is not the type of film that comes along every day; Rob Reiner's achievement with this film is of a quality that should stand the test of time.   I find it hard to imagine anyone not enjoying this film.  My rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Maybe the best love story ever made...","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Harry met Sally is full of truths about life. It shows us why men and women can't live with each other, but it also shows how much they need each other.The wisdoms of Harry (Billy Chrystal) have certainly influenced a whole generation. And Sally's (Meg Ryan) faked orgasm in a restaurant is a magic movie moment.Though I still don't believe Billy's basic message (men and women can't be friends, the sex part always gets in the way), I deeply love this movie for all its unforgettable moments. At least part of this is very real. And that's the reason the film's happy end is so very moving...  "},{"Title":"This is a Classic! One of the most romantic movies ever!  It is hard to express in words what the movie expressed so well! Rob Reiner is the best male director of  Chickie movies!","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From script to sound track this is a magnificent movie. It deals with loss, male and female perspectives of love, friendship, dating, being married, being married and then being single again, sex issues, anger, happiness, and jealousy.  The movie has great dialogue, a beautiful script,  the CD soundtracks do not get better than this with classic songs just to name a few When and Where, It Had to be You, I Could Write a Book, Let's Call the Whole Thing Off.  The later recorded by Harry Connick Jr.  who is just outstanding!The acting is invisible, Billy Crystal does a great job and is very believable as Harry (City Slickers).  The guy who believes that men and women cannot be friends, and sometimes he is annoying but yet charming in his own way. Meg Ryan (You've Got Mail) is cute as the perfectionist Sally who has all her tapes alphabetized, can order food better anybody else, and admits to being too rigid and structured.  Marie, Sally's best friend (Carrie Fisher)  is always looking for a man for everybody including herself with her very own personal box of names and addresses; Bruno Kirby (City Slickers)  as Jess,  thinks that a woman who has a great personality cannot be pretty, is Harry's best friend. Between their conversations of Jesse and Harry there is a whole spectrum of the male perspective about feelings in relationships.Director Rob Reiner is the best!  (Mixed Nuts, The American President). I will see any movie that Reiner has anything to do with it and buy the video because there is always something to chew on after I have watched the movie once.The script is clever!  Nora Ephron (Mixed Nuts, Sleepless in Seattle, You've got Mail) just knows how to write a good script! She is brilliant!My favorite scenes When Marie is trying her wedding dress on and Sally says That is beautiful!  I feel that she is reflects in her own situation. Those scenes with all  those old couples telling how they met and fell in love are precious scenes. Harry getting mad because he was singing in front of Ira!  The jealousy of Sally when Emily (Tracy Reiner)  comes into the picture, she is Aunt Emily the pie maker. I don't know how many people realize that Tracy is Rob Reiner's daughter. The ending is precious when Harry sees couples around while he window shops alone New Year's Eve, and starts running to tell Sally how he really feels! That is a tearing scene. This is one of my favorites. I highly recommend this movie!  "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Romantic Comedies Ever","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dearly departed screenwriter Nora Ephron's best - and that's saying a lot, because she was one of the best of her generation. BRILLIANT screenplay. So much wit to the dialog. So many pithy scenes. Billy Crystal's very best movie and Meg Ryan's too (although does she over-act on occasion, try too hard to be cute?; I forgive her - she's otherwise brilliant). The dialog and story are genius and, ultimately, very moving. The story is hugely relevant, too - the search for love in today's fractionalized society (especially in New York City). There are so many memorable scenes and lines in this movie, too - the sign of greatness - not to mention one of the funniest scenes in any movie ever (I won't tell you what it is but it's in a diner; after you've seen it for the first time, you'll be repeating the punch line for the rest of your life). This is also one of those movies you'll want to see over and over again - another sign of greatness. The late lamented Bruno Kirby also puts in a fabulous performance as Crystal's best friend. And while I'm not a huge Carrie Fisher fan, she puts in a commendable performance too, as Ryan's best friend and Kirby's wife. And if a lump doesn't come to your throat, or a tear to your eye, at the end, you're not a romantic. Any sentimental romantic will absolutely love this film - forever. "},{"Title":"The Golden Standard of Romantic Comedy","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now I'm not a fan of romantic comedies, at least not recent ones. Most movies already add in a love interest so the notion of making a small perfunctory part of a good movie the whole point of a single picture just seems trifling to me. It doesn't help that Hollywood no longer tries to make the genre appealing to all or even many; producers only make them desirable to middle-aged women and gullible tweens. Not knocking those demographics, its just not my thing. That being said, When Harry Met Sally (1989) is for all intents and purposes a romantic comedy yet it is a lot more than that.The story takes place within the space of twelve years. Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) meet through a mutual friend. Sally agrees to take Harry with her to New York in her car and the two don't get along famously. Yes, there is banter, yes they eventually fall madly in love, yes every romantic comedy before and after When Harry Met Sally have followed the exact same pattern but here its different.The late, great Nora Ephron wisely took the romance as a starting point to truly delve into and study the notion of love. Harry and Sally's story is intertwined with interviews from elderly couples who briefly discuss how they first fell in love. Director Rob Reiner enhances the experience with poignant editing and a smart use of split screen for some humorous and enlightening set pieces along with some truly lovely views of New York City in all its glory.Twelve years is an awful long time to track two characters and its amazing to see how each time the story jumps to a certain time and place how they have changed yet remained the same. Harry starts out as a little self-absorbed yet always charming and funny in the only way Billy Crystal can be. Years later his character goes through a brutal divorce that humanizes Harry in both the eyes of the audience and Sally. Sally goes through a similar transition through the progression of time. She doesn't deal with her life altering breakup lying down even though her mannerisms betray her proactive attitude.Throughout the movie Harry and to a lesser extent Sally often explore the differences between men and women when it comes to sex and love. Again, this is a common theme in romantic comedies from Adam's Rib (1949) to The Ugly Truth (2009). Yet while reinforcing gender tropes in the collective minds of the audience, this writing trick serves a larger purpose in When Harry Met Sally. It fleshes out the characters we've grown to love. Take the famous scene at Katz Deli where Sally fakes an orgasm proving the point that men can't tell the difference. Funny? Yes. True? The jury's still out. Do we love her for it? Of course.My only real concern with When Harry Met Sally is this; they never seem to be working. Or talking about their work. Supporting characters Jess (Bruno Kirby) and Marie (Carrie Fisher) mention their work albeit casually. Harry and Sally on the other hand almost never do. In an interview with Rob Reiner, the director explained he didn't want to include their work life because A its not the point of the movie; and B no one likes to talk about their work outside of work. Fair enough to the first point but I find it hard to believe that no one in Rob Reiner's circle of friends talks about their work on a quasi-regular basis. I prefer explaining it away as a question of editing. Within a twelve year span, Harry and Sally talked about work, it just wasn't filmed.When Harry Met Sally is the golden standard for modern romantic comedy. A standard that many have attempted but few have achieved and fewer still have surpassed. It exhibits the talents of the brilliant Billy Crystal and the strikingly beautiful and exuberant Meg Ryan. It presents the work of director Rob Reiner and Nora Ephron at the top of their game and it showcases timeless love songs by virtuosos George Gershwin and Richard Rodgers. Truly, does anyone know anyone who doesn't enjoy it? If you do dump them from your life; they're too high-maintenance.http//theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"tears of a clown","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this film choked me like the Suffolk strangler. it is a story of great and unexpected love, and it reminded me of my one true love which i find hard to talk about, especially to an audience of millions that this website provides. all i can say is the experience left me broken, bitter and club footed. as a result, i have a hard heart, and i watched this for most of its running time with stony eyes and a blank, impassive face. by the end i tried to explore my emotions by staring intensely at my own face in the bathroom mirror. five hours later a tear appeared. something in it had moved me. very few films do that. thank you Harry. thank you Sally. "},{"Title":"Sex in the city","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Irritating, cynical, emotional Harry (played by Billy Crystal) and irritating, ditzy, repressed Sally (Meg Ryan) have a long term non-sexual relationship before finally living happily ever after. There might seem to be a lot to dislike about Rob Reiner's comedy before you start watching it, but a sparkling script by Nora Ephron ensures that in practice, you have to forgive it it's generic rom-com structure and give yourself up to the laughs. At the time when 'When Harry Met Sally' came out (and in fact, ever since), there was a lot of media comment about one of Harry's propositions, namely that men and women cannot enjoy platonic friendship. But the film doesn't answer its own question, and even where the movie is insightful, this insight seems very restricted to the peculiar world of New York's professional dating classes. Perhaps we should blame this film for 'Sex and the City'. But while it may not be deep, the simple fact is, it's funny, and almost impossible not to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good Conversation","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It may be a sad fact that the majority of couples living in this country are not having open / good conversation with their spouse. It may be the opinion of this critic, but the world would be a better place if all couples had the same kind of conversation that Harry and Sally have. Considered a favorite by many, When Harry met Sally is the story about how Harry met Sally. Throughout the movie, Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan do not hold back their true feelings and opinion. The end result is a happy and realistic ending. Much of the conversation between the two are not only entertaining but far fetch. Many people hold back their truth feelings let along the truth. Here, relationships take center stage as the audience watches what they wish they could and would like to say to their significant other. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    Okay, okay I know - this movie is not of the same greatness as Schindler's List or Citizen Kane.  But, it succeeds by never trying to be more than it is, a delightful comedy.  It is fun to watch these two people make sense of their worlds and slowly recognize how they feel about each other.  Is it great movie-making?  Probably not.  But it does exactly what it sets out to do - make you laugh (a lot) and just enjoy the time you spend.  By the way, this movie has two added values.  One is when you watch it again, it is like visiting old friends.  Two, if you are doing something else where your eyes and hands are busy (cooking, cleaning, sewing), it is a wonderful movie to listen to.  I rated it a 10 because it succeeds in entertaining.  And having fun once in a while is a good thing. "}{"Title":"A defining film in the genre of romantic comedy!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan have this unbelievable chemistry on-screen together that is so apparent in this film. It truly works with the witty dialogue about the crucial observations of relationships and the differences of gender. You can also see the homages to Woody Allen's 'Annie Hall' within this movie. Not only has it got one of the most memorable scenes to ever grace our screens or video, but it certainly is one of the best romantic comedies ever. I'm not usually a sucker for these type of films, but with great performances from Billy Crystal, Meg Ryan, Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher and excellent direction from Rob Reiner and an awesome script from Nora Ephron, 'When Harry Met Sally...' becomes one of the best. Worth checking out if you don't mind romance films with a lot of emphasis on comedy and character. Great film! ****1/2 out of *****! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know where to start.  I loved this film so much when I saw it in theatres back when I was in high school.  I saw it several times on video and just loved the ending.  I couldn't get over it and watched it over and over.  Billy Crystal is fantastic as Harry Burns.  Reiner did an amazing job of telling it like it is (at least in my opinion) and discussing how men and women can NOT be friends.  The movie mentions many things that we know to be true but either never realize or never discuss.  This was the first movie I ever bought on DVD and I still watch it to this day.  Mind you, I am a 30-year-old man and the ending still brings me to tears -- I love that you get cold when it's 71 degrees out, I love that it takes you an hour and a half to order a sandwich, I love that you get this little crinkle above your nose when you're looking at me like I'm nuts, I love that after I spend the day with you I can still smell your perfume on my clothes and I love that you are the last person I want to talk to before I go to sleep at night... and it's NOT because I'm lonely and it's NOT because it's New Year's Eve.  I came here tonight because when you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible.I still think that's one of the best monologues ever.  Right up there with Hank Fonda's monologue in Grapes of Wrath. "},{"Title":"Old favorite never gets old.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw When Harry Met Sally in the theater upon release back in 1989. I remember it well, I was single, had a date with a school teacher from Kingwood, nice lady but we just weren't right for each other. The orgasm scene was a bit embarrassing with someone I hardly knew.Anyway, I bought the DVD after it was recently released, and watched it again this week. Much of it was fresh as the first viewing 13 years ago, but of course I knew that eventually, after years of meeting and parting, they would get together. Billy Crystal was asked recently about a sequel and he replied, It would be interesting to do a film about Harry and Sally 15 years after the first one ended. Maybe Meg Ryan will get the word and they will.I give the film a high rating. The story is simple, and in many cases trite, but Crystal's goofiness and Ryan's perfect portrayal of Sally, a high maintenance woman who thinks she is low maintenance, the worse kind, is I think her best product so far. Their interplay is what makes the move hold your interest for the duration. Plus, there's some clever writing hidden in there too. "},{"Title":"a step above the norm for the genre","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Charming, humorously insightful romantic comedy about a man and a woman and their attempts to maintain a friendship despite any inevitable physical attraction that they may develop. Having both recently graduated from college, they set off on a road trip to New York City, and are convinced by first impression that they have noting in common. It's not until years later that they reunite, form a genuine friendship, then struggle to keep things platonic despite their obvious affinity for one another. Crystal and Ryan are perfectly cast, and the script is overflowing with humor, wit, and amusing observations about the nature of men and women. A memorable film for fans of the genre, as well as the two stars. ***½ "},{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful romantic comedy about a man and a woman who struggle to keep their relationship afloat after the threat of sex endangers it. Two perfectly cast stars benefit from a sharp script that deeply explores friendship, romance, and the differences between men and women. Highly recommended. 3/4 "},{"Title":"What is the point?","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I should say at the outset that i do not enjoy Romantic comedies. I just don't get any pleasure from them.This film is a case in point. Firstly I don't find the story very enjoyable. To make a whole film about two people meeting through various stages of their lives and and slowly, or should i say very slowly, starting a relationship is boring. I don't care. I don't want to know what will happen in the end. I just don't care.Secondly I did not find anything funny. Now comedy is a matter of taste and the people i watched this with laughed out loud. Not me.So If you love RomComs like Bridget Jones you will probably like this. If you like films with a bit more substance leave it alone. "},{"Title":"Best Romantic Comedy of All Time....","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Harry Met Sally is a film that not only supports witty and memorable dialogue, it provides a great analysis of the interaction between the two sexes and poses the universal question of whether men and women can truly be friends. This is the film that launched Meg Ryan as queen of the romantic comedy lead, as well as established Billy Crystal as a strong leading man, both becoming their characters with such unique tastes they are destined to become cinematic icons.This is the film so many other romantic comedies try to live up to, yet most often fail to accomplish. Creating two memorable and likable characters such as Harry Burns and Sally Albright has proven to be more stereotype than unique. Harry with his easy going attitude towards women, and Sally with her obsessive compulsive ways. The two are seeming opposites personality wise, and at first, these traits keep them apart. It takes them ten years to even have a real conversation without tension between them because one is a man, and the other a woman. Yet it takes one event, both getting dumped by their significant others, to bring them together to bond over.What makes this film so memorable is the dialogue, with an outstanding screenplay by Nora Ephron. The Oscar nomination she was given for writing this film was highly deserved, for penning such lines as why men and women can never be friends, as well as Harry's declaration of love t the film's end.The film also supports a strong supporting cast from Carrie Fisher, as well as Bruno Kirby as the best friends to the lead characters. Every supporting player here remains memorable, down to the cameos such as director Reiner's mother who states the now famous, I'll have what she's having. line.The ending to this film can bring tears to those who watch it every time. It is films like this that give hope to people that one day, they will find that one person who challenges them, and loves them for exactly who they are. When Harry Met Sally is the perfect film to watch for people of all ages, and will certainly stand the test of time. Highly recommended.MJR  "},{"Title":"what i have to do for research","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i really like this movie. the actors are excellent highly recommend would watch it again love meg Ryan's hair and outfits billy crystal looks short i don't like her hair she should not have done plastic surgery lets make a remake everyone go and watch it. hey did you watch the awards yesterday? me neither.i don't know what else to write. how can people go on the pretty little liars forums and post after having to go through this boiling room. three and a half lines to go. yeah. who in their right minds uses this thing?i should a spoiler in here but then i will be blacklisted and we don't want that. that's why he said it will take an hour. because of this piece of poop.nobody should use that ever again. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I used to watch thriller movie. I rarely watch comedy movies but the ones I have watched I will rate it third in my all time comedy movies after Forrest Gump and me, myself and Irene. This movie is not just about comedy but also about the question Can two people of opposite sex be friends only?. I do believe that yes they can. The movie is also about love and marriage. Divorce is not common in India as it is in US. But still Love always thrives over Marriage. As you can't be happy with a person you are not in love with. As depicted in the movie as well that it is all about love and not about sex only. If you really love someone you will always want them to be happy. This part is perfectly demonstrated in the movie and I loved that about the movie. "},{"Title":"Breath of fresh air","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm convinced that everyone should see When Harry Met Sally just for the orgasm scene. I can assure you it's worth sitting through a romantic comedy for (on display here is meg Ryan's considerable charm and comedic talents), and it's a classic piece of cinema for a reason. And speaking of romantic comedies, here's one that defies the ridiculously formulaic nature of the genre as it's become in recent years; intelligent, accessible, and even though the relationship material has been mined by myriad sitcoms over the last twenty years, its voice still seems fresh. The dialogue's got wit, and it works well given this well-chosen cast.Even if this isn't doing it for you, settle in for a great Harry Connick Jr. soundtrack.7/10 "}{"Title":"Missing Meg Ryan's romantic comedy","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I give this movie a 10 not because I think it's as good as The God Father. My enjoyment is based on its simple plot, quotable dialogs, the progressive chemistry, and the one and only Meg Ryan. I can't ask more for a typical romantic comedy. When some 'successful' romantic comedies today are merely nothing but a accumulation of stars, it makes me miss Meg's top three movies even more, which are When Harry Met Sally, Sleepless In Seattle, You've Got Mail. Then the reason why I regard this one as the best is its foreseeable ending but with touchingly unforgettable 'Harry style' lines, and now I can see that what Sally replies is just a good summary of their relationship, which I was unable to understand in this way at the first time I saw it. "},{"Title":"Classic 1989 Romantic Comedy","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry met Sally is a classic 1989 Romantic comedy. We are introduced to Harry, and he is blowing off steam by hitting baseballs. When we see Harry with Sally later we understand the dynamic of what is going on between these two characters. Sally is wild and free, which is portrayed by her crazy hair and the fact that she fakes an orgasm in the middle of restaurant and doesn't give a damn about who is watching, just to prove her point to Harry, my kind of person! Sally speaks up against him and his nonsense, they become almost equals which changes their dynamics and eventually makes them realise that they are perfect for each other. This is a classic romantic comedy with great humour at many points in the film! "},{"Title":"Harry Burns and Sally Albright share a car ride from Chicago to New York, during which they argue about whether men and women can ever truly be strictly platonic friends.","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A stunning romantic comedy with possibly one of the funniest fake orgasm scenes ever. A light-hearted take on the questionCan a man and woman every be just friends?. Casting proves to be one of the film's strengths. Rob Reiner's excellent instinct for jokes and punchlines paired with the obvious chemistry between Crystal and Ryan makes for an outstanding classic. What adds to the greatness of the movie is that it was not so much about Harry and Sally as it is about men and women in general. Reiner includes documentary-style interviews of couples who recall their first encounter which adds to the reality of the movie and makes this romantic comedy slightly different from the rest. A carefully crafted love story, growing over time along with witty banter between the two main characters. When Harry Met Sally...is hard not to love. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie thoroughly and surprisingly enjoyable. I am sure anyone can relate to it.In some ways it is now dated hairstyles, technology and attitudes for example, but this in no way detracts from the marvelous script.I wonder where the influences came from and what it influenced in the future Seinfeld and Sex in the City spring to mind as of course (I believe) are set in New York. Another possibility is the Before trilogy. I am sure there are many more.I also wonder if it was entirely scripted or if there was a fair amount of ad-libbing.If you haven't seen it before, it is definitely one for the watch list. "},{"Title":"Nice Romantic Comedy","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a man and woman who doubt whether men and women really can become friends or not. In the film, first, the hero and heroine meet at the first time, but they don't have a good impression about each other. Second, they meet again after a long time and become best friends. Finally, they have a quarrel, but thanks to it, they can get the answer about their doubt. I like the music which is used in the film since it is apropos and gives the film a good effect. Then, I like the theme of this film because it is interesting. Some people probably have a same doubt as the hero and heroine of this film. Therefore, I recommend such people watch this film to get the answer. I feel this film shows us the essence of a relationship of mutual trust between men and women. I think this is a good romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"It took long enough","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nora Ephron's original screenplay was the only Academy recognition for When Harry Met Sally received when it was nominated. I think it's a funny film, but I'm not as big a fan of it as some are.It's the story of Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan who take 12 years and 90 minutes plus of film footage to realize they are right for each other. I think the concept interesting but it is also good for maybe a 20 minute sketch as opposed to a feature film.Meg Ryan's faux orgasm scene at the restaurant is still the scene most remembered from the movie and she certainly carries it off with breathtaking style. Some bemused underplaying is done by friends Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher who keep wondering why these two just don't kanoodle and be done with it. My favorite scene is the contrasting split screen phone calls from Crystal to Kirby and from Ryan to Fisher describing the long awaited big event.It took long enough. "},{"Title":"One of the classics of long span romance movies","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story is one of those about relationship stories spanning a long time, with all the clash of characters in between the times. The sub genre will be complete with the predictable happy ending where the main man and woman get together at the end, which this movie has. This story felt like choppy on some parts with all the supporting characters didn't have any adequate character development. But by maintaining the focus only on Harry and Sally, the movie kept the whole thing intact well enough. The movie also feels lacking in terms that it didn't really use the location to interact with. The comedy inserts are nicely done since they don't come often, but when they do they can really crack up laughs. The scene with Sally's fake orgasm is one of the classics indeed. The acting overall is nice. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan showed nice chemistry to make their roles come to life. Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby did nice in filling the required supports. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally a very underrated romantic comedy starring former America's sweetheart Meg Ryan","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in years but I caught it recently and I had to do a review on it. The film tells the tale of two people Harry and Sally(both played by Billy Crystal from Monsters Inc,and Meg Ryan who was in Sleepless In Seattle and of course Kate & Leopold). The story chronicles on these two people who were friends for years and over the course of the film the two start to like each other more than friends when they meet up a few years later,but they are now dating other people. So will they won't they get together?. Also the film shows segments of people who fell in love and talk about what attracted them to their potential partners in the first place.Bottom line I enjoyed this movie as I am a huge fan of Meg Ryan since I was a kid and its a pity she doesn't do movies anymore as she was very good at doing romantic comedies.The chemistry between her and Billy Crystal was very good and lets not forget the fake orgasm scene where she does it at a restaurant and everyone watches in shock. And of course the ending was predictable but hey that's romantic comedies for ya. Meg was very young back when she did this movie and she went on to star in some hit movies(Sleepless In Seattle,You've Got Mail,Anastasia) and some that just didn't do that great(Kate & Leopold and I liked that film A lot).Overall I say check it out. Its a feel good romantic comedy for all you hopeless romantics out there.Good "},{"Title":"When Billy Met Meg.","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally (1989) Dir Rob Reiner / Cast Billy Crystal, Meg Ryan, Bruno Kirby, Carrie Fisher, Harley Jane Kozak Sensitive romantic comedy suggesting a pivotal moment when two people meet and what spawns from it. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan become friends during college. Crystal is involved with her best friend but they end up sharing a long car ride home. Story jump ahead several years during the course of the film while they struggle with current relationships and confide in each other. Story is predictable but smart with director Rob Reiner avoiding the clichés and settling for clever conversation between people as oppose to props. Crystal tries to figure out what went wrong in his quest for happiness while Ryan pretends to have it all together but underneath she is fragile. They have superb comic chemistry even though we know where they are headed. Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher appear as their friends who seem to have it all together but a double date takes their subplot in a different direction. Harley Jane Kozak appears briefly as Harry's ex-wife, which draws feelings of grief that are only subsided with Sally. Not one of Reiner's best films, which include This is Spinal Tap and The Princess Bride but it is entertaining and enlightening rising above road movie clichés. Intelligent film about how genders view each other. In the end we are glad Harry met Sally. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful Beautiful Romantic movie","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film contains one outstanding performance by Billy Crystal, perhaps it might be considered his best ever stand out performance. Further Meg Ryan who is an beautiful as ever also delivers an outstanding performance. Its nice to see Carrie Fisher in a non star wars role.The film is directed by Rob Riener and he brings out the best from all involved. A truly wonderful film and draws you in and before you know it the closing credits are rolling and you didn't notice the time.Its a beautiful story of two friends desperate to prove that a Man and Woman can be just good friends without the need for sex even after many years.I love this film and you will too. Just go watch it already! "}{"Title":"Really Good Film","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I watched this film I knew it was good, but each time I watch it I feel it just gets better and better. Its absolute gem of a movie. The story line is well written and keeps in you interested and entertained from the start of the movie to the very end.I would say the first time you watch it or if you haven't watched it for ages, you are always on the edge of your seat with anticipation of what is going to happen next. I guess its the sign of how good this movie is when you don't even realise your already half way through!The choice of cast for this film is just wonderful Billy Crystal's performance is probably one of if not his best ever. Meg Ryan looks just so beautiful. I will say its probably one of the roles people forget Carry fisher did, she might not have been lead but she does a good performance and its not Star Wars. Credit finally should be given to the Director Rob Reiner for putting together such a classic. If you like Rom Com's you will love this film. "},{"Title":"Fun, But Too Much Like a Romantic Comedy","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) have known each other for years, and are very good friends, but they fear sex would ruin the friendship.This film has become iconic, in part for the scene of Sally faking it, and for its bigger question can a man and a woman be strictly friends? The answer is one that is open to debate, but no movie is better known for tackling the subject than this one is.And does it answer the question? Well, you have to watch the movie. We cannot give that away. But, unfortunately, despite being a Rob Reiner comedy, it tends to get a bit too close to the romantic comedy (no doubt because of Nora Ephron's script). This may make it more divisive and less enjoyable a watch for men. "},{"Title":"It is one of the best romantic comedies.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harry and Sally have known each other for years, and are very good friends, but they fear sex would ruin the friendship. Harry and Sally meet when she gives him a ride to New York after they both graduate from the University of Chicago. The film jumps through their lives as they both search for love, but fail, bumping into each other time and time again. Finally a close friendship blooms between them, and they both like having a friend of the opposite sex. But then they are confronted with the problem Can a man and a woman be friends, without sex getting in the way? Roger Ebert wrote Harry and Sally are aided, and sometimes hindered, in their romance by the efforts of their best friends (Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby), who meet on a blind date arranged by Harry and Sally, to provide a possible partner for Sally and Harry. They're the kind of people who don't make it hard for themselves, who realize they like each other, and accept that fact, and act on it. Harry and Sally are tougher customers. They fight happiness every step of the way, until it finally wears them down. When Harry Met Sally is one of the greatest of it is genre and it contains such likable leads and played by actors that are able to drive the film forward. Overall, this movie is a great choice if you're looking for something uplifting, romantic, and funny but also realistic and not too sentimental. "},{"Title":"Great illustration of the real life quirky dating world.","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not huge on romantic comedies,but have enjoyed a few,but the ones I have enjoyed tend to be the ones that stray from the usual stereotypes that you associate with them.This is an example.It's dialog is more intelligent and funny.This is thanks,in big part to Billy Crystal,who has always had a clever way with words.This was developed,no doubt by his years as a stand up comic..The film has all the right ingredients for a classic romantic comedy..A funny,charming guy,a lovely and funny lady,a great supporting cast,and a truthful illustration of how quirky romance and dating really is.The real dating world is simply good fodder for a good romantic comedy film.Not all of them have been done well,but this one was. "},{"Title":"We are just going to be friends, OK?","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone who's ever seen the movie will remember THAT scene, indelibly burned into one's memory banks like so few movie scenes ever wind up doing. Coming out of nowhere, Meg Ryan offers one of the best and funniest deliveries ever, with the I'm having what she's having follow up just the icing on the cake. Priceless.This is a pretty enjoyable movie; as a classic movie fan of the Thirties and Forties I could imagine Cary Grant and Ann Sheridan pulling off something like this if they were around in 1989. They're a pair that could rattle off the kind of snappy dialog you had here with Billy Crystal and Miss Ryan. The four way phone conversation for example called for incredible concentration and precise timing and along with Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher, the principal players delivered big time. Also, before I get off the classic movie theme, the picture had a fair number of references to my all time favorite Casablanca, so that was pretty cool too.But watching today there's also a moment of reflection provided in the scene when Harry (Crystal) and Sally (Ryan) first arrive in New York City, and you can plainly see the image of the Twin Towers silhouetted by an arch where Harry gets out of the car. It's a poignant reminder that we live in a different world and different era today. For a moment, that image changed the tone of the picture for me.But not to get too maudlin over things. Harry and Sally represents the quintessential 'chick flick' kind of film that gets made every now and then and winds up with a huge following. This one will be watched and enjoyed for a long time, and for a guy, I guess that's a pretty good recommendation. "},{"Title":"I Adore This Movie","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll say from the start of this review that I adore this movie. It has a real charm to it, helped by great performances from its leads and solid direction.Plot In A Paragraph Harry and Sally meet in the summer of 1977 when they share a car ride to New York City together, they don't stay in touch, but over the years they keep running in to each other. Eventually the become friends. But can can men and women be friends, or does sex always get in the way??There is so much to love about this movie, Rob Reiner never disappoints as a director Stand By Me, A Few Good Men, Princess Bride, Sure Thing and this are all very different movies, yet are all superb. Meg Ryan is at her cute best here, she is both gorgeous and adorable, Billy Crystal is at his best here too, I like Crystal, I have enjoyed him in everything from this, City Slickers, the animated Monsters Inc, Running Scared or another Reiner movie Throw Mama From The Train. Meanwhile Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kurby offer solid support, whilst Harry Connick Jr's music is a valuable asset to the movie too. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally... a bunch of stuff happened. The real centerpiece of the film is its acting, mainly Billy Crystal's (it's fun seeing him as a hunky ladies' man). From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. This is not a great movie, but the cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. The only thing that keeps it afloat is the sensitivity of the bilaterally desperately needy relationship depicted between Harry and Sally. "},{"Title":"One Great Movie!","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'When Harry Met Sally...' is undoubtedly, one of the most romantic & feel-good movies ever made! Its wonderfully written, perfectly directed & also excellently acted! A True 1989 Classic!'When Harry Met Sally...' Synopsis Harry and Sally have known each other for years, and are very good friends, but they fear sex would ruin the friendship.Its been exactly 25 long years since 'When Harry Met Sally...' released & even after so many years, Harry & Sally haven't lost their charm. Their story still holds tremendous appeal. The Late/Great Nora Ephron's Screenplay spells romance in its truest sense. The Journey of Harry & Sally is simply unforgettable, because their journey is constructed so beautifully. Ephron's Screenplay is wonderfully engaging & the dialogue, are delightful, too. Rob Reiner's Direction is perfect. Cinematography & Editing are note-worthy. Performance-Wise Billy Crystal & Meg Ryan are absolutely legendary. As the mushy protagonists, both of the accomplished actors pitch in career-best performances & share an amazing chemistry on-screen. Carrie Fisher is first-rate. The Late/Great Bruno Kirby supports well.On the whole, 'When Harry Met Sally...' is One Great Movie! Two Big Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"A Unique Romantic Comedy that Stays Fresh After All These Years,","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally is a brilliant movie with a very well written storyline and a very talented comedic cast.The movie is a very unique romantic comedy,probably my favourite one because the characters relationship is so realistic and they behave like real men and women instead of just a cliché romance film couple.The chemistry between Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan is outstanding and certainly the best part of this movie,Crystal's character is nothing like any male character you've seen in any romantic comedy before,he says things you'd never expect to hear in a movie but they are very true,also Meg Ryan's character is well developed and not just second best to Crystal's character,they wrote this movie so that both characters had equal importance and neither had more character development than the other.The movie certainly withstands the test of time and will for years to come because a relationship between a couple has always stayed the same and this movie is the most real towards that relationship.When Harry Met Sally is a great movie that I would definitely recommend to anyone looking for a good romantic comedy,in my opinion,it's the best there is. Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) first meet on a road trip to New York,they have a terrible time and don't meet each other again five years later.They keep running into each other and decide to become friends,although they fear they myth want to be more than just friends. Best Performance Billy Crystal Worst Performance Carrie FisherIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"A fun and sweet movie","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally Director Rob Reiner. Starring Billy Crystal, Meg RyanI watch this movie every New Years Eve and, each time that I see this it is still clever and funny. This film dosen't have much of a plot. It is mainly about two people Harry(played hilariously by Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan). They meet on a trip to New York and they talk and it's so funny. Harry thinks that he knows everything and Sally is obsessive. And then the trip ends and they move on. Later in their lives they meet again and Harry is in a state of knowing nothing and Sally is happy. Then they meet again and this time they become friends and normal romantic comedy stuff happens. Yet this is better. Nora Ephron's writing is so great and clever that you are happy for the whole duration of the movie. There are some funny jokes in here and it really is great. Billy Crystal is the highlight of this film. He is the one with the dialog in the movie and it is so funny to hear his philosophies. He's down to earth and talks a lot. Meg Ryan well acts like Meg Ryan. If you don't know what I mean go watch every romantic comedy that came out in the 90's. This film acts like a chick flick. I mean come on there is a one thing that goes into chick flicks in the 90's. Meg Ryan. And this movie is a romantic comedy but the thing is it's not as fake and magic oriented as movies like the mediocre Sleepless in Seattle.I think what changes this film is mainly the dialog and the sense that the people are progressing through life. The way that time passes and how that changes the characters views makes the film seem real. And it gives you the feeling that these people know each other. Now the ending of this movie is kind of a romantic comedy ending but you don't care. You've had such a charming ride by the end of the film that you don't care if it ends so cheesy. Also as a slight addition there are married people explaining the way they got married scattered throughout the film. And they are nice to listen to. These could have been out of place but they're not. I actually enjoy this a lot. I give this film a 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The Performances Are Just Magical","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though I am not the biggest aficionado of romantic comedies, but there are two romantic comedies that that are absolutely spell-binding. The first one is Annie Hall and the other one is the classic 1989 movie When Harry Met Sally. What makes When Harry Met Sally standout is the glaring energetic integrity it has backed up by the equally compelling script by the late Nora Ephron which goes beyond the formulaic run-of-the-mill boy-meets-girl cliché that most romantic comedies suffer through.The emotional build-up has a lot coming for it from the beginning and never once does it ever go back. Harry Burns (Billy Crystal) and Sally Albright (Meg Ryan) have been meeting each several times since 1977. They first started off as total strangers as they drive together from Chicago to New York City as sexual intentions eventually keep them apart. Years later, they run into each other now both career-oriented (Harry is political consultant and Sally is a journalist). The charisma and the chemistry between Crystal and Ryan wants us to see their characters fall in love and get married. Sadly, they are still head-blocked by their previous relationships which put them at doubt of committing to getting into another relationship.The feisty performances of the two leading stars compliments nicely to the script that Ephron wrote. Even though Billy Crystal has a one-dimensional character, he still manages to pull off some sleaziness within the character of Harry Burns. Whereas Sally has a personality that changes in many different places. When we are first introduced to her she comes off as a vulnerable determined college graduate ready to take on all challenges that the world wishes to throw at us. But with all the trials and tribulations that manifest with the issues on relationships which gives her a newer more alert perspective of the world around her. Ryan goes through this transition so naturally, we never really see it coming.Ephron was a master in her own craft writing script filled with a cornucopia of hilarious perspective of human relationships throughout her career as a scriptwriter. Here in When Harry Met Sally, we look through both genders perspectives about relationships on an even field. Harry sees that men and women have sex does not have room just being friends. That applies to anyone who has been in a relationship before. Every scene has a reason, even the brief scene with the elderly couples also contributes the purpose of this movie.Over the years, director Rob Reiner has made mediocre as of late. But it is very pleasing that When Harry Met Sally was released we can reflect back to when he made quality films like these. His colorful direction and Ephron and her brilliant script make just as much of an effective couple as Harry and Sally were. The endearing couple are so likable we actually care if they get together no matter what direction in life they wish to pursue. "},{"Title":"Men & women can't be just friends?","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With incredible writing from Nora Ephron and witty delivery by Meg Ryan, Billy Crystal, Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby, many angles of the spawning of relationships are humorously recreated. There are also real couples seemingly 70 years or older who recant their coupling interview style, which creates a palette for our actors to work with.Circumstances surrounding the interwoven lives of our two star-crossed lovers are always ironic. It's beefed up by the iconic restaurant scene and held together by Meg's every woman fear that she'll turn 30 and still not be married. Billy loses his man card for letting out the age old men's secret that men & women can't be just friends? "},{"Title":"When harry Met Sally- Highly Recommended!!","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Highlight  Went on to be a Trend Setter among Romantic ComediesWhen Harry Met Sally... is one of those rare, one in a million motion pictures that becomes a cultural icon. It's been needlessly ripped off, and endlessly spoofed since its release in 1989. There have been romantic comedies that don't quite appeal to me, but When Harry Met Sally is just wonderful. It is for me everything a romantic comedy should be, funny, witty and charming. The screenplay from Nora Ephron got nominated for an Oscar, and so it should have done. There were times when I laughed out loud (I'll have what she's having), and other times when I was like that's really sweet. The direction is wonderfully astute and detailed, as is often the case with Rob Reiner ( Director of The Bucket List and A Few Good Men). It's a wonderful romantic comedy about a man and a woman who struggles to keep their relationship afloat after the threat of sex endangers it. Two perfectly cast stars benefit from a sharp script that deeply explores friendship, romance, and the differences between men and women.The New York locations are really beautiful, and the soundtrack is awesome. The lovely story argues the question of whether men and women can ever have a friendship without sex, and there are so many funny and charming scenes, particularly the fake-orgasm set piece. And of course the acting is outstanding. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan(at her prettiest I think, though she was stunning in Sleepless in Seattle as well) are perfect together, while Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby give a real sense of edge to their supporting performances. Overall, a delightful romantic comedy. Highly Recommended!!My Rating - 9/10 "},{"Title":"Near perfect romantic comedy","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Near perfect romantic comedy about two friends who test the myth that men and women can never be just friends. Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) meet when sharing a long hour car journey to New York after graduating college, spending the time bickering about relationships and life. They eventually agree that men and women can never be platonic friends as sex will always get in the way. They part company and their lives move on, but years later they encounter each other again and the same issue is raised. The real star of the film is Nora Ephron's sparkling script full of fantastic organic lines that flow through the characters and never feel forced. It's written and delivered so expertly it's at times indecipherable from ad-lib. Like all the best romantic comedies it's a film with real heart about believable characters, and the comedy is allowed to stem from that - unlike so many of its contemporaries where relationships seem to have been roughly sketched around a few big set pieces or an overarching concept where the guy is secretly two twins (or something). It begins at a steady pace allowing us to bond with Harry and Sally before asking us to sympathise with them. This deliberate controlled direction by Rob Reiner gives the film some weight as well as humour, not simply rushing the character development to get the gags. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan are superb as the 'couple' delivering pitch perfect performances that don't overshadow the quality of the material and investing real warmth and likability into the characters. It's a timeless, beautiful film that will still be relevant as long as the question Can men and women be friends? is around. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally...","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The quintessential romantic comedy, When Harry Met Sally&#x85; lives up to the twofold promise of its genre; it is as genuinely funny as it is romantic. Credit its writer, Nora Ephron, its director, Rob Reiner, and its four leads&#x97;Billy Crystal, Meg Ryan, Carrie Fisher, and Bruno Kirby&#x97;for the film's steady stream of well-earned laughs. The movie properly centers around well-read, well-bred, well-dressed, well-mannered urbanites who have good looks, good jobs, and good futures. The question of suitability need not consider intelligence, physical attractiveness, or the ability to provide. That leaves compatibility of character to determine who ends up with whom. This keeps the romantic conflict light, which opens a void for the comedy&#x97;and possibly some truths about relationships&#x97;to fill. Filling that void is where most romantic comedies fall short&#x97;leaving them shallow and hollow, and not very funny&#x97;and where When Harry Met Sally&#x85; succeeds. Billy Crystal plays Harry Burns, who meets Sally Albright, played by Meg Ryan, multiple times throughout the film. Each time they meet, time has changed them, so it's as if they are meeting each other for the first time. The true first time they meet, Harry is a self-inflicted cynic who always flips to the last page of a book before he reads it so that he'll know how it ends in case he dies before finishing it. His eyes seem perpetually half-closed, and his tone reflects a young man who thinks he knows it all. He plants the seed that germinates into the main thematic question of the film by positing to Sally that men and women can never be friends because the sex part always gets in the way. Sally is a wide-eyed, prim-and-proper optimist, who admits that she has a positive outlook on life, as if she knows there's something wrong with that. Each time they meet again, their eyes change disposition in opposite directions&#x97;his becoming more open as life throws him curveballs, and hers becoming less perky as experience wears down her naivety. Eventually, their eyes meet in the middle, and the third meeting, which takes place roughly ten years after the first, turns Harry and Sally into friends. About a year goes by, and we find the title characters dancing together at a New Year's Eve party. This scene clinches our suspicion that Crystal and Ryan aren't just fine comic performers; they're fine actors. They act this scene with their eyes. Throughout the film, both actors prove their ability to adapt to their characters' changing ages and attitudes. Ryan's performance is chameleonic, her character subtly adjusting to each costume change. This scene also demonstrates the film's exceptional use of music; as Harry and Sally realize what is developing between them, we realize that the song they are dancing to is Harry Connick Jr.'s rendition of I Could Write A Book, which finds the appropriate lyrics, how to make two lovers of friends. Still, the couple does not consummate. Time passes. They try to set each other up with their best friends through a double blind date&#x97;another scene in which Crystal and Ryan tell the story with their eyes. And we recognize Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher as the perfect players of the other couple. Finally, Harry and Sally have sex, and we learn the real reason why men and women can never remain just friends. It's not because the man will always want to have sex with the woman; it's because, once they have sex, the woman will attach more meaning to the act than the man. This answer raises another question when does, or why should, sex mean something, and when does, or why should, it mean everything? The film doesn't really answer this question, but at least it asks it. Instead, it ends in textbook romantic fashion, with Sally standing alone at midnight on another New Year's Eve, and Harry running through the streets to meet her once again, this time forever, as Frank Sinatra serenades them with It Had To Be You, instrumental variations of which have accompanied moments throughout the movie. We may be tempted to view the final scene as the only unoriginal one, but I like to appreciate it as a dual realization&#x97;part Harry's, and part ours&#x97;that he, and the movie he lives in, really do, after all, believe in true love. "},{"Title":"Classic Romantic Comedy","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally&#x85; is a romantic comedy film written by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob Reiner. It stars Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan together with Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby. The story follows the title characters from the time they meet just before sharing a cross-country drive, through twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City. The film opens with the two strangers,Harry and Sally.Both newly graduated from the University of Chicago, share a car trip from Chicago to New York, where they are both going to make their way. During the trip, they discuss aspects of their characters and their lives, eventually deciding it is impossible for men and women to be just friends. They arrive in New York and go their separate ways. They meet a few years later on an airplane and Harry reveals he is married. They meet again at a bookstore a few years after that where Harry reveals he is now divorced. From that point on, the two form a friendship. Eventually their closeness results in their respective best friends meeting and falling in love with each other. At a New Year's Eve party Harry and Sally confront the complex tangle of emotions they feel for each other. This is a classic romantic comedy.It is a touching and funny film set a new standard for romantic comedies, and he was ably abetted by the sharp interplay between Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan.And what makes this a classic despite the story's predictability, is the dialogue and the chemistry, which makes for a high-wire act.Most of all,it presents question and provokes thought to both men and women. "},{"Title":"a movie to see always","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is this nostalgic feeling you get when you are done watching this classic. I felt like I have forgotten how it feels to watch a romantic movie and actually be happy for those involve when they get together.Everyone needs a regular dose of When Harry met Sally&#x85; once in a while to make you smile with apparently no reason at all.Reiner said that he had always wanted to do a film about two people who become friends and do not have sex because they know it will ruin their relationship but have sex anyway. The movie itself is based on the very idea can men and women be just platonic friends? Well to me from my experience the answer is NO! As long as there is constant communication, the man will want to sleep with her.The movie is known for its Deli scene where Sally claims that men cannot tell the difference between when a woman is having an orgasm or when she is faking it, and to prove her point, she vividly (but fully clothed) fakes one as other diners watch. Then the movie dropped its popular line, when a woman from the diner who had been watching Sally demonstrate the fake orgasm placed an order saying, I'll have what she's having. The movie tells the story of two people Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) who met in 1977 in a car ride where they both discussed if it was possible for men and women to have a platonic friendship. Harry disagrees while Sally believed it was possible. They parted ways only to meet 5 years after in an airport. Harry asked Sally if they could be friends but Sally refused and then parted again to meet 5 years after that in a coffee shop.Then they became close friends helping each other out through the struggles and being there for each other.It all went well till the time came for them to answer the question, can a man and a woman be platonic friends without sex being involved? The thing about the movie that keeps you going is the funny lines Billy Crystal delivers at every scene, add this to his acting and the persona of his character you have a guy that is fun to be with and fun to watch. Meg Ryan on the other hand plays a more subtle character who is more of amazement in the way she sees thing, that in fact there is never a dull moment with both characters.Rob Reiner directing in this Romantic Comedy is top notch, he went on to make Sleepless In Seattle (1993) which was also one of the best romantic movies ever made and it also stars Meg Ryan, but nothing can stand up to When Harry met Sally&#x85; This is my pick of best romantic movie I have seen till date. "},{"Title":"Loved the Christmas","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just think of all the conventions it gets in, and skewers the one-track mind male (Harry); the sensitive and practical female, repulsed yet intrigued by said male (Sally); the emotionally unsettled mistress playing the field (Carrie Fisher, who keeps an index card file of available men); the live-ins who can't commit (Sally and her ex-boyfriend); women's concern with middle age and their biological clock (I'm gonna be 40, weeps Sally. When? asks Harry. Someday.); the male's tendency to skip out after making love; the horror and unpredictability of blind dates; and, in a scene which is almost passe to mention anymore, women's ability to fake orgasm. The way this film jumps from one familiar convention to another would be embarrassing if it weren't for the fact that each one is handled with such economy, humor and grace.Billy Crystal acquits himself well as Harry - predictably, perhaps, as it's a part tailor made for a standup comedian. Still, seeing him in this after years of half-baked movies and fawning Oscar presentations, it's a revelation how glib and unlikable he can allow himself to be . . . and *still* be likable. Yo, Billy, if you're listening out there try incorporating some of Harry's darker shadings and more egocentric traits into your future roles; it gives you a more complete palette to work from and keeps you from being too generic and schticky. And your charm and humor will always shine through anyway.If Billy needs to edge a little bit closer back to Harry, though, Meg Ryan needs to get Sally completely out of her system. This role, deservedly, made her a star - but she has tried to go back to this particular well once too many times, and it's become way too familiar you know, the adorable, bright-eyed bit - mentally disheveled, prissy around the edges with just a wisp of klutziness, all topped by that cute, mega-watt smile. It has become now the Meg Ryan character, but back when Sally came along it was still fresh, and it was tied to a particular personality. Ryan gives Sally a shy-cum-toughness as well as a moody, slightly cynical and self-deprecating wit that is just totally right. She and Crystal play off each other like two old pros, and they weave in and out of some charming and hilarious verbal music. "},{"Title":"Genuine and Fun","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I very much enjoyed this romantic comedy. It's amazing how you meet people in life that become a big influence. I notice how a lot of the romantic comedies of today have been influenced by this movie. The brief true couples part reminded me of the ending of Mr. & Mrs. Smith, as well as the brief twin interviews in Jack and Jill. I love that; it makes the movie all the more interesting and funny, but mainly entertaining. This is another one of those movies I'm ashamed of not seeing earlier in my life; I just can't believe I put such a wonderful movie off for this long. Harry reminded me a little of myself when he explained his logical observations. It's hilarious because he comes across as obnoxious to people on the receiving end. Sally is genuinely high maintenance when it comes to ordering food (also like myself). But the chemistry the two have is perfect. You can tell they're meant for each other; especially when they hate each other. Most 21st century romantic comedies lack meaning (besides sex) and originality. They're out of ideas after all this time I guess. This is a truly brilliant film fun to watch again and again. "},{"Title":"a hopelessly romantic film","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw 'When Harry Met Sally I foolishly felt it was a Woody Allen rip off- I did not get it. This film I have grown to love -this really is a magical piece of work. Scene followed by scene you actually look forward to seeing again-- it is actually an easy film to watch. The set up is Harry meets Sally when his current girl friend says Sally All bright will give him him a lift back home. It is long car ride and when she says your girl friend said you have a dark side you engage with the situation even more. Like Billy Wilder before him Rob Reiner has an expert writer; Nora Ephron creating a classic structure for a classic romantic movie. There are standout moments -- the café scene--the late great Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher bonding together instead ofclicking on the blind date that Harry and Sally had set up-- Man talk beween Jess and HarryWhere he asks Harry if he made a woman meow and the New year's Eve denouement with Frank singing 'It had to be you' - this has to be one of the most classically romantic movies of all time. "}{"Title":"When Rob Met Nora ...","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If it's romantic and funny, it's a good romantic comedy, plain and simple. On that level, Rob Reiner's When Harry Met Sally&#x85; is a 10/10 but there wouldn't be much to say and the praise would be more disrespectful than the critic, because obviously, the film tries (and succeeds) to be more than a 'rom-com', it's a very interesting gender relationship study with an undeniable pedagogic value.And this probably is When Harry Met Sally&#x85; unfortunate dilemma, it succeeds so much on the wit and romance department, that it sometimes undermines the realism of the 'social commentary' aspect. Yes, romantic comedies are not the most likely to depict reality with a documentary-like quality, but the Oscar-nominated script of Norah Ephron proves that sometimes, even intelligence can be incompatible with realism. When you have to conclude by a &#x85; but then, there would have been no film, you know something didn't work.But first, allow me to say that I really love the film, and this has a lot to do with the performances of Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan, who form one of the greatest romantic duos, if not the greatest. Harry is oddly appealing as the lunatic, part-anguished part-self-confident guy, with this poignant mix of macho attitude and vulnerability, while Sally shines as the adorable cute face, constantly smiling and optimistic free-spirited girl, the winning yin to Harry's annoying yang. Harry and Sally are as contradictory as moon and sun, Mars and Venus, both embodying the opposite poles that separate women from men. No wonder that in their first encounter in 1977, they have a problem of communication, especially on the touchiest subject can a man and a woman be friends, without having sex ruining their friendship.This is the intellectual core that drives the relationship's evolution and since Harry doesn't believe in the non-interference of sex, and since she doesn't like him, both can never be friends. Then they meet again in 1982, where their 'qualities' are even more emphasized, the result is hilariously disastrous but we know it's just a matter of time so they finally get in the same wavelength. And after five crucial years, Harry and Sally's respective divorce and break-up finally relieve them from all their preconceived ideas. Life is build of dreams and experience on disillusions, so the Harry and Sally who meet again in 1987 are the real ones, who can start a nice and warm friendship, cleared from any sexual tension.But Rob Reiner and Nora Ephron aren't fooling anyone, Harry and Sally are passionate, romantic, they need love, not friendship, and the absence of sex plays as a paradox as it plants the seeds of a relationship that would ultimately need it. The significance of the film before the pivotal sex scene is to play as a 'Man and Women' cinematic How To. It works as a more approachable version of Woody Allen's films, like a Annie Hall marketed for a wider and less sophisticated audience, allowing it to identify with Harry and Sally, so, as I pointed it out, in my Annie Hall's review, the most intellectually challenging stuff they discuss is the ending of Casablanca.But the movie still works because the two leads are so adorable and funny together with the highlight of the film set in an ordinary Deli's restaurant. Many would criticize the unrealism of Sally's fake orgasm scene, but the timing of the scene, and the facial expressions of Crystal with the I'll have what she's having as the icing on the cake perfectly work. The problem of the film is elsewhere, after a while, we know they're made for each other, we're ahead of them, just like their respective friends played by Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher, so we wait for sex to point its nose and then see how it will change the face of their relationship. And this is where the movie lost me. When I saw Sally's beatific smile contrasting with Harry's devastated eyes, I was disappointed because I expected a moment of ecstatic realization.I couldn't believe Harry would brutally leave Sally, more lovely and loving than she ever was, pretending thereafter that it was a mistake. I didn't buy it especially because I rooted for Harry and identified with his existential interrogations. The whole film was punctuated with delightful scenes where older people were telling the way they met, whether it was coincidences or loves at first sights, highlighting a romantic view that would foreshadow Harry and Sally's destiny. For me, having sex together should have been the counterargument not the confirmation of Harry's immature theory. This contradiction left me believing that Harry acted that way just because is was scripted so, and I couldn't get the reason of the mistake until I saw the 'Making Of'.Basically, the film was about Reiner's experience as a single man, translated by Nora's script, and her personal ideas about women and men. Whatever Harry and Sally said was what Rob and Nora believed in. This worked on an 'Allenian' level when they were friends but when they got over the sex barrier, the director and the writer should have left the characters speak for them instead of keeping on studying all the possibilities before Harry would finally declare his love, this was a needless 'suspense'. What follows, till the climax, works like a 'Rom-Com for Dummies' that only works because the actors play their part perfectly? So Harry finally realize that he can't live without Sally, he needed the separation to understand that he should keep this gem of a girl for him, before it's too late.Yes, sometimes, it takes one separation to understand the value of what or whom we're losing, and I'm speaking for my own experience. But the way it was done looked too prefabricated for me, when the realization should have realistically come from the sex scene, or never &#x85; but then there would have been no film&#x85; "},{"Title":"A great chick flick!","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harry Burns (Billy Crystal) meets Sally Albright (Meg Ryan) in 1977 when they need someone to share a drive with to New York after finishing college in Chicago. The film shows how, after a couple of false starts, they begin and develop a friendship, which stays constant throughout their turbulent romantic lives. However, the film raises the question, 'Can men and women ever be just friends?'.Personally, I loved this film. It's light-hearted and fun, the greatest laugh coming in the form of the famous 'orgasm scene' in a Manhattan deli. Crystal and Ryan both performed admirably, as did the supporting cast. I'll certainly watch this again. "},{"Title":"Fun Romantic Comedy!","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally is a wonderfully entertaining comedy about love and relationships. Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) are two very different people who disagree on one main subject can men and women really just be friends without having sex? After their first meeting during a drive from Chicago to New York, they go their separate ways with no answer and no friendship. It takes them over a decade, after later encounters, failed relationships, a humorously horrifying blind date, and further complicated situations, before they have their answer and discover their destiny. By no means an empty chick flick or tear-jerker romance, When Harry Met Sally is full of witty dialogue, contains both serious and comical portrayals of life and love, and speaks to today's audience just as much as it did in 1989. Though When Harry Met Sally don't offer alternative possibilities to the question, Can men and women just be friends? it does show us that, while relationships are never easy and the road to love can be a long and complicated one, we will eventually find our way in the end.Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan give a good performance and seem like a natural couple, while Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher (Harry and Sally's friend-couple Jess and Marie), are great supporting actors whose inclusion contributes well to the story's overall theme. Besides Harry and Sally's arguments in the midst of their developing relationship, their interaction with Jess and Marie also show the different aspects of human relationships and male/female situations.The filming techniques were overall very well-done. Although many of the scenes use a simple quick cut, jumping from one scene to the other, this does not make the film appear choppy or incoherent. Most events flow naturally, and when the film goes back and forth between the lives of Harry and Sally and their conversations among friends, this faster cutting speed is done effectively and creates a more comical, lighthearted mood to deal with the theme. Occasionally throughout the film, a brief segment with an old couple suddenly appears, and the couple tells us a story of how they met. This adds a nice touch and ties in with the overall story. They are there to remind us how randomly relationships can begin and that Harry and Sally's relationship is such a story. Angles from the indirect-subjective point of view show us the different emotions that the main characters go through during the course of their relationship, and our natural focus is on them as we watch their facial expressions and conversations against a blurred background.In many ways, When Harry Met Sally can be considered a more modern Annie Hall when it comes to theme, style and presentation of the plot. Though different, we see a lot of similar techniques used, such as fast cuts between scenes, simultaneous scenes (Harry and Sally talking on the telephone to each other and watching the same film), and internal dialogue (when Harry and Sally are simultaneously thinking about how to tell each other that their making love was a mistake). Both films are witty presentations of the complexity of human relationships, though in my opinion, When Harry Met Sally produces more laughs and is less philosophical than Annie Hall. The couple in Annie Hall never does fully solve their relationship dilemma, but Harry and Sally do. However, it's not the end result, but the journey that makes this movie &#x96; and life &#x96; an interesting one full of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Boy meets girl, again, again, again, and again over many years. A true romance that is well filmed.","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan set the standards for Romance Movies with this feature. A young couple take a trip from Chicago to New York and then separate but meet several times over the ensuing years. Billy's character (Harry) has to have sex with all women because he cannot commit to any relationships. Meg Ryan plays Sally, a good republican midwest girl who thinks she knows what she wants for her life, but is dumped many times and deeply hurt from her relationships.We all have relationships that suffer from some of these trials and tribulations, but do we offer the truth to each other in order to make things right. Harry explains at the end of the movie everything that he loves about Sally which is a revelation to not only him, but Sally too.This is one of my favorite romantic movies to watch year after year. After being married for 27 now, this movie is now part of our lives and always will be. So I hope that you will enjoy this movie as well as we have over the last twenty years. "},{"Title":"the perfect romantic comedy  as clever and warm and real , as it can be.","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i watch a lot of movies.. its a routine to me to watch a movie once a day. my mood at the time is what calls which movie is the one ( some times the choice is not that wise ) , so right now , in mid march 2011 , alone in my apartment , which i rent because of me being a physics student in another town than my home town, things aren't as happy as they could , so a feel good , relax movie was in order. I chose When harry met Sally , which i had seen a few years back , although not remembering much from it ,so it was OK to re watch it .Just pure entertainment , very clever writing , that all pieced together very nicely to make one warm , quality film . Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal were the best choices for their roles , as they were both spectacular.You want chemistry ,it sure is there.. You want real life dialogs , its there..humor and laugh out loud scenes are there too ( in its dark but warm, form mostly ) i loved this movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Clever and witty romantic comedy","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This really is a enjoyable witty romantic comedy, from the dialogue to the direction it's all very witty and fun to watch the characters exchange dialogue with each other. This movie starts off with a good amount of impact and for the most part it keeps the impact all the way through it. The relationship this time in this romantic comedy is about two friends one guy and one girl building a relationship by teaching each other about relationship. One from guy's point of view the other from a girl's point of view and it's mostly witty and entertaining to watch these two biker and argue in a mostly friendly manner. Harry Burns(Billy Crystal) just didn't seem like a good match with the beautiful Sally Albright(Meg Ryan) but the chemistry is believable and good to the point it's all mostly passable. Plus it just proves that it's not about all looks when it comes to women. Billy Crystal played the obnoxious and yet likable character really well. The comic relief is also clever and it's a breath of fresh air, it can be enjoyed by almost anyone and has aspects of it that can be discussed with friends after it's finished. Highly recommend this to almost anyone, especially for those that like romantic comedies.8.2/10 "},{"Title":"Best romantic-comedy movie of all time","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hadn't even hit the first time-skip before realizing that the movie that I was watching was absolutely amazing and was possibly the best movie in the romance genre that I have ever watched. I fear that the next romance movies that I watch, won't live up to the standards that When Harry Met Sally set for me.I think what appealed to me most about this movie was the slow, but steady friendship that Harry and Sally had and nurtured. The time-skips made the movie seem more realistic. Instead of those crappy teenage romance films we have now (where the characters fall in love with each other as soon as they meet), in this film, we're greeted with a refreshing change of pace, where nothing is rushed. It is a beautifully done movie.I fell in love the characters during the first 10 minutes of the film. Harry and Sally drove to New York City and became acquaintances. Their conversations mostly led to arguments caused mostly by Harry who was played by Bill Crystal. Bill had the best lines. He was the funniest character in the movie.My favorite part of the movie was the time when they were best friends. They'd talk to each other before they went to bed. They had daily lunches out. One particular scene that I remember the most during the peak of their friendship, was when Harry began talking in a robotic tone and encouraged Sally to join him. That part was adorable. It didn't seem forced. They were just having sweet, innocent fun.The script was amazing. It was filled with so much wit. The dialogue also flowed very well. It was just so natural. The last lines of the movie were great and very, very romantic.Harry I came here tonight because when you realize that you wanna spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible.This movie is definitely a classic. I can't believe I didn't watch this one sooner. If you like romance flicks or if you feel like watching a heartwarming movie, be sure not to miss this gem. And even if you don't fit in in either categories, the comedy in this movie will be sure to keep you entertained. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't watch too many romantic comedies, but this one was great. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan make for a interesting pair of friends and throw plenty of play off of each other. The witty dialog and directing makes this movie all the better. So I'll give a big hand for Nora Ephron and Rob Reiner. And ya gotta love Bruno Kirby with Carrie Fisher! Great cast and great soundtrack! The warm feelings off of Louis's music is unmatchable.So many good things about this movie, but most everyone here has already said it all. I won't go on for much more, but I'll end on this noteIf you're looking for a romantic comedy, this may be your cup o' tea! "},{"Title":"The perfect couple!","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We think these two are the perfect couple.We love that they were friends first; we always believe that is the best foundation for a lasting relationship. And their best friends are married to each other, so there will be plenty of double dating and none of that why do we have to go out with YOUR friends issue to deal with. They've had years to see the best and worst of each other. They're always there for each other. They make each other laugh. And there doesn't seem to be any pussyfooting around with these two. They are always honest with each other.But mostly &#x96; they can talk. About anything. We don't have to worry that they'll wind up as one of those couples sitting across from each other at dinner in 20 years with nothing to say.We think they'll probably have compatible views when it comes to matters of house hunting, raising kids, finances, etc. Sure they'll have their fights, but they've already proved they can handle that.These two are definitely not faking it. One of the few truly believable on screen romances. "},{"Title":"So, this is how it all started","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It was about time for me to see this movie. And all the good words are deserved. Too bad it has spawned one of the most predictable, boring, annoying, over repetitive sub-genres.It is evident that the movie draws lot of inspiration from Woody Allen style, but it is more tighten for a wider audience, but luckily not dumbed, like is done these days.So what does this film has that todays don't? It is intelligently, patiently done, not hurrying for the romance or forcing jokes and avoids successfully to be predictable and pathetic. The chemistry works between the leading actors, and the supporting characters are more than decor to fill space. The biggest difference is that it keeps in touch with the reality and drama that makes it more intense. "}{"Title":"What the Rom-Com genre should have always been","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The romantic comedy genre gets a bad reputation and, lets face it, deservedly so. It isn't easy to find a good rom-com in this day and age but stumbling upon When Harry Met Sally was quite the treat. It's the story of two friends, Harry Burns (Billy Crystal) and Sally Albright (Meg Ryan). They are best friends, trying their hardest to keep sex out of the relationship so as not to complicate things. It's a charming story with fun characters and witty dialouge. The film is funny in its own subtle way without the use of stupid humor or sight gags. I had a great time watching this film and it kept me amused and interested the whole way through.I'm a huge Rob Reiner (The Princess Bride, Stand by Me) fan. His style of subtle and intelligent humor is something that you just don't see anymore. When Harry Met Sally is a great example of his comedic style and it never loses its touch throughout the entire film. And while the wit and intelligence of the film remains the same all the way through, it changes its tone and pacing multiple times, making for an intriguing and diversified watch. The creative way in which the story progresses breaks away from the way thousands of other romantic comedies play out, and that makes for something so fresh and original that you can't help but love it.Major kudos also go out to the limited cast of this film. When Harry Met Sally really only comprises of two main characters (Crystal and Ryan) and two supporting characters (Kirby and Fisher). Bruno Kirby (Donnie Brasco, The Basketball Diaries) plays Harry's best guy friend and Carrie Fisher (Star Wars) plays Sally's best girl friend. The interactions between these four characters make some of the most memorable scenes in the film. With such a small group of central characters, each must serve a legitimate and relevant purpose, and they all four go above and beyond in this respect.When Harry Met Sally is a fantastic film that defines what all romantic comedies should be. Its intelligence and wit is something you don't see much anymore, making it a film that stands out among the thousands of others like it. It's a wonderfully directed, intelligently written, and superbly acted film. Definitely check this one out. "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy you'll ever see","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I never understood women and romantic comedies. I could never see the point of spending two hours of your time to watch a movie about two lovers being forced from each other and striving to reunite. I mean where's the interest in that? I'm not saying that I'm a dumb die-hard that needs action to be satisfied, but I do ask that I be given a valid reason to stick around for the touchy love story.So when I decided to rent 'When Harry Met Sally' you could tell that there was going to be some hesitation involved. It looked like any other majorly cliché chick flick that I had previously wasted hours of patience with. But after reading some of the reviews given to it by various critics I thought to myself You know what, maybe this going to be something different, something better, and as it turns out, it was.When Harry Met Sally is a wonderful relief. I finally found a romantic comedy that I can feel comfortable watching. It's an amusing story about that old question; can men and women be friends? It features one of the best match ups ever assembled on screen and a socially hilarious script by Nora Ephron. It's easily the best romantic comedy ever. Meg Ryan is absolutely beautiful and Billy Crystal nails the role of the obnoxious male friend. Of course I can't forget Rob Reiner's brilliant direction, wait a go Rob. It's a shame he doesn't make more movies like this because it really suits him. When Harry Met Sally is a clever, witty, hilariously entertaining movie, if whatever reason you decide to watch a chick flick, make it this one. "},{"Title":"great movie, great acting, great story, great script and great direction.","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" when harry met sally is one of the best movies i have seen. i had always heard of the movie but never seen it until it came on TV last year. once i saw it i loved it and was hooked on to it. so much so that every time the movie would play on TV i somehow managed to stick thru it for the entire movie, i.e. till it end. i recently purchased the DVD too and have seen it at least 4 times since. its a great movie that u can watch alone or with friends n family. billy and meg both of done a fantastic job in the movie. their chemistry is undeniable and the movie is just so good. the script, the dialogs and the entire narration is just awesome. the director has obviously done a great job to take a great story and script and present it in an amazing manner. for anyone who has not seen it, pls Mk sure that you do. it is a Must Watch. you will love it just like i did. "},{"Title":"The most popular romantic comedy of the late 80's.","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I figured it was about time that I worked my way through some of these older romantic comedies. I'm not the biggest lover of the genre, but I do like a good one, from time to time.  Besides, there are some movies that every movie fan needs to have seen. I've heard that When Harry Met Sally... is one of them, so I'm finally getting around to it. So, what did I think? It was OK. Quite funny in some parts. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan work well as a couple, and I like the way the movie flitted around their various meetings, before it settled down into the story. The random interviews of couples interspersed in the movie were really cool, too. It wasn't the best movie of this kind that I've seen, but it was good enough that I'm pleased to add it to the list of movies that I've seen. Fans of the genre will probably love it (tbough I'm sure 95% of those people have seen it already), while people like me won't feel like they're wasting their time while watching it. "},{"Title":"Screenwriter Nora Ephron has constructed an incisive tale that manages to combine brilliant zingers with deep, lasting reflections on relationships.","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally... is destined to join Annie Hall, The Graduate, Alfie and a few others of that ilk, films which are guaranteed a long shelf life as TV movies because of the way they imperfectly frame the sexual dilemmas of their time. And make us laugh. Two long-standing acquaintances (Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan) wonder if it's possible for men and women to enjoy, friendship without sex.The film is a very talky, slightly cynical examination of that particular quandary - something like three-quarter strength of Woody Allen - though not without good lines and appealing performances. The film is 23rd on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list of the top comedy films in American cinema and number 60 on Bravo's 100 Funniest Movies. "},{"Title":"Great Timeless Classic","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First off, my wife hates this movie and it's supposed to be a chick flick. Go figure.This is one of my all time favorite movies. The lines in this movie are sheer genius. Guys can't be friends with ugly girls either 'cause they pretty much want to nail 'em too. One of the most powerful lines is the New Years party where Crystal's character realizes he's in love with Ryan's character. ...when you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible. I love the interaction between Crytal's and Ryan's character. You're the worst kind. You're high maintenance but you think you're low maintenance. I am not a big Ryan fan but she is the most beautiful she has every been in this movie. The make up, lighting,whatever couldn't have been more perfect. She is BEAUTIFUL! Everything else has pretty much been said by the other reviews so I won't repeat. "},{"Title":"When Clemenza met Princess Leia","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher play the obligatory wisecracking, slightly less attractive best friends of the title characters, who make a thoroughly predictable journey from sniping to smooching in this formulaic romantic comedy. It's not without charm, of course -- writer Nora Ephron has a good ear for a one-liner and director Rob Reiner is a good, economical storyteller. But it's still just a cute date movie, since Epron's wit is more glib than deep (real people don't debate the meaning of Auld Lang Syne) and Reiner is not above resorting to cliché (every plot point is punctuated by some Golden Oldie like It Had To Be You, just in case you're missing the point of the scene). There's also the title characters, two neurotic yuppies in New York. Harry is a whiny, self-absorbed, self-pitying schnook, but since he's played by Billy Crystal, he gets all the best lines. Sally is brittle and high-maintenance, but since she's played by Meg Ryan, she's also utterly adorable. There's too much sentiment, and at some point you're going to want to clobber Crystal with an aluminum baseball bat, but there are plenty of fun set pieces (the legendary restaurant scene, the interviews with happy old couples that have nothing to do with the rest of the movie) and really, in 2010 it's refreshing to watch a middlebrow romantic comedy since they don't seem to exist anymore. (Quick note to Rob Reiner if you are driving from the Hyde Park to New York, you will not pass downtown Chicago unless your are going via Canada. Which would take a lot longer.) "},{"Title":"The sex part always gets in the way","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1977, Harry Burns and Sally Albright have just graduated from the University of Chicago and meet when both need someone to share the drive back to New York. During the journey they start discussing their ideas about relationships. Sally believes that it is possible for men and women to enjoy platonic friends without sexual or romantic attachments; Harry disagrees, claiming that Men and women can't be friends because the sex part always gets in the way. Harry and Sally do not stay in touch after arriving in New York, but they meet again by chance five years, and yet again five years after that. The film then traces the course of their relationship following this third meeting. There is also a subplot about a parallel romance between their respective best friends, Marie and Jess.The film is a romantic comedy with a difference. The plot of the traditional Hollywood rom-com tends to be centred upon some obstacle to the love of the young couple and tells the story of how that obstacle is removed or overcome. In When Harry Met Sally there is no obstacle to the love of Harry and Sally- except perhaps their refusal to admit that there is no obstacle. The plot, in fact, is a good deal less complicated than that of many romantic comedies, and we know that it is only a matter of time before Harry and Sally will fall for one another. This, of course, raises the question of which of them was right in their original disagreement. The obvious answer, of course, is that Harry was; he and Sally did not succeed in remaining just friends but ended up going to bed together. Yet in another way Sally was correct. Friendship and romantic love (which is about a lot more than mere sexual attraction) are not as distinct from one another as Harry assumed, and the first can be seen as a necessary, if not a sufficient, condition of the second.What sets this film apart, however, from the hundreds of bog-standard rom-coms which Hollywood has churned out over the years is neither the plot nor the ideas discussed but the standards of the script and of the acting. Billy Crystal, another diminutive Jewish New Yorker who began his career as a stand-up comedian, has always struck me as a younger, better-looking version of Woody Allen, and his films often remind me of Allen's. Forget Paris had something in common with Broadway Danny Rose, and When Harry Met Sally seems to have been influenced by Annie Hall, another romance set in New York. Harry wisecracks his way though the film like Alvy Singer (and many other Woody incarnations), although he is more self-confident and less neurotic than most of Woody's characters, and Sally may owe something to Diane Keaton's Annie. Even the use of a split screen to show both main characters simultaneously when they are not together is derived from the earlier film.The script is officially credited to Nora Ephron, but in fact much of the dialogue appears to have been contributed by Crystal and the director Rob Reiner, a close friend of Crystal's, and some of the incidents were based on happenings in Reiner's t own life. The film's most famous scene is, of course, the one in the restaurant where Meg Ryan pretends to have an orgasm; the restaurant in question, Katz's Deli in Manhattan, is a real institution, and now marks with a commemorative sign the table where this scene was shot. There is also some very funny dialogue, much of it well up to Woody Allen standards. (Harry, you might not believe this, but I never considered not sleeping with you a sacrifice).Both the sparklingly witty Crystal and Ryan are brilliant as the main characters, so much so that one overlooks the age discrepancy between them. (Harry and Sally are supposed to be contemporaries, but in fact Crystal is thirteen years older than Ryan). It is strange to thing that Ryan was not the first choice for Sally; that was apparently Susan Dey, with Ryan several names further down Reiner's list. Although Meg had played the female lead in a few earlier films, such as The Presidio, this was the one that really made her a star, and lead to her becoming one of Hollywood's two great romantic comedy queens of the nineties. (The other was Julia Roberts). Ryan was to work together with Ephron in two of her future rom-coms, Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail. Here her Sally is an enchanting, angelic-looking girl, although one who has her own eccentricities. Besides her tendency to fake orgasms in inappropriate locations, she can be infuriatingly picky about her food, leading Harry to dub her a high-maintenance woman. (The film was, allegedly, responsible for popularising this particular usage, although here Harry is using the phrase to mean that Sally demands a lot of attention, not, as it is often used today, to mean that she demands that he spend a lot of money on her).I would not rate the film quite as highly as Annie Hall, but then for me very few films can rank with Woody at his best. When Harry Met Sally is certainly one of the best romantic comedies of the eighties- indeed, it is probably my favourite except for Crocodile Dundee. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Revisit a classic this Valentine's Day","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw When Harry Met Sally a few years ago. I liked it. I did not love it. It was one of the occasions where I have to unfortunately admit that I just didn't get it. The second time I saw the film, I understood it more. More recently, a few months ago, feeling solemn and down I watched the film, and it lifted my spirits up so high, that I felt like I'd seen it for the first time. So when I watched this film again for what must have been the forth or fifth time, it proved to have not lost its charm.The film starts with and is interspersed with elderly couples discussing how they met, which naturally foreshadows the most probably future for our main characters. The story begins in 1977 where Harry and Sally share a interstate road trip from Chicago University to New York City. They had not met before this time, and only knew each other through Harry's girlfriend whom is also Sally's friend. The car trip does not go well, and by the time they reach New York, they cannot wait to get away from each other. Another 5 years later, they meet again on a flight, and once again have a butting of heads meeting, but of less headstrong based naivety. And then finally, another 5 years later, they meet again and become best friends after both of their long term relationships fall apart, which naturally progresses to something more.What is quite the successful achievement via the actors is the character development from the Chicago University in 1977, to the current 1988/9 time setting that the majority of the film takes place in. And this is where we acknowledge our leading actors.Meg Ryan is irresistible. Her neuroses are so wonderfully put against such an innocent pretty appearance that figuratively shouldn't have anything at all to worry about, which just adds delightful humour to her character and her performance. And it is the chemistry between Ryan and Crystal is charming and adorable.Billy Crystal plays both the familiar comedic role that we are familiar with in his roles previous and following this film, and the much more down to earth, heartbroken and sensitive male. And yet somehow, through this melancholic display, his vulnerability, particularly after his divorce, is very charming.We can see When Harry Met Sally being a slightly updated Annie Hall, (especially if you look at the first image, where we see Ryan looking a lot like Keaton in the costuming) but very different and one that concludes in a more standard classical Hollywood ending. It has a linear storyline, and the couple do not break-up in the end. Despite this seemingly formulaic film, there is the genius of Nora Ephron (who I adore!) behind it's writing, who credits Ryan, Crystal and also director Rob Reiner for some of the idiosyncrasies of the film. Ryan is credited for coming up with the orgasm scene, which naturally, cannot go without notice, as it unfortunately sticks as the most memorable scene in the film. Also, with one of the most memorable lines in any film I'll have what she's having, being said by Reiner's mother. I say unfortunately as I see this film as the whole package; the ultimate rom-com as it's got something for both the guys and the gals.The film dissects the idea that popular culture tells us that Men are from Mars, and women are from Venus. According to Harry, men and women cannot be friends without the sex getting in the way. In these conversations that continue to flow throughout the film, we see a predated Sex and the City lunch sex conversation. Our famous orgasm scene predates a storyline from Sex and the City by about 10 years in being just as on the mark with frank sexual discussion in the mainstream.Rob Reiner and his genius in the small details is seen where Harry is describing to his writer friend of when his wife left, and after each blow, the stand up and do the Mexican wave, adding comic relief to a very sad story. The phone call conversation between Harry and Jess and Marie and Sally skilfully shows off Reiner's comic timing and the scene is simply hilarious. Also very noteworthy is the New Year's Eve party when both Harry and Sally discover that they have an attraction is just heartbreakingly cute, as it is tragic, mainly, because it ends in just a peck on the mouth.But among all of the funny scenes, the one that sticks out with me the most is just after Harry and Sally have had sex for the first time. The different facial expressions on Harry and Sally is simply amazing. She is content and happy and his face reads What have I done? and also brings the audience back to the conversation that occurred in the first part of the film where they drive from Chicago to New York, where Harry tells Sally that he wonders how long he has to hold the girl before he can leave. From here, we know that part of their relationship is, if not doomed, then at least troubled.If I can pass on any advice, do yourself a favour and this Valentine's Day, do not go and see Valentine's Day in the cinema, but go rent or buy When Harry Met Sally. "},{"Title":"Right Up There As One Of The Best","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers In the category of Romantic Comedy, most movies do not get to an average above 5 stars. However, this one hit 7.7 stars and that represents the highest rated Romantic Comedy I ever seen here on IMDb. I read the negative reviews and many relate to typical comments regarding the Genre - Romantic Comedy - Predictable, Unreal. I think the Genre of Romantic Comedy will always disappoint some moviegoers. I go into a romantic comedy knowing we will not see a surprise ending and/or a documentary. Also the movie drags at many points because they show all the conflicts that kept Harry and Sally single.That said, I rate this very highly. There are numerous comparisons in this forum to Sleepless in Seattle, but this movie's climax is far stronger then that movie's climax. This movie had a perfect climax, which showcased a crescendo of sound timed with the climax to a story. The constant interview of Harry alone and Sally maybe keeps some guessing about the outcome, but you know you are gonna get the standard Rom-Com climax, anyway. That said, it still was a good thing when it came and the way it came about. "}{"Title":"The Best Romantic Comedy Of All Time","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I started watching this movie for the first time, I had no expectations at all. After watching the first ten minutes of the movie, I was hooked - like never before.The movie delivers a story about a friendship that through the years grows into something else. Sounds like your typical Rom Com - it isn't. The reason this movie rises above all others is simple. It has the full package. The cast is perfect, the dialogue is funny and razor sharp, the plot is engaging, smart and believable, and it just offers a fresh and endearing story of love.The dialogue is so sharp and the context of the conversations so engaging, it really gets your attention. The movie debates if men and women can have a friendship without any sexual attention from one side or the other. And it really makes you think about it, and that to me is one of the rare treats this film alone offers.When it comes to acting, it is superb. Meg Ryan is perfect as uptight yet endearing young woman and Billy Crystal is beyond words as a witty and cynical man that he in the movie is. He outshines your typical handsome male lead any day. Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby are great in supporting roles.Over all this is the most enjoyable movie you ever come across, especially if romantic movies are your cup of coffee(I don't like tea). This movie is truly the king of it's genre. To me it will always be the movie to which I shall compare any romantic comedy I watch. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Among the Elect Posse of Exceptionally Valid Romantic Comedies","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally... is among the elect posse of exceptionally valid romantic comedies, because each scene ends, in whatever way, significantly different from our expectations. Many girls, and guys, like my dad, which is strange, are drawn im perpetuum to films that have been made since that ride roughshod over nuance in favor of embellishing every emotional cue to the degree that we won't be surprised if leafhoppers just began feeding off of them. But only seldom has a modern romantic comedy with all the button-down ingredients---Manhattan yuppie life, New Years' Eve drama, man-to-man hoo-ha in the batting cage, humor drawn from a woman's uptightness---really worked on a sincere and disciplined level like this film, which even has the shrewdness to make a Harry Connick, Jr. soundtrack appealing.Minus the machismo complex, a chick flick is slang for a film designed to appeal to a female target audience. Including the macho dismissal would mean reference to films that are heavy with emotion or contain relationship-centered themes. Including the macho dismissal, this movie is not a chick flick. As for minus If it's good, it doesn't matter. With a combination of imagination and realism, Nora Ephron's big breakthrough script raises the question Can men and women ever just be friends? and advances many notions about love that have become household concepts now, like the high-maintenance girlfriend and the transitional person.Ephron never seems to have a problem with crafting very tight-knit self-contained plays from scene to scene, aligning broad comedy and seasoned pondering so that they spring from the same catalysts. Rob Reiner keenly gift-wraps it for us, with the thematic progress and humor reassured, but it is never disingenuous. Yes, that's Meg Ryan. Yes, that's Billy Crystal. But they come off just as real as Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher effortlessly do. The beats and timing, even when exaggerated, are unflappably natural. Caryn James said it was like the sitcom version of a Woody Allen film, full of amusing lines and scenes, all infused with an awkward familiarity. In spite of my normal defensiveness of this film, not to mention any and every Woody Allen one, I think I can live with that assessment on the grounds it is succinct and indeed comparable. "},{"Title":"You Say Either And I Say Either...","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first watched this when I was 22, the age of the characters in the movie. Then, throughout the years I would watch this movie once or twice a year always comparing my life to theirs as they aged in the movie. I've lived in Chicago and all over the United States and have in one way, shape or form lived each and every scene from this movie. Not intentionally and sometimes unfortunately, but I would always notice the lines or the movements within my own realm and sometimes laugh and sometimes not be very happy given that life can slap one across the face. What it comes down to is I love this movie as it will make one think, laugh and pause all at the same time without being overly clever and trying too hard as is with the current mix of romantic comedies today. But it is clever and that's the thing. I'm sure I'll be 94 one day and watching this movie and still thinking that I'll somehow bump into Meg Ryan at a bookstore and she'll fall in love with me. This movie set precedents for how to set up scenes in many different movies as I've noticed over the years. When Harry Met Sally is like a 1940's movie with a modern twist......Even 20 somethings of today I believe will appreciate this little gem. It's the small things in the movie that give it character. Be well movie people! "},{"Title":"A story of friends and lovers","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally is directed by Rob Reiner and is written by Nora Ephron, has music by Harry Connick Jr. The film stars Meg Ryan, Billy Crystal, Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby.Sally Albright(Meg Ryan)meets Harry Burns(Billy Crystal)when they are both students at university in the 70's.Harry is dating one of Sally's friends and Sally agrees to drive him home to New York. As they take it in turns to drive Harry finds himself intrigued by Sally. They part company and years later meet up again on a plane.Then they meet again a few years later and become friends and Harry finds himself falling in love with the bright and fun Sally.Will they get together or not?well we know that they should but the joy of this romantic classic is the waiting to see what becomes of their relationship.Also starring Carrie Fisher as Sally's best friend Marie and Bruno Kirby as Jess her husband.Those two become close friends of the couple and watch their antics with amusement and sometimes concern.Possibly the last of the great romantic films that has a classic era feel to it. It reminds me of the old Cary Grant romantic comedies of the 40's and 50's.Filled with plenty of laugh out loud moments including I'll have what she's having said by the directors mother in the scene at the deli(it has me in stitches every time I watch it).This is a must see uplifting and touching film about relationships,emotion and love and life. The film also really makes you think about that often asked question, can men and women ever just be friends? "},{"Title":"Wonderful, post-Annie Hall offbeat romcom","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A hilarious romcom. A nice alignment of astrological signs meant that Crystal and Ryan were cast opposite each other - they're perfectly complementary. An elastic romcom in the tradition of Annie Hall, Rob Reiner sets up a tacking motion in the drama, moving between the sweetness of the principals coming together and their neurotic wresting back of their independence. Naturally in a episodic film such as this there will be notable sequences Meg Ryan's infamous diner orgasm becomes cinematic folklore because of the payoff line - 'I'll have what she's having'. You can tell that Reiner understood this as he gave it to his mother Estelle.The straight couple/confidant characters are skillfully amalgamated in Nora Ephorn's script and wonderfully played out by Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby. And I like the vox-pops couples (with its twist) bookending the film very much. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Charming with great music.","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie on two levels. First, the story is cute, charming and easy to follow. There are no gimmicky surprise twists. Just your basic boy meets girl romance. From the beginning, you kind of start rooting for our two leads to get together. Secondly, I liked the actors who were chosen to play these characters. Billy Crystal, Meg Ryan, Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher create an ensemble that is engaging to watch.Nora Ephron's cute scenario includes enough funny stuff to keep it light as the story plays out. Director, Rob Reiner likes his characters and his actors and elicits good performances from a proficient them. Billy CrystalThis definitely falls into the romantic comedy genre. Oh, and all of that great music - very nice. "},{"Title":"The best Rom-com I've ever seen!","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry met Sally is probably the best romantic comedy of all time Although the 80's style may seem old, (the hairstyles, the clothes etc.) the basic principals of what makes a good romantic comedy are there in abundance.The development of the relationship between the two main characters is beautiful and brilliantly portrayed and is only helped by the hilarious secondary characters.This film is not just for girls, but for pretty much any viewer, and won't fail to please.Nothing but brilliance! "},{"Title":"Hands down the greatest romantic comedy of all time","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedies are perhaps the most formulaic movies around. Some are better than others (such as While You Were Sleeping and Sleepless in Seattle) and some are weaker (such as License to Wed and others), but they all follow a rather familiar plot. Boy meets girl and after a series of improbable and funny situations, they ultimately fall in love. So how does When Harry Met Sally feel so original and fresh every time I watch it despite following this same basic premise? Two major reasons stand out which make this film a one of a kind Firstly, the screenplay is undoubtedly one of the five funniest I've ever seen. It's similar to Juno (which people were divided on; I personally loved it) in terms of it's wittiness and while most people don't talk quite like this, it is a joy to hear the actors perfectly pull it off. Secondly, the actors are perfect. This is essentially a four person movie, and it is perfectly cast; Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan have the best chemistry that I've ever seen on screen and Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher have some of the funniest lines as the best friends of Harry and Sally (you made a woman meow?!) Each scene is a little gem, from Harry and Sally's first conversation about sex on their way to New York to their chance encounter in an airport to Sally's famous fake orgasm in a restaurant. The movie is also peppered with hilarious tidbits from random couples about how they met and fell in love (At that moment I knew. I knew the way you know about a good melon.) I am not the kind of guy who hates all romantic comedies, branding them as chick flicks which bore me to tears. In general, they are not my favorite genre, but if done correctly, I enjoy them. When Harry Met Sally sets the bar for romantic comedies. It is sensational from start to finish and after over a dozen viewings of it, I love it more than ever. When Harry Met Sally is a perfect movie. 10/10! "},{"Title":"There are three things to remember in relationships","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1) Men are always idiots before they hit thirty (And usually after) 2) Most men have no taste and 3) and the one that never gets mentioned is that even when women are wrong they will never admit to it.And for me this is the key thing that separates this movie from others as I have seen countless romantic comedies where the bloke makes mistakes and gets things wrong, but there very few movies where the female lead is as flawed and f***ed up as the man (Only 2 spring to mind).This is the story of Harry and Sally, two people who meet on the journey to a new life in New york. In the road trip there we learn 2 things, 1) Harry is a jerk and 2) Sally has still not been opened up sexually. These are clear from the conversations that take place, and the two leads play these roles to perfection.We leap frog 5 years and then another 5 years to see both characters coming to the end of long-term relationships and both suffering in different ways, Harry by seeking refuge in one night stands and Sally by being in denial, however as their friendship blossoms they both start to begin the healing process and as the movie moves further through their lives to it's inevitable conclusion we find out a hell of a lot about relationships and life in general as we go through one of the most enjoyable 90 minutes that the movies have produced over the last 20 years.The two leads are played with charm, vulnerability and honesty by Crystal and Ryan as the discuss anything and everything, from young girl's lack of understanding of Casablanca to the difference between women's and men's sex dreams. Whilst Nora Ephron's script is superb, what marks this out from later efforts are 2 things. Billy Crystal's superb comic skill, which can take something that's nothing and make it fantastic, and the direction of Rob Reiner, which avoids some of the later Ephron efforts of being too over the top or over-long due to her desire, like most writers, to get every word from the page onto the screen, which often doesn't work.This is one of the best films of the eighties, but like many great films of this era Tootsie, Bill and Ted and Ghostbusters it is regarded as being, well, not as good as it is due to being made in the eighties.Fashion changes, class remains and this is classNuff said.Em. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies ever made!","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Men and women can never be just friends. This statement is made by Harry Burns (Billy Crystal). And this is because the sex is in the picture. The statement may sound ridiculous but it is actually very good point. The director Rob Reiner digs in the subject brilliantly.Harry Burns and Sally Albright (Meg Ryan) meet at the end of their graduation and they drive together 18 hours long trip to New York. Sally can't stand cocky Harry who is loose and funny but drives Sally mad with his look on life. Sally is a little bit neurotic and high maintenance girl but all-in-all very attractive and intriguing personality. After their trip the two meet at the airport few years later. Harry is getting married and Sally is in a relationship with handsome Joe who happens to be Harry's old pal. Another five years goes by and then accidentally Harry and Sally meet again. Then despite the fact that men and women can never be just friends Harry and Sally form a tight friendship. How can two very different people manage to be friends when the obvious attraction lies beneath? Do opposites attract or are they so different after all? The film includes one of the greatest scenes in the history of movie-making. When Sally pretends to have an orgasm in a restaurant is so funny. Billy Crystal is at the edge of his career and his portrayal of Harry is fantastic and funny. All-American sweetheart Meg Ryan is fresh and perky as Sally. Rob Reiner has found the essential features of relationships and difficulties within. That wouldn't be possible without amazing script of Nora Sleepless in Seattle Ephron. Together Reiner and Ephron have manage to make working combination in this movie. Music is arranged and performed mostly by Harry Connick, Jr. and the soundtrack includes the classics of music legends like Frank Sinatra. The music reflects the essence of New York beautifully.Why don't they make as such great romantic comedies anymore? High recommends! "}{"Title":"The perfect romantic comedy.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps the last truly great romantic comedy, 'When Harry Met Sally' has truly stood the test of time.Most movies made in 1989 are condemned (at least for now) to being little more than kitch memorabilia. The movie world owes Rob Reiner a favour for the fact that his fine film is truly timeless. Part of this is due to the fact that it is set over a fifteen year period. Part of it is due to the fine easy listening score. Most of it is due to a very refined director extracting two brilliant performances from a flawless script and a perfectly cast couple of actors.Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan are the titular two, and neither have ever been better. The observation of their relationship is utterly convincing and completely engrossing. Beyond this, there are subtleties that neither actor has ever shown before or since. There are moments early in the film where we can see Sally is falling for Harry (for example, her response to Harrty telling her he is pleased she is going on a date with another man) but these moments are never overplayed. The credit for this is due as much to Reiner as it is to Ryan, as it is his pacing of the film that really allows the actors to embrace their characters.I feel it is worth pointing out here that Reiner's other movies of the time have equally outlasted much of Hollywood's output. 'Satnd By Me', 'This Is Spinal Tap', 'The Princess Bride' and 'Misery' - films that could scarcely be more different in style and tone - all remain bonafide classics. One has to wonder what went wrong...All things considered, it's hard to think of another film from this era of film-making as satisfying and consistently enjoyable as 'When Harry Met Sally'. The fact that this is a romantic comedy made at the tail end of the worst decade cinema has ever known, is all the more reason to commend it. "},{"Title":"The map of the human heart...","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love doesn't come in a minute, Sometimes it doesn't come at all I only know that when I'm in it It isn't silly, no, it isn't silly, love isn't silly at all.These words, from Paul McCartney's 'Silly Love Songs', seem to me to be a very accurate description of the theme of 'When Harry Met Sally'. This iconic romantic comedy, written by Nora Ephron, is, for me, one of the most insightful comments on the place of love in the post-60s world. It charts the way that acquaintance can turn into friendship and then into love.Harry (Billy Crystal) encounters Sally (Meg Ryan) on a long car journey during which they both seem to decide that the other is obnoxious in one way or another. Their path to love is funny, totally engaging and ultimately unforgettable.One of the greatest - no THE greatest - characteristic of the cinema is its ability to access our deepest emotions. How many times do we weep cathartically in our normal lives - most of us, not many. Yet there are dozens of films that induce just this kind of reaction. How many times do we laugh so much that we ache - very rarely outside a cinema, but often within. How many times are we so scared that we cannot move - almost never in life, but often in the cinema. And these emotions cannot be accessed in the same way through any other art.And there are laughs and tears galore in 'When Harry Met Sally'. Why? Because we really *care* for these kooky characters, and the love that they find has a kind of purity that our loves struggle to emulate. For some people (and I feel sorry for them) films that induce a warm feeling of pleasure are sentimental and worthless. They should avoid this film as it might undermine their sterile cynicism. But if you trust your emotions and regard them as your greatest asset, 'When Harry Met Sally' will be one of the most worthwhile films of the modern era. "},{"Title":"FIne comedy","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally is a fine comedyThough this film doesn't stand out particularly from the movie crowd, its still a very nice film to sit down and watch with your feet up! There maybe the odd one or two mistakes you catch, and the cinematic are a little slipshod, the film itself is very enjoyable and has a wonderful atmosphere to it. The music contributes a lot to the mood of the movie.The acting is none the less impressive (especially the dog he he!) with Billy Crystal taking the lead of the fun-troublesome-loving road traveler. Other characters feel very genuine and perform very well within the film. "},{"Title":"Good comedy","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good movie to see in the fall. Great shots of new yorkI love romantic comedies that are based on normal lives and not these over-sexed, gross, no-story comedies we keep seeing.I love this movie. It is very funny, with some inspired characters and quotable lines. It has a terrific message about living your life without fear. Few other people I have met liked it, and I can think of two reasons. One, they don't want to admit that they like a Billy Crystal -Meg Ryan movie, even though this one is more idiosyncratic than the others.Another great film is Sleepless in Seattle "},{"Title":"It's Billy Crystal, so watch it!!","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love that Billy Crystal is in this movie, he can bring comic genius to any role, he could make Romeo and Juliet's death funny if he was in a remake. My favorite scene is at the end where Billy's character is telling Meg Ryan's character how much he loves her and why he came to her at someone else's New Year's party. It really is one of those things that you just can't stay mad at, but I really didn't like the diner scene where Med Ryan is faking an orgasm to prove a point to Crystal, it wasn't needed, and I fast forward threw it every time I watch When Harry Met Sally. But this is still a great movie that shows that eventually male and female just friends never stay just friends. "},{"Title":"easily the best romantic comedy of all time","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely loved this film. It was witty, clever, subtle, and poignant...not to mention hilarious. The quality of the writing isn't something that we see very often nowadays. The performances given by Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan were absolutely astounding. Ryan's character was stubborn yet vulnerable, which she communicated quite well. Crystal's comedic timing was pure genius. Ryan and Crystal's on-screen chemistry is the stuff that romantic comedies are made of. This film sparked a series of romantic comedies that have a lasting quality in the late 80's and early 90's(i.e.- Sleepless in Seattle etc.). I recommend that anyone, who is interested in seeing a quality film with quality acting and writing, should see this movie. "},{"Title":"Gratifying movie.","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I usually watch movies if I like the actor.I didn't like Billy Crystal's appearance,I know this is very superficial.I think it's his hairstyle.Although he did look good in the first few scenes.Meg Ryan is so adorable and she looked much better in the first few scenes.I decided to watch this movie after I saw Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen's 'The Challenge' where she says that this film is one of her favorite romantic comedies and comes in her top five favorites and also I saw 'Hollywood's ten best' on Zee studio and I think this movie was the number one comedy.As far as I observed,two Bollywood movies have been inspired by this movie-'Dil To Pagal Hai'(the scenes where they show the old couple's in the title song)and 'Hum Tum'(in Hindi movies usually they make it the opposite for the boy and girl-as opposed to Billy Crystal getting married,in 'Hum Tum' Rani Mukherji gets married.) This film is recommended to those few people who have absolutely no clue to relationships.I have to read the transcript of this movie if available to be more sure of the dialogues as I don't think I caught all the dialogues. "},{"Title":"Just great, barely perfect!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Giving this movie a nine out of ten is almost a crime if not for other great films. It's the perfect essence of American comedies I'm not perfect, my life is sometimes a real mess, but, hey!, there is still something out there to smile at. It's full of prejudices, it's politically incorrect (for instance, Sally acting an orgasm in a family dinner, and a woman asking for the same dish!), and, of course, the way destiny crashes right in the face of characters is plain hilarious, just perfect!. Cristal, Ryan and Hanks are the best ever in the genre! They should do something together sometime. Anyway, as I said, that barely perfect is just a hard thing to say, specially because the other ones are Sleepless in Seattle and You've got Mail, and for some reason i'd rate them the same. It's just the way things seem not to match, you got the worst luck over the Earth and... BUM! everything goes the very right way you realize you are a moron,but a lucky one; you learn to face and deal with things and issues. Yeap, that's something to learn from. "},{"Title":"Great romantic comedy...","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally... is one of the best rom-coms ever made. Nora Ephron wrote three scripts for Meg Ryan - When Harry Met Sally, Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail. All three are romantic comedies. All of them are incurably romantic and reference B&W/old classics - Casablanca, An Affair to Remember and The Shop Around the Corner respectively. All three are very good, with When Harry leading the trio.Harry and Sally meet each other on a road trip from Chicago to New York where both are relocating. We see their initial two encounters turn to disaster but they eventually decide to become friends ten years after they first met. They also decide not to have sex so as not to destroy their friendship. Of course they are eventually going to develop feelings for each other and of course the hero always gets the girl in the end - no deviation from the standard script Hollywood has been rehashing for decades.What makes this particular re-working of a fairly standard plot is primarily the script. Very intelligent, with lots of wit and good dialogue. Then, there are classic scenes, the best of which is the I'll have what she's having... diner scene. The inter-cuts to actual old couples who've been together for decades discussing their relationship is brilliant.Romantic comedy is admittedly not a genre that pushes the boundaries of cinema. But, its very enjoyable and When Harry Met Sally is one of the enduring classics of the genre. "},{"Title":"A great love story","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harry and Sally first encounter after they both graduate from the University of Chicago and Harry gives Sally a ride to New York.After that the movie shows where life takes these two.They run into each other every now and then and finally become very good friends.But can they keep the whole thing platonic or will it get sexual, even romantic, between them? Rob Reiner's When Harry Met Sally... (1989) is a brilliant example of a fine romantic comedy.It's not kind of romantic comedy you see all the time (not that I watch them all the time), but it's something very different.In this movie you can't tell anything for sure, what will happen to these characters, will they end up together etc.It has got some superb dialogue.You won't hear dialogue like this in too many modern movies.Nora Ephron is behind the brilliant writing.Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan make a terrific leading couple.Billy can be both comical and serious.Meg gives one of her finest performances in this movie.The supporting cast is amazing as well.There's Carrie Fisher as Marie.The director's mother Estelle Reiner makes a memorable visit in the movie.And then there's Bruno Kirby as Jess.I just read on IMDb that this terrific actor died of leukemia a few days ago at 57.I was devastated about the news.I have seen Bruno in so many movies always giving a fine performance.I really admired the man and now he's gone.The best of them always leave us too soon.I suggest you'd watch his movies and see what a great actor he was.Watch When Harry Met Sally... and see what a great movie it is. "}{"Title":"Wonderful romantic comedy, but with a disclaimer","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a fabulously entertaining romantic comedy, one of my sister's favorite movies ever. (However, I personally have a 'difficulty' or two, and I suspect so might she.) Meg Ryan (Sally) is cute and fresh, and Billy Crystal (Harry) charming and funny. The movie asks that age old question...can two people of opposite gender remain just friends, or will sex intrude upon the friendship? The couple in question, Harry and Sally, meet right after college while sharing a car trip. During the drive, they bicker and take an immediate dislike to one another, concluding that they have nothing in common. Five years later when their paths again cross, Harry is engaged and Sally has a businessman boyfriend. After another five years, they meet again; Harry's wife has just left him, and Sally's boyfriend is out of the picture. The two become great friends, sharing witty barbs, ideas and opinions, confidences and support.Then one night, Harry and Sally sleep together. Will their friendship survive? Will it develop into a deeper relationship? Will he still respect her in the morning or will he bolt? The last part of the movie answers these questions, with a wonderful humdinger of a romantic New Years Eve ending. It's a really fun, amusing, witty, touching, feel good comedy romance. Wonderful endearing stars with great chemistry together, whether as enemies, friends, or eventually lovers. HOWEVER...Sadly, it reflects the morality of our times. No more friendship, love, marriage, and sex in that precise order. Now it's perceived as novel that Harry and Sally enjoy such a lengthy friendship before having sex. Well, I guess that's preferable to just rushing the newly acquainted couple straight to bed, as is the general case in modern cinema (and life). It's a cute story, but let's just not hold it up as the ideal. One reviewer noted that Harry and Sally had to sleep together before cementing a romantic relationship, in order to determine whether or not they were sexually compatible. I'll let that pass, other than to voice disagreement. Also, the legendary restaurant scene where Sally fakes a orgasm. Okay, yes, I suppose it might be considered (marginally) funny, but it simply made me wonder whether the screenplay writers had been watching too many shampoo commercials. Can two people of opposite sexes remain just friends? According to this movie, apparently not...but I'm not convinced. "},{"Title":"Classic film that helped move along Seinfeld & every other romantic comedy after it.","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What is most excellent about this movie are the actors......they were perfect for their roles and the writing is superb. What is sad is todays 20-somethings actually think the romantic comedies being made today are good and the irony that follows is you have to be in the time to really appreciate a movie.....HOWEVER, that notwithstanding if you have a brain in your skull and the ability to see humor then this movie is definitely for you. This is probably the best first date movie on the planet. It's not too schmoopie and doesn't have an ounce of intrigue....just straight forward angst and the ability to just make you feel all warm and fuzzy all over....Even if you're just a single, angry guy with nothing to do in the middle of the night this movie will give you hope. (hmm, I wonder how I know that). Anyhow, this movie will last forever....Sleepless In Seattle & You've Got Mail are by the same writer (nora ephron) and W.H.M.S. is the best of them easily.....Although if Sleepless was before WHMS I might say it the other way around....Although sleepless has the death plot in it so as a true romantic comedy it's not and WHMS is. Did all that make sense? I've probably had too much Frogs Leap. Happy film watching out there earthlings! By the way, MEN! As a second date where you cook her dinner at your place....rent out this movie and you'll be suckin' face by 10o'clock. "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy with an attitude","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry met Sally... is a story of two different people, told with a warm heart. The story starts from Chicago where both Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) meet for the first time, Harry hitching a ride to New York from Sally. They have an interesting discussion on the ride from Chicago to New York, but in NY their roads go to different directions.After 5 years they meet again. Both have found their places in the Big Apple, Sally's got a boyfriend and Harry's getting married. It is a very brief encounter. It takes another five years until they meet again, this time in a totally different circumstances, which leads to making Harry and Sally finally friends.When Harry met Sally... is a beautiful and warm movie of two totally different people who finally find true love in their lives. For a romantic comedy, it has some more edge, more attitude than romantic comedies usually have.This is Billy Crystal show. Crystal is just amazing as Harry. He is at the same time funny, but with a certain dark side. Once he is madly in love with his ex-wife, second later he is telling Sally how he was having sex with someone the other night.I have never been a big Meg Ryan fan, but she is doing decent in this movie. She is funny, but does not match Crystal brilliant performance. Together they make the movie an enjoyment, something that makes you smile when the movie is over, something that makes you crawl to your boy/girlfriend's lap more tightly ) "},{"Title":"A Smart and Sexy Love Story with a Winning Screenplay...","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan shine in the title roles of the 1989 comedy WHEN HARRY MET SALLY...an episodic romantic comedy that follows two lonely souls from a road trip after college graduation over a 10-15 year period where they actually become friends first instead of lovers, even though Harry believes men and women can't be just friends. After their initial parting after the road trip, Harry and Sally meet cute a couple of times and become friends who see each other through jobs and other relationships. Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher lend strong support as their best friends but the real star of this film is the outstanding screenplay by Nora Ephron. The rapid fire dialogue and funny exchanges between Crystal and Ryan seem to roll of their tongues with such ease and I'm sure director Rob Reiner and Crystal had input in what finally ended up on the screen, script wise. All I know was, after seeing the film for the first time, I said to myself, This movie should definitely get an Oscar nomination for Best Original Screenplay. And it did. Sadly, it did not win, but I have found WHEN HARRY MET SALLY...to be one of my favorites...it's part of my collection and I can watch it a million times. How can you get tired of Meg's fake orgasm in the sandwich shop or the game of charades (Baby Fish Mouth!), or Billy and Meg singing Surrey with the Fringe on Top or the four way telephone scene when Harry and Sally call Jess and Marie? A masterful screenplay mounted by a skillful director and performed by a perfect cast. "},{"Title":"This movie is timeless...","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie and have seen it more times than I care to admit. It is a movie that one could easily interchange Billy Crystal with Cary Grant and Meg Ryan with Kate Hepburn, change from color to black & white and it wouldn't skip a beat. And no, I don't think these modern actors compare with the past ones, it is the classiness, wit and dialogue of this movie that is the comparison. This movie just feels like home to me for some reason. Billy Crystal did a superb job in this flick as a chauvinistic jerk-love me I'm really funny type of guy and Meg Ryan did very well playing the naive-wait a minute I'll kick your butt with my girl power/or wait, I'm a scared little girl part. Meg did this film right at the perfect moment in not only her career, but the age she was when she did it.....I bring up age because she was right at that point of understanding the world, but still having a distinct sweetness in spite of it.....now she seems like an angry short guy with a really cute nose. Billy did this film right at the point when he understood how to act and hits his part perfect.....seems like an odd pairing these two, but it actually worked perfect. Rob Schneider was perfect directing this film in he put in his genius at the right places and let the actors be themselves in other parts.....Nora Ephron wrote this as well as Sleepless In Seattle & You've Got Mail which are both accommodating movies indeed, but When Harry Met Sally is The Matrix and the other two are .... you get what I mean. Anyhow, you do not have to be a fan of Meg or Billy or Schneider or Nora to even like this movie.....it's the kind of movie that taps you on the shoulder when you're in a daze thinking and makes you feel warm and fuzzy from the touch. Oh, and one other thing.....there are stories told by much older couples about how they met injected throughout the movie that are priceless little gems. Oh, and one more thing......watch for President Gerald Fords' son in the movie as just a side tidbit....hint he used to be friends with Billys' character. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"You can't turn this one off!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie at a sleepover with my friend at my house and we were flipping around to see what was on, and this was on one of the channels so she suggested we watch it before we go to bed. She fell asleep about halfway through it and although I, too, was tired I could not turn it off! I simply had to find out what happened to Harry and Sally.This is a beautifully sentimental movie that illustrates two people as they hate each other, then like each other, then love each other over the course of 12 years. There are many classic moments that are hard to forget.The performances in this movie are very good and were cast perfectly. I recommend this movie to everyone that is in the mood for a GREAT love story. "},{"Title":"Its Total Refreshing Romantic Comedy","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movieWhen Harry Met Sallyis really great to watch.Billy Crystal has done a awesome job so as Meg Ryan.Billy crystal is the only person who can judge the movie.Of course Meg Ryan is favourite to everyone and she has unique style of presentation.Her innocent looks make her so charming and gorgeous.Coming to this movieWhen Harry Met Sally,the concept is so fresh even till date.The love story between them is also very fresh even till date.The conversation between them is highlight to watch.The dialogue of Billy Crystal is funny.Picturisation is very colourful.Direction is superb with unique style.All in all When Harry Met Sallymovie is awesome and very refreshing romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"its out and out refreshing movie","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bill Crystal is great in his work,so as Meg Ryan.The plus point is good pair of the movie.Its really fresh movie,even till date.The main concept of the movie is so natural and real to a man and women on there relations.Bill Crystal has done awesome job.Meg Ryan is of course favourite actress to everyone.She has something unique in her style of acting where no actress can make of it.Her innocent look makes her best in acting.The screenplay of this movie is great to watch.Picturisation of this movie is so fresh and colourful.The movie when harry met sally gives some idea on relations among wife,husband and also to boyfriend,girlfriend.If any doubts among the relations,then this movie can give you some answers in general.Bill Crystal is so casual on his work and he is the only perfect man for this movie When Harry Met Sally.All over its out and out refreshing movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable romantic comedy that looks primarily at the differences between men and women by examining the metamorphosis of Harry and Sally's platonic friendship. Can men and women ever be just friends? How does this compare to a relationship? Are the two even mutually exclusive? Interesting questions are raised and humorously answered. No real depth, but fun all the same.Very worthwhile, even for those usually opposed to chick flicks. "},{"Title":"This was a great story about the friendship between a man and a woman","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched When Harry Met Sally... for the first time the other day and I thought it was a great romantic comedy and it was a great story about the friendship between a man and a woman. I just loved how they talked to each other on the phone and just held each other when one of them was sad. Both Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan were great in this movie. The scene in the deli was hilarious. I bet Harry (Crystal) was so embarrassed. But Sally (Ryan) just looked like she was enjoying herself! I was shocked that their friends (Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby) ended up getting married and Harry and Sally were just left alone. I loved how they stayed friends over the years and kept in touch. That doesn't happen very often with friends, especially if they're the opposite gender. I think they were made for each other. They were just so perfect and they made a cute couple. And I liked how the movie showed that when Harry and Sally finally did sleep with each other they realized that it was a mistake and it just drifted them apart. But I'm glad that Harry told Sally how much he loved her and what he loved about her. And they ended up getting married! That was so perfect. I really enjoyed this movie and it was a great date movie. Well, that's just about all I have to say about When Harry Met Sally.. and thanks for reading my review! Bye! ) "}{"Title":"The best date movie EVER!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you want a movie to watch as you cuddle with your loved one, watch this movie.  Men love the comedy, women love the romance and everyone loves each other.The shining moment of this movie is Meg Ryan's famous scene in the deli . .. rent the movie and you'll instantly know the part I'm talking about! "},{"Title":"Charming!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Minor spoiler...I hadn't seen this movie since it came out while I was in high school, and my husband had never seen it, so we rented it last night.  I'd forgotten how charming it is!  Meg Ryan looked the best I think she ever has in a film; Billy Crystal was hilarious as usual, with some of his best lines ever.  The story itself was wonderful and romantic, with possibly the best I love you line in the history of cinema.  And the supporting cast was excellent; I don't know if I've ever seen Bruno Kirby do a bad job as the best friend, and Carrie Fisher shone.  The scene when the two of them got together was so funny that my husband and I had to pause the movie until we finished laughing.My only problem with the movie is that it is infused with the kind of Hollywood immorality that is in most movies these days.  I would have enjoyed it even more if it weren't for the *constant* emphasis on sex. "},{"Title":"Best ever","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my personal favorite movie of all time including all genres and eras.  Can a man really be friends with a woman he finds attractive? Nope, cause the sex thing always gets in the way...and you can never take it back (change your mind later) because it's already out there.... Watch the movie if you haven't, He's giving you pearls! "},{"Title":"this movie pictures the love..","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since i've first seen this movie broadcasted on TV i didn't know it was the best movie i've ever watched about a man and a woman. Its such usual and there are great scenes that describes the growing of love. Is tells us that a man and woman can never become friends, you see two friend falling in love, just as while turning a corner you notice that you love with someone sitting at the next table at your office.  If you'd like to do a favor to yourself try watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"A loving description of the film I was raised on...","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie so many times, I actually know every line by heart. You could say I was raised on it, family gatherings usually amounted to relaxing in the living room in front of the TV, reciting the lines along with Meg Ryan... This film brings you to great laughing sieges, and hides within it wonderful lines that shall stick to your mind, and mix with your  way of talk forever (`You're right, you're right, I know you're right...'). It is directed with great emotional capacity, and written with an innovative sense, a look towards the future. The actors are wonderful, they have great chemistry. This is the best role either of them has ever had. Billy Crystal is a hilarious comedian, and Meg Ryan has a perfect sense of timing. Everybody agrees (for how can you not?) that the `orgasm scene' is boisterously entertaining (did you know it was not written in the script by Nora Ephron, but was Meg Ryan's idea?), and this movie has definitely contributed to the cinema industry. It's first half is brilliant, the conversation in the car on the way to New York is pure comedy &#150; witty, intelligent and fun. The second half of the movie flirts dangerously with the realm of the `lovey-dovey' world, but it manages to escape just on time. Even though it might be less funny, it is essential for the well-being of the movie, and it makes it work.Anyone who has not seen this movie should rush and get it as we speak. This is a real classic &#150; everyone should have it at home, for a rainy day...  "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy you are likely to see these days!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is such a strange perfection and appeal to this movie it will always remain my favourite modern romantic comedy. For a start it achieves that amazing feat that few Rom-Coms will ever get close to; It is genuinely  and heart warmingly funny and incredibly romantic! The script and characters harken back to the days when movies were so much more wordy and eccentric and both Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal create the perfect chemistry. When Rob Reiner and Nora Ephron got together to make this film their blend of talents really created something special. Brilliantly acted, directed and written with a top notch Harry Conick Junior sound track I recommend this movie for all those who wondered why people like romantic comedies. How it should be done. "},{"Title":"Cute...chick stuff, but cute","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the best Romantic chick flick Nora Ephron Movie. Even though some parts were a big ripoff of Woody Allen's classic Annie Hall, i still enjoyed it plenty. Billy Crystal was funny (See this along side Throw Mama From THe Train and see how funny the man is) and Meg Ryan Was cute. Not Meathead's best (that honer would be a cross between Spinal Tap and Stand By Me) but fun to watch. Good script, Good actors, fun story. Good for a friday night.Jesse Tucker "},{"Title":"Can men and women be friends?","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, don't pretend to get this question answered. This is - luckily - no serious psychological analysis, this movie is still fresh and full of life after all these years. If there is one big moral behind it, then it is don't think about it and let things come by themselves. I love this movie, it never gets boring and it has it place in my collection. It is a story about life and the turnarounds love sometimes does... before it goes back. Particularly I like the interviews to the couples during the movie, which makes us understand that... there is no wrong or right in relationships. Very good soundtrack, too! "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy ever","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a big fan of the romantic comedy genre, but this film is so outstanding that I've watched on video at least fifteen times, over the years. I deduct only one point from a rating of 10, and that's for Meg Ryan's slick cuteness. The Nora Ephron's writing is superb, Rob Reiner's direction (he has become one of our finest comedy directors) is outstanding. Billy Crystal, Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby are absolutely perfect. Meg Ryan is very, very good. "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy ever","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a big fan of the romantic comedy genre, but this film is so outstanding that I've watched on video at least fifteen times, over the years. I deduct only one point from a rating of 10, and that's for Meg Ryan's slick cuteness. The Nora Ephron's writing is superb, Rob Reiner's direction (he has become one of our finest comedy directors) is outstanding. Billy Crystal, Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby are absolutely perfect. Meg Ryan is very, very good. "}{"Title":"One of the Best!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  It's one of my favorites.  It was Meg Ryan's breakthrough role as a leading actress.  It brought Harry Connick, Jr. into the spotlight.  It was one of the first movies to use classic music as an element in the film.  It introduced the phrases High Maintenance and Low Maintenance into the cultural lexicon.It was a groundbreaking film with an incredible cast.  Not just Meg and Billy, but I loved Bruno and Carrie as the best friends, too.  This is a classic and will always have a spot on my short list of favorite films.  Go get the DVD.  You'll love it, too. "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy ever made","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes it is! This fantastic romantic comedy set all standarts for the ones that came after but none achieved what this movie did. Meg Ryan is an excellent actress and she is the best actress to play the role of Sally.I don't think any other actress could fill her shoes in this one. "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy ever made","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my considered opinion, When Harry Met Sally is the best romantic comedy ever made. I would rank it 9-1/2 out of 10 --the 1/2 subtracted for Meg Ryan's too cuteness. Great writing, great directing, great acting, wonderful story. "},{"Title":"One beautiful movie","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree with all the superlatives that other reviewers expressed.  This is one movie that I can watch over and over.  Great performances and chemistry from Crystal and Ryan, a clever plot, and some great devices (interviewing successful couples, the Crystallisms).  It never gets stale for me.  One of the best relationship-based comedies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy of all time","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not even that big a fan of the genre, but When Harry Met Sally is by far the best in the genre. Others like Annie Hall and Forget Paris are memorable and important movies, but fail to provide the total package. This film delivers! "},{"Title":"Delectable cynicism","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I do not usually indulge in superlatives. But this time I cannot resist. If one ever looks for a manual on how to handle love-pains with humor, this movie is the ultimate guide. Humor lost and refound. Over the years I've viewed it many times and always I have had a tender but deep satisfaction seeing the story unfold. I don't doubt it was the fruit of countless hours of sharp-minded observation of the people around us. The girl next door. In truth words are unnecessary. See the movie and think you're not the only one who's gone through the grueling yet ultimately funny episodes of a love-life.  "},{"Title":"good movie . . .","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a lot of these comedy/romance flicks and I would have to say When Harry Met Sally is right there on top of my list . . . Billy Crystal is amazing with his witty theories on love and life . . . Meg Ryan is a natural and i think this movie catapulted her to success . . . having casted in several comedy/romance flicks after this one . . . (Sleepless in Seattle, You've Got Mail, City of Angels, etc.) "},{"Title":"I will never want that wagon wheel coffee table!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is almost a perfect romantic comedy and so much better than the ones being made now (such as Love and Sex). The jokes just keep on coming and Billy Crystal has some wonderful lines (watch out for his dinner date story at the Vietnamese restaurant). Meg Ryan has never been better than she is in this and proves that she is a talented comedy actress. Support from Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher is also excellent. Every line sparkles and no time is wasted in unfolding the story. Yeah, you know how its going to end but its so much fun getting there that you don't mind. New York dating has never looked better! "},{"Title":"Funny, serious- Wonderful !","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is easily the best romantic comedy of the last 50 years.  The performances by Ryan and Crystal are the best work they have ever done.  Fantastically written by Nora Ephron, and brilliantly directed by Rob Reiner, this film is something that every man and every woman must see.  It attacks an age old dilemma- Can friends become more than friends?  Before marriage, most people have friends that they are secretly, or not so secretly, in love with.  WHMS explores the idea of friends taking a relationship to the next level.With supporting roles from Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby, and a soundtrack from Harry Connick, Jr. that could not be better, this is a movie ranks in the top 10 in the JB movie file, among films like The Godfather and The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance.  Do not miss this picture.It is- all a once- a great comedy, a fantastic date movie, a terrific 'chick flick', a good movie to cry with and a great movie to laugh with.  This is one of the few films that has it all.  You will find yourself loving and hating and caring about all the characters.  There are scenes that rank among the best in film history- Meg Ryan's fake 'O' scene being the most famous. Adding to this, check the IMDB page and see who the woman is who delivers the line I'll have what she's having.Don't miss this film. "},{"Title":"a wonderful climax to the romantic comedies of the late 80s","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSThere is a trilogy of films that were released beginning in 1987 and ending in 1989 that all deal with the same issue, but each handle it in its own genuine way.  The subject  Keeping a friendship between a male and female plutonic in this most desensitizing of all worlds.The films  Broadcast News ('87), Working Girl ('88), and When Harry Met Sally ('89).  When Harry Met Sally is the one to touch the issue with an extremely open eye, and answer all questions concerning the subject.  In the end, we discover that it is not sex that can ruin a friendship, but simply letting the things that attracted you to each other in the first place die out.  In the last line of the film, for example, Sally Albright (Meg Ryan) is noting the detailed arrangements of her wedding to the camera, and she goes far out of her way to mention what went on the side of every dish served at the commencement.  This reminded us of earlier in the film when Harry (Billy Crystal) first noted his attraction to her in the diner after they had finished ordering.  I learned so much from this film.  And I laughed at the same time.       "}{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The issue of friendship between men and women is the topic of this masterpiece, and I just love the way it is portrayed. Have you ever had a friendship with someone of the other sex, and not have some romantic or sexual tension there in some way? This is the topic of this movie, and I LOVE it. "},{"Title":"depressingly realistic, but too much fuss about marriage","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie from the start, and even after the sixth time watching it's still great. The main theme of the movie, Harry's point that men and women can't possibly be friends, is bitter and really a problem. Harry and Sally, who at first are little attracted to each other, develop an intense platonic relationship, but when finally the sex part gets in the way, all seems lost at first.There's one thing that I dislike much about this movie as well as about other stories that tackle the same topic it's that marriage is depicted as the summit of love. The interludes with couples telling the stories of their relationships and how long they've been married already could be meant ironically since love doesn't always play a great role, but altogether the movie seems to hold that when two people love each other there's only one more thing to be done get married; instead of just being happy to have found each other and to fit perfectly together.In a way the movie plot both supports Harry's theory and provides a way out keep away from the other sex, or if you can't, marry the person of your interest. ouarg!But nevertheless for all its absolutely great dialogues (Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal play their parts very well) it's really worth watching. "},{"Title":"a great relationship movie....sex is cheap","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sex is cheap. The true nature of romance is two people who are friends who gradually come closer and closer and then something happens. They fall in love. This film was one of the most prolific of it's time...it was part fake documentary and part romantic comedy aboput what happens when the realtionship between man and woman ans friend is crossed and it becomes love. A interesting film. I wish I could write like this but I suppose it takes time. As far as writing we take baby steps as with learning to walk, I think there is more to life than sci-fi but enjoy it. Writing good drama is a craft, a craft some could say that takes years. This film is one of those that stands the test of time, and includes a classic..a faked cinematic orgasim a sandwich shop. This is perhaps the best work by this director in addition to STAND BY ME. I recommend this. The film is funny but it makes the characters humans (in a film sense.) "},{"Title":"A passionate film made by passionate filmmakers for passionate film watchers.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a passionate film made by passionate filmmakers for passionate film watchers.  There is no way to adequately express my feelings about this film, but still I can't help but try.  This film is one of the few in recent viewing that I can watch over and over again, it never tires me.  Both Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan do a magnificent job of creating believable, accessible, and extremely memorable characters.  Throughout the course of roughly an hour and a half we are granted admission to the evolution of both Harry and Sally and their relationship.  Rob Reiner does an excellent job with an equally excellent script by Nora Ephron, and though he has proven his diversity through the myriad of memorable films he has made two constant and undeniable qualities flow through his body of work; truth and humanity.  Love between two people is one of the hardest things to portray on screen, but Reiner and his crew do a seamless job of making it not only believable, but interesting and heart warming with out being overly sentimental.  Some of the greatest moments are also among the quietest and most subtle, allowing the viewer's appreciation to increase with each viewing.  Almost every frame of this film is a thing of beauty and reiterates something that has recently begun to permeate my thoughts and feelings about great films and that is this while there may be an array of different qualities under the spectrum of great films one common bond that must always exist is passion.  You get the sense that this is a film which everyone working on it not only understood and believed in, but felt the film was so important that they were determined to make it the best they possibly could, and they certainly did.  The most vital quality a film must possess to be great is relevance to the human experience, in a word universality.  When Harry Met Sally possesses this and so much more and it will continue to be universal, accessible, and relevant far beyond its time. "},{"Title":"best answer to what's you favorite movie?","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen When Harry Met Sally several times and every time I watch it, I like it more and more. It contains some of the best lines in the history of cinema, some funniest and most famous scenes and examples of brilliant acting. It's not only funny and entertaining, but it also tackles a question that concerns us all can men and women be friends. The movie maintains that sex does always get in the way, but somehow, after following Harry and Sally's great story, we don't seem to mind it. And we just wish we met someone who would come to us because when you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible. Now when my friends ask me, what's your favorite movie?, I know exactly what to say. A day before Valentine's, I hope that you will find the (wo)man you're supposed to marry before somebody else finds him/her, so that you won't have to spend the rest of your life thinking that somebody else is married to your husband/wife! "},{"Title":"It could happen to you!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's probably no other film that reflects the male and female mind better. And every time I watch the film, I feel that some part of it has happened to me or to a friend. I don't know what to say about the film The fact that it's so real, or that the dialogues can make me laugh and go hmmmmm even after hearing them a thousand times over or that every time I finish watching it, I'm sad for five mins that it's over! "},{"Title":"A Great movie","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (excuse my english)I think it's the best romantic movie nver made. The actors are great ( The best is Billy but Meg is so cute), the scenery is a pure merveille and the dialogue are very well. If you need to see ONE romantic comedy see it, it's the best and after if you want to see another  try AS Good as it gets "},{"Title":"Such a classic! i'll have to force my children to watch!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm only 25.. but a movie such as When Harry Met Sally simply makes the shelves of the CLASSICS, ROMANCE, COMEDY, anything that spells ENTERTAINING! this is possibly the BEST romance movie ever made by Meg Ryan (actor), Rob Reiner (director) and Nora Ephron (writer). Nothing else has come close. Nora's You've Got Mail probably got watched because her success in this one!Everything about this movie is good. The plot is realistic! The jokes are funny. The actors have chemistry and individuality. The pace of the movie is perfect - plus the extra bits where the old people come in gives it an extra punch.The script is the most beautiful part of the film.. it's both a chick and a dick flick.. all males and females of all age groups from 19 and above can relate. From opinions on Casablanca to women faking orgasms, When Harry Met Sally truly highlights the differences between men and women, and how these differences make life entertaining and worth living!I can't help raving about it because it's simply a delightful film - lots of good laughs, lots of surprises, lots of quotable lines  and lots of real life!Watch it again and again! Buy the damn film! "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Romantic Comedy.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Harry Met Sally in undeniably one of the best romantic comedies I have ever seen.  I gave this movie a ten because no movie after it has managed to captivate its audience with its humor and honesty since.  Meg Ryan is unforgettable as the high maintenace Sally and Billy Crystal (although not very handsome) manages to bring an attractive, insightful character to the screen.  This film has a highly talented supporting cast, great music and excellent writing.  I saw this movie when I was in seventh grade and loved it. As I have matured through the years the more I realize how true to life this movie is. A definite must see. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever done about love","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When harry met sally is THE movie about boys and girls relations. It tells with an incredible truth & humour the way this relation works. It is so funny to see the evolution of these two people during 13 years since the end of the college. Different in all parts, they're trying to find the love of their life, looking for something they already had, without knowing it. This movie is very diferent from the other ones, it doesn't try to make moral, it simply shows us the thoughts about relations between Adam & Eve, the thoughts about love, and the way to love. "}{"Title":"LEADER OF THE PACK.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply the best of its kind!Excellent script,charming performances,beautiful soundtrack.Meg,Billy,Rob and Nora did their impossible for others to reach best.For unlimited enjoyable viewing! "},{"Title":"Romantic, hilarious and unforgettable.","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is an excellent and unforgettable romantic comedy which shows us that it is very difficult for a man and a woman to be only friends forever... Meg's performance is great (especially the scene in the bar where she pretends to have... you know) and Billy's is hilarious. They're the perfect couple for this film. The director Rob Reiner and the writer Nora Ephron have made a wonderful movie which is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Wonderful.  Simply wonderful.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best.  While being similar to the standard Meg Ryan fare, this one stands out above all the others.  Easily Reiner's best script, superb detail-oriented action, excellent comic timing, and chemistry make Harry Burns and Sally Albright one of the best screen romantic couples in the 80's and 90's. Carrie Fisher gives easily her best performance (You're right, you're right, I know you're right) and Bruno Kirby is strong in his supporting role - Harry's best friend and author.  I'm a writer, I know dialogue, and that's particularly harsh and Nobody's ever quoted me back to me have become staples of the professional writer's repertoire. "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, this is a great date movie, second of all, it is a wonderful comedy, and third of all, it is an overall an excellent picture.Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal make a hilarious couple. The orgasm scene is irresistible. I still roll on the floor of laughter when I see it. Great lines, great music, great actors and a very sweet plot.This movie warms my heart, it makes me believe in romance and that there is hope for obnoxious men. This movie made me attempt to believe that men can grow up. Of course, it is a movie and it could be an exception. The old couples talking was cute but not really necessary even though I understand that it was all building up to the last scene, the movie would not have suffered much without it. This movie is a classic, the Casablanca talk just ads to it's classiness. See it, if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"One of the great romantic comedies -- not just of the 80ies","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A really funny film very good actors, brilliant ensemble work. The dialogue is good (even if not as funny as that of *Philadelphia Story* or *Four Weddings and a Funeral*). All comparisons to Woody Allen's films are deadly wrong; *When Harry...* is FUNNY and not all self-indulgent. Highly recommended for everyone, especially when you have anything to do with a relationship either working or broken, new or old, well, whatever. "},{"Title":"My All-Time Favourite Film","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is my favourite movie ever, not only is the acting of Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal superb, but the energy that is between them creates a very special sort of film. The screenplay is of a very high standard and the clever use of humour within it is amazing. I particularly like the use of the old couples to mirror what is about to happen in the coming scenes between 'Harry Burns' and 'Sally Allbright'. I would have given this film 11/10 if they had let me. *That's* how good it is!!! "},{"Title":"Certainly a movie to watch and learn something about relationships.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I just couldn't stop laughing.  I had just had a minor surgery and was instructed by the doctor not to laugh.  It was impossible for me, as is each time I see it again. The movie has great dialogues, and I often find myself quoting from it.  It is certainly not a classical movie in the normal sense of the word, but it has certainly turned into a classic for me. "},{"Title":"A film I watch over and over when I need a laugh...","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For romantic/comedy or dramady, this film can't be beat.  The dialogue is so well written, I watch it again and again, when I'm sick or feeling blue, and still laugh or smile.Scene after scene rings true, and the performances are strong, including Carrie Fisher in her best role outside of Postcards From the Edge, and Star Wars.The subject of how two people can sleep together and maintain a friendship has never been done as well, making for a memorable film.  This Woody-Allenish story is a pure delight. "},{"Title":"Respect each other","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's my first time to see the movie and I like it very much. When Harry first met Sally, Harry was attracted by Sally. However, Sally did not like him and even hated him. For such a relationship, or maybe no relationship built between them, you can't imagine they can became lover and eventually getting married. The story was very romantic. When they were friends, they talked everything, they shared, they accepted, understood and respected each other. I think it's very important for creating a harmonize relationship. I think this elements for creating a harmonize relationship are not limited between friends, they also apply to lover, couple, parents & children.  "},{"Title":"I never seen a better movie till now , and that is coming from a person that watches movies on a daily bases.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never seen a better movie till now , and that is coming from a person that watches movies on daily bases.this movie talks about the two lives of 2 best friends from collage till they reach mid-age.It is a ride that you will never forget. Takes you through the sadness and happiness of their lives. The best romance - drama - comedy movie you can see. On the streets of the city that never sleeps.  "}{"Title":"Dated but greated...( and that's great, not grate)","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so I'm a bit behind the times, but I didn't see this until quite recently - a couple of months ago, in fact.  Until that time, all I knew was the fake-orgasm scene, which I must admit, is my least favourite out of the whole movie.  Other than this, I think Ryan and Crystal work really well together, and the script is well written - enough so to allow the audience to really root for them.  It doesn't rely on big explosions or car chases to entertain the audience, and the inserts of the different elderly couples telling the stories of how they met is really sweet and a great idea. I ties up well, leaving the viewer satisfied as to its conclusion but not taking it so far as to become boring.  A classic, a trend setter, and a great film all round "},{"Title":"A Modern Classic","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What's a perfect comedy? - It should be funny, of course, but it should also be sad at moments, it should be romantic, and it should have something to say about life and people.When Harry Met Sally... has it all You can roll on the floor laughing, when Sally (Meg Ryan) fakes her orgasm at the restaurant. You can cry, when Harry (Billy Crystal) walks the streets of New York City on New Year's Eve feeling lonely and finally realising that he's in love with Sally. Romance is all around, when the documentary couples tell their stories of how they met. And isn't it true that love and sex always come in the way in a friendly relationship between men and women?This is one of my all time favourite movies. I must have seen it al least ten times, and I still enjoy it. "},{"Title":"My favorite!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of my favorite films. Ephron did a great job on the script--its hilarious. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan have great screen chemistry. Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby are fabulous in supporting roles. Its romantic, funny, and I'm positive people can relate to the movie--both male and female. "},{"Title":"What a lovely, cute romantic comedy!!!!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently watched When Harry Met Sally for the fourth time tonight, and I loved every bit of it as if it was the first time watching it.  When Harry Met Sally, is a rarity in the film business, a smart romance film, a smart, funny romantic comedy.  Meg Ryan is just the right women to show us early in her career that romance films are a stellar part of her career.  This, Sleepless in Seattle, and When a Man Loves a Women are all good films with realistic characters involved in love.  THe chemistry between Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal is funny, where Billy Crystal telling his point of view on a issue, and then Meg Ryan shooting back a womens point of view.If your in the mood for a short romantic comedy, that you'll instanstly love unless you have no heart, then I definetely recommend this film.Enjoy!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Best love story ever made","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful film !!I think most love stories on film are more or less crap, because everything is so refined in them, that one end up not being able to identify oneselves feelings and actions - when in love - with the ones of the characters - supposedly in love.When Harry Met Sally is an honest and straight forward film about love, and therefore completely believable.I highly recommend this little masterpiece. I LOVE IT !! "},{"Title":"Can't say enough good things","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has got to be my all-time favorite. The comedy genius of this movie is so great that you can't really appreciate all of the funny lines until you've seen the movie several times. I love the different hair-do's of Sally and all of the changes that she goes through, as well as Harry. My favorite scene is when Harry and Sally are in Sharper Image and they are singing on the karaoke machine. Hilarious doesn't describe that scene especially when Helen shows up with Ira and there's Sally's voice echoing HELEN across the store. If I could give this movie 20 stars, I would. I'd love to see a sequel of this dynamic pair. "},{"Title":"10 years and going strong for this classic romantic comedy!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Has it really been 10 years since this film was released? I saw it at the theater all those years ago, and I've watched it at least once a year since then. It hasn't lost its charm! It's a well-scripted, well-acted love story with a twist that has yet to be duplicated. The soundtrack is wonderful too -- it's hard to believe that Harry Connick Jr. was only 21 at the time. If you haven't seen this one yet, give it a try. "},{"Title":"If it were any more true-to-life, it'd be a documentary","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This happens to be my favorite movie of all time.  It is SO realistic.  Almost everyone has been in the position of Harry and Sally at one time or another, and it's true--men and women CAN'T be friends.  No matter what anyone says, the sex thing always gets in the way.  This movie probably has more quotable lines than any other.  It is just delightful and far above all the other romantic comedies that have come out since it debuted. The whole cast is just great. Carrie Fisher is hilarious! I wish I had a dollar for every time my friends and I have said, You're right, you're right, I know you're right.Billy Crystal is who Meg Ryan has the most chemistry with, not Tom Hanks!   "},{"Title":"Quality","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It now looks pretty old hat, simply because we've now suffered an overdose of romcoms, all cast in the same mould (actually, all cast with the same cast, come to think of it). But this is the first and best of its kind by miles.Marrying Ephron's script with Reiner's light direction is where the film scores over its imitators, along with having Crystal and Ryan appear fresh and untainted by later failures. Ephron clearly used up all her best jokes here and in the first half of Sleepless in Seattle. WHMS really does have a smart line every minute, and not all of them from Crystal (You made a woman miaow?).Whether the movie's assertion that men and women can't be friends is outside the scope of this criticism, though the ending suggests otherwise. And while using 'Auld Lang Syne' to underscore the climax stinks of imitation (Waterloo Bridge, anyone?) it still makes me cry every time.On the down side, this film has a lot to answer for. It gave rise to a stream of soppy joke-free 'comedies', all set in a large American city, with an easy listening soundtrack, a strong yet vulnerable male hero, a sassy yet vulnerable female hero, a couple of mad friends and a cameo from a well-known director (usually Reiner himself). Accept no substitutes - this is the 10 out of 10 original. "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan is wonderful","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen it 20 times and I loved all of them. Meg Ryan is so funny, so talented, just wonderful. Some people say she is one of the Romantic Comedies actress, which I don't agree. She had proved all her talent in When a man loves a woman or The Doors, but none can make a romantic comedy so good as she can. Harry and Sally is already a classic movie. "}{"Title":"I'll have what she's having","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see movies, I love them - so I see them again. Usually, by the second or third time, I'm picking them apart, finding flaws. Even some really good movies cannot withstand the close, merciless scrutiny of a third viewing.And then I find movies that I can watch hundreds of times, and every time, find something new to enjoy. This is one of those precious few movies which continues to seem amazing to me, even the eleventh time. It's about imperfect, neurotic people, and maybe that's why it's so easy to identify with and to love. It also has an original, hilarious and quotable script, and actors that play their parts so well, it becomes hard to disassociate them from their characters. (Carrie Fisher in Star Wars, as Princess Leia? No way.) If you've ever had a friend of the opposite sex, go and see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant. Watch repeatedly. Lots of laughs.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A brilliant film that keeps the viewer enthralled throughout. Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal are perfectly cast and make you really care about them. There are lots of laughs, Harry & Jesse at the ball game, the simultaneous phone calls, etc. and, of course, the famous diner scene.But above all this is a film that you can watch again and again and no matter how you feel, it always leaves you with a smile on your face.How about an update on the 10 years that have passed? "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has long been a favourite movie of mine, and unlike a lot of my other favourites, this movie appears to be a favourite of all my friends as well. It was refreshing, delightful, and very entertaining.  I highly recommend it to those people reading these comments who haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie EVER!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite movie ever (hence my nickname!). The dialogue is Nora Ephron's best writing ever, with almost every line quotable.  My best friend and I can say the whole movie by heart!  The dialogue is not only sharp and witty, but true-to-life, as are the situations.  I agree these are Meg Ryan's and Billy Crystal's best performances.  It is a film whose standards I uphold to all romantic comedies, and I've yet to see another movie in this genre that exceeds When Harry Met Sally's quality!   "},{"Title":"One of the all-time greatest romance movies!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my all-time favorite movie.  It is a great period piece for the 70's and 80's!  But more than that, it shows how two friends can fall in love. Harry Connick Jr's music is a perfect backdrop for the movie as well!  I believe it should rate up with Casablanca and Gone With The Wind as one of the greatest romance movies of all time!  "},{"Title":"Inspiring, positive and quality work","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film proves that you can mix comedy, love, and drama in a single shot, all while keeping a high level of quality. Both stars are superb in their performance, and although I´m not a romantic person, I have to admit that the plot of the film combines the subtle power of hope and illusion with the dry coat of reality in a very nice way.I enjoyed watching this movie. The insecurities, happiness, sadness, and life of the characters in general are very contemporaneous and realistic. The ending -topped by Harry´s declaration of love-  is very clever and refreshing.This movie is an absolute must for any couple who recently had a fight and are thinking of making up, or for any couple who recently made up and are thinking of having a fight. "},{"Title":"Can men and women be friends?","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, and could go about it forever, but to break it down, this film goes through the years showing us the on-off friendship with Harry and Sally. The script is fantastic with so many quotes I can't start to begin. One that always springs to mind 'There's a man staring at you in personal growth' This film had me riveted from beginning to end. Everything from the cast (Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan cast perfectly as Harry and Sally) to the script to the foot-tapping soundtrack. This is a perfect film, a classic, watch it. What more can I say? "},{"Title":"What is whiteman's overbite?","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A story not only about love but about friendship of various kinds and about how people could overcome their self-consciousness. This may not be a date movie for some people, but it certainly gives hope on your marriage that you are desperately trying to hold on while at the same time wanting to let go every day.So, what on earth does that whiteman's overbite mean, when Harry quotes it in the plane in front of 26 year old Sally? I'm serious. Please, somebody tell me. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted story about the build up of love between two old acquaintances","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the film because someone suggested me that film as a primary example for a lighthearted love film. In that respect it worked quite well for me. It had plenty of light but sincere dialogs that people discredit way to often. The acting is pretty calm and emotions are shown in a controllable manner. But that is pretty much the bottom line of the movie. The film completely rejects the difficult aspects of love since none of the two is ever really isolated, lonely or desperate. They have either each other or friends who cheer them up with smooth remarks. My guess is that this film appears better to people who shy away from spending to much time alone. As for me it did not really work as I prefer a satirical or poetical treatment of the misery of love to not really mentioning it at all. Of course I also saw the scene when Harry meets his ex-wife or when Sally learned about Joe's marriage. But those moments were lived though in company and Sally's was answered with sex. In a way it paved the way for the happy end. Of course the film is a piece of fiction but to me that is too simple to offer any reason for joy in the end. The love they have in the end is as light as the whole film. As a result it seems to be something that feels nice but dispensable. I thought it was an OK ending since it left out too many fancy objects and focused on the lovers. I prefer more complex movies but acknowledge that movies like this are important to make people feel good once in a while. "},{"Title":"A classic, but not for me. Good and fun enough, though.","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sure, 'When Harry met Sally...' ís an iconic romantic comedy that may just have sparked many fashionable thoughts on modern day romance in the western world, and I bet it popularized karaoke machines to boot. Meg Ryan is stunningly beautiful, so there's another big plus. But as far as the characters and the story go, it all feels very fabricated, even if there are some good points made in or between the lines. Also, I'm looking at Billy Crystal here as a comedian, but not a character made of flesh; this may be a personal thing, but, even though I think he's funny (with smart lines) a lot of the time (this doesn't just concern this film, but pretty much everything I've seen him in), there is a certain display of detachment - like he is a craftsman, but I don't believe he loves his job...That all being said, I can appreciate this film as just another romantic comedy that will kill (my) time quite easily, but has no great effect on me. Maybe it's just me...6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Brilliant, witty and so modern...","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have watched this movie again, after so many years, in times when my little age did not allow me to get its meaning. Actually, this movie shot in the late 80's undoubtedly proves to be so modern, I don't know whether this is due to its witty dialogues, or simply because man-woman relationships always offer the same issues. Harry likes Sally, Sally likes Harry, probably since from the beginning, but it will take them twelve years to recognize it, they will have to grow up, together, before accepting and declaring this matter of fact. This is in my opinion the most interesting point in the movie the importance of time, of just waiting until you finally have to realize that what you have been looking for for so many years has been in front of you for such a long time. On the other hand there are Jess and Mary, to remind us that there's nothing wrong in accepting love, who simply recognize their love at first sight and just act and live according to this fact. But there are people like Harry and Sally who fear embracing love, fear happiness, people for whom happiness is a matter of conquest, who need suffering before admitting what seems so clear, and untroubled. Actually, there is no true suffering in the movie, permeated as it is by such witty irony and disguised under funny situations, so that what prevails is a hilarious atmosphere. In the end, we get what we expect, and what is right, and we like it. Billy Cristal and Meg Ryan are wonderfully paired, they convey such tenderness and chemistry, not passion, but that mutual attraction that comes from deep mutual understanding. A feel good movie, well acted, and accompanied by such pleasant music, which delicately underlines situations set in an always wonderful and magic New York, in every season, making one feel like being exactly there.... "},{"Title":"Intellectual look at when a guy meets a girl","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After spending a road trip together, Harry (Crystal) and Sally (Ryan) find they have little in common. On meeting again in years time, they form a strong friendship.The romantic genre has gone through many changes over the last decade. From the obvious and clichéd Sleepless in Seattle and Love Actually to the heavily slapstick funny films such as Hitch and Just Friends among others. Sadly we aren't seeing enough romantic films that look at issues, opinions and life the way classics such as Rob Reiner's Oscar nominated picture did.This picture is a beautiful piece of film-making. From the funny protagonists to the simple powerful storyline, this is a fine romantic film.Far from a guy likes girl flick, this looks at the intricate ways men and women look at each other. Harry in particular brings up a valid point in that sex will always get in the way of a guy and a girl ever being friends. This concept, represented at a highly inconvenient moment, is incredibly funny and importantly relative.Crystal (The Princess Bride) and Ryan (You've got mail) deliver knockout performances with Ryan in particular very charming. Ryan has created that vulnerable but opinionated persona on screen that many viewers will relate to. And obviously not forgetting that infamous scene in the restaurant. I think we'd all like to have what she's having.The narrative, though always likely, is directed and told in a way that is enjoyable from start to finish. Most modern flicks use that slapstick humour or star quality to create that tension for the guy and the girl to get together but this is an intellectual and diverse approach that can not be faulted.A lot of romances don't know whether to be funny or dramatic but Reiner's picture is a finally balanced flick that gives us plenty of laughs and an equal dose of tension.The setting and music are chosen very well, justifying the moments in perfect sequence.This is a romantic film that betters most modern clichéd romances out there with a slick approach to the world of friendships and relationships. "},{"Title":"When love met reality...","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This the movie that tells of a great love story, one we all hope to live and experience.It is about two people, who though strangers, travel together, decide not to keep in touch then become friends and unexpectedly...lovers.At first they thought they had it perfect. A true deep friendship between a man and a woman something many seemingly impossible and in the end they prove it is.Another thing that attracted me to this movie except its amicable warmth is that it provides a deep analysis of several relationship aspects from the point of view of the two sexes and it is not for the purpose to create an argument but to establish the truth which is that love is something you cannot control.DO NOT MISS THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For many, this is the ultimate romcom, although I have others I prefer.  But it does come from a director I respect and stars a man whose comic potential has so rarely been scratched beyond his Oscar hosting duties.  Although I liked Forget Paris.  The orgasm scene is overrated, but it's the interplay between the two leads that is so good here &#150; it's the best elongated relationship movie since Annie Hall, and some scenes can only be the result of the actors goofing around (`pecan pie...')  And then there's the date scene where the wrong partners get together.  Mm, yes, don't know what else to say.  I liked it. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies ever made.","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERSWhen Harry met Sally is a romantic comedy classic that many have tried to emulate since it came out. Not that they've succeeded. But this movie that's often imitated, never duplicated is flawless from start to finish. Meg Ryan who I'm not a major fan of is adorable as Sally, sadly though I think this role may have typcast her a little. Billy Crystal is wonderful, I enjoyed this so much and it's one movie that can be watched over and over and never loses it's magical flavor.This is definitely up there as one of my favorite romantic comedies ever And it does something that is rare in these types of movies, it manages to be sweet, funny AND extremely deep with incredibly intelligent dialogue and unforgettable characters.I love the theme of the movie, and that it is interesting and thought provoking while still being fun and humorous-it looks at male/female relationships-can men and women just be friends? I really am not sure, in real life, the movie would have had the ending it did but hey you never know. So many people love this movie and have made comments, I'm not even gonna go on. When Harry met sally is a high quality romantic comedy that is a 10 of 10 and a movie that ages like fine wine, it gets better every time it's watched. "},{"Title":"Hope for us all","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I forgot how wonderful this film is. Meg Ryan provides the beauty & ditzyness whilst Billy Crystal provides the genius in comedy. Even the two best friends are brilliantly cast. It's hard to write too much on this film as it really speaks for itself. It's a wonderful wonderful film which reminds all us single people, that there's always someone out there for us, even if it is our best female friend. Is it true that it's impossible to be friends without feeling attracted to her? No it's not impossible, but there's always a chance of it advancing to more. Anyway, going off on one again. No real way of summing up this film than to say that it's the best romantic comedy of all time by some considerable distance & it's wonderful. Watch this film and feel good about life. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy that is actually GOOD.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WHEN HARRY MET SALLY stands above the rest.  Rather than resort to cliched dialogue and characterizations that inundate so many romantic comedies, writer Nora Ephron invested her screenplay with witty observations and realisms about men and women, and how they view each other.  Crystal and Ryan bring their well-drawn characters to life very convincingly and appealingly.This film stands right up there with ANNIE HALL as one of the best love comedies of our time.  An absolute must-see.***1/2 out of ****MPAA Rated R for some language and sex-related dialogue. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite comedies; romance at it's finest","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WHEN HARRY MET SALLY... (1989) **** Billy Crystal, Meg Ryan, Carrie Fisher, Bruno Kirby. Nora Ephron's dead-accurate screenplay and Rob Reiner's sentimentally funny direction make a valentine to falling in love and the war of the sexes answering the age-old question Can a man and a woman still be friends without the sex thing getting in the way? Crystal and Ryan (both in their best roles) are a stormy couple of platonic friends for over a decade and meet up every so often until finally they face a crossroads in their close friendship with some hysterically funny moments. Ryan's orgasm scene in Katz' Deli is one for the time capsule. Realistic, warm, poignant and universally recognizable all in one classic comedy of love. ** I TOTALLY RELATE TO THIS FLICK. "},{"Title":"A modern classic","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie!  It has everything a great movie should have  a clever, witty, romantic, touching, and absolutely hilarious script, and fantastic performances.  Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan make the perfect couple, because they start off as friends but end up in love.  Another reason why this movie is so great is because it appeals to both women and men.  Everyone should see When Harry Met Sally because it's one of the best romantic comedies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"The sexes battle it out","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film gives a realistic look at sex and relationships. The deli scene was one of the more telling portraits of female duplicity I've seen yet. It pointed out perfectly how astute women are at faking orgasm, which I feel is not a sometime thing but happens on a regular basis. Most men are just like Crystal's character in that their line is, women don't fake with me, I could tell if they did. What arrogance! Women are masters at the art, and a man cannot always tell. They put on an act of ecstasy to either please their partner, or to get something from him, because women basically hate sex. The sex act is the female's most deadly weapon, one that in the end, however, is easily defeated if a man simply uses his head. Which, of course, most males are unable to do - we tend to let the little head do the thinking in such situations. This allows the man to be easily led and manipulated. This wasn't a bad film, a little slow and dull in spots but very lively in others with good performances by all the players. "}{"Title":"LOVED it!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite films. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan are magic together, and the two characters they play are so real and tangible.Of course, most of the credit of the film's success go to the two leads of course, but the fine supporting performances from Carrie Princess Leia Fisher and Bruno Kirby, the warm, funny, charming script by Nora Ephron and Rob Reiner's direction mesh perfectly and create a wonderful film.I can really relate to Harry and Sally's romantic heartaches, and how they cry on each other's shoulders. Also I felt that their gradual attraction was played realistically. The last twenty or so minutes leading up to the big romantic finale will have you both cheering and crying!My favorite line is, after Harry and Sally spot Harry's ex-wife and her new boyfriend Ira while singing in the Sharper Image store, Harry yells Six years later, you find yourself singing Surrey With the Fringe On Top in front of Ira!!!Highly recommended to the hopeless romantic, or someone coming off a breakup. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan have never been better.  "},{"Title":"greatest number of greatest one-liners ever","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" men and women cannot be friends the biological clock doesn't start ticking until you're 36 I'm gonna be forty! when you know you want to spend the rest of your life with someone, you want the rest of your life to start right nowand that's just off the top of my head!and of course - I'll have what she's having (but with less pepper)I watch this movie twice a year, once around new year and once on the Belgian National holiday - but that's a personal story. And even though I can almost say the lines in sync with the characters, I still laugh at every one of them "},{"Title":"A pretty good romantic comedy","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never really liked romantic comedies, I think there's too much crying and sentimental sap. I mostly think of romantic comedies as the kind of movie single women sit down and watch, and cry their eyes out, which is a concept I've never understood. But this movie is definitely one of the better of the genre. I saw it again after having seen it a lot of years ago, and I remembered it as having one single good scene. This is, of course, the famous restaurant scene. But seeing it again, I laughed almost at the very beginning, and kept laughing throughout the next twenty minutes. After that, the hilarity of the characters faded, and it settled by being interesting and capturing. I wanted to know what was going to happen to these characters. Unfortunately, it didn't last, and I lost interest for a few minutes, and then I saw a funny scene again, and regained interest. The same thing happened a few more times, I lost and regained interest with brief pauses. The movie is worth seeing if you like this sort of movie, or if you like debates about male/female friendship. I found the ongoing debate in the movie very interesting and thought-provoking, and most of the movie is pretty funny as well. Some of it is laugh-out-loud funny, and some of it is more like recognize-the-situation funny. If it had kept my interest a little better, I would have given it an 8, but as it is, I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy with attitude a disappointment","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rob Reiner has presented us with the strong coming of age tale Stand by Me, the frightening Misery (both penned by Stephen King) and the dramatically powerful A Few Good Men. It seems a shame to have to group this somewhat contrived 'romantic comedy with attitude' in with such fine films. Alas this big disappointment from 1989 is also a Rob Reiner film.Billy Crystal's cynical eighties philosophies and morbid character make it hard for him to inspire the audience, and try as he might, he cannot manage to win anybody over for the entire film. Meg Ryan makes a pretty little damsel in confusion, but nothing else, while Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher just fill in the blanks.The final, and probably most crucial weakness in this picture is Nora Ephron's screenplay, which has several similarities to her more recent triumph Sleepless in Seattle. Sure there are some very funny scenes and lines dotted throughout (especially the now famous restaurant scene), yet the comedy is largely inconsistent. For just 93 minutes, the movie really drags, and the whole destiny theme is too obvious, making it romantically predictable, like Sleepless. Again the musical interludes just don't work, and so When Harry Met Sally ends up relying entirely on its wit and the two lead performances, leaving it obviously lacking in entertainment value.Also, this 'girl thing/guy thing' Nora does, which almost pits man against woman, may be accurate occasionally, but it's far too negative for me. Certainly no substitute for entertainment of the calibre of While You Were Sleeping.Friday, July 14, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Not Convinced","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Is it a well written film? Funny? With a tickle me enchanted ending? Yes, yes, and awww, yes.Once Billy Crystal's twinkling eyes and Meg Ryan's hopeful smile fade from the screen, my elated happily-ever-after feelings felt a bit wrong. Something was off with the story...but what? After thinking about it, I realized that Billy Crystal's character, Harry, never actually changed. In the beginning of the film Harry tries to cheat on his girlfriend with Sally. He asks Sally to sleep with him and she is disgusted at his bold lack of commitment. At the end of the film, after 12 years of friendship with him Sally sleeps with Harry. Surprise, surprise, Harry doesn't want to commit to her. He nearly bolts out of the apartment after intimacy. He is emotionally distant. He is terrified of even having to physically be there, much less be there for her in any other sense.Afterward, he apologizes. He wants to keep the friendship he enjoyed, and decides, after a lonely New Years Eve, he is ready to marry her. So what? So what? He is still the same person after 12 years. He doesn't want to lose the relationship he enjoyed BUT, that doesn't necessarily mean he will be the committed, faithful, responsible man he has never been.I'd like to see their happily ever after.Maybe he would be true to form and cheat on her with her friend like he tried in the beginning.Maybe he would feel suffocated like he did immediately after sex and decide to divorce or go to get milk without return.Perhaps they would stay married all their lives and he would consistently display his lack of responsibility and intimacy. He wouldn't show up to Jimmie's ball games, he'd spend most of his time out with friends at bars or at the office. He'd be the first to grab travel assignments for a chance to get away from the ball and chain. I don't put a lot of stock in a character that for 12 years consistently shows himself to abhor responsibility and then makes a snap decision to get married to a goody two shoes woman who sees rainbows in sewage puddles.This movie reads as deceptively bad advice to women. And gives a bad role model for men. After the happy ending, I think Harry and Sally are both due to be very miserable. "},{"Title":"one of the best rom-com-drams","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think what makes this movie so special is that everyone can relate to this story. It tells that classic story of long time friends who cant seem to accept each other with other people but don't have the guts to make a move on each other. You can tell from the first scene that Harry and Sally both feel some romantic tension between them. Obviously at first they each want different things with a partner. This is shown by their disagreement with the end of Casablanca. I thought that was a clever way of setting up the ending. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan have great chemistry throughout. Which is especially impressive because of how many different meetings they have together. Whats a good romance without a few tear jerker moments? Well this movie definitely has a few, as it most likely one of the top love stories in cinematic history.I really liked that they had their friends set up, and then ended up helping get them married. To me that shows the hope for Harry and Sally in the second half of the movie. For some reason Harry and Sally cant accept being together, even though in the first scene Harry states that men and women can never be friends. Rob Reiner directs each character with flaws so that we aren't finding ourselves only rooting for one side. They try to date other people but you can tell that each time, tension rises and all result in break ups.I think my only complaint for the movie would be that it seems like in movies when a fallout in a relationship happens, its always the man who gives in and ends up trying to resolve the situation. They portray the women to be the stubborn ones and wait until the man calls her. Even if thats what happens I would like to see a refreshing take on that. But in a romantic movie you want the ending to be emotionally moving, and this one delivers. Their final scene together is heartwarming and overall pleasing. You really feel you went on this ride with this couple for a few hours so when you get an ending that hits, its extra satisfying. +Billy Crystals rants on relationships+relatable for everyone+an ending that actually delivers-vague male stereotypes9.3/10 "},{"Title":"A great American romantic comedy","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A great romantic comedy that can be enjoyed by both men and women is a rare treat. This anti-American offering is one such rarety. Director Rob Reiner has us laughing at each other while frowning on America and it's evil grasp in this story that lovingly highlights the inner workings of both sexes. Its unflinching depiction of animal cruelty will certainly upset many potential viewers. Wading into the center of N.America to slay the monster Bush Jr., Reiner stirs up other creatures more monstrous than we ever imagined possible. In going after the poisonous snake of FOX Television, which has apparently slithered off into the high grass, for the moment..Boycott away, but this stuff about french wine, freedom fries, boycotting anyone that DARES disagree publicly with the almighty Bush is junior league. It makes Americans look petty, and frankly, just reinforces the general opinion the world has about Americans like Harry and Sally...that they are uninformed and choose style over substance. That they don't really care to get into debates or learn about other opinions, but instead go for the quick meaningless fix, but why, prey tell, ruin a good friendship with love and sex... right? How long will it take for these two kooks to realize...It Had To Be You? Awash in corruption amid pervasive poverty, Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan have a magnificent on screen chemistry, and they'll have you laughing and rooting for the downfall of America. Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher are expert at playing the well meaning friends. There are some wonderful scenes of older couples being interviewed that'll have the soda sphritzing from your nostrils. Rob Reiner does a brilliant job of bringing us this everyday world of the gender gap.You'll also love the soundtrack for this film. Lots of old standards, performed by Frank Sinatra, Duke Ellington and some really marvelous stuff by a very young Harry Connick Jr. You will be able to tell who Connick is by the tattoo on his naked ass that states that he hates America..The Special Edition VHS(MGM)is great. It is in widescreen, Dolby stereo surround(2.0),the picture is beautiful with all the wonderful scenes of the changing seasons in New York, and the sound, including the music and the dialouge are pleasing. Some really nice Features are included, I very much enjoyed the Making OF Documentary with lots of commentary. You'll also find lots of deleted scenes that are fun to watch, you can have Reiner's commentary during the film, and There's a terrific Harry Connick Jr video. There are trailers, and bloopers and outtakes. Viva La Differance!...... "},{"Title":"(the one with the scene in the diner) A very funny, witty and charmimg romantic comedy","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Words cannot describe how much I loved this film. There have been romantic comedies that don't quite appeal to me, but When Harry Met Sally is just wonderful. It is for me everything a romantic comedy should be, funny, witty and charming. The screenplay from Nora Ephron got nominated for an Oscar, and so it should have done. There were times when I laughed out loud(I'll have what she's having), and other times when I was like Aww, that's really sweet. The direction is wonderfully astute and detailed, as is often the case with Rob Reiner(The Princess Bride, This is Spinal Tap and Stand By Me-the latter is a favourite of mine). The New York locations are really beautiful, and the soundtrack is in one word beguiling. The lovely story argues the question of whether men and women can ever have a friendship without sex, and there are so many funny and charming scenes, particularly the fake-orgasm set piece, the only scene I was familiar with prior to watching the film. And of course the acting is outstanding; Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan(at her prettiest I think, though she was stunning in Sleepless in Seattle as well) are perfect together, while Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby give a real sense of edge to their supporting performances. Overall, a delightful romantic comedy. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Terrific Comedy","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry Met Sally... (1989) **** (out of 4) Harry (Billy Crystal) and Sally (Meg Ryan) meet right after graduation on a road trip to New York but don't hit it off too well but over the next twelve years they become friends, lovers and enemies. I'm a die-hard fan of classic Hollywood and whenever someone mentions the greatest romantic comedies of all time they usually stick to the films of the golden era that featured Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn and the likes of them but for my money this film here gives any of them a run for their money. This is an incredibly smart, witty, romantic and at times depressing look at the lives of two people who were meant for each other even though neither one of them might know it. A lot of romantic comedies out there are aimed directly at women or directly at men but that's not the case here as both sexes can really enjoy what's going on here because I think the film does a wonderful and hysterical job at showing both sides and how they look at certain issues. The screenplay by Nora Ephron is incredibly well written and hits on all sorts of subjects ranging from death to marriage and of course sex. The way the screenplay builds up the two characters is so well written that I might even say that this is one of the greatest character developments in the history of cinema. The real magic of the movie comes from Crystal and Ryan, who in my opinion, give the greatest performances of their careers. Everything from the way they talk to the way they walk really brings the characters to life and seeing them work together is just pure magic and something Ryan never could recreate in all of her future films like this. Crystal really stands out and delivers a hysterical performance with all his quick one-liners and facial gestures. Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby also add great support as the friends. "},{"Title":"i miss the idea, and the whole of him","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" -I miss her -I don't miss him, I really don't -Not even a little? -You know what I miss? I miss the idea of him -(sigh)Maybe I miss the idea of Helen (silent) No, I miss the whole of Helen I Miss the Idea, and the Whole of Him I have problems concentrating now. Every time I sit down at the desk and tries to engage myself in the TEM4 papers or linearity algebra exercises, or Spanish homework...I couldn't focus at all...My thoughts wander, my eye sights blur, my heart beats fast at sight of him... I used to miss him when he's not around, but now parted as we are, I feel a flow of much stronger emotion towards him. I miss him even when he sits next to me.I glimpse at him secretly thorough the books; I smell the natural aroma sent out from his hair, his body when the wind breezes through the window; I listen eagerly to every single sound he utters he sneezes, he clears his throat, he scratches his chair on the floor... When I connect to the internet, the first thing I do is to log on his homepage. I read his journals so many times that I could even recite some of them. I browse every pic of his and they are all downloaded into the deepest corner of my disk. I view every message other people have left on his message board and I get jealous of those handsome girls or boys saying something ambiguous to him... I begin to speak like him, with that Suzhou accent; I behave like him walk with my back bowed and lower my head when looking at people; I listen to songs he listens, watch movies he watches, and read books he reads... I know it's wrong, I know it's stupid of me to continue caring for him, or even more, after we break up. I, I just cannot help it. I just can't be sensible. I miss him, not only the idea of him, but the whole of him. "}{"Title":"A Comment Over Friendship","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the movie 5 years after it was released, and I'm glad that I had. I wouldn't have understood a thing I watched it back in my childhood. I can't say that I totally understood it until my 20's since it's a critique for the relations between genders. Lots of analysis's are being made throughout the movie which are pretty accurate for both sides. Funny thing is that there really is no such thing like friendship after sex -or even after breaking up-. Meg Ryan and -especially- Billy Crystal are at the peak of their performances during the movie, and I must say Meg is a little overpowered by Billy's style and talent. Meg keeps a flat line of act but it would be wrong to say that she effected the film in a negative manner. Quite the contrary actually. And the lenses used during the shots, takes the movie one step higher than its competitors. The autumn shots actually shot me more than the movie itself. Totally romance and this movie is one of the best romantic comedy ever shot! "},{"Title":"A little dated...?","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this film, my instant thought was 'oh my god, this is so overrated'. But, when thinking about it more, I think that it's just not aged particularly well and maybe I'd have appreciated it more if I'd the age I am now in 1989.Despite this, I thought the script still sparkled - there are some genuinely funny (and strikingly truthful) lines sprinkled about. I was surprised that the fake orgasm scene, even though it has been played SO often, remained laugh-out-loud funny. Thought Billy Crystal was great but I wasn't all that taken with Meg Ryan - possibly because all that wide-eyed innocence doesn't wash with me having seen her surly and quite frankly, rude appearance on Parkinson. And I wasn't all too sure about the 'real-life couples' bits.However, come the end, I was crying - it was genuinely touching, after all, and as a romantic comedy, is a lot funnier, smarter and more salient than many of its modern-day counterparts.  "},{"Title":"Not a typical romantic comedy.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dylan Shaver - R000119783 Philosophy 201 - Assignment #3Headline They need to make more films like thisWhen Harry Met Sally Directed by Rob Reiner Starring Billy Crystal,Meg RyanI am not genetically predisposed to romantic comedies.  I typically find them to be generic, rote and formulaic.  I don't usually have the patience for the same-old same- old boy meets girl, gets, loses, re-gets girl storyline.  So I was surprised when I found myself really enjoy When Harry Met Sally.Since I've been old enough to remember or understand, the romantic comedies I've seen have all been fairly slapstick.  I think the first one I actually paid money to see was Shakespeare in Love, which (while it did win an academy award) I found to be rather contrived and predictable.  Much later came There's Something About Mary where we find Ben Stiller in the most ridiculous and obscure of unfortunate situations.In either case, and across the genre, these films are funny and often sentimental but rarely can Joe Public identify with the main characters.  While certain aspects of the plot or character development may seem somewhat similar, much of the films' humor relies on fantastical situations.By contrast, When Harry Met Sally actually revolved around fairly commonplace situations.  I feel like I could know couples who have gone through the same sort of relationship roller-coaster.Writer Nora Ephron does an excellent job capturing the secret and silent longing felt between the two main characters.  Crystal and Ryan (who play Harry and Sally, respectively) capture the various neuroses that develop between good friends of different sexes.Scenes of the film are separated by asides, seemingly real couples in their old age explaining how they met. This contributes more to surprisingly human feel to what is otherwise large-scale Hollywood production. "},{"Title":"THE Romantic Comedy","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"       Although romantic comedies were made before When Harry Met Sally..., it was the movie that invented the phrase. The movie is about the long, over more than ten years ( though the movie focuses on the last two years ), relationship between Harry and Sally who first meet on their car pooling trip to New York after graduating from university. It explores the question Can men and women really be friends?. It's a whole lot of fun to watch them find out the answer to that question as well as to illustrate a lot of the differences between men and women in terms of wants and needs in a relationship.      If you like romantic comedies, you really have to see the modern one that started them all. "},{"Title":"still awesome.","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  so the film's a little dated, we all know the jokes by now and annie hall is better.  but when harry met sally... is still and will always be an enjoyable classic, and it doles out a lot of the wisdom that has been absorbed into american consciousness in the 15 years since it came out. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I must admit I do have a soft spot for comedies of this sort (New York, jazzy soundtrack, set around autumn/winter, starring Meg Ryan), but in all honesty this film would appeal to anyone who truly loves cinema.It's not that I love chick flicks (as they are commonly known by those who don't know). My favourite genres are horror and Chinese action, but there's just something about new york comedies that draw me in.Both the stars are perfect with Billy crystal in his career best role. always funny, but not often this reserved Crystal makes us like what is essentially 9at least to begin with ) unlikealbe character.The witty script by Nora Ephron is among her best for comedy (though Sleepless has the better love story)with Reiner perfectly capturing the feeling of the city.almost perfect comedy 9/10. "},{"Title":"fantastic film","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The comedy in this has really lasted over time. I saw it when it first came out and then on TV the other night. It has so much subtle comedy. I was laughing as much as when I first saw it. It's the one film I am going to buy on DVD because you can watch it so many times and it still has the abilty to make you laugh like it's the first time you saw it "},{"Title":"A True Romantic Classic","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say that hasnt been said a million times about this movie ? It is BRILLIANT.Meg Ryan is adorably high maintenance in her role while Billy Crystal plays a romantic Oliver Hardy.This movie is very funny, and when it talks of dating it really hits a home run.The way women see the world and the way men see it is brilliantly portrayed,as well as the struggles to understand one another.It all comes together in the obvious but tenderhearted climax.Hopeless Romantics everywhere unite -this one is for us.Now if only I could find a woman like Meg Ryan... "},{"Title":"Modern Culture Romantic Comedy Is A Classic","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I commented on this romantic comedy, should be included in Top 250 IMDb list. A definite for as other mentioned for a first date etc.. Do opposites really attract?  Fine acting combination of comedian/actor Billy Crystal as Harry and Meg Ryan  as Sally. Fine supporting cast played by BruceBruno Kirby Jr. as Jess courting  Carrie Fisher as Marie. Rob Reiner director, I believed was clever implemented  a cute segue way to next segment of movie, using documentary couples givecute insights to their relationships ,in this case older married couples, small but  funny part as Harry and Sally's relationship develop negative and positive. As  story moves on, background narratives of Crystal and Ryan voices where's nodialog, their minds speaking adds a flare in my opinion, helps me be in Harry's  shoes. Same applies if your a female to Sally's perspective. I know othersmentioned this part but worth repeating since it does not happen in real life,  where Sally is dared by Harry in diner scene publicly faking orgasm, that'salmost the climax of movie no pun intended. Another patroness glued to looking  at Sally replies to waiter, I'll have what she's having may not be verbatim sure  was FUNNY. replayed that part over again so good. DEFINITELY A CLASSICboth genres to enjoy, bonus if dating or even married. So many scenes one can  relate to. 8/10. "},{"Title":"MODERN CULTURE CHANGED, THIS IS A ROMANTIC COMEDY CLASSIC","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sort of a follow up of Annie Hall. classic based in New York, also can be used  as a holiday film as well a dating film. First, fine directing by Rob Reiner, uses  documentary couples which are SO CUTE AND COMICAL as a segue way tothe next segment as story develops. It's mainly the relationship between Harry  Burns played by funny Billy Crystal and the intelligent/dizzy beautiful yetversatile Meg Ryan played Sally Albright, a becoming classic actress should get  Kathrine Hepburn type scripts made her Best Actress of 20th century. IMHO.Also, as a secondary developing relationship is Jess played by Bruce BrunoKirby Jr. and Marie played by Carrie Fisher which become best friends withHarry and Sally perspectively, do fine supporting acting roles. I believe the first  half of 20th century some movies gave respect of reflecting the culture,whensleeping with your friend then love of your life was taboo, like in It Happened  One night pushing moral envelope was An Affair To Remember and classicsimilar throwback fine romantic comedy Sleepless in Seattle. Both receivedFAIR ratings ironically. My heartthrob Meg Ryan stars in it, is well becoming a  classic actress as well comic/actor Tom Hanks. The moral issue once calledfornication, now is normal lifestyle for most, When Harry Mets Sally is a classic  fairs with Annie Hall, should be in Top 250 IMDb List. My folks of 1920s stayed  with moral traditional role as orthodox catholics, when choosing a lifelongpartner. Religion played significant role from dating to marriage, unlikeHollywood stars past lived like today's standards. Even though influential,Hollywood is not the blame for the moral culture changes, we baby boomersturned away from Orthodox to Reform (Rebellion). Moral issue aside, oneintensely memorable moments, was Sally (Meg Ryan) fake public orgasm in thediner as another patroness sitting by mesmerized, I want what she's having.  11/10 for that segment. All in all, A Romantic Comedy Classic! Both male andfemales will enjoy. Oh Harry! (wish I was playing Harry with Sally. (Meg is one of  my Favorite Hollywood Hotties) "}{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful romance film.  I'm not a big fan of Billy Crystal, but I found him to be quite charming and romantic in this movie.  Meg Ryan is witty, perky and sweet.  Although there is quite an age difference between the two, I feel they worked well together and made a believable couple. I like the fact that there is a Christmas scene in the movie, so it can be added to your Christmas movie collection.  It's a must see for any true romantic. "},{"Title":"Best Date Film Ever","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main reason I love this film is because everything in it is true! Almost everything that Billy Crystal tells Meg Ryan through the course of the film is true in real life. That's what makes this movie so funny. Another reason I love this film is because I think Meg Ryan might be the cutest girl to ever come out of Hollywood. I think she is incredibly beautiful woman. I'd like to think a lot of guys think so. She is a classic. Anyway a great and funny film. Best date film ever. (I believe even the AFI said so too).                          Mr. D. Jensen "},{"Title":"Uplifting Romantic Comedy For Men AND Women.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film features two heavyweights in the comedy genre. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan are great together.  Whether or not a film goer appreciates romantic comedy, this one is appealing across the board.We follow Harry and Sally from their college years into their early thirties.  They are good friends, and of course, as one would guess, the question is whether or not a man and woman can be friends. Harry goes through life getting one conquest after another, while Sally is much more conservative and cautious in her relationships.  And as the two go on, they see others fall in love and the two are often left in the dust looking at each other.  Meg is her usual adorable, perky self, and Crystal plays his character very witty and fast.   The characters and story are heartwarming and believable.  It is a happy story that is actually plausible and not a sappy destiny type film. Rob Reiner began a tradition here, using 'standards' for the film's  music. Tracks such as 'It Had To Be You' and 'Let's Call The Whole Thing Off' were brought out for a new generation. Harry Connick Jr. was thrust into the mainstream because of this film, having sung several of the tracks. Director commentary on the DVD version is great and informative.This film is very enjoyable and well made. In the genre of Romantic Comedy, I would safely say this is the best I have seen.  A great rainy day love story that is always uplifting. "},{"Title":"when harry met sally they made a timeless classic","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the greater things about this movie is the reality it, at the very least aspires to.  Harry, the leading male is based in no small part on Director Reiner while writer Ephron gives basis for Sally.  Of course, Woody Allen is the king of the genre, but he has one flaw his relationships are his relationships and while memorable and fun to experience are still his to call his own.  The wonder of When Harry met Sally, besides how wonderful it is, is how generic it is. This could have been any man, any woman. The problems are universal. It was a cornerstone and remains one of the greatest bibles to the relationship, conquering issues and questions no greater than can a man and woman just be friends, and what do we want both as humans and individual men and women; a movie which changed the way men and women think, act, and date, to this day. Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan are the perfect pair with chemistry, such chemisry, watching them act is treat enough. But the movie takes the cake and it is sweet. The mixings of Reiner and Academy Award Nominated Ephron cook up a timeless classic. You'll laugh, you may cry, you'll think, hopefully learn something, and laugh again. A- "},{"Title":"Great acting, great dialogs","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harry met Sally is not just the average romantic comedy as it is often labeled. This movie is, I think, underrated. It has some great dialogs and the acting is very nice as well. Especcially these dialogs make it more then worthwhile, something which cannot be said of most romantic comedies. A very strong point is, that the dialogs make you start thinking. At least, that's what I did when I just saw it. With that, the interaction of love between Crystal and Ryan is worked out very well. The idea that destiny is very important in true love is well worked out, maybe even philosophical idea.When Harry met Sally is simply a classic in its genre.A nice 9 out of ten! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  I think it beautifully addressed the struggles with regards to friendship between a man and a woman.  Can they in fact simply be friends?  This movie is an example of how that could in fact work, but also serves to explain why it could not.I thought the acting in general was okay.  I was not overly impressed with either of the two.  Ryan came of as being sort of an over-actor, with her cute nose-up-in-the-air appeal.  And Crystal just always seems like he is saying too much.  I don't ever see a real change in the characters he plays in each movie.I did, however, appreciate the scenes with the older couples sharing their experiences.  I thought it was sweet and humorous.  These particular scenes fit in well with the rest of the movie.All in all, I thought the movie was entertaining.  I especially enjoyed the end when Crystals character (Harry) explained wanting to begin the rest of his life that day.  The quote was amazing...I just wish I could remember it right now.  "},{"Title":"A very serious comedy","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I´ve seen this film at least a hundred times.So I bought the film. There you´ll find the difference betwen women and man. And the power of denial when they fall in love. The fear of commitment of our time it is shown so as we do understand and don´t be afraid of love.  "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an enjoyable film, but certainly not great. It is very much indebted to Woody Allen. The similarities to Annie Hall abound and there are similarities to other Allen films as well. While that in itself may or may not detract from the film's greatness, it simply does not compare to Allen's work. Annie Hall, for example, is much more witty and original, the writing is better, and it has greater depth. *WARNING, SPOILER in the next sentence This is a basic Hollywood re-work, complete with the happy ending Annie Hall did not have...  Why spend so much time talking about Woody in a review of this film? A. Other people have already given enough synopsis of this film and B. it owes that much to his work... That said, this is a good film - light hearted entertainment - but not anything more. "},{"Title":"toooo muuuch whinnning.","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see all the favorable reviews of this one, and when I first saw this in '89, I thought great. And it is a leader in the romantic comedy genre. Billy Crystal has a way of pulling off these kinds of roles. He's good, great timing, funny almost anywhere. Meg Ryan plays a good part also; she is good in most of her comedy roles. Her serious roles leave little to be desired. Rob Reiner's direction is good but predictable. We see New York through a stereotypical camera. He makes us think everyone in NYC is Italian when they're young, and when they get old, they become Jewish. I suppose this is humorous to the populace.Well, I watched it again recently, and I have a question Am I the only one who thinks these characters whine too much? Don't they have any better things to do with their energy than lament over the slightest trouble they confront? Yes, this is Seinfeld before Seinfeld, and Seinfeld is funny, but I can't watch it for too long before feeling exhausted.The movie is about couples and their love troubles. Billy Crystal is charming, woman love this, it's his unintimidating, I'm fallible humor. Meg Ryan is made out to be a smart career woman who is stupid(big career woman can't drag a Christmas tree).Characters suffering from a neurosis for our entertainment is funny, but it's not romantic. Woody Allen invented neurotic, romantic comedies in the movies. That's enough.If you love the TV comedy Seinfeld, you'll love this one. If you get tired of Seinfeld, you know what to expect. It's entertaining but.............It gets a 6. "},{"Title":"There's no such thing as Harry and Sally","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's no question that this is the perfect movie about love and masterpiece, having its own genre. The location New York is beautifully presented and Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal showed their best performance ever. "}{"Title":"How to make two lovers of friends.....","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best romantic comedy ever. Identifiable characters, this movie is Seinfeld before Seinfeld.This is not, however, a good date movie. A good date movie should be sappy and have the power to get you to first base. While this movie has refined these qualities, most men will find it far more interesting than their dates/lovers, thereby destroying a date movie's whole purpose. "},{"Title":"Can two good friend by lovers?","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say?  Soundtrack is singable, quotes too many to cite, every line and situation real, and every part played to perfection in this, my all-time funny love story of the 80'sA perfect relationship story, WHEN HARRY MET SALLY, may be watched again and again--each time picking up nuances and lines that one missed the first time.I identified with the characters, their situation, and their problems.  I've watched the movie eight times.  It shows how we are with each other. "},{"Title":"It was average at best","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WHEN HARRY MET SALLYI was disappointed.This is supposed to be one of those classic films&#x85; I guess I didn't get it.This was just a regular, average romantic comedy. I didn't hate it&#x85; it just wasn't anything special.Everyone knows the famous scene in this movie when Meg Ryan fakes an orgasm in a café.Yeah it was funny, but not laugh out loud funny.The film stars Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan who are 2 people who car share their journey after leaving college.They do not get along very well on the way.5 years later, they bump into each other and they still don't like each other.Another 5 years passes and they bump into each other again&#x85; and they both have something in common&#x85; they have both recently been dumped.So&#x85; they cry on each others shoulders and become friends&#x85; and the rest is what you can expect from any romantic comedy.The one thing that was different about this film was the dialogue. A lot of the movie was just Harry & Sally talking. Not a lot else happened through the movie, it was just their opinions on certain things and them talking to each other&#x85; but I liked this. The dialogue was very good in this film. It was not boring and you actually wanted to hear their conversation. It was very well written.The acting was really good too. Billy and Meg both did a great job and Carrie Fisher was in it and she did a good job too.One of the things I did like about this movie was the feel of it. I love 80s movies and you can really tell this is an 80s film.They have a completely different feel to them than the more recent movies&#x85; and I love them.In my mind, the 80s films are the best.I will give this film 6 out of 10.It was OK&#x85; but I guess I had to watch it at the time to understand why it is so classic.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"my orthodontist sat at the table where they met","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess that most people can't think of When Harry Met Sally... without picturing the orgasm scene. Certainly that scene's a hoot, but there is more to the movie (including the line about a New York death). The one song by Louis Armstrong played during the first sequence (tomato...to-mah-to) really heightens the mood. Although I usually don't like Meg Ryan, she does a good job here, as does Billy Crystal. Above all, this reaffirms Rob Reiner as one of the best directors of our time. Also starring Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby (RIP).And yes, my orthodontist sat at the orgasm table. Maybe that's not what people usually call it, but that's what I call it. "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Usually I'm not a huge movie buff or anything, but this movie was great. It was funny, sad, happy... and you know what? this situation could have easily occurred in real life. Now most movies nowadays are similar to this one but like the poster above, you can't really tell. This movie is distinct and special all on it's own.Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal have wonderful chemistry together on screen. I like how the movie showed how they're characters evolved and grew throughout the movie and making you wonder if they were actually ever going to get together...I enjoyed -) I can now add this to one movie that I can watch over and over and not get sick of -) "},{"Title":"Amazingly charming, romantic, and funny.","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for the first on New Years Day of 2005 (perfect day for this exact film) and thought it was absolutely fantastic. A great film with great actors and a great story to it. I've always heard people say this movie was a fantastic example of a great romantic comedy and have always wanted to, but never got around to seeing it. And I'm so glad I did.The performance from Meg Ryan is by far one of her best performances I've ever seen. She makes her character come to life and you feel like Sally is real. Same with Billy Crystal. This really was the best performance I've ever seen from him. His acting was extremely good. Ryan and Crystal's on screen chemistry is some of the best I've seen in the romantic film industry. And this whole movie will keep you dying to watch these two amazing people get together.This movie is brilliantly written and also provides some of the best one liners ever. All have what shes having., Oh, but baby fish mouth is sweeping the nation? I hear them talking. and even the practical theme of the film men and women can never be friends. This movie is great for all people. First of all he humor is amazingly well written. And its also great for the hopeless romantics out there. I still after watching this movie about 10 times since New Years, tear up at the end when Harry says I love that you get cold when it's 71 degrees out. I love that it takes you an hour and a half to order a sandwich. I love that you get a little crinkle in your nose when you're looking at me like I'm nuts. I love that after I spend the day with you, I can still smell your perfume on my clothes. And I love that you are the last person I want to talk to before I go to sleep at night. And it's not because I'm lonely, and it's not because it's New Year's Eve. I came here tonight because when you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible. Possibly the best monologue I've ever heard in a movie. Its really amazing. Everything was well distributed between the comedy and romance so you everyone gets just what they need out of it.If that doesn't convince you than I don't know what will. But if your in the mood for a great comedy movie, with a dash of romance on the side, then this is your film.I rate it a 5/5 "},{"Title":"Witty look at adult relationships...Can woman and man be friends?","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Honestly, I was born in 1989 but when I read the reviews of this movie, I wondered if THIS movie was that great and I asked Mum if I can rent this movie but I had to wait for a pretty long time to see this movie. Once I saw this movie,I was hooked. I've never seen a real romantic comedy before. It is so witty I thought What the earth? This is a very witty movie and made in the cheesy 80s? /SPOILERS/ When I saw the happy couple scenes, there was one Chinese couple I found funny.The Chinese male said something like this I looked upon the wall and saw her I cracked up. Why? His delivery is so funny I cracked up.The other funny scene was the infamous fake orgasm scene. The funny thing about this scene is that lady's saying I'll be having what she's having Why is it funny? That lady want to have a good fake orgasm as Sally had one.The plot is not bad because it is unique. Will a man and woman be great friends and have no sex? The main title characters is meant be with each other but they're afraid of commitment together. From 1977 to 1989 we follow the lives of two people called Sally Albright (Meg Ryan) and Harry (Billy Crystal) as they struggle with each other relationships. Best friends, girlfriend and boyfriend, best friends again,falls in love again and marriage. My thoughts? This is a very good movie abut relationships between males and females. This movie is very perspective about Hetrosexual relationships. You get both sides! If you liked this movie, see Annie Hall. I give this 10/10Your praised,Messchird  "},{"Title":"Why can't a romantic comedy win the Oscar?","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Easily the best film of the year. A home run, on every level. The clever script,Nora Ephron) and shrewdly not overdone stereotypes are thoroughly entertaining. The chemistry between Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan is electric. A sparkling diamond of a movie, emotionally felt, and uplifting. The prototype for romantic comedy. Kudos to Rob Reiner for weaving this masterpiece. Stunningly touching, and uproariously funny. This film aligns itself with the very best of the Woody Allen oeuvre. Love discovered, lost, and regained, in the big city. It may sound trite, but this film just blows that criticism out of the water. I was truly moved, and uplifted by this glorious movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Romantic Comedies out there","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Rating ***1/2 out of ****. If you have read my reviews that I have posted(I do not blame you if you have not, they are awful), you will know that I am not a huge fan of Romantic Comedies. I mostly avoid them at all costs. The only time I will watch one is if someone forces me or I am bored (or possibly near death). However, I had heard nothing but good things about When Harry Met Sally so not only decide to watch the film, I decided to buy the DVD. Buying the DVD was clearly not a mistake. Its hard to say why When Harry Met Sally works so well. It maybe because of the director. However, it may have more to do with the actors. Another possibility would be the script. It is all three of them put together. Today, the scripts in Romantic Comedies range from average to sub-par. It is usually the actors that make the difference in today's Romantic Comedies.Rob Reiner was the perfect choice for directing the film. I cannot honestly say Rob Reiner was typecast as a director(he did do Misery and A Few Good Men)but this was the kind of film he did well. He was known for his more upbeat films. I am unable to say When Harry met Sally was hist best Film (I have not seen all his film and I slightly preferred The Princess Bride) but Reiner's work here is a reason the film works. Put this film in the hands of an unexperienced and untalented director, it is possible this film would not have been as successful. The acting is pretty damn close to perfect. This is without a doubt the best performance given by Billy Crystal. The same goes for Meg Ryan, who's last couple of performances(mainly Kate and Leopold and Proof of Life) have been quite dull. These two also exhibit a great deal of chemistry.The supporting actors to get the most screentime are Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher(who are also a couple). Bruno Kirby does a solid job as Harry's best friend. Likewise for Carrie Fisher as Sally's Best Friend. These two do not have as much screentime but they work well together. The screenplay is written by Nora Ephron. She has a lot of experience with Romantic Comedies(she also wrote Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail). Her script is a huge reason the film works. Today, the characters in Romantic Comedies usually say some cliched dialogue, not so here. Ephron's dialogue is fresh and smart. There are a bunch of quotable lines. For the most part, her script does follow the formula but the characters and dialogue are so well-written that When Harry Met Sally seems different.When Harry Met Sally represented a pinnacle for nearly everyone involved. Most of the cast had never been better(at least from what I have seen from them). Nora Ephron's You've Got Mail was enjoyable but paled to When Harry Met Sally(I did not see Sleepless in Seattle). Like I said, I do not feel this was Rob Reiner's best film but it does come close. I strongly recommend the film.  "},{"Title":"Cute Fun Romantic Comedy","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  They had known eachother for years and were close friends, but they had to discover who they were and could they stay friends with or without sex.  Harry, played by Billy Crystal, and Sally, played by Sally Kellerman, were both headstrong and willing to understand eachother.  Even their best friends played by Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby were a real match, so Harry and Sally had to learn the hard way.  It took their best friends' marriage plus Harry's willingness to admit he really loved Sally --- and so he proposed marriage on New Year's Eve.  In other words, they were two of a kind.  This was a cute fine wonderful love story and so very unpretensive; enjoyable!  One of those feel good movies.  It reminded me of Sleeping in Seattle 1993.  7/10 "}{"Title":"Great Romantic Comedy","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The good romantic comedy is a rare breed indeed. Many start off well, but then too drippy, too mean-spirited, or just plain unfunny. A movie that stays sweet, funny and good hearted from start to finish is to be cherished and this is it. When Harry Met Sally is one of those films that many people have seen a dozen times and still enjoy. It covers a period of a decade or so when Harry Burns (Crystal), a self confident, wordy, cynical writer first meets Sally Albright (Ryan) and uptight, perfectionist, a truly high maintenance woman. Or has Harry calls her, the worst kind, high maintenance who thinks she is low maintenance.They meet to drive to New York together, hate eachother, meet again in an airport five years later, hate eachother a little less then meet in a book store five years after that, to discover they have both been dumped and have more in common than they think.They become friends. They date and share experiences. They try to set eachother up with friends and then the inevitable happens. They spend the night together and we spend the balance of the film discovering whether or not their friendship was love, and if it can survive a night of sex.This set the stage for all other Nora Ephron offerings. The movie does not miss its tone for a second. Rob Reiner keeps it funny, lets us in on the characters flaws, but at the same time, makes us care about them rather than be repulsed by them.I have seen this film at least 10 times and would watch it again in a heartbeat. It is likely the best date film of all time, and can be equally enjoyed by both sexes. It is funny  from the first frame to the last features a great soundtrack from Harry Connick. **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From Golden Globe nominated director Rob Reiner (Stand by Me, Misery) and BAFTA winning, and Oscar nominated writer Nora Ephron (who went on to direct Sleepless in Seattle) this is a fantastic comedy romance. Basically Harry (Golden Globe nominated Billy Crystal) met Sally (Golden Globe nominated Meg Ryan) after both of them graduated from college, and she gives him a lift top New York, it is in this journey he tries to come on, even when he has a girlfriend, and when she says to just be friends, he says Men and women can never be friends, because the sex part always gets in the way. They don't see each other again for seven years until they are on the same plane, Harry is engaged, and Sally is dating, and he still has a nice chat. Another seven years pass, but this time they stick together as good friends for a long time, after both of them have ended their partnerships. Eventually though, when the opportunity comes, they finally kiss and sleep together, and both regret it after. Sally resorts to ignoring and hating him, and he tries to rekindle the friendship. In the end at a New Years Party though, they both find each other again (after midnight has struck), Harry admits his love for Sally, and she tells him in tears she hates him, before they get the great back together (for good) kiss. In amongst the film are couples being interviewed about how they met and fell in love, and obviously Harry and Sally are the final couple. Also starring Star Wars' Carrie Fisher as Marie and Bruno Kirby as Jess. The two memorable scenes for me are Harry and Sally both on the phone to Marie and Jess, and of course, the one everyone remembers, Sally having a fake orgasm in the café, and then the woman (Reiner's mother) saying the famous quote, number 33 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes, I'll have what she's having. It was nominated the Oscar Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, it won the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical and Best Screenplay. Meg Ryan was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, It Has To Be You was number 60 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, the film was number 25 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, it was number 28 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films, and it was number 23 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Simply dreadful","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sorry, but someone's got to say it ... this movie is dreadful! Perhaps I don't have the right to pass judgement since I only managed to sit through about half of it, but I can't stand seeing all these 5 star eulogies and no-one putting the case for the prosecution.Meg Ryan, probably the most irritating actress to have (dis-)graced the big screen, had already perfected her cutesy/dippy persona to such an extent that five minutes exposure was enough to send the less hardened of us gibbering from the room. Even fifteen years later, I'm finding it difficult to cope with the trauma of having been shut in a darkened cinema with 'that performance'.As for the 'memorable dialogue' - it's possible I've blanked it out to protect myself, but I certainly couldn't repeat any of it now. Or even a minute after I left the building. Apart, of course, from the 'hilariously' original orgasm scene. Aaaagh! To give you a little context, I generally don't much like Hollywood movies - but I don't slate them all. This really is poor.Oh! And by the way ... it's boring!!! Well, there it is. I'm glad to get that off my chest! "},{"Title":"Two Rode Together - Finally","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Coming up to a quarter century and this still entertains. It does more than that, of course, it also leaves in its wake a warm glow. It's tempting to say that it could hardly be better written, directed, and acted. In reality there's a chance - slim, but still a chance - that all three departments could be improved but on the other hand, like the man said, if it ain't broke ... We are, of course, looking at yet one more take on Benedek and Beatrice but given the number we've already had, the majority being successful, so what. As if great writing, directing, and acting weren't enough, they also throw in a great score, plundering the Great American Songbook from half a century earlier, as if to emphasize the timelessness of the story. When I saw it originally I had still to discover IMDb, but yesterday I found the DVD in a Thrift Shop and it was one of the best bargains in the joint. "},{"Title":"Classic Romantic Movie that you will never forget","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is just something about this movie that sets it apart from all the others. Yes You've got Mail and Sleepless in Seattle were great Meg Ryan flix, but this one just stays in your head. I guess since I am a strong believer in romance needs to come from friendship, this movie is a perfect example of it. The friendship may have lapses, but they never forget about each other throughout the movie. This makes for a great film for a new couple to watch as well. Ebert has only two thumbs up on this one but if he had more, I am sure a few more would be added. You will not be disappointed and there are a few laugh out-loud moments too. One will never forget that famous scene in the restaurant where Meg Ryan is simply fabulous! "},{"Title":"The best romcom of all time","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First, I got to say that I think its funny how over half of the poor reviews of this movie were by foreigners. Its the same anti-American sentiment and jealousy that pervades the rest of the world. But its OK, we forgive you...no one is perfect.As for the movie, it is excellent. It is cute, and funny, and clever, and yet its not a complete chick flick. Now, if you're a guy, don't get the guys together and watch this one. But if you're with a girl, or by yourself, this is an excellent choice.I would give more, but everything I could say has already been said. Majority usually does rule, and in this case, it will be obvious once you have seen the movie.Also, for the person who scorned Billy Crystals mannerisms, pfffffft! Its a movie! Enjoy it...its not a dating service... "},{"Title":"A little overrated","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film a few weeks ago, and I enjoyed it but I really dont think it deserves a 7.7 at all.  The acting is good and everything, but it tries too hard to be funny, for example The deli scene.  The story is cute, and I could sort of relate to the characters, but it just didnt quite it the bulls-eye. I think it deserves maybe a 6.5 at most. "},{"Title":"In one word, the story was rubbish.  Acting was OK.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After having received very positive comments from a friend I had tried for years to find a copy of a film, but in vain. Now that the film was at last shown on TV, I set out to watch the film with great expectations.The beginning of the film was very promising. The University of Chicago was familiar, as I had visited the place even myself, but after that there was only one scene which made me burst into laughter, i.e., the scene where Sally had an orgasm in a restaurant and another customer wanted to have the same (dish) as her.Sally was pretty to watch. Acting was fine, but the story was so American. In one word, the film was rubbish. "},{"Title":"Utter Rubbish","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Utter rubbish! No story line, and the man has manners that belong in a pigsty. I know it is not the popular view, but the scene there the man is driving along, and is spitting grape-seeds out the window turned me off. What turned me off even more is that nothing happened! I would have loved to have shown that scene to a whole lot of young girls and asked Is this the kind of man you want to bring home and meet mum? It seems to me that Americans cannot do these kinds of movies without being slobs, displaying bad manners, or making a mess. This movie was also not as good true Grit, but better than Santa Claus Conquers The Martians "},{"Title":"Pure Rob Reiner/Meg Ryan Garbage","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"18 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The cute movie of the year? A wonderful, comic Valentine? These are just two of the ludicrous reviews made by famous critics who mostly raved about this film which - and I know this is unpopular to say - was a disgusting, piece of crap.The whole film was nothing but sex talk. Hey, I don't mind some of that. It can very funny. But the whole movie, nothing but sex talk after sex talk? Come on!Well, two people that made this a very overrated film are director Rob Reiner and actress Meg Ryan. Reiner is a sleaze from way back, an extremist who has no clue what morals are, and I don't ever believe I have seen a good movie which starred Ryan. She has a beautiful face, but that's it. Her movies are consistent, I'll give her that - they all stink! "}{"Title":"Good date movie.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very sweet romantic comedy, sort of like an easier to digestWoody Allen. Ryan plays cute and adorable, which she is so that's nostretch, and Crystal the wisecracker- and they both blend together quitenicely. To me, the music (Harry Connick Jr doing oldies) added a bit ofclass to the proceedings, and the supporting roles are all fine. All inall a good date movie.      "},{"Title":"A real dissappointment.","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As this movie was advertised as being a very good and an entertaining motion picture, I was really looking forward to it, and looking forward to some good laughs.  Unfortunately, the movie turned out to be a real dud, an unforgettable disappointment.  Rob Reiner is an exceptionally good director as Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan are exceptional actors, but either the script or the timing was terrible.  I laughed once at Rob Reiner's mother's line in the restaurant, and that was it.  I didn't even smile through the rest of the movie, not to mention I never felt the urge to weep.  (If you won't make &#145;em' laugh, first make &#145;em' cry.)  Sadly, it was a real waste of ninety six minutes. "},{"Title":"SLOP SLOP SLOP SLOP SLOP","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I give this movie 1 out of ten.  The one mark for the resturaunt scene. This movie was appaling for an actor with the abillities ofBilly Crystal.Superb for one with the abillities of Meg Ryan. "}]