[{"Title":"Holiday sentiment, well-acted and unsappy.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Some occasionally clumsy dialogue only mildly undercuts the virtues of Greg Taylor's thoughtful script, which provides a surprisingly realistic depiction of the joys and heartaches of simple lives at Christmastime.Rebecca Harrell is superb as 9-year-old Jessica, who finds an injured reindeer in the woods near her Michigan farm and determines to nurse it back to health in time to help pull Santa's sleigh on Christmas Eve. She's a marvelously realized character, refreshingly minus the cute kid mannerisms of many a Hollywood acting tyke. I particularly liked the way she deflected her father's tirades with her singlemindedness of purpose he might get mad at her, but she was still going to do what she had to do. Very childlike, and very real.A subplot about Jessica's helping a reclusive, eccentric neighbor (played by Cloris Leachman in a virtual cameo) seems truncated and unnecessary, but for the most part Taylor's scenario sticks to the basics and is better for it. Characters surrounding Jessica act like real people, not stereotypes, and events transpire with a sense of realism, not melodrama.Credit for this tale's effectiveness also goes to Sam Elliott, who plays Jessica's father, a recent widower, with a harsh demeanor that seems to mask real pain and desperation. Thus his rapprochement with his wayward daughter carries unexpected depth of feeling and could not fail to move all but the most cynical. For a dad like me, I admit it put a big lump in my throat.Despite a somewhat flawed climax -- to my mind, the vfx shot of Santa's sleigh coursing across the sky is unnecessary, given the magic moment just prior to it that reveals reindeer hoofprints leading to a precipice -- this nice little holiday film delivers a timeless message about faith and selflessness. Recommended for mature kids of 8 or older. "},{"Title":"An integral part of our Christmas","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This film proves that there are still unspoiled hearts left on Planet Earth. Those who find it sappy or irrelevant have spent too much time wearing Grinch suits and need a good dose of humanity to thaw that hard matter in their chests that passes for a heart.The child actors are the heart of _Prancer_. They are real, never overacting or coming off as children playing at making a film. Sam Elliot is the epitome of the overstressed, depressed man who has lost his wife and despairs of losing everything else too. His transformation is believable and worthy of the time spent to watch his character unfold. Cloris Leachman is a delight as the female Scrooge who is touched by two children--Jessica who reintroduces her to the joy of Christmas, and a little boy in church who reintroduces her to the joy of human fellowship.Above all, this is a story of transition. The earnest child must move forward to knowledge, and the jaded grownup must move back to mystery and faith. If your Christmas is too much take and not enough give, I prescribe hot chocolate, hot buttered popcorn, and a viewing of Prancer with people you love. Better yet, do as we have and make this movie part of your personal holiday tradition. It might help make you a better person the rest of the year. "},{"Title":"My favorite holiday movie","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Prancer is one of those special movies that come along every once in a great while that truly touches your heart. It doesn't rely on gimmicks or special effects, but relies on the characters themselves. Jesse, the central character in the story, finds an injured reindeer near her home, and believes it to be Prancer. And she nurses the reindeer back to health in order to deliver him back to Santa Claus on Christmas Eve. The true meaning of the movie is said by the preacher in the church during the Christmas service. Today's kids grow up so fast, and loose the child-like faith that Jesse has in a few short years. They then don't believe in anything that science doesn't prove. But Jesse, against impossible odds, sticks to her beliefs, and in the end brings back the faith of those who lost theirs long ago. Prancer is one of those holiday movies to buy for both your kids and yourself.  "},{"Title":"Sincere and heartwarming Christmas movie...","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the best contemporary Christmas movies made. A very sincere and sweet movie, but one that won't give you tooth decay. Rebecca Harrell gives one of the most believable and intelligent performances as a young girl who nurses an injured reindeer back to health and holds the belief that the reindeer is indeed Prancer. Sam Elliot gives a strong performance as the girl's apple farmer father who has fallen on hard times and is trying to raise his kids without a mother. The rural scenery of this film is beautiful of the farms and woodlands and gives the film a real feeling of Christmas. A very simple plot fuels the movie, but it grows surprisingly darker and deeper as the film progresses and will be tugging at your heart strings by it's conclusion. Highly recommended viewing for kids and adults and all believers of Santa Claus. "},{"Title":"My favorite Christmas movie!","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In general, I think Christmas has lost its meaning for most people. Now, the main goal of the holidays seems to be to spend as much money as possible. In the process, people lose sight of the fact that we are celebrating the birth of the Son of God. I try hard not to get too wrapped up in the frenzy of the commercialization of Christmas. So, I try to find ways to make my season peaceful and meaningful. Prancer is one of the joys of the season for me. It's themes about keeping faith in the face of all those who don't believe, love overcoming hard luck, and courageously facing loss as a way of dealing with it are timeless. Rebecca Harrell as Jessica Riggs is the star of this movie, and Sam Elliot couldn't have been cast in a better role. During the holidays, I try to find one evening to build a crackling fire, sip hot chocolate, and settle down to watch Prancer. It has become my favorite Christmas movie, and one of my favorite movies of all time. What makes it even more precious is that it was filmed near my home, in LaPorte, Indiana. The beautiful snowy fields, orchards and woods filmed in the movie are just outside my door! I hope you all enjoy Prancer as much as I do! "},{"Title":"What Christmas Classics should be!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  With all of the hype that surrounds the many Christmas releases and remakes, here's an original that all of the family should see.  It is sweet yet real. It restores hope and decency to movies.We've rented it before, now we own it.  After A Christmas Story and the Alistaire Sim version of A Christmas Carol, this is the Christmas movie our family MUST watch every year. "},{"Title":"A lovely, heartwarming Christmas flick","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Prancer is about a young girl, Jessica Riggs, who unexpectedly finds a wounded reindeer, whom she believes belongs to Santa. With her father under financial pressure, and who ignores her a lot, she has a tough time. She wants to look after it and nurse it, but has to do it secretly since her father is against it and could kill it at any moment. She often have minor fights and arguments with her father regarding family matters and her own life. Meanwhile, her duty, she feels is to take good care of Prancer.Jessica Riggs's role was played by Rebecca Harrell, and she must have been the perfect young child to do the role. Her natural, childlike attitude couldn't have got any better, and that was seen in the movie.I still remember myself crying a bit while watching it as a child. It still brings tears in my eyes while watching even today. I advise those who wish to watch this movie watch it by around Christmas, and that would be the right time....And believe me, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Not many peop;e remember this movie. Most of my friends have never even heard of it. But at my house, it has always been a huge part of Christmas. Every year we watch it. I think its a beautiful story about believing in Santa (or, Prancer). I love the father, and how in the end he ends up believing to. Or at least, helping Jessica believe. I'm surprised that this one isn't up there with A Christmas Story. It should be. I love the excerpts from The Virgina Letter. I've been watchign this movie since i was born (literaly) It was made the year i was born. And i will continue to watch it with my children, and grand children. "},{"Title":"A good holiday film!","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  While not without a couple of problems like pacing, PRANCER is one of the better family/holiday movies I've seen. I didn't see this until after I saw PRANCER RETURNS about a week ago on cable. After PRANCER RETURNS the sequel to this was over, I went to the video store and rented this. Now while this one seemed to have a lower budget than PRANCER RETURNS, it still is just as well-acted and heartwarming if not even more so. Most holiday movies tend to show the holidays as times where everything is perfect, but this one shows that the holidays aren't as perfect as we'd like them to be. It's able to capture the ups and downs of the holidays while keeping everything pretty close to reality. Though I really enjoyed the film, CHRISTMAS VACATION remains to be my favorite holiday flick. "},{"Title":"An Authentic Feeling of Childhood","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Few movies inhabit the world of childhood quite as authentically as Prancer. Until the very last moments, it doesn't matter whether young Jessica's belief that she has found one of Santa's reindeer is literally true. The fact that she could believe such a thing so strongly, and selflessly act on her belief to help the lost reindeer, is compelling enough on its own. Children occupy a world where naive clarity mingles with a confusing knowledge of how much of adult life remains unknown. Prancer creates an atmosphere that lets adults dip back into that almost-forgotten way of experiencing the world.Sam Elliott delivers a fantastic performance as Jessica's father, a farmer who has recently lost his wife and will soon probably lose his farm. He is on the verge of losing his family, and the father-daughter relationship at the heart of the movie feels unaffectedly real. Cloris Leachman's turn as an embittered neighbor deserves note as well.The film's greatest flaws occur in its last two minutes. First, a critical continuity error shows that the reindeer has shed a jingle-bell harness just before the sound of the harness is supposed to indicate the animal's presence. Finally, at the very end, the movie shatters its ambiguity about the literal truth of the reindeer's identity. In doing so, it negates the foundation of the story's authenticity and dramatic power, and trivializes the final reconciliation between Jessica and her father. If the reindeer is not a supernatural being, then Jessica is a silly little girl and the audience has been had. But if the reindeer is a magical beast from Santa's stable, then it is not a leap of faith for Jessica's father to accept her improbable belief in the animal. By revealing the answer one way or the other, Prancer cheapens itself and significantly undermines the emotional power of an otherwise subtle and moving drama.  "}{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Well, Very Few Christmas Movies touches your heart immensely as Prancer do!It really captures the spirit of the Christmas, and shows that not every one have that perfect happy Christmas as they show in many movies! Life may seem & is lonely for many people, even on Christmas, but then Christmas always is magical, and if you believe in it with your heart, Christmas never remains the same, but it becomes more special than ever. This Movie has some marvelous performances by Rebecca Harrell & Sam Eliott, and makes the movie a great watch with the Family, especially on Christmas! Watch it, you wont be Disappointed! "},{"Title":"A forgotten gem of a Christmas movie","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Not many people seem to remember Prancer, but I saw it in the theater when I was a little girl. The storyline escapes me, since I haven't seen it in years, but I remember I cried quite a bit while I was watching it. Maybe I'll rent it one of these days. It doesn't deserve to be so forgotten. "},{"Title":"Hidden Gem","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Every now and then I come across a movie that missed the movie theaters, never was on the shelve at the local stores and was under the radar for some unknown reason.Last week I came across Prancer on IMDb and was blown away why it's not on the top 10 list for Christmas movies?Prance is definitely a hidden gem for Christmas movies!A beautiful movie about hard times and simple fun loving kids who believe in Christmas. Make sure to have the Kleenex box close by when you watch this at Christmas. The kids will be glued to the TV for sure!Sam Elliott and Cloris Leachman were perfect for the storyline. Rebecca Harrell will steal your heart for sure! "},{"Title":"Good Movie and Great Actors","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have to say, as for the quality of the movie, I am a bit biased, because if was filmed largely in my home town. A small town like ours (LaPorte, IN) doesn't get national attention (except for the movie Daylight where Sly asks Amy Brenneman's character where she's from), so it was exciting to have all the celebrities in town. Still, I think it is a great family movie that was well done.And on the topic of celebrities, I don't think you could have assembled a nicer, more gracious group. Chloris Leachman came and spoke at our high school, Rebecca Harrell and Ariana Richards visited with kids at one of our elementary schools, and all of them met with fans at an autograph session. In addition, the producers showed their thanks in several ways. They had a giant mural painted that was autographed by the celebrities and placed in our mall during Christmas time. Also, they bought all new light post Christmas decorations for the city's main streets.Check this movie out!!! Don't listen to those people who say it's for little girls only... "},{"Title":"good movie for all ages","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is cute and full of Christmas spirit. A must see for those that like the child-like spirit of Christmas. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Christmas movies","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Most modern day Christmas stories are too hygienic, with perfect homes, perfect looking children, perfect looking parents, too neatly constructed plots, ending up with something too sugar coated to allow the viewer to suspend disbelief while watching it. For instance, the remake of Miracle on 34th Street should have been named, The Yuppies Get the 5,000 Square Foot House for a Family of Three. What trash.But not so with the movie, Prancer. Jessica is not too pretty, but quite ordinary looking. Her father looks like a real working class individual who has lost his job and is down on his luck, not like a hedge fund manager living in Fairfield, Connecticut.But what makes this story so very special is a cute story, realistically set, with great performances by Sam Eliot, Abe Vigoda, Cloris Leahman, Michael Constantine, but especially by Rebecca Harrell Tickell as the main character! Rebecca portrays Jessica with the right touch of innocence, and willfulness. I could not imagine anyone else playing Jessica so perfectly.I love this movie. I love Rebecca Harrell Tickell's performance as Jessica. My favorite scenes are those involving Abe Vigoda and Rebecca Harrell Tickell, and Rebecca in Church. They are side-splitting.This movie ranks up there with A Christmas Carol and It's a Wonderful Life. Christmas is not Christmas without Prancer for my family. If you have not seen it, get it. "},{"Title":"Yes Virginia, Santa agrees that this is a wonderful Christmas movie","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" You know Scrooge, and Bailey, and Cratchett, and Nutcracker; Charlie Brown, the Grinch, White Christmas and Rudolph. But Virginia, do you recall this sweet classic from 1989 about a famous reindeer? Prancer was the name of the movie and it's a true classic among Christmas movies.In a story inspired by Yes, Virginia There Is a Santa Claus, a little girl named Jessica Riggs is being told by others around her there is no Santa yet holds to her faith that he exists. This modern day Virginia O'Hanlon loves Christmas and everything about it, and is horrified to see a street decoration Prancer (the reindeer) damaged in an accident. When she comes upon an injured real reindeer soon after, she assumes it to be Prancer, and hides him and takes care of him. She's feisty at times, but shows a good heart always in her efforts.The child's faith is only part of the story. How Jessica (Rebecca Harrel) touches others who have lost their hope and faith in various ways is even more profound, and touching. A village recluse (Cloris Leachman), a veterinarian (Abe Vigoda), her jaded widowed father (Sam Elliot), her skeptic friend (Ariana Richards), a newspaper writer (Michael Constantine) are all wonderful in these roles.The movie's plot plays out very well; each scene evokes different emotions, and captures them all well. There are scenes that will bring a tear. I'd reference a favorite scene, but just realized there are too many to list.Sweet, heartfelt, genuine, touching. Everything a Christmas movie should be. "},{"Title":"Wonderful- not pretentious","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Most Christmas movies are oriented toward miracles- this one is more grounded in reality, and is therefore not restricted in being effective only during the Christmas season. It is about having a clearer understanding of another person, but the usual breakthroughs are much more subtle, and therefore much more realistic. "},{"Title":"Classic Holiday Film","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Excellent film for the whole family. I predict this movie will become a cult classic in the ensuing years as people are re-discovering it. One never grows weary of it. The adorable lead child-actress, Rebecca Harrell, is awesome and captivating as little Jessica Riggs. The film has many redeeming qualities and so many remarkable scenes, backdrops, poignant dialogue, and subtle details with great casting. This is a holiday classic that should be presented each year as a choice for viewers by some intelligent broadcasting organization. I own the DVD now because there were some years it wasn't offered on the seasonal menu - where it belongs - up there with the BEST! "},{"Title":"Overall good movie (warning SPOILER)","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong I really love this movie and it never fails to put a lump in my throat however... (SPOILER AHEAD) I only wish towards the end they didn't show that really goofy special effect streak across the sky and Prancer flying off to join Santa.  Sure it adds the magic element that every Christmas movie needs but it would have been much better just to have the hoof prints going to the cliff and have Jesse hear the bells.  It would have gone more along the lines of what the father was saying when he read the passage from Yes Virginia There is a Santa Claus that as long as you believe, there is a Santa Claus and there is a Prancer. (END SPOILER) Despite this one short coming I still give the movie a 9/10 1 point taken off for the ending.  If you haven't seen it go out and rent it because it is usually overshadowed by A Christmas Story and every version of Scrooge imaginable during the holiday season. "}{"Title":"A childhood vision of Christmas that wakes the adults up to the real meaning.","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" As the world seems to escape further and further from the real meaning of Christmas, it is important to remind ourselves that the holiday wasn't created to give praise to some old fat bearded man in a red suit. Yes, Jessica Riggs (Rebecca Harrell) believes in Santa, but she also believes in the baby boy born in a manger in the middle of a Bethlehem stable. She sings gloriously loud and proud of her innocent faith, and while her teacher appreciates her enthusiasm, she must ask her to tone it down a bit so the other kids singing in the annual Christmas pageant aren't drowned out. Her classmates consider her a bit of a geek, so poor Jessica is almost a bit of an outcast. This makes her faith all the more powerful and her story all the more touching.Jessica's down on his luck father (Sam Neill) has been working hard to make ends meet, and while he's not enthusiastic about the holidays, he doesn't want to spoil his daughter's. Jessica happens to come across an injured reindeer whom she is certain is the mythic Prancer. Her efforts to take care of the deer's injury are interfered with by the concerned adults of the small community she lives in, and when the deer ends up in a cage, Jessica is concerned because she fears Prancer's absence will stall Christmas around the world.While most of the cynical adults don't see Jessica's perspective on the situation, a few do, including local handyman Abe Vigoda and aging recluse Cloris Leachman. Her typical curmudgeon character was once a major patroness of the Christmas decorating season but has withdrawn from society, and it is up to the little Jessica to show her that a closed heart can be re-opened. The magic of the season is felt throughout and brings joy into both the viewers and cynical characters Jessica encounters throughout. As I prepare for the New York City holiday season with tons of Santas and elves running around creating havoc, I can look back at films like this, A Christmas Story and other classics, and remind myself that the distractions meant to make us forget about and what the season really is about. "},{"Title":"Holiday gem with some minor flaws","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I never saw this when this came out in the theaters; however, recently I sat down with my 5 year old daughter to watch the DVD version and see if it was a good addition to our holiday movie collection. I had no expectations prior to watching this movie other than I knew it had originally been released about 20 years ago so it might be a little dated. I was pleasantly surprised when this movie actually kept my attention! I think it had something to do with the great acting and the humble story surrounding the characters. This story isn't so much about 'Prancer the reindeer' so much as it's actually a story about the relationships between a struggling widower husband Mr. Riggs and his family; and how the spirit of Christmas bursting from little Jessica Riggs was spread throughout their little town.By the end of the movie I even had a little bit of a tear forming at the corner of my eye! Yes, I'm a sensitive man, and the relationship between the father, Mr. Riggs (well played by Sam Elliot) and the daughter, Jessica, actually shows the communication problems that fathers and daughters often have as daughters grow into young women.My only wish for this movie is that the writers could have elaborated more about why Mrs. McFarland (played by the beautiful Cloris Leachman) a wealthy old widow who somehow lost her Christmas spirit and became somewhat of a hermit; then develop more of a relationship between she and Jessica. There was a little bit of that, but there could have been a lot more to make this movie even more memorable and add to the story.Despite it's minor flaws, this is still a good flick to watch with your family during the holidays and one that I will now watch every year around this time. "},{"Title":"Santa missing a reindeer?","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasant fantasy tale for the whole family. Nine-year-old Rebecca(Jessica Riggs)still believes in Santa despite the nay saying of her father(Sam Elliott) and the teasing from her friends. She finds an ailing reindeer in a remote part of the forest and she knows she will have to help the animal heal in secrecy...in her father's barn. Her father John is a no-nonsense apple farmer and knows some hay is mysteriously missing before discovering for himself the ailing deer his daughter has dubbed Prancer. The town's recluse(Cloris Leachman)lets Rebecca do odd jobs around her house in order to earn money to speed the deer's recovery. Prancer seems to have the ability to vanish rather rapidly and then reappear...he truly must be one of Santa's revered eight tiny reindeer. Also in the cast Abe Vigoda, Michael Constantine, John Duda and Rutanya Alda. "},{"Title":"a dear saves a family from self destructing","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" a wound reindeer and precocious 8 yr old form an enduring friendship and a bond in this tender holiday drama about true devotion this enchanting full of love heart this film will set Ur mind a light Jessica Riggs played by Rebbecca Harrell she plays her character very tender she plays an angel in her school play but she becomes a real guardian angel when she spot what she thinks is prance injured in the snow but her father who is SAM Elliott who is over bearing and the family is falling apart wants the shot the deer but before he gets his gun the deer disappears but when she finds that she can feed him and look after him she sees a shop Santa but ask him to get a message to Santa that she is helping prance get better and she only realize her story is told in a different form of media that jess there is a Santa and prance does exist in and has to get him back to to the ridge Xmas eve but her father is not a believer but her passion brings the best out the town and a legend is born in this snowy magical story that will have everyone uplifted in this magical story to lift even the cynical cold stone person a worth the Xmas watch at 1hr39min 7/10 classic "},{"Title":"Lovely little movie that has stood up over the years","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I can't believe that this movie was made back in 1989. Well, the hairstyles and some of the clothes are dated but the story is one that knows no era.It is wonderful to see kids out and about, to see a little girl with so much dedication to her beliefs that she'll spend a day cleaning a (REALLY dirty) house, a child that truly carries the spirit of Christmas to it's fullest. Sam Elliot, always great, does a wonderful job portraying the father who has little hope and few resources to support his family. He's lost his wife and is struggling to make a go of a difficult business. Jessica is a handful and he really doesn't understand her at all.Most Christmas movies are about sickly sweet love stories that really don't address family relationships or incorporate the reality of the hardships that exist. This one is out of the ordinary in that sense and the sad moments are nicely balanced with the warmth and beauty of the meaning for the season. "},{"Title":"Cute!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Not a great movie, the plot was missing things, but a very good family movie.   I really like Cloris Leachman's character.  I also like the part when Jessica is sitting on the Mall Santa's lap telling him the situation. I kind of wished the ending was better. "},{"Title":"To enjoy this Christmas cheer, you're gonna need a ton of beer.","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Jessica Riggs is a pretty annoying and dopey little girl living with her caring but strict father on a farm in a small town. Her mother is gone and she has a lot to deal with in life at the moment, so the last thing she was expecting was to find a reindeer injured on Christmas (There are reindeer in Canada but everyone just calls them caribou, they aren't very special, they're on the Canadian quarter as well, just some extra trivia). Anyway, her loving pops is the very guy to run over the poor thing, and suggests eating it, to which Jessica freaks out and ends up hiding the reindeer in the horse stable, getting an elderly veterinarian to take care of it. She names the reindeer Prancer (ugh...) and hopes it'll somehow fly off like a jumbo-jet into the night sky to get back to Santa on Christmas Eve. Meanwhile she gets her cranky neighbor, Mrs. McFarLand, to stop being such a... a witch... and ends up making a new friend. But how long will Prancer remain her secret before pops finds out? I saw this when I was a little girl, and hated it. I decided recently to watch it again and see if maybe I'd enjoy it more, but no, just as bad if not worse. The soundtrack was typical and unmemorable, the acting decent but not enough to improve the movie, and so many flaws that you'd have to be either a three-year-old or a drunk to not see them. For one, Mr. Prancer the lovable reindeer, is a female caribou. And I'm not anti-religious or anything, but I'm not religious and I don't need all the have faith in god stuff shoved down my throat in a kid's movie. The story was easily predictable and boring.Now, I'm an adult and this is a movie for children, so I watched it with my little brother to see if he enjoyed it since he's a kid. Well, he told me halfway through it to pause it so he could go use the bathroom, and the next thing I knew he was climbing out the window, into the backyard and heading out to the shopping mall to escape. I honestly don't blame him. "},{"Title":"Nice Film","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The film works quite well to show how animals are better than people. It`s up to a little girl to rescue an injured reindeer and bring out the good in her nasty father (Elliot). The elements of fantasy are held as only a possibility until the end. Not outstanding but should be seen by those interested in animal films 8/10 for animal lovers.  "},{"Title":"passable holiday entertainment","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  PRANCER is one of those holiday movies that you can only really stomach once a year, when the charity and kindness of Christmas allows one to overlook the glaring problems with this mediocre effort. Sam Elliot staggers through this as the emotionally distant father,and what's up with Chloris Leachman? Why is she in the movie at all? What purpose does she serve other than giving us a Scrooge-surrogate? Why doesn't she put up her Christmas lights anymore? Why does she live like a hermit and dress like Witchiepoo from Pufnstuf? So many questions, so few answers in this lethargically-paced, clumsily concluded movie. It's not all bad, however. There's actually some intelligent dialogue spouted by the child actors, especially between the actress playing Jessica and her best friend and Jessica and her brother. It was probably inevitable that the best dialogue would go to the kids--they're the main characters after all--but it's still great to hear dialogue obviously written by someone who believes in the basic dignity of children and their feelings.   "},{"Title":"For Little Girls Only","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a kids' movie. It has a nice cast, but overall the story was certainly not something I'd watch again, or recommend to anyone unless they have a little kids. The film starts off a little slow, and then picks up with some nice photography and an interesting angle about an injured reindeer being rescued. However, it bogs down again and gets annoying as the young girl, Jessica Riggs (Rebecca Harrell) whines or is in tears half the time as she tries to save Prancer, (one of Santa's reindeer) from being discovered by her father. She and her father argue all the time, until the end.Little girls would like this film, but not many other people. The ending is too hokey, too. "}]