[{"Title":"God Called He Wants Out Of Your Movie It Sucks!!","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"46 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadWhat do the scenes on earth mean? Why are they there? Well, Kirk is wearing a girdle and a really bad hairpiece so we have to suffer through the requisite Adlerian male compensation scene; you know I may be as old as God but I can climb mountains with my bare hands. This is supposed to let us know he still packs the gear. Boring. Then we are treated to the sing a long from hell; this is here to dispel all the plethora of rumors that the crew hated his guts and will not be seen with him. Now you know why he wanted to direct so badly don't you. Then we are treated to THE PRINCE OF TIDES; THE SPACE YEARS guest starring Sybok as the most annoying, bad acting therapist from hell. The interminable journey to meet the deity who has probably nodded off at this point. It is his ship, he doesn't know how anything works. The dialog puts the B in badly written. Unfunny humor on the level of the three stooges; action scenes that are boring and badly photographed. Hey, it gets worse. The dance of the seven veils by the geriatric, corpulent Uhura who last had a hot body when Richard Nixon was in the white house. No, that would not have distracted them; they would have vomited. We only see her legs, thanks for that much, I have seen too much already. Why is it dark as night in Lionwoman's lair? Why can't we see anything going on? Is this guy the worst director in the history of talking pictures? The byplay between Spock and Sybok is not funny; it is stupid and unrealistic. See, when you fight people and mutual deaths occur, they do not stop and have a chat with you. Can you tell these people know as much about real battle as they do about fornicating, to quote Patton? The film shows to all aspiring filmmakers the craft of directing and why it is such a powerful role Shatner does nothing right, bad acting, photography, editing, and pacing. Make no mistake, if this had a competent director it would not be half this bad with a capable person overseeing the horrible script. The meeting God scene is beyond bad; 2001 called they want their imagery back. A powerful alien that cannot even kill one of the crew? I know, I was disappointed also. Yes, oh he looked scary, I was shaking. The token Klingon who has to be publicly castrated on the alter of Kirk's manliness. His whole existence is predicated on defeating the great and powerful Jim Kirk. You get the picture, somebody has a bit of an ego problem; the whole universe is rotating about James Tiberius Kirk. Get some therapy. WORSE THAN SLOW STRANGULATION. Fools who imagine the rascalities of imbeciles on earth effect the motion of the planets. Nietzsche "},{"Title":"This film is not as bad as they say.","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"79 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've never figured out why ST V gets so much criticism. It's really not that bad, if you're a true trekkie. First off, sure the effects are a little low-fi...but so were the TOS episodes. I don't know about you, but I care more about story than effects. The main reason that I like this film because it's very episodic in nature. If you are a fan of the original Star Trek series, sit down and watch this movie as if you were watching one of the original episodes and it will be much more enjoyable. For one, it starts out like an episode with a prologue before the opening credits start. Secondly, the theme music for the movie is similar to that of the original series. Third, there are some lines from the film that sound like they would be right out of one of the older episodes. Lastly, this movie is loosely based on the storyline of an original episode. Ironically, the episode that it's based on is one of the TOS worst episodes The Way the Eden. If you've seen The Way to Eden, the actual plot of the episode is not bad, it's just the hippie stuff that makes it so awful. This film kildly leaves out the awful hippie music of the original episode and focuses solely on the plot instead. I often wonder if Shatner wrote this film to make up for how bad The Way to Eden was. So, to sum up, watch this movie as you would watch an old episode and you'll enjoy it much more. "},{"Title":"Poor Story Redeemed by Character Moments","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"55 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V ranks at or near the bottom of the Trek films for most fans and casual viewers. And upon viewing this on its special edition DVD, my opinion has not changed. This is a film that tries hard but ultimately fails due to poor plotting, sub-par special effects and poor character development. The movie opens with probably the best scene in the film, where you meet Sybok and learn a little about his quest. The visuals alone in the opening shots are very impressive. Then, slowly, scene by scene, the movie falls apart. Yes, there are a few peaks in there, which I will discuss later, but overall, the idea of a God Like Being in the center of our galaxy, it just so illogical.The movie has a lot of embarrassing and just plan bad moments. The first of which is the meeting of three characters who represent the Planet of Galactic Peace. However, their intro is rushed and these characters are not given any depth at all. Why introduce us to these important characters if they care not going to be used in any meaningful (maybe one of them at the end) plot point at all? The direction by William Shatner also seems very uneven. Take the scene with Scotty and Uhura on the bridge. There is a very awkward moment of silence after their main dialogue is over. And the mugging Shatner does when McCoy makes very awkward comments to Spock's story about Sybok is just out of place. And add to that a semi-naked Uhura and Scotty hitting his head for a Three Stooges laugh and you begin to sink in your chair. The Klingon plot seems tacked on just to add depth to the story. And by the time we see where the movie is going, we just feel very disappointed and underwhelmed.That said, I can't help but enjoy the wealth of good character moments in the film. I for one liked the campfire scene and the attempts of deep philosophy about old age and death. I also liked exploring the pain of McCoy and Spock and Kirk's insistence that he needs his pain. While most of the humor was forced and bad, the best had to be the I could use a shower scene, which is one of the biggest laughs in all of the Trek films. There were many moments of good direction by Shatner, especially in McCoy's pain scene. I do sympathize with Shatner a little, when listening to the commentary track, about how this was cut and that was cut but I still think on a whole, this movie was doomed to fail.The DVD's picture is sharp and the sound is excellent. The extras are quite good but I would have liked more insight as to what went wrong with the film besides tight schedule and budget. Shatner's commentary with his daughter is good but has too many quiet moments. Check out the hidden and brief comic reel.At this point in time, I do rank Star Trek V above Nemesis, mainly due to that movie's bad continuity issues but just barely. Still, it is Star Trek and if you like the characters, just sit back, don't expect much and enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"Everything you've heard is true - unfortunately","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"56 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like underdogs. So, 12 years after having first seen Star Trek V, and thinking it was bizarrely bad, I gave it a second watch, hoping I would find some redeeming quality which I missed the first time around.I didn't.The writing is half-baked, and although at first the quality of the acting is stable enough to keep the movie on its feet (albeit shakily), the further we get into the plot the sillier it gets. The last quarter of the film is just plain ridiculous. What was even worse, from the original cast's POV, is that this was the first ST movie to be released AFTER the franchise returned to television with Next Generation, and the average episode of Next Generation would put this to shame* - including the special effects! What an embarrassment.The Final Frontier isn't thoroughly wretched - I gave it 4 out of 10 - but it's so far below the standard of its predecessors (yes, including the first one) that the only reason I can think of to watch it is because you'll appreciate the other movies more.* unless it's an episode with Troi's mother in it. "},{"Title":"This movie is aging well - worth a look for a 2nd look","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"35 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ABSOLUTELY NO SPOILERS -- There is no shortage of people complaining about this film, but ST5 is a charmer for one simple reason - it is best-ever rendering of the Kirk, Spock and McCoy partnership the series ever produced. Trekkie's generally see the movie as the stepchild of the series, and even the Trek establishment writes it off as non-canonical. Many complain that the movie distorts the characters, or exploits them for humor. To them I'd say the movie offers some of the deepest moments in the relationships between Kirk, Spock and McCoy that the series ever had. THIS SHOULD BE STRESSED, in this chapter the three likely have more scenes together than they ever had anywhere else. Not every moment works, but together they grapple with betrayal, joy, doubt, loss. They do it with friendship, camaraderie, heroism and joy that justly makes them one of the most memorable pop-culture phenomena ever. (I do pity the rest of the original cast, most of whom have at least one unenviable scene.)It's great to return to this film and see these guys doing what they do best - long after they retired from the roles. Shatner and Paramount may have bungled a few things here, but I forgive them, because the three leads hit all the right notes. Give it a fair shot and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Shatner Versus God.  Shatner Wins...","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Welcome to the Plan 9 From Outer Space of Star Trek movies. Come on, trekkers, admit it. This movie is so bad, so staggeringly inept in every department, it's become something of a classic.The Shat gives the worst performance ever committed to celluloid. BOONES! Hi, Bones Brilliant! This isn't just Ham - it's several large pig farms in Kentucky! The Special Effects. Should be done under the trade descriptions act for using such a term. The Enterprise is a moving piece of cardboard in this film. Really! Even the Star Trek TV show had better.Bones, Spock and The Shat sing! Yeah, Spock sings Row Row Row Your Boat. After struggling over the meaning of the words!!!! Capt. Life is Not A Dream Poor Leonard Nimoy, he must really want to strangle Shatner for this. Could The Shat not have given us his rendition of Mr. Tambourine Man, or harmonised with Nimoy on Ballad of Bilbo Baggins? Sorely disappointed.A Sean Connery look-a-like plays Spock's half-brother. Only cos they couldn't get Sean Connery! Uhura does a fan dance! That would have been sexy in 1966. In 1989 it's like watching your drunk granny embarrass herself at a Christmas Party. Much amusement from watching Spock neck-pinch a horse...Cat Woman/Tina Turner Jumps on Shatner's back! Shat twirls her around a few times like a WWF Wrestler, and chucks her off. Yayy The Shat! He shows his respect for alien life forms by leaving her face down in a pool of water. Nice one! Seems Connery 2.0 was a bit of a Vulcan rebel. Which explains why Spock hasn't previously mentioned him in 79 t.v episodes and 4 movies. McCoy apparently mercy-killed his Dad, BUT AFTERWARDS THEY FOUND A CURE. Tell me this isn't hysterically funny.The 11 deck Enterprise suddenly grows another 400 decks for an escape sequence in an elevator shaft. The Enterprise breaches the galactic barrier, which has mysteriously moved from the edge to the centre of the galaxy (see Where No Man Has Gone Before). Still, that's only about 50,000 light years... Shatner meets God! Or what purports to be God, but I assume is really some kind of alien being. God looks a bit like Charlton Heston in The 10 Commandments. Sean Connery MK II calls on God to share his pain, and promptly dies. Or something. God punishes the Shat for questioning his identity. So Spock kills God with a photon torpedo. I'd love to know what Jehovah's Witnesses made of this scene.The Shat, having killed God, promptly goes back to his sing-song with Spock and Bones. Altogether now, Row Row Row Your Boat..... "},{"Title":"Seems a lot better now than when it was released","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"32 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *** Minor spoilers ahead ***When I saw this movie for the first time, I thought that the plot was hokey, the special effects were ugly, and that the movie had a somewhat abrupt ending. And turning Kirk into a free climbing enthusiast fit neither Kirk's character as depicted in the original series nor Shatner's rotund physique. A lot of people called this the worst Star Trek movie of them all and I was ready to believe them at the time.Having watched this again a few hours ago, I have to say this is a lot more enjoyable than I remembered, even if my original criticisms about the movie are still valid. But the film does contain a few scenes that are visually imaginative (such as the assault on Paradise City, Spock's jet boots, or the sequence around McCoy's inner pain), does feature some great acting (whatever happened to Larry Luckinbill after this?), and that it does capture that spirit of genuine excitement about going to new places and facing the unknown that used to be such an important motive in Star Trek and that is so painfully lacking from some of the later movies.As for the slapstick humor, which was not so well received originally (to say the least), I can only observe that between 1989 and now some of the Next Generation installments like Star Trek Nemesis have shown what really embarrassing humor in Star Trek movies looks like, so the moments of comic relief in The Final Frontier seem positively uproarious in comparison. Most of the jokes are character-based here, and even if some of the characters come off as a little stupid (Chekov and Sulu getting lost, Scotty bumping his head on a beam, etc.) the humor is never as unfunny as the Data jokes from the NG movies. This movie must have lost its claim to worst Star Trek movie ever a long time ago, but apparently no one took notice.But most importantly, this movie is not really so much about Sybok's quest for Sha-Ka-Ree, as it is about the Kirk-Spock-McCoy relationship and the way it is challenged by the presence of an outsider (Sybok). And that is what really makes this movie compelling, if not exactly great. Never in the original series nor in the other movies has their relationship been studied as closely and with as much heart.So it is probably a good idea not to pay too much attention to the contrived action elements of the movie like the Klingon ship and instead watch this more like a romance. All things considered, this movie, while it may not be a classic, is one of the worthier additions to the Star Trek universe. "},{"Title":"Bad idea, badly executed in a bad film","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"37 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it almost touching how Star Trek fans try desperately to like this film in spite of its unbelievable number of flaws.To begin with, none of the familiar characters are really in character so to speak. Scotty is depicted as a bumbling tinkerer instead of the competent engineer he was in the original series. Uhura...Gods, I can't even think about what they did to her character. All of her dialog was painful to listen to. McCoy seemed like a neurotic stepfather to Kirk instead of his trusted friend. Spock...well, let's just say that Leonard Nimoy was terribly wasted. He was given bad dialog (I do not believe you have grasped the gravity of your situation Captain. Gravity, get it? Get it?) and made almost into a buffoon. Kirk...oh man, don't get me started. William Shatner is a hammy actor to begin with, so to allow him to direct really is to invite disaster which is what we got.The plot is beyond ridiculous. Giving Spock a brother is a pretty desperate story line and unnecessarily soap operaish. But hey, let's go with it. The search for God. Again, a weak plot basis. You don't think so? OK, let's go with that too. So assuming that the two aforementioned plot elements are sound, what's wrong with the script? Well, for one thing, it recycles way too much. The Enterprise, for example, is yet again, not working properly. Are we to assume that Starfleet would send a grossly malfunctioning ship with a skeleton crew into a potentially dangerous situation just because they want James Kirk to handle the situation? If that's the case, then why not put him on a better ship as an adviser? Adding to that...the crew is grossly incompetent. Scotty has the ship in pieces (and apparently is cloddish enough to bump his head knocking himself into unconsciousness WHILE there are hostiles on board!), no one seem to notice the Klingon ship decloaking at a crucial moment (despite the fact that the sensors are clearly showing the ship in weapons range) and the crew all seem way too familiar with each other. In other words, there is no sense of discipline. If this is the flagship of Starfleet, then it's a wonder that the Klingons hadn't already overthrown the Federation.As to the personal struggles with pain, it was crap. Lawrence Luckenbill is a competent actor, but even he couldn't save this turkey. In short no one could. Of all the people involved, I imagine Leonard Nimoy is the most embarrassed by it. I hope he is, anyway.Thank god the original cast didn't bow out on this cloddish opus. "},{"Title":"This Film is the Worst of the Series!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is it with studios like Paramount that have a proven hit film series on their hands, and figure it can screw around with the budget and formula? Paramount spent less on this film than they did on TMP, which doesn't sound bad until you realize that there's a 10 gap between when the films were made. The $40 TMP cost to make would be equivalent to about $75 million in 1989. This film is the reason that Shatner has never been given a fair chance to direct other films, as well. Every time he turned around, the studio was slashing the budget and making demands regarding the storyline. The fact that this was the one storyline that Roddenberry and Shatner could agree upon for the most part made the freshman directorial task tough enough, but after all the machinations were done, all anyone ended up with was an uneven story and a load of badly executed special effects not worthy of the original series, much less a major motion picture. The most glaring examples - All of the Phaser effects were severely ashed out and fake-looking. - The shot of the Enterprise going into the great barrier was so obviously a still-frame shot being zoomed away from. At least the popsicle stick that held the Enterprise cut out up was successfully matted out. - God chasing Kirk up the mountain... Egads, they may as well have just cut in shots of Godzilla climbing the volcano at the end of Godzilla 1985, and used thumbtacks to scratch the emulsion off of the film to make electric bolts come out of his eyes at the imperiled Captain Kirk.... Yes, friends, I have a real problem with the look of that last scene, especially.Thank goodness Star Trek VI was such a redeemer of a film...  "},{"Title":"How can people hate this?","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, my head was filled with all the comments of how bad this movie was. Naturally, I didn't pay much attention, thinking that a movie with this type of comments, isn't worth my time.Then, in order to make my Star Trek video collection more complete, I bought it.  I popped it into the VCR, and tried to ignore all those bad comments.Much to my surprise, I liked it.  No... I loved it.  True, it has it's faults, but no movie is perfect... But other than that it was a great story. It was full of action, adventure, and humor.Not only is this a great movie, but you can watch it over and over without it getting boring. "}{"Title":"Very silly, but enjoyable","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  5 out of 10I'd be lying if I said I didn't find Star Trek V a fun movie.  As silly and plot hole-ridden as much of it is, it's still often fitfully enjoyable, granted you can get through the really bad opening half-hour (the crew on shore leave).  The premise, a Vulcan named Sybok who is on a quest for God at the center of the galaxy, is easily the most ambitious of all the Trek films to date.  Shatner, who directed this one, obviously aims to give us a popcorn adventure that aims to explore spirituality and faith. He doesn't particularly succeed, given that the movie raises so many questions.  How does the Enterprise make it to the center of the galaxy in a matter of hours?  Where did Sybok receive his visions?  Were they merely delusional or sent by what they found on the planet?  On my first viewing, I'd suspected he'd actually received the visions, but seeing the movie again, it's still inconclusive, which (spoiler) makes me wonder how the creature they discovered knew how to present itself and knew they were on a quest to search for Shakari.  Perhaps that in itself is a suitable explanation that the creature had been sending Sybok visions (which might also sort of explain how they managed to land on the right spot on the planet).  The lead trio of Kirk, Spock, and McCoy get more screentime together here than in any previous entry, and that's always a good thing considering the chemistry between these three have always been the most consistent bright spot of the series.  The highlight of the whole film is perhaps Jerry Goldsmith's marvelous score, a truly awe-inspiring piece that is able to build suspense and wonder just by listening to it alone.  Star Trek V is easily the most hated of the series (for me, the worst goes to Trek III), but aside from the beginning, it's never boring, and silly as it may be, it does have its heart in the right place and I'll give it credit for that. "},{"Title":"It Sucks, Everybody Knows it...","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't call myself the biggest Star Trek fan. I have seen few episodes of the classic Trek and a dozen of Next Generation. I love Wrath of Khan but feel mostly indifferent to other films. Star Trek I, III, IV and VI were fine entertainment and I haven't seen Next Gen films at all. Star Trek V Shattner's Ego is huge disaster and that shows how to not make Star Trek film.There is hardly anything good in this train wreck. Only the line What Does God Need With a Starship?. It's so bad and so great that I use it on my every day conversations. If you like half-naked Uhura then your getting something. But aside from that disgusting image, there is nothing good in Star Trek V.To name everything that is wrong about Star Trek V is to recite War and Peace by heart. Script is terrible, acting over the top and very hammy. It's loaded with Shatnner ego scenes, incomprehensible plot, the characters are parodies of themselves. It's just irredeemably bad and it continues to insult your intelligence at every single moment it can.Avoid Star Trek V The Final Insult like the plague. It's very bad and stands as one of those educational films like Battlefield Earth, Phantom Menace and Prometheus, which teach us how to not make science fiction films. Skip this train wreck and burn all copies you can find! "},{"Title":"The worst Star Trek movie ever made?","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah Nemisis and Insurrection are mighty unpopular but, as all Star Trek's are not gems, this is a real stinker. Roger Ebert called it the worst. Some would argue that the first one wasn't so hot either. At the risk of alienating (good pun) all Trekies, religion of any sort never works out in most sci-fi movies. Here an obscure half-brother of Spock pops into the Star Trek Universe. He appears to be a Nomad, which is laffable, now that we all know Leonard Nimoy's ethnic history. I have always respected the man. So here we have a very touchy subject in an uncomfortable movie. It turns out It is just an evil planet-sized Bogey Man and certainly not our idea of The Creator. All very disappointing and mean-spirited. I bet this was a bad midnight-hour desperate rewrite, and it failed. A bad or good ending can save or kill a movie. As shallow as a bad 45 minute B episode. Only Lost in Space is worse! It's a mercy 7 for the usual excellent special effects? "},{"Title":"Spock's half brother hijacks the enterprise to go to the center of the solar system to find heaven.","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has the reputation of being the worst Star Trek movie ever made. I would not go that far but, it is not a great movie. Its premise while interesting is not fully realized and the journey to get there is not well paced or written. The special effects are very lackluster and are not as good as what came before or after. Not everything in this movie is bad because it does have a few saving graces. The chemistry between the three leads (Shatner, Kelly, and Nimoy) is still spot on and they are the best characters in the movie while the supporting cast is under used. The villain is also compelling and well acted, his character is acted well and has a misguided noble pursuit that you can empathize with. The lesson about fear is a good one and you get a good look into the mind of the three leads. This movie all together is not the worst Star Trek movie but it is not that good either. It has bad writing for most characters, the situation is handled badly, the humor is forced, and Shatner's ego does overshadow and make his direction sloppy. However the three characters are still good together and the villain can be compelling to make it an OK watch. "},{"Title":"You mean he's your brother brother?","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems the Star Trek movie franchise took itself less seriously as time went on. Star Trek IV The Voyage Home parlayed a lot of humor into the script, and it's follow up appeared to up the ante whenever the principal players were on screen. The best was when Scotty (James Doohan) knocked himself out explaining how he knew the Enterprise like the back of his hand. Speaking of which, it appeared Scotty and Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) packed on a few pounds between films, didn't they? And maybe it's just me, but it seemed like DeForest Kelley might have been under the influence during the first half of the picture.Actually there was a germ of a good idea in the story for an effective sci-fi film. Sybok's (Laurence Luckinbill) empath power taken to it's extreme was an effective device to explain how he got followers to come over to his side. The search for Sha Ka Ree beyond the Great Barrier at the Center of the Galaxy would have been made more effective however if it wasn't insinuated that God was on the other side. That whole concept fell apart as soon as Kirk asked the logical question - What does God need with a starship? Overall not a terrible movie, but throughout there seemed to be a sense of something lacking. The camaraderie between Kirk, Spock and McCoy didn't seem as natural here as in the past films, and 'Row, Row, Row Your Boat' just wasn't going to fix it. "},{"Title":"The best odd-numbered Trek film of all","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So what if this is William Shatner's directorial debut? No reason to malign this movie, which is by far the only Star Trek movie that holds true to the Star Trek(any series) episode staple of going where no-one has gone before, with presenting an action-oriented episode AND one that makes you think, two categories you can divide all Trek episodes into. All in all, I'd say Shatner(who directed a few episodes of T.J. Hooker) did a great job.Star Trek The Motion Picture also did that staple, but I just couldn't STAND those gray pajamas they had passed off for uniforms.The special effects could have been better, but I read Shatner's director's diary, called Captain's Log The Making of Star Trek V. He said the movie had gone drastically over budget, and they had to use a less expensive effects company.Jerry Goldsmith's soundtrack is my hands-down favorite(I like his Total Recall score next), and I absolutely LOVE Hiroshima's rendition of the song Uhura sang on the hill, called The Moon's A Window To Heaven. "},{"Title":"Renegade Vulcan hijacks Enterprise to travel to centre of Universe in search of God.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The weakest of the 'old' crew Star Trek films,  this film suffers from an awful script and obvious budget constraints, particularly in the mishandled finale.  The bones of a good movie are here, and the directing from Shatner is not as bad as is commonly made out, but the characters end up speaking and acting way out of the style that the previous 3 films had carefully established. Lawrence Luckinbull is convincing as the renegade Vulcan with msyterious and mystical powers to influence people and these powers are responsible for some of the best scenes, particularly for Deforest Kelley who shines as 'Bones' McCoy in this his second last movie.  However, as good as those scenes are, they ultimately do not advance the plot, and end up feeling as more of a distraction. A great score from the ever reliable Goldsmith and some funny scenes in Yosemite between the main three are not enough to cover the gaping chasms in the plot, and the frankly embarassing attempts at humour serve only to alienate even die hard trekkies. All in all, a wealth of possibilities which although it fails to deliver, has its moments.   Watch out for the pool table in the bar brawl scene...  "},{"Title":"Not great, but nowhere near as bad as its rep","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, the special effects are terrible except for a neat shuttlebay crash landing, and the lesser characters are treated poorly.  Even so, its concept (the search for God) is delightfully Roddenberyesque and each of the Big Three (Kirk, Spock & McCoy) have some fine moments.  The Final Frontier is very likely the least of the Star Trek films but even so is well worth a glance from fans of the franchise. "},{"Title":"Bad ending and story ruins Star Trek V","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek V has taken a lot of heat. Sure, it may be the weakest entry in the series, but when watched with an open mind and in the widescreen version, it isn't too bad. I think William Shatner did a good job in his direction. I enjoyed watching the characters and the story wasn't too bad until the ending came, which I will get to later.The main problems I had were with the comedy and the characters actions. The comedy seemed forced instead of natural. Take the scene where Sulu and Chekov were lost and Chekov blows into the communicator to simulate a blizzard. That wasn't funny! It was a scene put in the movie to make you think it was funny. It should have been natural, like Kirk saying he needed a shower and Spock saying Yes. Also, why was poor Scotty fixing the ship in the whole movie. That is all he did!The ending was terrible. I agree with the line that said Look for God within yourself, but a cocktail party with the Klingons? And then in the next movie, they said they have never been this close to a Klingon ship!All in all, it is watchable and contains good direction, but dumbs itself down in the end. I give Star Trek V a C-.  "},{"Title":"...life is but a dream.","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a renegade Vulcan named Sybok and his followers take three ambassadors hostage, Captain Kirk and crew are sent to negotiate their release. But the whole thing was a trap so Sybok could get his hands on the Enterprise. With the starship and its crew under his command, Sybok sets to find a planet from Vulcan mythology where creation began, located in the center of the universeWidely considered the worst Star Trek film of the original series. Actually, I should say widely considered the worst Star Trek film period. It's hard to dispute this. The mountain climbing scene, the campfire scene, and 56 year-old Uhura's 'sexy' dance are some of the most embarrassingly bad scenes the original Trek crew ever filmed, on the big screen or small. A lot of this can be laid at the doorstep of William Shatner, who makes his film directing debut with this movie and does a terrible job. But let's save a good deal of the blame for screenwriter David Loughery, whose script is pathetic. The story itself might have worked in the hands of a better director and writer. The idea that the crew goes on a mission that takes them face-to-face with a being claiming to be God has a lot of potential. Unfortunately little is done with the idea and the payoff to the whole thing is underwhelming. Sybok is a lame character limply played by Laurence Luckinbill. Considering the movie revolves around him, it's unfortunate they couldn't get a more dynamic actor for the part. Sadder still is how the character is written as a cult leader with some kind of power to sway people over to his side, yet this power is frustratingly never explained. The regular cast all play their parts as well as can be expected given the poor script. There's a lot of comedy in this one and it's hit or miss. The special effects are spotty, as well. All of this taken into account, it's easy to see why it's so hated. But I'm going to back off my complaints somewhat and say that, while it's certainly not a good film, it is still watchable. This is Star Trek with Shatner, Nimoy, Kelley, Doohan, etc. I would watch them even if it was just 90 minutes of them yelling at kids to get off their lawn and turn off their rap music. "}{"Title":"Extremely Underrated","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cannot understand how is it possible for people who call themselves Star Trek fans, not to like this film. Even more I can't understand how is it possible for the previous movie to have better ratings. The voyage home could have been any other light movie for people who don't like to think what they've just seen... Not for Star Trek fans. The final frontier movie was about all the stuff that made TOS so special. I know it's not Free Willy but if it was I would rate it with a 7 not a 9. As I did with Star Trek IV which was just an enjoyable movie.Star Trek was always about the story. A story that would give you a glimpse to a possible future and make you think about philosophical matters such as life, friendship, god, racism and others. If this is why you watch Star Trek I believe you will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Another Weak Odd Number Movie","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Renegade Vulcan named Sybok has led his Galactic Army of Light to take over a desolate 'peace' planet Nimbus III where the three powers (Federation, Klingon, and Romulan) have joined together. He has taken the three ambassadors from each power hostage. Kirk and the still under renovation Enterprise ride out to the rescue. Only Sybok has other plans, and a young Klingon commander is looking to make a name for himself.It starts with the guys trying too hard to be funny. Never has 'Row Row Row Your Boat' sound so pathetically old. They prove that they are geezers with too much time on their hands. There is way too much cheese in this movie. The campfire singalong is just the start. The special effects are cheesy. The whole concept of the movie is cheesy. The Klingon commander is an impotent youngster. Even the final reveal is a giant disappointment. The only good comes from a little monologue from Kirk about pain. "},{"Title":"Captain Kirk vs. God","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fifth Star Trek film, The Final Frontier is often considered the worst Star Trek film. It is a film bogged by a underdeveloped script, poor special effects and the ego of its director, William Shatner.After the events of Star Trek IV The Voyage Home the crew of the Enterprise is on shore level as Scottie (James Doohan) tries to make new Enterprise functional. But the Enterprise are called into action when a rogue Vulcan Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill) takes hostages on the planet Nimbus III from the Federation and Klingon and Romulan empires with Sybok believing he has found the origin of creation.After Star Trek IV was made Paramount was contractually obligated to let Shatner to direct the fifth Trek film and give him script approval him, leaving us a film of Captain Kirk battling God. There are decent ideas in the film, particularly that all cultures have some brief that there is a God, or a creator some sort and how would religion function in a intergalactic world? But it is was the script that was underdeveloped and many of these ideas were not fully explored. Also the whole theme about God goes against what Star Trek has been about, especially with the outright mention of God.The other little idea that was that Sybok could take away the personal pain of people , despite the fact that it our experiences that make us who we are.But there are holes in the script. The first is if the Enterprise is in such bad condition why would Starfleet send the Enterprise, just send the crew to another ship and wouldn't Spock have to tell his commanding officers of the conflict of interest.The Final Frontier has numerous problems. For a film with the serious subject matter this is a film that suffers from poor comedy that pads the film like the infamous 'Row Row Row Your Boat singing scene. There is also the infamous fan dance which raises two questions first if this was plan A to distract the guards what the hell was plan B? Second who would want to see a woman in her mid-fifties dance half naked? This also leads to the problem that many of the cast members looked too old for their roles, with Leonard Nimoy and William Shatner developing big bellies and not fit enough.The special effects looked like they had a massive step back, looking really cheap and substandard. The movements were more jerky, the lighting effects looking poor, terrible green screen and the film is even more dated then the previous entries in the series.One good attitude in the films favour is the excellent score provide by Jerry Goldsmith, a better score then the films deserves.Star Trek V The Final Frontier is a wasted opportunity which did not fulfil the potential. "},{"Title":"Very bad, but with good intentions","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V The Last Frontier is widely considered the worst film of the Star Trek's series, and i must admit that it was indeed a bad film. A bad film with good intentions, but still a bad film.One thing that i personally liked was the character's depth in that film. It was aces, and certainly it establishes an intimacy with the characters. The focus of the film is entirely around the friendship of Kirk, Spock and McCoy, and during the first 30 minutes or so we have an idea of what the film is trying to pass. In my honest opinion this film had the best character development of all the other Installments of the Original series.I also liked the idea of Spock having a brother which is totally different from the other Vulcan's...Sibock is the opposite of Spock he uses Sensibility instead of sense, passion instead of logic... pretty interesting antithesis. This guy represents the missionary, specifically the 'Christian's missionary(implied) which, according to the film, brainwashes people. Interesting theme, but is upsetting the fact that it's not explained how he do his tricks.Then after a while, things starts to became way too nonsense. I mean, why the Klingon's captain was so crazy trying to catch Kirk? The viewer don't knows better. And the film neither explains who was the 'Fake' God in the end of the film. I understand that it tried to make the things 'subtle' and left for the viewer's imagination, but it didn't works. It lefts the viewer clueless instead, and i can understand why.The unfunny childish jokes and the outdated CGI does not help either, but i must say that I'm not bother so much with CGI if the film is old as this one. But the childish jokes definitely killed this film(a bit). Obviously there are a few funny parts, but generally they were way too forced.Watchable film, but it has too many flaws. 5.7/10 "},{"Title":"From one of the best...","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I loved STAR TREK IV it was just so different, so fresh, that it's my favourite of the original cast movies. Unfortunately, THE FINAL FRONTIER is everything that film isn't. It tries to get to grips with an equally heavy (or heavier) subject matter, but the resultant film is ponderous, devoid of action, dated, cheesy and, even worse, boring.The film sees Spock's long-lost brother (who he?) coming out of the woodwork and commandeering the Enterprise in search of God. Unfortunately, there's no action to speak of, and the special effects used to detail the almost magical scenario are pretty shoddy. Shatner directs as well as stars, but his direction leaves plenty to be desired.Sure, there's still fun to be had from watching the original cast going through the paces, but they really are going through the paces here and that's all they're doing. Some of them seem a little bored. The best supporting actors the movie can manage are B-movie veterans David Warner and Michael Berryman. THE FINAL FRONTIER has a philosophical tone and some of the scenes are quite sentimental - the campfire bit in particular - but you'd have to be a huge Trekkie to get much joy out of this dull instalment. "},{"Title":"On later viewing, its grown on me","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember going to the cinema to see this first time around, and was thoroughly 'meh' about it in all honesty. I didn't hate it, I didn't love it, and certainly after following The Voyage Home, Final Frontier felt like a massive step backwards.The whole God notion didn't really interest me much then, it seemed such a silly premise, that later we discover in the movie its not God at all is beside the point, many people were turned off from seeing the movie in the first place, because whilst many people believe in God, they probably never actually want to see God, and certainly not a silly sci- fi movies interpretation of God either.Sybok as the main villain...... turns out he's not really a villain at all, but I felt the whole 'Sybok is Spocks brother' storyline was a bit too much soap opera for me. There was never any allusion to Spock having a brother, and for it to be brought up after all this time, just felt too tacked on.Other characters were shortchanged and had virtually no character development, especially the three that were trapped on Nimbus, held captive by Sybok.The one saving grace for the entire movie though, was the camaraderie of the three main characters. I didn't really appreciate it first time around, but more so now, I found myself laughing and smiling, the interaction of Kirk, Spock and Bones at various parts really helped lift the movie, and its one of the few things that helped prevent the movie being drab and boring.The VFX are long held up as being not the best, but to be honest, with the exception of the horrible matte lines around the Enterprise when it was in front of the blue clouds of Shakaree, for the most part, I didn't really notice any problems. Certainly there are elements of Wrath of Khan with similar scenes that don't hold up so well and that was ILM in charge of effects.Final Frontier isn't a bad film, its simply an OK one, and thats really not good enough for Star Trek, and thankfully this wasn't the last movie the original crew did as this would not have been a fitting send off for them.I think they backed themselves in a corner by approaching the 'God' question which simply put a lot of people off, but there is still enough recognisable Trek in it that its not a disaster.Its such a shame that having found big success with The Voyage Home, Paramount slashed the budget on this one, because by all accounts, the original ending was supposed to be far more satisfactory. "},{"Title":"Despite enormous criticism received, it isn't all as bad as they say and has a few real Trek moments!","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When hearing news such as 'Star Trek V' being the worst of the bunch- even worse than the first, I cannot help but have the lowest expectations for a film like this. A plot that is called ridiculous, characters that are called uninteresting and a film that is regarded as the most unnecessary addition to this franchise makes for clearly low expectations.I absolutely hate the first Star Trek movie. It was paced horrendously, the characters were extremely one dimensional and the story was not immersive. It truly was one of the worst franchise openers and I wasn't looking forward to the next ones. Gladly, the trilogy that followed was fantastic! Critics such as legend Roger Ebert have stated this is the worst of the bunch so I went in with the most horrible expectations and surprisingly, this movie shocked me in a good way! I honestly don't get the complaints given to this film. Sure, it isn't a great film but it had a story that was decent, some good characters and added a bit of depth to a few of the characters and provided a few emotional scenes. Sure, the ending to this film was unsatisfying and sure the story was ridiculous but I find this to be a guilty pleasure.The movie truly suffers with some ridiculous scenes at times such as singing 'Row, row, row your boat' and a glimpse at a romance between Scotty and Uhura but for the most part, the story was rather well done and it had a few good moments. The film's pacing is good and I thought that William Shatner did a good job at directing this film considering how much stress it could've been to play a main character and be the director. I know Mel Gibson did it with Braveheart! Despite being a guilty pleasure, I can understand how people say that this film truly was an unnecessary sequel. It doesn't offer much new content apart from a scene where we discover a bit about Bones' past. That scene was well done and provided some emotional depth to his character.People say that this film isn't funny. They say the comedic level of this film is extremely low compared with the previous trilogy. I agree but the comedy still works in this film unlike in the original film. The acting was mostly good and the new characters did a good job, especially the character of Sybok, whom I particularly liked.Star Trek V The Final Frontier is one of those movies I'd take as a guilty pleasure and an unnecessary addition to the Star Trek franchise yet certainly an enjoyable and fun film. This film truly has gotten better as time passed by. Back in 1989, it was viewed ridiculous and I am a little understanding of that, but by 2013, that so called horrid mess this film was has been forgotten with some fantastic sequels to this so called atrocity. "},{"Title":"What does God need with a starship?","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a good, successful run of four films, William Shatner himself steps in to direct the fifth Star Trek feature film. With the title of The Final Frontier, and with the premise of a God-seeking adventure, you'd think this would be the most epic and profound Trek movie of the lot. Sadly, as of the time of this writing, it's considered the worst Trek movie of the series, and for some viewers, it might even be ranked as one of the worst movies of all time.Even I won't deny that the film has its issues. The special effects are strangely gaudy in this film, lacking in refinement or quality. The acting is at its cheesiest, with jokes and anecdotes thrown out profusely throughout the picture. Most viewers will also take issue with Sybok's character - you'll find out why about halfway through the picture - and the overall plot, which comes off as messy and directionless.The film is not without charm, however. I personally always enjoyed the comedic antics of the three main characters, especially during the opening mountain climbing scenes and during their madcap pursuits in the Enterprise's interior. Action is frequent and will be pleasing for non-discerning Trek fans.As ambitious as the story is, it runs through a rather formulaic plot, with little room for quality character development. Themes should be present, but generally aren't. It's as straightforward and simple as a Trek movie can be.This film is captured with okay, never great, photography and editing. Acting and writing in this picture is never a serious affair; the script gets the job done, but after so many revisions, it has undoubtedly lost something along the way. The cast members do the best they can with their material. Similarly, the sets, props, costumes, and special effects do their best to make the picture work, but are not without weaknesses. Music might be the biggest standout here.The fifth Star Trek film never struck me as being a terrible film, for I have found it enjoyable. However, it is a haphazardly-constructed film with issues that most viewers will find distasteful. Trek fans might want to check this out once, but for everybody else, not recommended.3.5/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Average | Film Average) "},{"Title":"I really liked this movie, is not the worst Trek. Mr. Nimoy saves the day.","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've watched this movie with my family, and none of us disliked it. It is a lovely and funny story with great friendship moments, such as the campfire scene, and again a brilliant performance by Leonard Nimoy's Spock. He's the glue that hold them together, McCoy needs him to be sarcastic, Kirk gets mad at him at times, but at the end nothing would work right without him. In this movie Nimoy manages to play greatly both sides of Spock, the Vulcan and the Human, and the results are both funny and touching moments. His half-brother, Sybok, doesn't own Khan's wrath or Commander Krug's evilness, but it's an interesting and more human take of a villain. If you're just looking for phaser shots, torpedo's fire and angry Klingons, you can watch any of the other 5 ST movies (I didn't watch any TNG movies and never will) and you'll be enough pleased like I was, but here Shatner focuses more in their friendship and deepest feelings, and I like that for a change. Sure the God storyline and effects could have been way better made, but they had a lot of trouble making this movie, so I'm OK with that. For the ones saying this is the worst Star Trek movie ever made, I'll say The Motion Picture is intolerable, and the new J.J.Abrams take with awful Quinto as Spock and a twisted plot doesn't do great justice to the franchise either. 8/10 for some technical and storyline flaws, but I still liked the film as a whole. "},{"Title":"Certainly the worst, but still a good Star Trek","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V The Final Frontier was William Shatner's mark as director in the Star Trek series. Leonard Nimoy had a couple, and it was time for Shatner to give it a try. This film, though I personally think it's the worst of all of the Star Trek films, still is a good film for a few reasons. First of all, I believe this film explores the three leads more than any film in the whole Star Trek series does. I think people give Star Trek V a less-than-accurate review. The film is almost completely character driven. We get to see Kirk, Spock, and McCoy almost exclusively center stage. This film really explores the bond the three share. We see their fondness for each other, and finally get to explore what makes these three characters who they are. They each hold secret pain and guilt, and each deal with that pain and guilt in their own way. They are united in this aspect, and it really does drive a story-driven film along.Of course, people don't see films purely on their love for a story; they expect action and good sfx. This is without a doubt the film's Achilles heel. From the trivia section, they were forced to use a different sfx company other than ILM. Of course mix this with a small budget, and we get sub-par special effects. Roddenberry said it the best, and I paraphrase, we were under a tight budget. I think the point is to use your imagination and see what isn't there (regarding TOS). Of course that was a very rough paraphrase, but if you're a fan of ST, any of the series, you'll know that the special effects in any of them are suffering from today's standards. TNG is getting an update blu-ray set much as TOS got, and if you love these shows you know you have to use your imagination to see something that wasn't done believably at the time. If you're a person who needs action and good sfx, perhaps Star Trek V isn't for you. If you can enjoy a good story, then you can enjoy this film if you look past some of the defects. That brings along the final point; the story. It is the weakest of the whole series, beyond the fact I believe it is as strong a character film as you have in Star Trek. Just because it's the worst of a series doesn't make it terrible. It has some plot holes, some continuity errors as far as distance and space go, and really doesn't deliver what you would expect. This doesn't inspire confidence in a film, but take it from me; if you LIKE Star Trek, you will find a way to love this film, regardless of where you place it as your favorites.In the end, I feel for a Star Trek fan this one can be enjoyed thoroughly. You have conceptions of these characters that were spawned from this film. If you were trying to hook a new Trekkie by showing them this film, I think they'll have a sour idea of what Star Trek is. This film captures the essence of what Roddenberry wanted; no big wars or fights, but characters and exploration. Watch this film with an open mind. It was shot beautifully, and though it really does have many flaws, it is passable for a Star Trek film. "}{"Title":"At the end of the day, it entertains","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This 1989 entry in the Star Trek film series was an earnest and noble effort by William Shatner, who directed and plotted the film, to tackle a subject that only he and Star Trek would dare attempt. Unfortunately it's become law in Trekdom to pick apart this film as a turkey of astronomical proportions; consequently a sort of bandwagon phenomenon has developed amongst the cookie-cutter fundamentalist Trekkers who have somehow failed to evolve to the level of independent thought. (They're no doubt still mad at Shatner for telling them to get a life). In fact, it's become such a clich to hate Star Trek V that it has become the Spock's Brain of the feature films (but worse).I disagree. While The Final Frontier certainly has its share of flaws -- the story goes over the edge into the realm of goofy camp at times and some argue that the F/X are possibly the least of the feature films -- it remains an entertaining picture. Besides, Star Trek was never about great special effects anyway (disregarding the triumphant The Motion Picture). Star Trek is about people, their joy of living and their grand spirit of exploration; this is what The Final Frontier is all about and it scores high marks in this regard.No other Trek film showcases the character interplay of the Kirk/Spock/McCoy troika to the level of intimacy shown in The Final Frontier, and only The Voyage Home exceeds the joyful energy of the characters displayed here. As far as the spirit of exploration goes, Star Trek V surpasses all other Trek adventures; after all, no exploration is greater than the quest for ultimate reality and the Supreme Creator. As a matter of fact, this picture touches on many important themes personal pain, healing, faith, family, love, fanaticism, the desire to know ultimate reality (absolute truth), God, false beliefs, loyalty, repentance and forgiveness. Name another film in the series that addresses so many weighty topics and yet remains entertaining.The film was actually doomed with critics and Trekker fundamentalists the moment it was disclosed that Shatner would direct it; the knives hit the sharpening stones well before it was ever released and once the buzz got out that it was a bad film a feeding frenzy ensued. It would have been better received if Shatner had directed the film anonymously and if it were released after Star Trek III. As it was, it came out on the heels of Star Trek IV, the hands-down pinnacle of the feature films. If The Wrath of Khan had come out after The Voyage Home it would have been deemed a mediocre affair.The bottom line is that Star Trek V is a solid and extremely original Trek outing, equal parts amusing, thought-provoking, wonder-inducing and heart-warming; it possesses a wealth of quality scenes and has an interesting assortment of colorful characters who unite together for the ultimate discovery. Its best character is Sybok, played excellently by Laurence Luckinbill. Sybok isn't really a villain at all, but rather a rebel Vulcan who rejects Stoicism and develops a compulsion to heal people and find ultimate knowledge. His mistake is allowing this compulsion to assume the creature beyond the Great Barrier is God, which it obviously isn't. Of course the film would have been more successful if the studio hadn't repeatedly cut the budget the closer the it came to completion, thus robbing Shatner (and us) of his original vision. As it is, the climax is serviceable, but clearly missing something.Regardless, The Final Frontier is an entertaining Trek romp, if nothing else, but thankfully it offers more. Personally, I'd pop it in any day before The Wrath of Khan (sssnnnnooooorrrreee). By all means, watch it again for the first time.GRADE B "},{"Title":"An adventurous addition to the franchise; The Final Frontier is ambitious and not without a certain guile to it even if it is ultimately a tad misconstrued.","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ideas outweigh and over raw stone wall substance in this, the fourth Star Trek sequel from back in the day; a film with an audacious premise as well as some rather far reaching concepts, which, granted, are executed dramatically enough, but only really rear their heads during the final act - by which time, both expansive theological notions and ideas have been toyed with but not really delved into to that of a level beyond what is simply pulpy material with philosophy qualifications. It is a notion encapsulated by the film's final shot; a slow, longing tilt upwards to a encompass a starry nighttime sky as the camera, indeed the film's creators, look on into the unknown and continue to dream of what might be. The shot suggests a piece still wondering; still thinking; still chewing &#x96; as if different approaches, resolutions and ideas on the same subject matter might exist somewhere else and are actually a tad better or more interesting. One hates to evoke the name of a certain film and its creator in situations such as these, but there is a reason Kubrick's 1968 film 2001 A Space Odyssey didn't hobble along through space with wild ideas and content before rounding everything off and ending with a composition that screams at us Outer space and theology, man! Like, whoa....... Of course all of this makes it sound as if I didn't at all enjoy Star Trek The Final Frontier; on the contrary, it is a good, clean crack that happens to think it's a lot better than it actually is, but is good fun in its getting to the far-flung places that it ends up, coming complete with some tension and a sense of adventure in the process &#x96; precisely the things, you might say, we ask for in a film whose title is effectively 'Star Trek V'. After the previous entry, 1986's The Voyage Home, in which the Star Trek crew, to my knowledge, ventured as far back as they had previously gone in journeying to late twentieth Century Earth, comes the entry all about the venturing forward as far as has previously happened. Again, this is a veering into the unknown that with it comes danger and exposure to realms well beyond the crew's previous experiences, making for excitement and risk. Before any of most things, we meet the crew of the USS Enterprise on an Earth-set vacation in the mid-west. Captain Kirk, played by the man doubling up as the director for this particular entry in William Shatner, is rock climbing without much in the way of safety gear and has made it a fair way up a steep mountain, toying with death in this sense but with every bit of confidence in his ability to negate the elements and work around what will be a horrible fate if things goes wrong. The usual suspects are around, his rapport with crew-mates Spock (Nimoy) and the ship's doctor, McCoy (Kelley), as free and as easy as it's ever been &#x96; there is something infectious about what they share in their ties that echo that of the confidence the producers have in appearing to create the entries to this somewhat likable franchise that have room to manoeuvre. Many miles away exists a rouge Vulcan, usually a peaceful and insightful race but here rather interestingly placed at the forefront as the source of villainy, named Sybok (Luckinbill); an intelligent being going about recruiting various folk by way of enhanced hallucinations with his philosophical musings and theological natterings whilst promising them of physical meetings with God. Our first perception of him is that of a threat, the riding horseback towards both us and an unsuspecting extra whom promptly goes to defend himself an ominous beginning. No need, Sybok is friendly and talks of confronting one's fears and opening one's mind; this initial construction running in binary opposition to that of whom Sybok believes in and continuously speaks of, as a being whose presence you cannot get to soon enough before things take their own respective turn in that department. Events take a turn; Sybok goes a little too far and before you know it, the Enterpirse crew are being scrambled to intercept him for certain reasons. Overhanging things in the background is a Kilgon ship captain named Klaa (Bryant), somebody desiring some warfare against another captain and observes the Enterprise making its moves before hitting on the notion that chasing and blasting our admiral Kirk will be as easy, but more pleasurably, as destroying space junk all day. For the most part, the film is an effective and involving enough science fiction drama feeding off of an element of conflict, or threat, from that of an individual; but an individual whose chief sources of antagonism are that of words and beliefs more-so physical acts of aggression, in spite of Klaa's presence in the film. Despite the film's far reaching notions, its core idea or catalyst for its premise is surprisingly simplistic; reading something along the lines of Can a spaceship capable of taking man the deepest into space as is possible reach the afterlife? &#x96; a thesis whose testing of which requires a fairly careful approach, not to mention somebody at the helm really in tune with their craft and with the confidence in their ability that exploring said notion will see the film home. The film works in odd shifts; we enjoy Sybok's free thinking and insightful nature going up against the Enterprise's uniformed, regimental and methodical existence and we gradually become as enthused about Sybok's idea as both he and his followers are as we near the film's final act. Where not as good as other entries, The Final Frontier holds its own as a one way space adventure involving chase; conflict and creative ideas to do with what lurks out there that only hobbles along, but does a job. "},{"Title":"It could be much worse...","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What should I say first? This movie has fully followed the tradition of the CURSE OF THE ODD NUMBER MOVIE. The worst of it all was the action scenes, which were very lame. However, the picture had good moments, like the K-S-Mc relationship and those flash memories from the Vulcan and Doc. The script had a very awkward and amateur direction and it was very disappointing, since I'm a Trekkie. The excess of silly comedy lines annoyed me too. But it's a fresher movie, if compared to the almost-boring-to-death The Motion Picture. It's a work that would have gone better if either Nimoy or Meyer had directed it instead of our fearless Captain. I got really sorry about Shatner after I read his book about the ST movies backstage. He had a very hard time during the making of the movie, specially regarding the budget restrictions and all the good scripting ideas he had to trash because of it. Maybe, if they remastered it, added scenes and upgraded the lame special effects with graphic computing, there would be some hope... My brother has ALL the movies in DVD, as well as TOS and Enterprise. Some day I'm gonna re-watch it and give another comment, but I don't think it will be better than FAIR AT BEST. "},{"Title":"An Emotional Vulcan?","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, why not? Star Trek 2 and 3 had Saavik, who was always bitching and moaning about everything.Seriously, I don't know what to make of this movie. There are parts of it that I believe are unintentionally hilarious (ie, I haven't finished violating Starfleet Regulations yet.) Or What does God want with a starship? Or, Jim, you don't ask the Almighty to see some id. And Uhura doing a strip tease act. And Spock riding a horse is something that has to be seen to be believed. Was William Shatner drunk or something when he put this together? I'm not what you call a Trekkie, but I believe I know a good story when I see one, and this...well, I've seen better, I've seen worse. The only problem is, it's like week-old soup. Not really hot, not really cold, but leaves a bad taste in your mouth. (I take that back. More like a bowl of Cream of Wheat that's been sitting on the stove all day.) The idea for the story is pretty good. It's just that William Shatner doesn't know how to tell a good story. And how about that scene at the campfire with the crew drinking Jack Daniels out of a bottle and eating beans. Glad I wasn't there! (I think I just answered my own question about William Shatner being drunk when he made this.) I'm trying to imagine what that would do to Spock's digestive system. Explosive combination indeed! Well, we see a bitchy Vulcan, we see an emotional, religious fanatic Vulcan, why not a drunk one? I think 2,3, and 4 are the best. 1 isn't too bad, and I haven't seen any past this one. Can't quite get the nerve up. 5 stars out of 10 for this one, and that's probably being generous. "},{"Title":"This entry in the classic crew series is vintage decent Trek when compared to certain later Next Generation crew big screen affairs which were complete drivel in comparison","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For many years, Star Trek V The Final Frontier was the least commercially successful Star Trek film (that honor now belongs to Nemesis). It's hard to dispute that fact because the figures don't lie. The real argument begins when Star Trek fans discuss the artistic merit of the film. Most dismiss it altogether as a William Shatner ego trip with bad special effects and a poor ending.OK, let's get all of that out of the way. The special effects could have been better (i've seen worse). ILM, which created the effects for Star Treks II-IV were busy or unavailable and the producers turned to another company. The effects would've been OK for TV, but on screen they came off pretty cheesy. The saga of how Shatner lost the budget to create the ending he envisioned for his film is legendary. The final product looked rushed because it was rushed. Finally, Shatner as director was probably as restrained as you could hope for. The supporting cast really shined. Watch.With that out of the way, let's talk about five reasons you should reconsider Star Trek V The Final Frontier. The acting. I would stack the acting of this movie against any of the Kirk-Spock-McCoy era. Check out the scenes when Vulcan renegade Sybok forces Spock and McCoy to face their pain. Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelly are given the ability to really act here and the payoff is some truly emotional scenes. Honestly, they are great to watch.The humor. Talk to any fan who dislikes the movie, and they will cite the scene where Scotty bumps his head as being the low point of the Star Trek movies. Fair enough. But that scene is no more forced than any of the humor in the beloved Star Trek IV The Voyage Home. To me, most of the gags in that film were forced and seem stale with repeated viewings. The humor in Star Trek V is fast and furious and takes advantage of these characters that we love.The Kirk-Spock-McCoy trio. Have these characters ever been better? Seeing them sit around a camp fire, discussing family, friends, life and death is great. It's funny, poignant and really takes advantage of the history these characters (and actors) share. How else could Spock react to the campfire song Row, row, row your boat, other than to try and disseminate the lyrics? Captain... life IS NOT a dream. Seeing that line pay off in the climax is brilliant.The Pace Star Trek V is a fast-paced, rollicking adventure that only slows down when it needs to. It may make you cringed at times ... but it's never dull.Its place in Star Trek history. There will never be another Star Trek film with the classic crew. As one of only six that were made, we should relish this film and the many good things about it. Klingons, renegade Vulcans, Jerry Goldsmith's fantastic score, Spock and McCoy arguing, Scotty fighting with the transporters, Starfleet rescue parties on horseback, Vulcan nerve pinches, phasers blasting, creatures pretending to be the almighty, great barriers, warp-speed escapes, birds of prey, mind melds and Kirk proclaiming that he fears nothing. You give me this movie any day over the lacking Generations, pointless Insurrection & awful Nemesis.First Contact is the only TNG concept that was ever worthy of getting the big screen treatment. "},{"Title":"Shatner needs to stick to acting","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Star Trek installment, intended to be the last movie for Captain Kirk and crew was not a suitable departure for this crew.  This was the least entertaining of the six movies that had the original crew, but this movie is still very entertaining.  In this movie Sybok is obsessed with finding god.  He goes on a quest to find him on yet another mythical planet (they have had many &#145;mythical planets') and this involves the Starship Enterprise.Part of the problem with this film is William Shatner directed it.  He is not very good in this movie as a director. He is too scattershot and the movie does not have a real focus like the other ones.  The performances are still top notch, and the spirit of Star Trek is still captured in this film, but it could have been so much better overall.This was intended to be the final Star Trek film.  But after the lackluster quality of this film Gene Roddenbery said this couldn't be the last Star Trek, and he decided to make Star Trek 6  The Undiscovered country.  The problem is with this movie parts of it are so awkward, and extremely corny.  And I don't think it is part of Star Trek's myth to have just one planet that is the SPOILER  basis for all religion in the universe.  That just seemed so strange, and it made for a pretty bad story overall, actually not a bad story, just one that really wasn&#145;t up to the quality of the original stories..Overall this is fun to watch, the complete lack of grandeur this one does not have that every Star Trek before had is pretty off-putting.  The ending is so anti-climactic.  You kind of feel after this movie the crew did not really accomplish anything.  At the end Kirk and Spock, not to mention McCoy really had done nothing, they were in the exact same position at the end of the movie as they were at the beginning of the movie, which makes one wonder why have the movie in the first place?  Despite this the movie overall is enjoyable, but if you are looking for a great Star Trek, look for 4 or 6.      "},{"Title":"Underrated film","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star trek 5 is a good film lots of humour, Drama and religion there;s even the prophetic conflict mccoy has with euthanasia acting is good however visual effects are poor...WELL WHAT DO YOU EXPECT WITH A $30m budget with such an ambitious story...do the maths. the rock climbing sequence is cool, i like the battle on nimbus 3 where kirk an co storm the city to get the hostages out and the bit where the klingons try to attack them but the enterprise A evades the torpedo with warp speed excellent sequence the journey to the centre of the galaxy is cool and the pilgrimage on the god planet is cool i think they could have made God more dangerous. there is a tie-in to st6 with the kilngons on the enterprise enjoying a drink. I think paramount were a bit complacent on this film after st4 but they recovered well with 6. This film still grossed on the same level as the other original movies. All in all not a bad movie *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Still can't make my mind up.","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I came out of the cinema after watching this with a friend all I can remember us talking about was how bad it was. Of the two of us I most disliked it. Some of the acting was weak, uhura's dance was truly appalling (not her personally) but the idea of her doing that was completely wrong. Many of the iines were delivered badly and the effects seemed to be a retro step backwards. I'd really enjoyed Star Trek 4 and it was with some anticipation that I went to see 5. Its a shame really as much of the film is good. There's some great lines and I personally feel the story is a good one. What I hated most about the film is much of it seemed stolen. The beginning looked like Lawrence of Arabia. There was a bit that reminded me of Alien. Mad Max also seemed to have an influence. There were a lot of scenes that looked like scenes from other movies.I actually think the story is better than Star Trek 4. As much as I like 4 the idea of going into the past to get whales to speak to aliens is clearly stupid and unlikely even for science fiction. However the characters in this story are brilliantly implemented and there are some wonderful scenes. Star Trek 5 does less with its better story about a powerful being imprisoned and pretending to be god.It has to be said Bill's directing is shaky but there are some good performances to be had especially David Warner who was very believable in his role. The Klingon didn't say a lot in his company and the romulan was just a bit irritating.I've grown to like this movie over time. Its hit and miss but I think there's more hits than misses. I just wish Leonard Nimoy had directed this film and removed some of the weaker lines.I'd give the film 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"There's only one word to discribe this movie, UNDER RATED.","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    This movie is heavily under rated and did not deserve one of the Razzie awards it recieved. I'm sure Bill Shatner did his best considering he didn't have much to work with. There was set damage, budget cuts and costume difficulties and possibly other things that gave this film a bad time. This movie may not be the best of the Star Trek series, but it's not bad. It beats Star Trek III The Search For Spock because the story doesn't drag. I will say the visual effects could have been better, they are a bit dissappointing. I'm surprised that Paramount didn't give Shatner a chance to update the visual effects like they did in The Motion Picture. Those people that have only seen this film once and say it's horrible, I say give it another chance.  "},{"Title":"uneven and yet oddly fun","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When you view this film you realize that it has no clear goal. It glides along into different plot paths exploring what it wants to be..it never seems to reach that path. I loved the opening with Captain Kirk climbing the mountain with the beautiful score glistening in the background. There's a humaness to it..an almost serene feel to this opening that is refreshing. The film sprinkles comedy and sadness..at times action creeps in..all of this feels really uneven..almost caotic. Yet,despite the fact that there seems to be no method to this madness,this sequel almost feels oddly refreshing. It obviously has it's share of faults like the extremely hammy acting from a usually dependable cast(despite the fact that Laurence Luckinbill as Spock's passionate brother Cybock..sp?..is excellent),horrible special effects,and odd pacing. But there's a fun to it that I can not explain. Star Trek seems too often to stay within neat plot confines..this film here throws out all the stops and is at times quite intriguing. As a whole,this film is pretty bad..but a guilty pleasure of mine. The battle between Kirk and God is,however,quite lame. ***1/2/***** "}{"Title":"Ambitious effort falls a little short","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek V The Final Frontier has a few things en masse -- and one of those things is certainly ambition.  Shatner's original story was epic in scope and concept, and I think a good amount of it winds up on the screen.  The off-camera problems, however, drag this film down to mere-average standards.  The injection of humor gets old and stale after a while, even with a few good bits in there, and the ending is a bit of a letdown after all the buildup.  Of course, the effects are not really up to snuff, either, which also doesn't help the ending.  And whomever wrote the Uhura fan dance sequence needs to be forced to watch that sequence until their eyes bleed.But there is a lot of subtle good hiding amongst the more obvious bad.  The interplay and relationship between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy is delightful to watch, even if a bit neutered from Shatner's original vision.  The campfire scenes, especially, I feel have been unfairly slammed over the years.  I remember seeing the trailer for this film when I was a child, and getting the impression from the title as well as the story conceit, that this was to be the last film, the true FINAL Frontier.  Examined in this light, the campfire scenes are warm and touching tributes to the characters who's adventures we have followed for so long.  Its an utterly humanistic touch which helps hammer home the point that a lot of us have known all along -- that ST has always been more about the people than anything else. Sybok is complex and robust villain, worthy of the best of the original series.  He's not motivated sheerly by revenge or malice, like it seems all of the villains in the TNG films are, but instead is filled with faith about the righteousness of his cause.  This lends him to be a much more interesting and magnetic character than countless other bloodthirsty bad guys.  Shatner's direction is not nearly as poor as a lot of people like to think; his work is nothing spectacular but clever shots abound -- the prologue, Sybok taking the pain of McCoy and Spock, and even the Enterprise-shuttle-BOP interaction (despite the subpar effects).I enjoyed watching this film, much more than I thought I would.  Its not perfect, or even great, but I found it to be a diverting way to spend an evening, especially if you are a Trek fan.  It may not make you question your place in the cosmic order, nor will it ever top Khan or TMP, but its still an enjoyable romp for Kirk and company. "},{"Title":"Kirk Meets God - and kicks his ass","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Clearly a film made in the true spirit of the Monkees later efforts, or the Ruttles,or the sex pistols. A cash grab for fat, untalented, typecast, old trek stars who got together one more time to see who would pay to watch them make this up as the went along on their merry way to the center of the Galaxy to meet god, argue with him for a bit and then kick his ass. This movie and the first trek movie (I can never decide which of the two is worse) are the reason for the popular odd numbered trek movies stink mantra. amazingly the series is revived with the zero gravity klingon deaths in the sixth film. I am such a trekkie I even watch the almost unbearably bad enterprise show, but this movie is too much for me to see again. "},{"Title":"Final frontier should have been the final movie...","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Shatner and company, once again, step out of the convention halls and into the mainstream as they put another film together, this time surrounding the planet of galactic peace.For those of you that have seen this film, you know that, even as Star Trek fans, this is definitely not one of the best Star Trek movies they've made. Even after I've seen this movie, I found myself wishing that they never tried to do another one, because it was really on a downhill slope from Star Trek IV The Voyage Home (which I thought was the best one of all).The theme does keep up with the days of the 60's turning a problem of today into a television episode (or, in this case, a movie).  Man's search for a Higher Power has spanned the galaxies from far and wide and to a place where no one has gone before.Average input, average output, average film....5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Shatner's Directorial Bow Flawed, but Ambitious...","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR TREK V THE FINAL FRONTIER has been savaged over the years by critics and Trek fans alike for it's bizarre theme ('The Search for God' might have been a more apt title than 'The Final Frontier'), the anomalies in the established characters (Uhura having a secret passion for Scotty? Uh, I don't THINK so!), the bogus technology (Spock's infamous rocket boots, capable of operating upside down), the obvious continuity goofs (the Enterprise elevator shaft, with the floor markings out of sequence), and the introduction of an older brother for Spock, the laughing Vulcan Sybok (who looks younger than Spock, by the way...). It's failure confirmed the 'odd and even' theory about 'Star Trek' films (the even numbered films were considered the superior ones...at least until STAR TREK NEMESIS reared it's mediocre head), ended William Shatner's career as a film director, after only one movie, and pushed Paramount into bringing back director Nicholas Meyer, to salvage the franchise with STAR TREK VI.All this having been said, let me defend William Shatner, who took the brunt of the bad press over STAR TREK V. He had been promised the directing assignment for the film as part of his contract for STAR TREK IV (Leonard Nimoy had helmed both STAR TREK III and IV, and Shatner, who had directed for both stage and TV, wanted the same opportunity, which was certainly deserved). He had worked on the script for nearly two years, making it a profound statement about the nature of Man to challenge himself to achieve seemingly impossible goals...a theme he felt appropriate as a follow-up to the comic THE VOYAGE HOME. Religious zealots were a topical issue (then, as now), and the sweeping adventure he envisioned would involve thousands of extras riding unicorn-type horses, a quest to the 'Center of the Universe' that would, ultimately, become a descent into a 'Hell' of flame-spitting rock men, and a series of revelations that would result in a deeper bonding of Kirk, Spock, and McCoy than had been portrayed on TV or the previous four films.Then everything began to unravel. Despite the world-wide success of STAR TREK IV, Paramount gave Shatner and producer/co-writer Harve Bennett virtually the same budget as the previous film, despite the fact that STAR TREK V would require far more FX and location shooting. The studio then took issue with the theme, protesting that a film about looking for God would turn off theater-goers, and anger church groups. They demanded far more comedy in the script. They limited the production time severely, almost daring Shatner to complete the film on schedule.The FX firm hired to create the many effects shots proved to be slow and the product they produced looked 'cheap'. The thousands of extras were reduced to a handful, making the threat of Sybok appear far less menacing to the Federation. The entire interior of the Enterprise had to be rebuilt, as the studio had torn the previous sets down. The script was rewritten, emphasizing that the entity found was NOT God, and adding the continuity-challenging comic elements that the studio demanded. The schedule became so tight that reshooting was nearly impossible, and continuity glitches had to remain in the finished film.It was a situation that would have been daunting to even a veteran director, but Shatner, to his credit, kept a positive attitude, and never let the pressure he was under affect the atmosphere on set. With one daughter acting in the film, and another, on the set writing a book about the making of the film, he felt a strong sense of 'family', and this carried through to his Enterprise cast mates, as well. The scenes between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy are warmer and more intimate than in any of the other TREK films featuring the original cast.While STAR TREK V is, arguably, the weakest of all the films in the franchise, the finished product should not be held against William Shatner. If there is a villain, it is Paramount, who had so little respect for STAR TREK and it's fans, that it assumed audiences would 'buy' anything with the title.This narrow thinking would reappear, sadly, with STAR TREKINSURRECTION, and STAR TREKNEMESIS. If the franchise is dead, the studio only has itself to blame. "},{"Title":"Best and Worst","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was initially disappointed in this one. A film shouldn't be about special effects, but if done poorly, they tend to pull you out of the movie as you watch it. I agree that William Shatner probably let his ego get away from him, i.e. Full size mock-ups like the hanger bay and new observation deck with telemotor (cool, though), and the opening of him on El Capitan.However, ST5 has some of the best moments in it, particularly when Kirk, Spock, and McCoy are camping. Those scenes are not only fun, but provide a lot of incite into the 3 of them and their relationship to each other. I also liked when Kirk explains why he needs his pain. VERY powerful stuff.Had the effects not been distractingly bad, this would have been one of the best in the series. "},{"Title":"A big hug cures all problems according to Bill Shatner","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spock's half brother Sybok cures everyone's problems by giving them a big hug. If only it was that easy! In an absurd scene,Sybok takes over the Enterprise ridiculously easily with no opposition from it's crew and flies it to the centre of the Galaxy(how did they do that?)to meet God. It turns out that God is an alien that wants a lift and gets disposed of by a few phaser blasts. What a weak and silly plot. Bill Shatner deserves every brickbat that he gets for it. "},{"Title":"The second-worst Star Trek movie, but not just terrible.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was not very good, but it's not as terrible as many make it out to be. It's always good to see that group of actors together again even in such a disappointing effort. The movie does have a few highlightso Uhura's dance. C'mon, didn't we all want to see Nichelle Nichols in the buff? This was such a tease, but still lots of fun. I wish we could have seen more of the beautiful Nichelle, though.o The interaction between the three ambassadors on Nimbus III. This should have been expanded because there was some real potential here.o Kirk's attempt to hug Spock on the bridge of the Klingon ship. Spock's line, not in front of the Klingons was priceless.o Scotty's line, I know this ship like the back of my hand right before he crashes into a beam and knocks himself out. Yeah, it's not a good movie by any means. However, it's worth one viewing. If for no other reason, it will help you appreciate efforts like Star Trek IV and VI. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you have heard","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  More than a few fans have derided this film with such alternate tiles as William Shatner's Ego Trip or STV The Search for Plot but in reality it is not that bad.minor spoilersFirst off the plot is actually pulled form two orginal series episodes Journey to Eden and Who Mourns for Adonais? with a little of the animated episode Magic of Megas-Tu thrown in.  Kirk and company have already met Apollo and the Devil so meeting a being that believes it is God is not that off in left field as one might think.  Also the ship has been used to to a supposedly mystical place before - the planet Eden so that idea isn't off the wall either.As far as tone of the picture is concerned it is clear Shatner was aiming for the tone used in I, Mudd which didn't take itself too seriously.  Taken in that light the film is quite enjoyable.  Sure it isn't a City on the Edge of Forever but it is not worse than Spock Brain either. "},{"Title":"Qual Se Tu? (Is it you?) - This Trek is.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've had it with the ST5 bashing.  This was a good film. (no standard IMDB summary of best/worst film ever from me)This film's basic premise was sound.  The acting from all was solid. Nobody was out of character. (including Scotty who never lost focus of trying to get the ship fixed at all costs) There was nothing wrong with William Shatner's direction.  Circumstances got in the road of all the wonderful eye candy that we could have had in this film.  Does the lack of great effects detract from the story?  Look to TOS for your answer.I also have to laugh at all the nitpicking.  Who actually cares if the big three rocket past deck 89 (whichever) twice? (or if there are even that number of decks on the Enterprise)  I love Trek.  Have done for a long time. I'll humour a few of the nitpickers and actually reply to a few.Sulu and Chekov get lost in the woods, even though they are the great navigation and piloting team  You walk into a forest with no navigation aids and see how you get on.The Klingon captain is after Kirk for no reason  No he's not.  The Klingon ambassador tells the Federation in ST4 that there will be no peace as long as Kirk (the renegade and terrorist) lives.  He wants to earn some Brownie points by bringing Kirk in. (he does wonder If I defeated Kirk.....)The three ambassadors to Nimbus don't do anything and look bored  To quote St John Talbot, Nimbus Three is a worthless lump of rock.  It's almost like punishment duty to be assigned to Nimbus.Uhura and Scotty  What two grown consenting adults get up to is none of our business.Sybok  Was he ever supposed to be threatening?  That was only a show to fool someone into bringing a starship (whether it be Federation, Klingon or Romulan) to Nimbus Three.Anyway, enough of the nitpicks.  I will say that the editing was more than could have been desired for.  This probably accounts for the non explanation for the whole Marsh Melon joke, and some more character dialogue that we could have done with.  Also, the only clunky bit of humour in the entire film is Scotty's head bashing incident.  The rest of it was pulled off ok in my opinion.We always hear recently that we need more character stories, and less action/effects driven stories.  I say Watch this film!  There's a lot of character here, and it doesn't need fancy effects to get its point forward.There are a lot of people who want the Director's edition to fix all the effects that never got completed. Ok, we know now that this will never happen, but I agree that it would be a good idea. I also believe that we could also get the cut scenes back that Bill Shatner winced every time the editors said words to the effect of We've got it down to 100 minutes. This would more than likely add to the plot.Then we would see if the pudding is the proof we've been looking for since 1989. "},{"Title":"Good premise, good intentions, BERSERKLY uneven execution","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It all began when Leonard Nimoy told William Shatner over lunch, You know, because of our favored-nation situation, you could ask to direct STAR TREK V. In retrospect, maybe Nimoy was unwise to suggest this, because Shatner's end result, STAR TREK V THE FINAL FRONTIER, ended up being a weak point in the film series and a major disappointment for Shatner, who had big hopes for the film and wound up not being able to realize any of them.What went wrong? Well, Shatner's plan was to make a moody, gritty TREK film that dealt with the subject of faith, including a harrowing encounter with the Devil at the end. Paramount wanted V to be a lighthearted comedy in the vein of STAR TREK IV, and insisted that the final showdown be against an evil alien pretending to be God for its own gain. Shatner was forced to concede this in order to make the film (which he believes was his worst mistake on the film). Shatner wanted novelist Eric Van Lustbader to write the story treatments and TREK veteran Nicholas Meyer to handle the screenplay. Lustbader had a falling-out with Paramount and Meyer wasn't available, so writer David Loughery was hired by producer Harve Bennett to make the film into the comedy Paramount wanted. Shatner wanted Sybok's influence to result in a major falling-out between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy. Nimoy and DeForest Kelley thought it wouldn't make sense given the events of III, so that idea was scrapped early on. Shatner wanted big, epic visuals for the film. Paramount kept the $31 million budget so stiff that Shatner lost much of what he'd been planning. Shatner wanted ILM to return to the series, but they were caught up with other projects and couldn't provide their best people to work on the film. Bran Ferren, the replacement FX outfit, dazzled Paramount with stunning test footage but dropped the ball when it came to the film's actual FX work. Throw in a Writer's Guild strike that positioned V against BATMAN at the box office and numerous production problems, and it's easy to see why V didn't turn out as Shatner had hoped.So what exactly is wrong with the final film? Inconsistent pacing, for one thing. There are moments where the film moves swiftly and moments where it just DRAGS. Terrible cinematography by Andrew Laszlo; the film looks more washed-out and flat than even ST TMP. Even worse, Laszlo seems to have no sense of scope; his photography is pedestrian and devoid of any epic quality. (STAR TREK II DP Gayne Rescher would have been a much better fit for this outing.) Lousy costumes for the Starfleet away team; those brown and beige jumpsuits combined with Laszlo's bland camerawork again echo ST TMP's glum visuals. The studio-mandated evil God-alien ending is extremely anti-climactic and hokey; it completely undermines the whole trip we've been on, especially since this alien impostor can be killed by Klingon phasers. (Shatner's battle with the Devil ending would have been much more satisfying.) Shatner's direction is wildly uneven; he succeeds greatly during the quieter moments but stumbles when it comes to the action scenes. The Paradise City street fight is very badly staged, relying too much on close-ups than on showing the action in full and plagued by choppy editing and stiff choreography. Half the time, Shatner directs like a scared rabbit (which, given his well-documented discomfort over how the film was turning out, isn't surprising). And of course, the FX work is underwhelming. While Bran Ferren delivers excellent phaser and transporter FX, everything else falls short. The God effect looks like a face layered over a floodlight. The photon torpedoes look cartoony. The bluescreen shots look fake. And the warp speed FX look like they just took normal shots of the Enterprise and stuck colored lines behind it. (Isn't the ship supposed to become a blur when it takes off?) And finally, the film's tone is a little too jokey for its spiritual subject matter; Loughery's script doesn't balance the humor and drama properly. The running marsh melons gag and the turboshaft flight are more irritating than funny.The film is not without merit, though. Again, Shatner does a fine job directing the film's quieter moments. The scenes where Kirk, Spock, and McCoy discuss family and friends are truly engaging. The supporting cast gets their moments to shine, too. (Call me crazy, but I thought Uhura's desert dance was hilarious.) There's a flirtation between Scotty and Uhura that has a playful zest. Sulu and Chekov get into the thick of the action and have a funny moment where they get lost on a hike. Some of the scenery is really stunning, especially the Yosemite scenes. The acting for the most part is very good, with Laurence Luckinbill's Sybok being the standout. Jerry Goldsmith's music is, as always, gorgeous-nobody scores STAR TREK better. And as flawed as it is, the film is true to the spirit of TREK in that it tries to explore the human condition. It tries to explore the concept of faith and man's desire to believe, and even though it doesn't reach its ambitions, its heart is in the right place. Had Shatner not been so heavily compromised, the film might have met its goals. As it stands, there's a good movie somewhere in V, but it's muffled under a lot of detritus.Since Shatner wasn't happy with how the film turned out, and since the FX work is so bad, I highly recommend that he re-edit the film and re-do all the FX work for the director's edition, as Robert Wise did on ST TMP. It wouldn't make the film perfect, but it would go a long way toward improving it and getting more of the intended impact across. As is, V is the only TREK film that has such extreme highs and lows in it, in spite of its good intentions. "}{"Title":"Cool it with the Shatner bashing","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While Star Trek V may just be one of the worst Star Trek movies in several ways, the movie did have enough good points to keep it from being a total disaster.Being a Trek fan, I remember reading some interviews with cast and crew about how they were going to follow in the foot-steps of what is as of this writing the most commercially successful Star Trek film, which is The Voyage Home. Clearly the success of STIV as a light-hearted adventure lulled the writers of STV into a false sense of security. It seems that the writers were so high on the successful use of humor in IV that they went into humor-overkill mode in STV.Putting the classic cast in very human situations to create laughter is one thing, but writing bad dialogue is another. While the potential was clearly there to make a very thoughtful ST movie, the potential was squandered with a piss poor screenplay. The dialogue in ST5 is arguably the worst in any of the Trek films.I've read here that because Shatner is a poor actor that they should've never let him direct. Let's forget that Shatner is an underrated actor, especially when he restrains himself (ala ST3) for a minute. If being a bad actor means you'll be a bad director, then based on that brilliant observation, Quentin Tarantino should've never stepped behind the camera.Shatner has gone to write the Tek War series and a few memoirs, and I have found them all to be entertaining and have solid writing. But in the case of ST5, the writing, (which wasn't all Shatner's fault if you look at the credits), prevented the movie from reaching the status of Star Trek 2-4.However, there is still much to admire about Star Trek V. As it has often been written and I paraphrase, Shatner chose some of the boldest material to work with despite being warned against it. According to Shatner, he had all these cool ideas for the movie, especially the ending, which just didn't come to fruition because of budget cuts. That they didn't have ILM to do the special f/x didn't help the movie any.The movie is very physical for the characters, which is good. And despite its poor dialogue and some groan-inducing humor, ST5 still tells a wonderful story that is very human when it comes to friendships and personal beliefs. Because of that, I don't consider this the worst Trek film. I leave that designation to the cliched and utterly predictable Insurrection, and the poorly thought out Generations.  "},{"Title":"Some positives and some flaws","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The portrayal of the now mature friendship among Kirk, Spock and McCoy is touching and well done  Sybok's renegade half brother, a criminal no matter how much he smiles, was such a bad idea that he's never come up in another series and I think has been renounced by the fan fiction.  Nevertheless, they cast another renegade disloyal Vulcan in the next movie.  They're supposed to be born with integrity, remember?The other thing I couldn't stand was putting a planet in the center of the galaxy.  I don't care if god was on it or not.  It is physically impossible.  So is everything else about Star Trek, but we willingly suspend disbelief for things like faster than light travel, transporter beams, artificial gravity, and weapons the size of a cigarette pack that can destroy a building.  This is supposed to be s.f.  A planet at the center of the galaxy is fantasy, and not even good fantasy.One other quibble along these lines.  In the scene where Spock has to go up some kind of tube, he uses thruster boots.  Now how could we have had S.T. around in so many incarnations for so many years, and the gravity never goes off?  Or they can't turn it off selectively?  (I am aware that in the next and final movie they finally did what seems to me to be the only real anti-grav scene ever filmed since 2001.I know the answer to my own question.  Even in this day and age, wholesale anti-grav is too expensive and difficult an effect.  It's easier to show someone flying on his own power. "},{"Title":"From one extreme to the other","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt this movie had a big problem that was the  exact opposite of the first STAR TREK movie's  big problem.  What bothered me about that first  movie was what bothered a lot of other people;  the various quirks, mannerisms, and what-have-you  that we'd all come to know and love about the  characters were sadly lacking.  In STAR TREK V,  however, those various quirks, mannerisms, and  what-have-you, were overdone to the point of  caricature.  At times, it almost seemed I was  watching a STAR TREK parody that starred the  original cast.  This movie also suffers from a  23rd-century version of director William Shatner's  insistence on wrecking as many cars as possible  during each T.J. HOOKER episode.All of this was a shame, because this movie dealt  with some thought-provoking issues, including the  folly of looking for God in all the wrong places.   I can't be more specific lest this review become  a spoiler, but this aspect of the movie has been  discussed by others, who've done a better job than  I could do here, so if you want to know more, go  and read what they've said.  "},{"Title":"A Shatner vanity product","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An awesome exercise in Shatner vanity ? Or is The Shat sending himself up ?You can tell he co-wrote and directed this as well as starred in it. Kirk is portrayed almost in caricature. His macho man devil may care persona is exagerrated to such a point that you can't help but think that Shatner the writer/director has his tongue firmly in cheek.I read all the bad reviews on here, and I did think people were a little harsh.  The film has its good moments, like when the relationship between Kirk, Spock and Bones, and of course the humour; the highlight being when Kirk takes on God (and wins of course !) As others have pointed out; poor old Scottie was woefully underused, as were Chekov and Sulu.In its entirety it cant match the other films, but it has its moments, and if you have some free time then it's well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"This... movie is... so... bad!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek V is the dark horse of all the movie series, and for a good reason. I don't care about whether the movie hasn't got special effects or not; the storyline itself is boring, and as soon as I saw Spock flying in a pair of oversized boots I knew I was in big trouble. Whats the deal with Uhura dancing anyway? It looked so ridiculous and tacky. For those of you who loathe the 24th century Star Trek era and adore endless & pointless interaction between the famous trio Kirk, Bones and Spock, then this movie is for you. Otherwise, steer clear. If anything, the fact that it is directed by William Shatner should be enough as a warning sign! "},{"Title":"It had potential, and then the rest of the movie happened.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this when it came out.  The first few minutes of the film were promising even with the lackluster production values.  However, the movie went downhill from there and became a disjointed mix of serious reflection and rampant silliness (where's Graham Chapman when you need him?).  Too many elements didn't deserve to be canon (Sybok, for one, and the fact that the Enterprise-A has ninety-some decks while the larger Enterprise-D only has 40-42).The dancing Uhura scene was atrocious.  If there was any more light in that scene I would have needed extensive therapy.All in all, I was disappointed in the direction Star Trek V - The Search for God - went. "},{"Title":"Needed Some More Work","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I adore the Star Trek universe, but I have to say that Star Trek 5 was a weak movie.  As others have pointed out, there were major plot problems and FX problems.  I did find a few diamonds in this rough- but I just can't get around the ease with which the Vulcan villain took control of the ship and crew AND the ease with which the Enterprise entered the so-called `Great Barrier.'  But alas- it's Trek.  so I will watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Two Movies -- One Good, One Bad","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the more intriguing films in the series, because it is essentially two films -- the first an embarrassing attempt at slapstick, the second an impressive voyage into the metaphysical roots of the show.  The first forty-five minutes or so of the film are truly bad, badly acted and written, and the jokes are terrible.  Then, the actual story kicks in....From that point on, the battle between the Enterprise crew and a seemingly fanatical hijacker picks up both momentum and emotional steam, aided in no little respect by the wonderful performance of Laurence Luckinbill.  Likewise, after the first forty-five minutes or so, the regulars act like they're in a different film from that which they'd been previously occupying.  DeForest Kelley in particular gets a truly moving scene, and Shatner seems more like the man who starred in the series' first two seasons --powerful yet restrained.All in all, if you're willing to endure (or otherwise fast-forward through) the first three-quarters of an hour, this is a very rewarding film.  RATING **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Move your horse, Captain. I'm scanning!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm going to take an unpopular stance with this movie, but I really liked it. What's more, I liked it more than The Voyage Home. Yeah, there are some cringe-worthy moments (Scotty banging his head; Sulu and Chekov &#150; Starfleet's finest helmsman and navigator &#150; getting lost in the woods; the campfire song), but it's still a fun movie. William Shatner does a fine job of directing and co-writing the movie. It recaptures some of the fun of the TV series, with some `kisses to the past' (the return of the Enterprise sound effects, the Galileo&#133;), and the character of Sybok is a new twist on a villain. Spock's `Damn you, sir!' to Klaa is cool. It's a shame that Shatner got shafted by ILM.  "},{"Title":"Kirk vs God.  HINT Dont bet on God.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was not my favorite Star Trek film.  The overall storyline was weak. The Enterprise looking for God hijacked by Spock's half brother was a stretch for me and I am a Star Trek fan of 36 years.  If Spock had a half brother it would have come out before this.  A couple of other problems there were some strange variations of the Starfleet uniforms, new outfits, cords and such it just didnt feel right at all.  Some of the characters were made to be ridiculous, like Scotty conking his head on a beam.  Give me a break. Scotty deserved better.  Also is it so easy to take over this new Enterprise A?This movie does have some wonderful Star Trek moments all through the film that none of the previous or later films dont really have.  We get to see the crew as family and that is possibly the big plus for this film.  I am not saying that it is a bad film its just as a Star Trek film it could have been so much more. "}{"Title":"Star Trek V The Mistake (possible spoilers)","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie should be subtitled The Mistake, because that's what it is. Shatner is mean-spirited (assuming Sulu and Chekov are dumb enough to get lost, and allowing Scotty to hit his head on a low-hanging pipe), unfunny (the go climb a rock shirt is just dumb) and confuses Star Trek with Westerns.The best part of the movie, and the only saving grace in it, is the interactions between the Klingons in the battle scenes.  Todd Bryant (Klaa) and Spice Williams (Vixis) are *real*, unapologetic Klingons.  It's too bad that Shatner is the one who gets to tell them what to do-- no real Klingon would apologize to an enemy, even if he was wrong in the first place.One serious mistake in connection with the next film  the Enterprise crew gets to be too buddy-buddy and comfortable with the Klingons at the end of Star Trek V.  If the state of relations is so good at this point, why do we hate/distrust the Klingons throughout most of Star Trek VI?Score out of ten stars, only one, for the Klingon stuff.  The rest of the movie is a mistake, and should be regarded as such.  "},{"Title":"The ONLY Star Trek ever made for Cinema !","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Heres another case of a very good movie, completely trashed down in its own country of origin, by some very bad publicity right from the begining. I never understood who started the rumor that this was going to be a bad movie.Make no mistake, THIS IS THE BEST STAR TREK MOVIE EVER! Actually, to me this is the ONLY Star TREK movie ever made to the big screens.This was the first time I felt I was watching STAR TREK at the cinema. William Shatner did a great job in capturing the atmosphere of the original 60s series. Something than the other directors never achieved before.Not even Leonard Nimoy did it. His movies were among the best, but they were always missing something, that to this day I still dont know what it is, but its present in William Shatners STAR TREK V. I know this sounds a bit abstract, but if you loved the originals as much as I do maybe you felt the same too.Even the original bridge blips and noises were present this time, making this new Enterprise really feel like the original one. And the production designers really tried to capture the original feeling of the Enterprise and at the same time adding this new modern look. Something that was never accomplished in the other films, where the sets had always something missing in the design, making them look more unrealistic and plastic than this new ones, which by the way are also brilliantly lit and have an excellent classic atmosphere.But one of the great things that set this ST movie apart from the others is that we can see that it was directed with a personal style by William Shatner, something that is never present on the other ST movies, because all look the same and could be directed by any director and we never would find out each one did it. Not with STAR TREK V. This movie has a personal style. And a very good one. I think William Shatner should do a few more movies, because this one really looks different from the usual Hollywood production. Maybe it was because of this that it was destroyed.Ok, the special effects could have been better and the ending of the story could have been magnificent, instead of that almost disappointment, but I read somewhere that the makers, had to cut lots of things they had written for the finale, because they had not much money to film it. It seems that this was the cheapest STAR TREK movie ever. Aparently someone didnt trust Wiliam Shatner to direct this thing. What a mistake, because I bet if he had been given the money, Im sure this movie would have been amazing.Anyway, despite everything, this is an excellent STAR TREK movie, and the only one who really feels like STAR TREK. So dont be afraid of watching this, because even the story is good, and they did an excellent job with the material they were allowed to write despite the lack of money for this production.Once again ,we here in Europe have the contrary opinion to the Americans. Practicaly the only reviewers who didnt liked the film, were the ones who hate Star Trek and sci-fi. Everybody else gave it high marks considering him the most acurate STAR TREK movie to date.And I totally agree. Not a masterpiece, but a fantastic movie despite his flaws. 9 out of 10. Dont miss it. "},{"Title":"Where No Star Trek Movie Gone Before...","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have heard a lot of negative things about this movie over the years and recently I got a chance to see the movie and what I saw was not as bad as was told.You see if you are a true follower of the original series you will realize that the film was bang on target as far as the concept was concerned but what it lacked was something innovative as far as the story and its execution is concerned.Man has always been fascinated by the idea to meet its creator and their are folklore around every culture on earth regarding this so in a way the concept was too ambitious and given the budget constraints they did well.You see may be after a couple of years if and when Prometheus 2 gets made and released they will again deal with this question but in different way.So being a true Trekkie as I believe myself to be not all was lost in this movie and William Shatner did a fairly decent job.Coming year will celebrate 50 years of star trek and I hope the new film Star Trek 3 will just makes it more special. "},{"Title":"great metaphors","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... I like how the actors enjoy their show .... Some great jokes inside... Needs a philosophic open mind to go with the story .... Is for star trek fans. Metaphores of the rise and fall of a Guru - but this one takes responsibility (in a way) ... ...on the other hand it is again the kirk- way shoot and the problem is gone ... But it never was kirk all alone... Here we see the family-enterprise ... And UHURA....hurra Do not expect too much action - but there is enough in it! My intentio? ;-) Pumping up the vote over 6? I... hate votings ... I will enjoy the film - again - and it is nice to watch with friends and fans - that is my vote. "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always felt that at least some of the flack this film catches is because it was directed by William Shatner. That's not to say there aren't any number of nits to pick here, but most are overblown, and none of them are fatal.Though it boasts the worst F/X work in the entire series by far (at times it's downright embarrassing), the film itself looks great. Shatner does and excellent job of framing his shots and the cinematography is quite good. The basic story is also quite solid until the under-thought Okay, how do we wrap this up? finale. In truth, none of this is as stupid as a killer probe coming back to destroy Earth because of whale extinction. That film just managed to tie things up in a more satisfying way. Hence, its reputation.For his part, Shatner gives a very lively--at times downright jaunty--performance but the rest of the cast seem to be mailing it in. Whether this is due to them not caring much for the script or not caring much for Shatner I'm not certain. Shatner does endeavor to give the supporting crew their moments, but unfortunately these are all quite embarrassing, and seem to be done on purpose as a bit of retribution. Scotty hitting his head, Uhura's unfortunate sexy fan dance. Sulu and Chekov getting lost in the woods. It's impossible to watch these scenes today knowing what we know about the behind the scenes politics of 'Star Trek' and not cringe.In the end, 'Star Trek The Final Frontier' is a breezy, fun and infinitely re-watchable galactic jaunt, flaws and all. "},{"Title":"One of the greats","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a big fan of the Star Trek franchise and I consider the Final Frontier to be the best of the films. I really like the idea of characters and superpowers never previously used in Star Trek to be vital to the plot. Giving Spock a long lost brother with superpowers was an awesome idea and doesn't ruin the movie at all. This film is amazing considering William Shatner, the greatest actor of all time, was responsible for acting and directing this movie. It was also Shatner's idea to the crew of the hijacked Enterprise to search for God; a topic that places this film above the rest. This is the best movie you will ever watch, and you will appreciate it ever more if you are already a Trekkie. "},{"Title":"Star Trek and the search for God.","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" William Shatner must have thought; What Leonard Nimoy can do, I can do better! So, next to starring in this movie, Shatner wrote and directed the movie, just as Nimoy did for the previous Star Trek entry; Star Trek IV The Voyage Home and Star Trek III The Search for Spock, which he only directed. But as it turned out, Shatner's writing and directing skills were not up to par with Nimoy's!This movie does plenty wrong and many thought that the series should had ended here. Star Trek had outlived its course and they had obvious difficulties coming up with new stuff to do and keep things up to date with the standards of filmmaking and science-fiction. It perhaps also was no coincidence that the television series Star Trek The Next Generation, with an all new cast, got launched in 1987, 2 years prior to this movie and 1 year after the previous Star Trek movie entry. You know Star Trek is in trouble when it is starting to take on Star Wars sound effects and tries to mimic Star Wars like sequences. Isn't that like crossing the streams?Thing they came up with for this movie; a search for God. Really doesn't sound like the most spectacular thing and it also really isn't. But what's perhaps even more disappointing is that the movie never goes deep. You would expect for a movie with a subject like that to bring up 2 or 3 interesting and provoking questions about life and religion but the movie really never does. It instead seemed like it was more focused on its comedy! And it's really not the funny sort of comedy but more of the awkward kind. It's very random, silly and often just completely out of place and tone with the rest of the movie. Because of this, there also is never really any sense of danger throughout the movie, which is taking away pretty much all of the excitement and entertainment out of it.Not that the movie is boring. I mean, in all honesty, it's just as good/bad to watch as any other random science-fiction flick, that involves traveling through space and visiting alien planets. I can still see why this movie is disliked by many, of which most are hardened Star Trek fans. This is pretty much the Star Trek movie in which stuff got made fun of and things turned silly. It also made it obvious how outdated the franchise was getting and how old the cast suddenly turned.All of the cast members were really starting to look too old for their roles. Nothing wrong with having 2 or 3 wrinkly characters walking around but when it's being a whole starship, that is just being a bit too much. And really, this is of course something they easily could had prevented by introducing new characters and letting them slowly and subtly take over the main parts but somehow I think Shatner opposed to this idea and maybe is also a reason why he demanded full control and directed this movie himself.It's also true that this movie really could had used a good main villain. Sybok really isn't an evil character at heart and certainly does nothing horrible and while there are some Klingons walking around in this movie, their roles are being pretty limited unfortunately.In all honesty, it's far from a terrible movie and I certainly still consider it to be a watchable one but it just isn't the most interesting, original, entertaining or clever of Star Trek movies out there.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"I Actually Liked This Movie","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really did. It's not as good as most of the others, granted, but it's a long way from being as bad as the first one.The characters didn't get any character development. That's my only criticism of this movie, and this is the only reason why it didn't get a score higher then seven.But, beyond this, I found this movie very enjoyable. I liked the character of Sybol, and although the effects are bad and it's completely illogical, I thought the idea of a God-like being in the centre of the galaxy to be a good concept for a story. (Too bad that they couldn't have made the being look a bit better, though.) "},{"Title":"Regardless of being a franchise fan or not, it's a poor film all round.","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The voyage here is a search for God, the big guy in the sky, the big cheese with a beard. Cunningly disguised as the thirst for ultimate knowledge. Taking over from Leonard Nimoy in the directing chair is The Shat himself, Captain Tiberius William Shatner Kirk. In an attempt at blending the fun corny aspects of the series with sci-fi histrionics (Klingon dialogue consultant, really?), Shatner and his co-writers have only achieved what is almost an embarrassing parody of a parody.Where's the danger? Where's the brothers in arms spirit? In fact where is our badly underwritten crew? Star Trek humour is a wonderful thing, when it's in the right places and done with a straight lace so befitting what has come before The Final Frontier. Some light moments exist, but they do not compensate for the lack of serious moments. While do we really need another Spock revelation? Really?Some nice sets and little knowing Trek moments aside, The Final Frontier is just a bad movie experience. 3/10 "},{"Title":"The Final Affront Here.","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shatner directs! Oh, what a marvelous disaster! From Shatner's book, Star Trek Movie Memories, we read about Shatner's grandiloquent vision for the greatest TREK adventure of all - the search for God Itself! The Final Frontier! We learn of the hordes of barbarians at the gate, of the ten Rock Men finale; of the sweeping alien farscapes and cerebral pondering on the existence of God... and then we run aground on the studio complaints, crews being late, loss of light, story changes, budget constrictions, time delays, the middle-background whining of Gene Roddenberry and how hard it is to direct and - we end up with STAR TREK V THE FINAL FRONTIER. A marvelous disaster.A Vulcan named Sybok pirates the Enterprise in a misguided quest for Sha Ka Ree - the abode of God, which is apparently somewhere in the middle of the galaxy, a vantage point from which (we surmise) all prayers and oblations can be heard and dealt with in timely fashion.Sybok hypnotizes Kirk's crew to go along for his ride by healing their inner demons - an easy task with the extras known as Cast Regulars, Sulu, Uhura and Chekov (Takei, Nichols and Koenig); not so easy when it comes to Scotty (James Doohan, skulking about the bilges of the reconditioned, malfunctioning Enterprise NCC-1701-A) and The New Three Stooges, Moe Kirk, Larry Spock and Curly Bones McCoy (Shatner, Nimoy and Kelley).I'll say one thing for Shatner (who also co-wrote with Harve Bennett and David Loughery) he intimately knows which TREK characters work and how to work them, as Kirk, Spock and Bones are holding hands in almost every scene. As with all STAR TREKs, the humorous and impassioned scenes involving The Three are tempered by the ridiculous - Uhura getting the attention of some desert dwellers by doing a nude feather dance (which is not only embarrassing, considering she thinks to tempt them with her 70-year-old, wrinkly ta-tas, it's kinda icky as well), or another cantina sequence (after the failed attempt in TREK III), where they once again display their utter inferiority to STAR WARS.A disturbing scene shows McCoy euthanizing his father on his deathbed, Sybok coaxing the memory from McCoy to absolve his pain with catharsis; Spock is shown his birth and subsequent spurning by his father as being too human. These scenes are the heart of darkness Shatner was aiming for.Unfortunately, couched within STAR TREK, before too long we are bound to slam into something idiotic, such as Sybok giving an uneducated monologue to justify his quest, People thought the world was flat - but Columbus proved it wasn't! (shows how much he knows about Earth history - Columbus was establishing a trade route, not proving the Earth's sphericity); People thought the sound barrier couldn't be broken - it was! (and this time, when he could cite the man who actually attempted and succeeded in that singular quest, Sybok doesn't - Chuck Yeager, you Vulcan C-Student!).For every dramatic hammer (like Kirk affirming, I know who I am! I don't need to confront my pain!) there is a nail in the coffin (like Kirk fighting a three-breasted cat-lady...).The hammer With the Enterprise, Sybok intends to breach The Great Barrier - a wall of special effects that no one can pass through alive. The nail Apparently, all it takes to breach the Great Barrier safely... is to fly through it.The hammer The most authentic Klingons yet in the series pursue Kirk for the glory of killing him, chok-tha-ing quite fluently in what was established as actual Klingon dialect, created by linguist Marc Okrand. The nail Uh, why do you need a PERISCOPE on a space ship? Spock gets to nerve pinch a horse, Chekov gets to sit in the Captain's seat; Shatner's real life daughter is on-board as an Ensign and she's as bad an actor as the rest of the extras; Uhura and Scotty are an item - but if I wanted to see something that weird, I'd watch the cantina sequence at Mos Eisley.After numerous annoying plot holes and cinematic deficiencies, Sybok and The Three shuttle down to the planet of Sha Ka Ree to meet God. And we get the perfunctory evil alien with laser beams shooting out of his eyes.The final scene is a funny, touching moment as Kirk is overjoyed to see Spock on-board a Bird of Prey and is about to hug him, when Spock interjects, Please, Captain, not in front of the Klingons. Many argue that STAR TREK movies must be judged in the time period they were made - an apologist remark usually pertaining to the low budget efx that every TREK up to V is victim of. But that is not why the TREK movies are such phenomenal space junk. We can live with dated effects; what drives us insane are the egregious non-performances from every single supporting cast member and absolutely illogical and unscientific plot points, bad editing, poor direction, a general sloppiness and an overwhelming plastic dynamic.The final frontier will be when STAR TREK steps out from behind Gene Roddenberry's skirts to proclaim it is part of our universe, to join the movie-making community on equal grounds, to boldly go where every other filmmaker has gone before - film school. "}{"Title":"Watch the Original Series First!!","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watch the Original Series First if you want to fully get this movie, I do understand however, why everybody is attacking this movie - it was made after the next generations have started, otherwise we would see 7+ points here. It is true that the special effects are worse than the Next generations series, but it goes along perfectly with the original series... Also the logic behind the plot its following the course of the same series. Sometimes you have to see the father to understand where the son is coming from. I give it 7 out of 10. Shatner is not a good director. Otherwise is the same old guy who is concerned about his ship and crew. I know many people like him in real life. "},{"Title":"I know this ship like the back of my hand","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having bought the box set of all the star trek movies I am working my way through all the films in order. I've just seen 'The Final Frontier' for the first time not realizing it has such a bad reputation and was quite surprised reading it now having thoroughly enjoyed the film and thinking it was at least as good as all the previous ones if not slightly better than some. I also didn't realise William Shatner directed it until after I saw it so that was another surprise as I thought it was directed very well. The main problem seems to be the humour in this film. The first few films were quite serious and I don't think they could have continued in the same way so with The Voyage Home they lightened up a bit and added more humour, with this film they wanted to balance it a bit more making it a bit more serious but still having moments of humour. I think it worked pretty well, also I found the sense of comradeship between Kirk, Spock and Bones genuinely moving. I wouldn't say I was ever a huge Star Trek fan but now having watched half the films so far I think I may be becoming one. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Star Trek V  The Final Frontier  - not the worst Star Trek flick.","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V The Final Frontier certainly takes many unkind comments here, and it certainly was not the best movie in the series. (That award easily goes to Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan.) It was not the worst Star Trek movie, however. To me, that was a movie that I have not seen mentioned here very often Star Trek Generations. (Star Trek The Motion Picture and Star Trek The Voyage Home are, for very different reasons, close behind in the contest for the worst movie.) There are some episodes of the original series which make any one of the movies seem like Citizen Kane in comparison, however And the Children Shall Lead, Spock's Brain, and The Way to Eden. You thought Shatner's singing was bad in The Final Frontier? Listen to Charles Napier in The Way to Eden! Spock's Brain probably has the worst plot of any Star Trek episode and remains watchable only because it is occasionally (and unintentionally) hilarious. And the Children Shall Lead is really the worst episode because the acting is terrible. Don't be so hard on The Final Frontier and William Shatner. "},{"Title":"Kirk, Spock and McCoy singing around the campfire","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some of the effects are cheesy, but this movie is really a lot of fun. The relationship between the three principles is reminiscent of the television series. As a matter of fact this movie depicts the Kirk, Spock and McCoy relationship better than any other Trek film. From the escape from the brig to the campfire scene, there are many great moments with these three characters. At one point Kirk is about to hug Mr. Spock when Spock stops him saying, Captain, not in front of the Klingons. What could be better than the three friends singing Row, Row, Row Your Boat. In the campfire scene, McCoy spikes the beans with whiskey while Kirk contemplates Vulcan gas. This movie, director by William Shatner has been panned by critics and fans alike; however, they have missed the point. This film is closer in spirit to the 60's series than any of the other Star Trek movies. Totally enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Dodgy in parts, but ultimately fun.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What did happen to the effects work of the 1989 summer films?Both this and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade suffer from some awful processing work. Of course, the Last Crusade had a very good script to rely on, whereas The Final Frontier has less so. Still, I'd much rather watch this than the crushing bores that are Generations and Insurrection. It has amusing moments, a good villain in Sybok and the old cast still retain all their old charisma.  Given the opportunity to stay in and watch this on telly, as I am doing now, or go out and watch recent stuff like Catwoman or Van Helsing, I think it's an easy decision to stay exactly where I am.  "},{"Title":"actually, maybe the best one","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like Alien 3, Star Trek V is a movie that hordes of science fiction fans have lined up against, for reasons that completely baffle me.  This here is a good flick, folks.  The relationship between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy seems very real and affectionate, the villain Sybok is quite complex and interesting, and the supposedly confusing ending is easy to understand if you only keep your ears open (Spock says, directly, that the creature is not supposed to be God).This is a story about faith, about aging, about friendship, about... well...lots of things, really, and yet its detractors can't stop whining about a few unconvincing shots of the Klingon Bird-of-Prey.  Come on, guys, you're Star Trek fans - bad special effects come with the territory!  Besides, the extensive location filming and beautiful sets in this film more than make up for the production's shortcomings.  By contrast, the other Trek films look studio-bound and stifled.Give it another shot, gang.  Like Sybok, try to have a little faith. "},{"Title":"Great Star Trek movie!","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS***Star Trek V, the most underrated of the Star Trek movies is easily one of the best of the franchise. I'm only a casual fan (I prefer Star Wars) and don't care for the goofs in this movie, which I consider to be minor and doesn't affect the movie. Some of them are considered serious (a.o. the number of decks and how the Enterprise was able to reach the center of the Galaxy going at Warp 7) but as I said, don't care about them. The acting is great for a Star Trek movie. William Shatner is as stiff as always, but I like that. Nimoy is good, but the real gems are James Doohan (as Scott, who else?) and Laurence Luckinbill (as Spock's half-brother Sybok). Luckinbill is very convincing and sincere and seemed to have good fun. The visual effects are at times horrendous, with that budget (nearly 28 million dollars) why didn't they use ILM instead of Associates and Ferren. Yes, ILM was producing the f/x for Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, but did ALL the staff at ILM do so? I would very much like to see an updated version of Star Trek V, though Paramount has said that won't happen. Let's see what the future holds.   "},{"Title":"4th best Trek film","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** In my opinion this is the 4th best Star Trek film ever made. I watched it for a third time yesterday and I must say it was NOT a waste of my time. The directing was sloppy, but everything else was top notch to make this a worthy Trektacular film. Shatner was brave to try and star, write and direct this he did well. Luckinbill was one of the better actors in this film as Spock's half-brother Sybok, who hijacks the Enterprise to find God on a planet in the center of the Galaxy. I thaught the beginning was great when you first see Sybok on the (horned) horse. The ending was probably the worst part, when Klaa (the klingon captain) gave up and just became allies with Kirk , I thaught the Klingons had more honor than that... But still it was good. 8 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Pointless and Idiotic","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The tremendous high of enthusiasm that Star Trek IV The Voyage Home created is all but destroyed by this muddled, pointless and unfortunate entry in the long running Star Trek series.  Star Trek V The Final Frontier is such a drastic plummet from the quality of the previous films that one wonders what happened.  Everything from screenplay, visual effects, editing, and story have all seemed to lose several points in this film, and the end result ends up feeling disjointed and apocryphal in relation to the continuity of the series.  The story deals with tremendous metaphysical questions in the same way a troubled twelve year old would, and moments that could have had great power come across as if they were directed by a person who has a resume composed entirely of beer commercials.  Many of the movie's sequences are obviously pandering to the ego of William Shatner, Star Trek V's director, writer and star.  The brightest point of the entire film is the villain Sybok, played by Laurence Luckinbill.  Luckinbill lends a degree of dignity to the material that it does not deserve, and is the only person throughout the film that seems to have half of his brain capacity functioning.Star Trek V seems to want to tap into the nostalgia of its fan base, but does so with over-long and pointless scenes of Kirk, Spock and McCoy singing around a campfire.  While the first film failed to make the characters paramount, Star Trek V gives the audience WAY to much of the character moments, sacrificing a decent and logical story and ignoring aspects of the previous films.  Star Trek V The Final Frontier is the lowest point in the entire franchise, making it a necessity for the original crew to return for one more adventure.    "},{"Title":"Great Story","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a wonderful Star Trek film, from beginning to end. It had a great story, a passionate villain called 'Sybok', superb character interactions between Kirk-Spock-McCoy, breathtaking scenes of Yosemite National Park, and the search for god at the center of the galaxy. However, despite all the flaws in which the script and the special fx's had, Star Trek V The Final Frontier scored a marvelous sountrack by Jerry Goldsmith. Overall, it was an enjoyable Star Trek film. I give it 3 Stars....7.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Most Underrated Star Trek Movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently acquired the laserdisc of this movie on EBay.  I haven't watched it since the early 1990's.  The first couple of times I saw it I could see no redeeming factors, but now I realize that is better than any Next Generation movie as well as Star Trek TMP and III.  I like it as much as IV. Numbers II and VI were the absolute peaks in my opinion however.  As for the Next Generation movies, I will suffice it to say that they have no cinematic scope like the originals.  TMP and number III are still better than these next gen's.  Why should you like this movie? Here are the top ten reasons 1) True to the series (Just listen to the phaser sound effects at the end if you don't believe me) 2) Classic framing story 3) Human journey (Faith and the challenges we all have) 4) Beautiful Metaphors (El Capitan and Turboshaft) 5) Great scenes such as being behind the ship's wheel during breakthrough of great barrier 6) A little shorter than TMP 7) Everyone of the original cast had a key role (Not so true in some of the others) 8) Spock was back to his green blooded self 9) More light was shed on the characters lives (McCoy at father's deathbed) 10) Gets better with more viewings - Challenge yourself to find subtle references to the original series (How many people noticed that the wheel in the lounge and its Where No Man Has Gone Before placard was a reference to the first episode with the Enterprise crew of the movie.  That episode had a similar plot to this movie!  If Nicholas Meyer would have directed this then people wouldn't be dissing it as much as they do.  That is not to negate Mr. Shatner's effort. He is a decent director and a good storyteller, to bad that people don't have better taste in movies these days.  Live Long and Prosper my friends. "},{"Title":"My favorite.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do not know why the people trash this film; I like the story.  They try blow threw the great barrier, and find God.  They have Spock's brother who can relieve peoples minds of their pain, and directs this mission.  The crew starts too show its ages here, but we learn about Kirk.  I love the line where Kirk explains why he keeps his pain.  He admits he as a captain made mistakes, which cause him pain.  He learns from his pain, and part of that pain makes his personality, and who he is.  Rent this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't like this movie when I first saw it, but I rented it today because I've been watching the earlier movies and wanted to see it too.  I love this movie because of all the ST movies, this one reminds me of an episode of ST. I think Shatner did a good job and made the right choices by emphasizing the characters again vs. a lot of F/X and spacefights.  The only thing is that some of the effects are a little cheap, but that's not such a big deal.  The movie works for me. "},{"Title":"My least favorite of the Star Trek films.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wouldn't say that this film was a bad film, but this film is almost definitely my least favorite Star Trek film to date.  The story in this film is a little too out there for me and just plain odd, not only that, but there are hordes of problems with this film.POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!!First of all, it's never explained why Sybok had this message from God and was told that God resided beyond the great barrier.  Did they explain this and I just missed it or what?My second problem is that you find out that this being is claiming to be God and then turns out not to be.  Ok...so who is he?  They don't even attempt to explain that at all!My next problem is the comedy in this film is just terrible.  There are a few good ones, but they are few and far between.  When Scotty says that he knows the ship like the back of his hand and runs face-first into the metal support beam thing was so retarded!  Oh ha-ha, we've never heard that one before...  STUPID!!!What was with that scene where Spock goes an gets the anti-gravity boots while Kirk and Dr. McCoy are climbing the ladder?  That was so appalling the way they all clung onto Spock while he tried to fly them up, and surprise surprise the boots couldn't handle the weight.  They should have just had them climb the ladder all the way to the top and then been on their way.END OF SPOILERSThere were other problems I had with the film, but the things I mentioned above were the ones that really stuck out for me.As for the cast, they all seemed to do a fine job, but there's really nothing great about the acting in this film.  I'm not so sure I'm that fond of William Shatner's directing.  He does a great James Kirk, but leave the directing to someone else, please.  Thanks.I don't know why, the special effects seemed to be pretty bad in this film.  They were much better in the previous films.  I don't know what happened here, but I would hope someone has an explanation for the special effect short-comings.If you're a Star Trek fan, then you really ought to see this film, just to say you've seen it.  If you're aren't really a fan of the Trek films, then you may want to put this one off till you've seen all the others.  If/When you do see this film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"A Underrated Movie","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  William Shatner suffered most of the blame for this movie.Paramount were to blame for the extra comedy scenes.as for the fx the company they wanted were busy on higher profile movies.dr Mccoy gets his best ever trek moment theres a real sense of loss in the sequence with his father.the music score is nicely done the story is very much in the vein of the tv show.i prefered this over the boring star trek 1 and 3.the awful generations and the fx poor insurrection.i saw this at the cinema and i own it on dvd.a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Far, far better than the first 4 movies.","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The final frontier is a great movie that far superior the first four Star Trek movies. William Shatner directs this film and his humour shines through. This films keeps it Star Trek roots while being almost a comedy in parts. The story is about a Vulcan (Spock's half brother) who traps the Enterprise into taking him to what he thinks life starts and finishes I.E Heaven , only to be ever so slightly disapointed by what he finds when he gets there. The action is great as is the script , for instance Kirk says Perhaps god only exists in our hearts what a great line! Look out for the scene where uhura dances to distract the enemy and see her in the next scene where she is on the bridge. She seems to have put on 60 pounds in weight! Great entertainment. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"20 reasons why I hate Star Trek 5","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  20 REASONS I HATE STAR TREK 51. THE TITLE Trivialized by what's already a pop-culture catch phrase.  A cop out.2. YOU CAN'T PLEASE EVERYBODY This movie was beat from the start.  A victim of  TREK's revived popularity. In 1989 you had the 'classic' fans, the KHAN generation,  civilians won over by THE VOYAGE HOME, and NEXT GENERATION fans.   Expectations crossed the board.   Making matters worse, the writers had a clean slate,  resulting in a muddled original story.  The answer should have been  incorporating some TREK history and acknowledging the NEXT GENERATION. Instead, we got tangents.  Like Spock's brother.3. SPECIAL EFFECTS How could one of the strongest movie franchises in town let this happen? Fans should petition to get Nick Myer to do a STAR WARS style Special Edition.4.  THE FALL From Kirk's foot slip to I expect that's Klingon for 'hello'  this movie holds some of the most embarrassing moments in Star Trek.  I remember the butterflies in my stomach as Spock dives into this dumb scene with FX from Saturday morning.  The Nimbus bar (office for the delegates?) is a lame copy of the STAR WARS cantina.5.  DEFECTIVE ENTERPRISE This crew works at a disadvantage in every film but UNDISCOVERED......even GENERATIONS.  The broken ship is a tired device, and here it doesn't make sense. There's no relevance to the plot, except maybe the broken transporter. Other functions are played only for 'laughs'.6.  SUPPORTING CAST WASTED Sulu and Chekov lost! --hilarious! Uhura stripping!! --A riot!!  Scotty bangs his head! ...okay, that was actually pretty funny.  The director was not responsible for most trouble,  but he has no idea how to treat these characters.  Not realizing their value, he plays them either goofy or hypnotized.  A missed opportunity for drama in exposing their pain or portraying the forced betrayal of Kirk.  Remember Chekov's struggle in 'KHAN'.7.  KLINGONS Used only as a conflict device, they have no motivation given except to 'get Kirk'.  There could have been an effort to rescue Korrd or even direct orders from the Klingons to use the conflict as an excuse to entrap Kirk. (like UNDISCOVERED...)  I did like the use of Klingonese but if you follow closely, there's a Klingon word for Kalicams... which IS a Klingon word...8.  THE HANGER DECK The design department has no concept of perspective.  The look was great but the proportions are way off.  This contributes to a feeling that something is not right.  A well acted scene has the effect of a school play.  I was drawing technical plans for this stuff when I was 10!!  How could they be so far off.9.  I WANT JIM KIRK! The Admiral's reason for sending the undermanned Enterprise.  Why??  With Klingons involved, it means trouble.  Are we to believe the average Starship captain is THAT unprepared for this situation.  It would have made more sense if  Enterprise were the ONLY option.10.  SYBOK'S TAKEOVER Controlling the bridge, Sybok takes over.  Where is everybody? And why do crewmembers stand passively, listening to his message.  He relieved everyone's pain?  From here on, the story moves around the characters.  Scotty tries to animate things... until he's knocked out.11.  SPOCK'S BROTHER I'll accept that he has a half-brother we don't know about.  Sybok isn't the type of guy Spock would discuss.  But it's such an obvious device from which to squeeze drama.  Ooooh, conflict...HOW will Spock resolve this one.  The film suffers from too many plot contrivances for us to accept this on too.  No matter how good these two actors are.  (And they are good. When they first meet?  Golden!!)12. THE TURBOSHAFT CLIMB Dumb idea, bad FX, lame jokes.  ...and the floor numbers are wrong.13.  TOO MANY RED HERRINGS The significance of Nimbus, the ship's malfunctions, Spock's brother, hostages, etc.  These things don't affect the storyline in the end.  Take the SOS message from the Officers Lounge. This is intercepted by the Klingons (who already know where they are..) and serves only as a vehicle for Sybok to confront them.14.  THE GREAT BARRIER Another arbitrary plot device.  They zip through with no explanation as to how. Even if Sybok knew how, the Klingons follow with no problem.15.  DON'T JUST STAND THERE... GOD IS A BUSY MAN Don't just stand there????  Captain! The director has given us nothing to do!!16.  GOD-THING The film's lame effects especially disappoint here.  The GOD face is laughable.  Audiences can't believe they're viewing GOD, and guess what? It's not.  Confusion is inevitable.  If he's fake, make him a real fake!! (Remember Balok?) The concept of an alien being trapped on this planet and Sybok's willingness to believe should have been flushed out more.  McCoy asking, Is this the voice of God? was wrong.   That should have been Sybok.  The real story of the GOD-THING is left unclear.  It needed a Perry Mason type ending. There's just one thing I don't understand, Jim...17. GHOST ATTACK There's no ghosts in Star Trek.  Having 'something' shake the shuttle, chase Kirk, and make a lot of racket is a poor compromise of the Directors original idea's.18.  CONVENIENT KLINGON TORPEDO...which kills the transporter.   Now what??  Oh brother!  I was wise to that bit before I was in high school.19. THE CLIMAX The story falls apart from here. Klingons aren't needed here; they clutter up the action,  Kirk runs from... what? GOD lightning!  It sure has bad aim. The enemy saves the day.  The Klingon apology, and finally... Spock in the gunner chair.  All of this feels like the results of a 'we need an ending' meeting.  Although I like the exchange between Kirk and Spock, this could have taken place on the Enterprise.20.  THE SOLEMN ENDING Sybok is dead.  GOD doesn't live here.  The entire STORY has been a red herring.  Still... we have each other...  Star Trek movies aren't known for happy endings,  but this one's especially dark.  Cool Vulcan harp, though. "},{"Title":"Waste","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's the only word I can think of to describe this movie.  Not waste as in a waste of time (any time spent with these characters is never wasted), but waste as in a waste of opportunities.When I see this movie, I think of all the Star Trek novels that were written which would have made a much better film than the story Shatner chose.  The setup was like an average television episode, while the finish felt like the climax (if you can call it that) of the first movie.Nimoy, in directing II-IV, focused on the character of Spock--how he faced the Kobayashi Maru outside of the classroom, and how he handled his emotional live now that he had a chance to start fresh.  Shatner could have done the same with Kirk here, but he didn't.  We don't know much about Kirk that we didn't know before.  Again, one of the novels would have been better--try My Enemy, My Ally for a very interesting character study of our friend James T.  The minor characters are used mostly for cute bits, and the Scotty-Uhura subplot seems way out of left field, particularly since the subtext in the original series was Sulu-Uhura.Even hardcore fans can't find much to enjoy here.  Sorry, but it's true. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Critics and fans alike have been unnecessarily harsh on this film.  I thought The Final Frontier was very entertaining.  Maybe this is because while I do like Star Trek, I don't consider myself a diehard Trekkie. While it's not the best film in the series, it's certainly not the worst either.  The story has a mystical bent to it (the quest to find one's true GOD,) and the plot is put together alot more coherently than the very first theatrical film in the series (which I watched again recently and still found extremely murky and slow-moving).  My only problem with this film was the occasional forced humor.  Shatner directs action well...the film is briskly paced and never boring.  And there's a hearty performance by Lawrence Luckinbill as Spock's renegade brother, the character that sets the plot in motion.  Recommended.    "},{"Title":"Bad Movie.","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw it 9 years ago, when I was 9. I thought it stunk. I'm 18 now and I still think it stinks. I mean geez no Special effects or anything, it was boring and kinda anti-climatic. My cousin watched once and George Takai (Sulu) kept talking about how it was supposed to be so much better, but they kept cutting to the budget. It would have been a great episode, but it was a terrible movie. "}{"Title":"Possibly my favorite Star Trek movie (so far)","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit I love this movie. My stepfather said he saw it in theaters and it left him baffled; he later told me that he was convinced at the time that Shatner should never direct a film again. I watched it with him for what was his second time and my first; how anyone could HATE this movie is beyond me. Even my stepfather admitted to liking it better the second time around.To me, it has some of the best banter and dialogue of all the original six. I especially like the part in the beginning where McCoy and Kirk try to teach Spock Row Row Row Your Boat. Seeing Spock try to get back in touch with his human side is hilarious. This movie has more, I guess, humanity in it, for lack of a better word. I think the more vulnerable, imperfect sides of the main cast come out better in this movie.Maybe it's not the best movie in the world. But to me the plot made more sense than the last two movies, even if I had to know SOMEthing about it so I wouldn't have set my expectations so high when I watched it for myself.Perhaps you need a word or two on it before you see it, and depending on your religious views (conservative Christian speaking here), you may or may not tolerate this movie. I loved it, and even though it easily ranks among my favorites of all time, I can't say for sure that others will appreciate this movie very much.Just for the record, I'm on a mission to watch all the main Star Trek media. Finished TOS recently, skipped TAS (for the time being), went through the movies, and have recently started TNG (which I love already). So I'm still a Trekkie-in-training. D "},{"Title":"No Doubt the Worst STAR TREK Film","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I suppose I appreciate what STAR TREK V was trying to accomplish, but that doesn't mean the movie was any good. For whatever reason, despite the wild success of the previous three films which utilized action, adventure, and humor to make them memorable, STAR TREK V forgoes all of that to return to the somber, theological undertones that many complained about in THE MOTION PICTURE. At the start of the film, the Enterprise-A is undergoing major repairs to get her fully functional while many of the crew enjoy some shore leave. It appears the repairs will have to wait, though, as a renegade Vulcan has taken three delegates hostage on Nimbus III (the Planet of Galactic Peace). The Vulcan, Sybok, is revealed to be Spock's half-brother and he is on a quest to the center of the galaxy where he believes he will find the fabled Sha Ka Ree (or the Garden of Eden, to Terrans) and possibly God. The first step in his quest obtain a starship for transport. In this case, the Enterprise-A.The film does have some positive traits, hence why I couldn't give it any lower a rating. The premise of the film was interesting...the search for God in space. Sure it's similar to the that of THE MOTION PICTURE in which V'Ger sought it's own creator, but this one has the advantage in that it spends a good deal of time focusing on the relationship between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy. At this point in the franchise history, we know the three share an powerful friendship but THE FINAL FRONTIER portrays it the best in my opinion. We see how, if it weren't for each other, these three men would probably be the most lonely in the galaxy. The brotherhood between the three of them is strong and this film shows just how difficult it is to try and tear them apart.Despite these beneficial qualities, the film just has too much against it and buckles under the weight of it's shoddy special effects and it's laughable story issues. Seriously, we're on the fifth movie here. The special effects have actually been pretty effective since the beginning, always looking to be the some of the higher quality effects available at that time. So why is it...five movies in...that the effects now look like crap? It's a major leap backwards in the effects quality of the series. While on the subject of mind-boggling questions, why is it that Sybok...a regular Vulcan as far as the movie is concerned...has the powers to create detailed illusions based on personal moments in the lives of others? I'm referring to the scene where he shows McCoy and Spock their personal pain. How can he do that? No mystical powers are ever mentioned. He just does it and, while Kirk briefly questions it, it's never explained.Then there are aspects of the film that just cause me to question Why? In a sequence where Kirk and his assault team need to overcome a group of sentries on Nimbus III, it is accomplished with Commander Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) performing an erotic dance. Really? This is their plan? I'm pretty sure Bugs Bunny has used the same tactic. While I'm thinking about it, where did Uhura get the feathered props she used to cover her bits as she danced? Did she keep them on the shuttle for just such an occasion? Has Kirk called upon this distraction technique before? Long before Uhura's dancing had me scratching my head, I was left baffled at Kirk and McCoy's enthusiasm for the children's tune Row, Row, Row Your Boat. There is a scene around the campfire in the beginning as Kirk and McCoy are getting ready for a rousing campfire sing-a-long and try to get Spock to join them. The two of them are so excited at the thought of singing that song that I laughed at how stupid it came across.My final question why bring in the Klingons? They do nothing to enhance the plot, nothing to further the story, and they don't really succeed at enhancing the tension. A Bird-of-Prey with a captain out for Kirk's blood stalks them from Nimbus III to the center of the galaxy where the whole situation between the ships is resolved without major conflict. So...why include them at all? And why did the Klingon captain, Klaa, look like something out of an 80's hair band? I also hate that the appearance of the Klingon ship was so different from previous movies. Rather than the dark, dank, smoky atmosphere used before to contrast the sleek cleanliness of Starfleet ships, we get this even TV lighting that illuminates everything perfectly. So much for using light to enhance emotion.Before I'd watched it recently, though only scene I could remember from the whole film was Scotty (James Doohan) knocking himself out cold when he walks into a low-hanging bulkhead. Now I suppose I can see why...it was the only truly entertaining moment in the whole 100 minute run-time. I'm sure a couple years down the road it will again be the only thing I remember. The film is beyond boring and it feels as if it drags on forever. Honestly, sitting through the whole thing is almost a chore. I must give credit to Laurence Luckinbill; his role as Sybok was incredibly well done and he is a great villain but he's not enough to keep this from being the least memorable TREK film. "},{"Title":"Yep, one of the low points in the Star Trek series.","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even not being a fan of the Star Trek movies or universe of shows and books and such, I still find some enjoyment in some of the movies featuring the old cast and in the case of First Contact even the new cast a bit. This one though was kind of sad to watch...it seemed to want to be so much, but it failed on so many levels to be one of the worst Star Trek movies. The plot is very far fetched seeming to want to combine three or four stories into one ultimate Trek adventure, but it ends up an unfunny when it tries to be, not tense when it wants to be and not action packed like it tries to be mess of inconsistencies. The whole movie to take a phrase from Spock is illogical. The effects are nothing special as I have seen episodes of Next Generation that are just as good, which is to say it is fine for a television show, but not a major motion picture. The plot is laughable as the gang at first tries to stop Spock's brother then joins him on his quest to find God, yes you read that correctly. The Klingons make a tacked on appearance, which actually will set up the much better Undiscovered Country movie. All in all you know it is bad when the best part of the film is Kirk, Bones and Spock singing row your boat, well Spock was not really singing, but rather questioning the lyrics. "},{"Title":"The one that sunk ...","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess with this one I realized that I was done with Star Trek. I mean at the start of the film we had Kirk, Spock and Bones sitting around a camp fire singing Row Row Row your boat I kind of had a feeling what I was in for. The acting, special affects and humor that made me love Star Trek was so lacking in this movie. In some ways it was embarrassing to watch these characters make fools of themselves. There is not one original idea in this film, and you would think with all the Star Trek books that have been published over the years that they could just use one of them and have a much better story. A lot of the time all we get is silly humor about the new Enterprise breaking down and in need of repair and more boring encounters with the Klingons. No one in this film is very interesting and may be a result of the poor script. No need to go into further detail....if you love Star Trek like I used to maybe you will get something out of it. "},{"Title":"The Battlefield Earth Of Star Trek Movies","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen the face of God, and it's not William Shatner. Star Trek V The Final Frontier is really as bad they say it is. It is about as low as you can go for a Star Trek film. Bad writing. Bad directing. Aliens who look like humans with stupid masks and make up jobs. Lame special effects that look out dated even by the standards of the time it was released back in 1989. The four predecessors to The Final Frontier, hardly the greatest films ever made, look like Citizen Kane compared to this steaming pile of a movie. All the attempts at humor in this film pale in comparison to the laughter generated by the ineptitude of this Shatner directed turkey. Along the way the viewer gets to laugh at camp fire sing alongs by Kirk, Bones and Spock, two of the lamest battles in sci-fi movie history, a lame lap dance by Uhura and the lamest sci-fi bar scene in movie history. In the middle of all the silly proceedings is a renegade Vulcan's quest to find the Garden of Eden and God. What the viewer finds along the way is a lame sci-fi film of Battlefield Earth quality. "},{"Title":"The worst Star Trek movie.","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While Star Trek the Motion Picture was mostly boring, Star Trek The Final Frontier is plain bad. In this terrible sequel, the crew is on shore leave when they get a distress signal from the Federation that ambassadors representing Earth, Romulus and Kronos (the Klingon home world) have been kidnapped by a renegade Vulcan bent on his quest to attain a starship to venture into the great barrier. There, he hopes to find God. Using mysticism and bad writing, he persuades many of the senior officers of the Enterprise to betray Kirk and get a hold of the ship. They do reach the inside of the great barrier and find a planet where they do meet a god-like alien. This one is so bad it is hard to figure out where to begin. At the core is a good idea that is never really developed. The plot goes nowhere instead of where no man has gone before. It is almost like the writers had no idea how to end this fiasco. The action scenes don't have the suspense of Wrath of Kahn, the philosophy is boring, and the humor is stale. Now I will focus most of my anger on William Shatner. When he takes the director's chair, the ego gets bigger. Most of the focus is on him, Spock, and McCoy, but does not give the others enough to do. Moreover, whereas Shatner is usually guilty of over-acting in previous movies and television spots, he is just plain bad in this one. Now Kirk is reckless, a practical jokers, and silly. One of the worst scenes involves the three leaders singing the song, Row Row Row your Boat in a round by a campfire. In any case, this is the worst of the Star Trek franchise. I should have given it three out of ten instead of five. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possible spoilersA lot of people say this is the worst Star Trek movie, and I suppose it is, but it's also fun to watch in a Mystery Science Theatre kind of way. At the beginning, some diplomats are taken hostage by Sybok, a renegade vulcan (also Spocks brother). The head of starfleet contacts the Enterprise, which is a new replacement for the original that was destroyed in Star Trek 3, and it's not in working order yet, the transporters don't even work. Well, Kirk explains this to the admiral, but the admiral cuts him off, and says that he wants Jim Kirk their. Now, I know Captain Kirk is probably legendary in starfleet, but all they had to do was send a ship with a working transporter to beam the hostages out, problem solved, even a garbage scow probably could have managed it, but since Shatner wrote and directed, some ego stroking was in order for the good captain. Of course, since the transporters don't work, a landing party consisting of the most important officers on the ship, Kirk, Spock, and McCoy, has to go to the planet on a shuttle craft. And they meet up with Sybock, who it turns out is a touchy feely vulcan that can touch you and take your pain away, he does this for Spock and McCoy, but when it's Kirks turn, Kirk shouts in the way only Shatner can, I want my pain, I need my pain. Sybock is sensing some kind of great energy at the center of the universe, which he believes to be God, and he just has to meet God, so he takes over the Enterprise, and it really seems to be that easy.Well, they get to the center of the universe, and everybody piles into the shuttle craft and goes down to the planet where Sybock senses God. When they get off the craft, they all look around at their surroundings, and have looks of complete awe and wonder, and they all remark about how beautiful it is, calling it paradise, eden, and so forth, but all it looks like to me is a Nevada desert, maybe they don't have deserts in the future, so it seems impressive to them. They pretty soon come across God, a brightly lit face, that everybody is impressed by and is bowing down to, except for Kirk of course, he has his doubts, he asks for proof that he's God, and that's when McCoy has a great line, Jim, you don't ask the almighty for his I.D.. God proceeds to say that he will need their starship, that's when Kirk figures out for sure that it's not really God, and the face gets really ticked off, and starts chasing Kirk, and just when it looks like it's curtains for Kirk, Spock shows up in a Klingon shuttle and shoots the face with a big phaser, and saves the day.Yeah, it was lame, but Shatners ego is really a sight to behold. "},{"Title":"Give Bill Shatner a Break, Will You?!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why do the people trash this movie? It is such a humanistic, emotional film, well, from my POV. I admit there were flaws in the film. What hurt this film was ILM not being available, budget cuts forced by Paramount, and the humor forced to be added because of STIV's box office success. None of these things were Bill Shatner's fault. Bill Shatner's original story was darker, MUCH darker than what we saw.This film has got a faster pace than STTMP or STIIITSFS, and and it actually tried to make a point on human nature, which was the thing that Generations failed to accomplish. Shatner's ACTUAL direction of the film was OKAY! So I give this film 8.0 stars out of 10.0 stars. And before I finish, I want to say this GIVE SHATNER A FRIGGIN' BREAK! Thank you, and good night. "},{"Title":"STAR TREK 5 Shatner writes and directs and builds the franchises foundation upon the sand.....then the rains came!!!!!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Coming Soon..... STAR TREK 6 THE APOLOGY FOR 5!!!!!! This film was by far the worst of the series. Shatner wrote and directed this film and ripped off a old Roddenberry script called IN THY IMAGE. STAR TREK 5 built up on itself throughout the entire film only to peter out with a lackluster ending. Spock sings row row row your boat? The Klingons apologize? Huh? What? The humor in this film was clumsy and trite. I liked the premise of the film's quasi-villian using people's inner pain to control their minds, however, I got sick and tired of the pat SULU, CHEKOV, and the others get brainwashed while Kirk resists stories from the old show. Then we have a rehash of the Enterprise gets hijacked story from the old show as well. Another aspect of this film that did not work was the search for god plot. The delivery of this film was lame and it's lingering stench still clouds trekkiedom. The film and the film's story was nothing more than a extension of Shatner's ego. His ego can't sell movie tickets!!!! "},{"Title":"For true Trek fans...","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What constitutes a true Trek fan? If you're wearing a pair of plastic Spock ears and waving a tricorder at the screen, you may go to the head of the class. If you can tell me Khan's full name... ooh you're good. (Hint it's not Khaaaaaaaaaan) and if you know all the words to Heading Out to Eden then you're gold.The rest of you may read along anyway.Star Trek V is without a doubt the most hated of all the trek films because it's light on action, even lighter on special effects, and there is no real bad guy. But think back, so were the great episodes I, Mudd, The Trouble with Tribbles, A Piece of the Action and The Empath. In the tradition of the original series, this 5th installment of the Trek films is a timely pause for reflection. It's the most human of all the Treks, the most humorous, and for my money it's the most poetic.I'll put it this way the plot of the film doesn't emerge until nearly 45 minutes into it. Rightfully so; this isn't a plot-driven film. It's a film about friends, personalities and what makes us who we are. It just happens to be set in space with a bunch of aliens & such. But if you're a true Trek fan, you'll remember that that's exactly how the original series often was. Episodes like The Deadly Years or All Our Yesterdays were not so much about plot as they were about the characters Kirk, Spock & McCoy and the complexities of their interaction.In Trek V we see the good old Spock-McCoy bickering. We see the dynamic between Kirk's fiery emotion and Spock's stoic coolness. And above all, we are reminded that these 3 are best friends through thick & thin. No, it may not be quite the heart-pounding scifi shootout that Trek II was, but that was never its intent. I take my hat off to William Shatner for having the integrity to take us back to the original Trek days, even at the risk of boring a new generation of fans. Tell me, what scifi flick has the balls to give us a campfire scene with the three main characters singing Row, Row, Row Your Boat? ...Twice! And just a quick word about the directing, visuals and cinematography awesome. Shatner made excellent use of lighting, shadows, perspective and a few Hitchcockian tricks you may recognize. Shatner's directing style reminds me a lot of the Serbian master Emir Kusturica. It's a shame that this is Shatner's only major directing effort (not including documentaries & TV shows).My advice to true Trek fans (and non-true Trek fans who managed to read this far) is SEE THIS MOVIE. I love all 6 of the Trek films, but this one really has a special place in my heart. If you're looking for more than spaceships & laser guns, I think you'll really like it, too. "}{"Title":"What was wrong with this movie","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unlike the TNG movies, which are easy to hate because they are so derivative and banal, one just has a hard time disliking this movie, but is forced to.Let's talk about what went wrong. Logistically, this was a mess. There was a writer's strike in the middle of production, meaning the script couldn't be tweaked. They wanted to get Sean Connery to play Sybok (Spock's half brother who rejects Vulcan logic and wants to find God), but they were forced to settle for Laurence Luckenbill. (Laurence Luckenbill. Who the heck is Laurence Luckenbill? Oh, yeah, he was Lucy and Desi's son in law!) There was a whole sequence with Rock Monsters that had to be dropped because 1989 vintage FX couldn't render them effectively. (A couple years later you had the first CGI that would have done fine.) Another problem was that the movie didn't know if it wanted to be a serious drama like Star Trek II and III, or a lighter comedic film like Star Trek IV. So it tried to do both and did neither well. The drama of possible war with the Klingons, Spock confronting his past and finding GOD, for crying out loud, was offset by cheap slapstick like Scotty bumping his head on an I-beam and Uhura doing a fan dance. (Ahhhh---it burns, it burns.) The next problem was Shatner himself. Let's be honest, Shatner has had a strained relationship with his alter-Ego. In fifty years, he's not going to be remembered as T.J. Hooker or Denny Crane, he's going to be remembered as James T. Kirk. This movie gave him unprecedented control over the character's portrayal, and he misused it. He made his co-stars (many of whom already hated him) the butt of the movie's gags while stroking his own ego. (He's able to reject Sybok's offer to remove his pain while Spock and McCoy succumb.) Final Point. God. Okay, he wasn't really God, he was an alien who needed a starship to get out of the center of the Galaxy, which inexplicably, the Enterprise could reach in a few days. (Meanwhile, it took poor Janeway 7 seasons to cross the galaxy, and she had lots of wormholes and stuff to shorten the trip.) The whole thing had these religious overtones in Roddenberry's universe. The problem was that Roddenberry himself was an atheist, who believed that in order for mankind to achieve perfection, had to reject such superstitions. But here you have otherwise sensible and logical people babbling on about God and the Garden of Eden.Overall, it was a letdown from the triumph of the previous three movies, which was so bad that Paramount considered sacking the original cast and replacing them with younger actors. "},{"Title":"Not ALL bad, but still a disappointment in the end","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The two Star Trek movies that came before this one (The Search for Spock and The Voyage Home) were both directed by a cast member. This cast member was Leonard Nimoy, and if you ask me, he did a good job directing those two films. However, this fifth movie in the franchise, The Final Frontier, was directed by another cast member, William Shatner, and his efforts were not too well-received. Aware of that, I had low expectations for this film, and while it may have turned out slightly better than I thought, I still wasn't too pleased by the end.While Kirk, Spock, and McCoy are on vacation in Yosemite National Park, the Enterprise is under repair. However, their time off is soon interrupted, and the crew is sent on a mission to Nimbus III. This planet is known as The Planet of Galactic Peace, but trouble has arisen there, as a kidnapping has just taken place! The kidnapper is a Vulcan named Sybok, who is Spock's half-brother. Unlike most Vulcans, Sybok is emotionally-driven, and was eventually banished from Vulcan for rejecting the traditional logic of the planet's inhabitants. When the crew arrives on Nimbus III, they are captured, and learn that the kidnapping was all a setup for Spock's half-brother to hijack their ship and use it in an attempt to reach the centre of the galaxy, where the Supreme Being is to be found! I certainly can't say I was bored throughout the entire film. In my opinion, it doesn't start out bad. The scene with Kirk climbing El Capitan near the beginning is fairly suspenseful, and McCoy's panicking adds some humour to that part. After that, more suspense and humour follows, but that doesn't save the entire film. There are some cheesy scenes, such as the two with the creature that seems to be a cross between a human and a cat. I also found that the movie eventually gets worse as it goes along. I think I started finding that the story a tad confusing, hard to follow, and not very well-written, which pretty much ruined it. I might be able to give Star Trek V The Final Frontier a 6/10 instead of a 5, but that's it.This fifth installment in the Star Trek movie franchise wasn't too well-received, and neither was the first one, 1979's Star Trek The Motion Picture. I'm sure many fans would disagree with me on this, but I think The Final Frontier is slightly superior to The Motion Picture. Nonetheless, I would say it is definitely downhill from the three films that came in between, which have all impressed me to some degree. If Shatner is responsible for most of this movie's problems, I guess he shouldn't have had so much involvement in it. "},{"Title":"Not smacking of proselytization, as the Title and Synopsis would imply.  This is one of my Favorites!","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was reluctant to see this one. As a non-Christian, I had a problem with the whole Quest for God premise, but upon watching this movie, I was absolutely delighted. While Star Trek oftentimes addresses political and religious issues, it was always done under the guise of another society, unlike this one. This movie directly asks, Is there a God? The answer is in the viewing of the movie.I won't spoil it, regardless of the warning. I always say SPOILERS, just in case I do say too much. But this movie was classic Star Trek fare, with great effects, a wonderful story line, and a coherent, easily followed plot. The sub-plots were very well done, and brilliantly worked into the story. I found this movie to be highly entertaining and extremely enjoyable.It rates a 9.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE!!!!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, this would have been a bad episode of the original series. I can't believe they actually spent money on this one... I caught the second half of this on tv and, having never seen this one before, thought I would watch it... Boy, what a waste of time... More cheese than Wisconsin!!! "},{"Title":"The lost Crusade. (Spoilers.)","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie starts out on the planet of Nimbus III, where Sybok, a renegade Vulcan converts one of the locals and makes him one of his followers. How does he do it? He takes away his greatest pain. Many think this to be a stupid idea, but if you asked me, it is highly intellectual and a stroke of genius. Perhaps it is just handled the wrong way, from a directorial point of view. What I will attempt in this comment is not only to see things the way they are, but also how Shatner had originally envisioned them to be, but failed to do right, either by the lack of money or the lack of his own directorial skills. This brings me back to the point I started from. Why has the first guy we see on screen to be a drooling, speech impeded, nobody. Hell, even Abe Lincoln had a brighter future when he picked up his ticket at the box office. This guy would have done everything to get off this rock, even follow a mad man. But I think the idea itself is brilliant. How many movies do we know, where we pause for a moment and the hero tells somebody what is eating him, what his drive is, why he does what he does. By now, this has become a bit of a clich. But Star Trek V makes it a plot point, a way to literally show us the feelings of our beloved characters. The sad thing is, it is not done very well, or at least not consequently. Although I like the Spock and McCoy scenes, we are not shown anything from the rest. Why waste screen time for the three emissaries on Nimbus III since they are nothing more than a McGuffin in the first half of the movie and almost completely disappear in the latter one. This time could have easily been used for the Enterprise crew, given them a more dignified role in the events depicted. It was a good thing of Shatner to give everyone something to do, but almost everything shown is done in a fun way and contradicts the character. We see the navigator and the helmsman get lost; the engineer bumps his head in engineering, and a lady pushing sixty performing a strip dance as if she were 20. Granted, those horny hicks in the desert probably did not care, but we as viewers are put out of the movie, another failure of the movie. While in Star Trek II it was made a point that Kirk is aging and the crew is aging, is this one, everybody is shown more agile than back in the original show. If we compare the appearance of Kirk in this movie and the next, he has aged almost ten years, despite the making of the two is only two years apart. Kirk is free-climbing in this and we are supposed to believe it. Then again, he falls right. Nevertheless the climbing scenes are a beautiful montage for the title credits and give the movie scale. The title credits as originally conceived by Shatner would have been one consecutive shot, beginning with a zoom out (following the first Sybock scene) of Nimbus three, then we go into space, travel to earth and then a zoom in on earth ending in an aerial shot of Yosemite, ala the Powers of Ten. (http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=AUUkjWsNC9k&feature=fvst) Great idea, would have been awesome, but alas, not enough money. The filmed special effects by Associates and Ferren are bad. Someone said that their limited facilities, which resulted in a lack of time, had prevented them from doing multiple passes on the starships and models, thus not giving the shots depth and credibility. The in camera effects on the other hand look very good for the most part. We have the back projected star field whenever we look out of a window and that is very convincing, also giving the director the freedom to move the camera, a luxury that a blue screen background would have prevented back then. Another plus point are the transitions we get during the flashbacks of McCoy and Spock. Also done practically and very good. The only time the back projection did not work that good are the main viewer scenes. Since the bridge is lit very brightly, the contrast on the viewer is a bit low, but nothing to complain really. The bridge is very good in this one, as are most of the sets, beautifully lit and filmed. The camera-work is a highpoint of this film. One of my favorite scenes is the camera push in on the bridge, passing the actors ending on a monitor which shows us the approaching bird of prey. Someone called this an almost Hitchcockian moment, perhaps referring to the crane shot in Notorious. It is a very good moment that introduces us to the more than disappointing ending of this flick. Again, time, money and unconvincing special effects prevented this one from being what Shatner wanted it to be. I wonder if it had worked. Surely, he is not the best director, but the good stuff in his movie works very well and the major flaw is perhaps him directing himself. His whole performance screams leading man and hero, something that director Nick Meyer tried to reduce in his movies, with success. No wonder Shatner got the Razzie for acting.The dialog by David Loughery is over the top, out of character and silly. Harve Bennett euphemised it as his delightful almost whimsical sense of humor in the DVD featurette The Jouurney Begins, but I don't know. I could go on and on making this movie bad, despite liking it, dreaming of how it could have been. I think they should give him the money to fix this. On the other hand, I wonder, why Shatner does not put up the money himself. "},{"Title":"If I Ever Find God's Planet, I Will Ask Him to Erase this Film.","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure there were worse films in 1989, but I was not surprised to learn that Star Trek V won three Razzie awards. No show, no episode, and no movie in the Star Trek cannon stinks more than this film. I wonder what Gene Roddenberry would have thought if this script was proposed to him in 1966.On Nimbus III, Planet of Galactic Peace, a Vulcan named Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill) takes the Federation, Romulan and Klingon representatives hostage to bait one of their governments to send a starship. Back on Earth, the Enterprise crew members are on shore leave. They spend it together, even though Dr. McCoy (DeForest Kelley) points out that it should not be that way. Including that line in the script does not excuse the writers' lazy oversight. After what seems like thirty minutes, they all assemble on the unfinished Enterprise-A. The admiral admits that other ships are available, but then utters, I need Jim Kirk, even though the Enterprise is about as battle ready as a canoe. I hope there are no officers that stupid in our military. If there are, we should encourage them to defect. Nimbus is inside the neutral zone, which contradicts what is already known from the television series. We later learn that Sybok is the half brother of Spock (Leonard Nimoy), also ignoring established fact. Little details such as fact, consistency, and cannon are not important here.Just one film ago, the Klingon ambassador warned that there will be no peace as long as Captain Kirk (William Shatner) lives. At the end of this one, several Klingons enjoy a cocktail party aboard the Enterprise. The Klingons believe Kirk created a weapon of Armageddon and butchered one of their crews. Kirk hates the Klingons for murdering his son. Does this matter to the writers? No, they simply have two enemies interacting like old friends while Chekov (Walter Koenig) and Sulu (George Takei) follow one of the females around to gawk at her muscles.Contrast that with the next movie, where Kirk labels Klingons animals and declares, Let them die! when the Federation agrees to help them evacuate their dying planet. When the Klingon High Council dines on the Enterprise, the tension is so high that a Klingon accuses the Federation of trying to annihilate their culture and Kirk compares General Chang to Adolph Hitler.It is quickly evident the writers are trying to repeat Star Trek IV's levity, but every attempt seems forced and usually forces one of the crew to act out of character. For instance, Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) performs a nude dance to distract Sybok's guards, Chekov and Sulu pretend they are caught in a blizzard when they lose their way hiking, and Chekov declares Sybok in wiolation of treaty. Kirk, Spock and McCoy try to sing Row, Row, Row Your Boat. Even if the film was good enough to rate a ten after that point, the song would cost it two stars. Wiolation would cost it another. Not even Data's worst moments in Generations compare the myriad of embarrassments here.I will charitably describe Sybok's plan as idiotic. He wants to find God on a planet in the center of the galaxy. He makes others loyal by relieving their pain. He does not even have to mind meld, he just hugs them for a few seconds, and suddenly they're all better. That is how he hijacks the Enterprise with no more than a few soldiers wielding pea- shooters. The episode Space Seed, establishes that any invasion can be stopped by flooding all but the bridge with anesthetic gas. Of course, that would put an end Sybok's invasion and the asinine plot could not continue. I kept waiting for somebody to stop him, but only grew more and more frustrated. Only Scotty (James Doohan) is neither captured nor hypnotized, and he spends all his time preoccupied about the Enterprise's deplorable condition. At one point he knocks himself out on a low ceiling after saying he knows the ship like the back of his hand.Although it is considered official, all Star Trek writers abide by an unwritten rule to treat this film like it never happened. I wish it never happened. Star Trek V plays so fast and loose with the Star Trek rules that it stretches the definition of fast and loose. No movie can repeatedly disrespect its premise and survive. There is one scene where Spock flies up the ship's elevator shaft, and passes 78 decks. I was tempted to write a review outlining the 78 worst offenses of The Final Frontier, but that would probably take 2,500 words. Does anybody really want to read that? "},{"Title":"The best and most misunderstood of all the 'Trek' films","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, so it was a bad idea to let William Shatner direct *and* co-write this film. Some of the acting, I will admit, is actually overdone. But in reality, The Final Frontier has the best wisecracks, the best Klingon confrontations, and the best visual effects of any of the classic films (yes, that last one is taking into account the copycat slit-scan machine work in The Motion Picture and the cheap if visually impressive cloud tank work in The Wrath of Khan). And blasphemous? I don't think so. Different people have different ideas about God, so get used to it. A great story sometimes jokingly referred to as The Search for God is one in which the Enterprise is hijacked by (possible spoiler) Spock's half-brother, Sybok, whose only goal is to find the ultimate knowledge. Shatner's performance, of course, is egotistical and non-memorable, but Nimoy, Kelley, the rest of the crew, Laurence Luckinbill, and the ambassadors make The Final Frontier the best frontier. "},{"Title":"Boldly going into new realms of farce","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With William Shatner's chubby little hands on the reins, the franchise boldly goes into new realms of farce Watching the 58-year-old William Shatner haul his 'compacted' frame up a rock face at the opening of Star Trek V The Final Frontier, you prepare yourself for the worst. A few minutes later, it arrives. A campfire scene in which Kirk (Shatner), Bones (Kelley) and Spock (Nimoy) bunk down under the stars and trill through Row, row, row your boat. Recalling Shatner and Nimoy's thankfully abandoned singing careers, it ensures the film starts not with a bang but with a whimpering. On the desert planet of Nimbus III, planet of peace, three dignitaries are kidnapped by a mysterious Vulcan. His plan? To lure a starship into orbit so he can journey to the centre of the universe in search of Eden, God, whatever. Once they've prised Kirk away from roasting marshmellows and strapped him into his uniform, he sets off on a rescue mission.One really needs some kind of protective suit when viewing this film, particularly during its comic moments, which not only spoil this installment in the Star Trek universe, but also retroactively dissolve whatever goodwill you may have toward previous ones. Scotty (Doohan) pratfalls after clunking his head against a low girder, the audience ponders how long it must have taken to get the enlarged James Doohan to his feet afterwards. And let us gloss over the sequence that demands Uhuru (Nichols) gets naked and act as an alluring siren. (Oh how we wish it was the young Nichelle Nichols doing the nude fan dance, rather than the 56-year-old version here.)It gets worse. It turns out that the kidnap has been orchestrated by Sybok (Luckinbill), half-brother of Spock. With some malignant Klingons in tow, the Enterprise sets off under Sybok's command in search of God. Later, Kirk will get to fight God in a climactic sequence showcasing appalling special effects and the decline in Shatner's mobility. Verdict The worst Star Trek movie and the most revealing document concerning Shatner's ego since his invention of a new type of singing for his album, 'The Transformed Man'.  "},{"Title":"Classic Trek Film!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  William Shatner proves he is a fantastic motion picture director! Trek V reminds me of the classic TV series in so many ways...action adventure and character. Light years better than any of the next generation efforts. This DVD needs to have a directors cut done with Shatner's original ending done with CGI.  "},{"Title":"Give it a chance!!!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Come on people, just give the film a chance! It isn't the best movie of the series, but it certainly is not the worst(Insurrection deserves that label). Yes, the movie had its share of flaws, but just ignore those and enjoy what is good about the movie. And try to understand that the movie is totally different from what Shatner wanted it to be. Because of budget cuts and pressure from Paramount to add humor, the film's impact was diminished. He didn't get the effects company he wanted (ILM was unavailable), and his dark, terrific ORIGINAL script was watered down. In fact, his original ending would have been one of the best climaxes in Trek history, including demons, gargoyles, and TONS of action. In conclusion, the movie's failure was Paramount's fault, and NOT Shatner's. Leave him alone about it, and read his Star Trek books! They prove that he can, in fact, write, and needs to be given another chance directing a Star Trek film. "}{"Title":"Pearls before trekkies -- The only truly great movie in the series.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Naturally it is not loved in America, where any attempt to provide something other than a dumbed-down FX blockbuster is scorned.  Yes, the premise is absurd, but, geeze, all the ST premises are absurd.  What, you think warp drive, transporters and planets where *aliens* speak *English* are believable?  C'mon -- what would ST be without absurd premises?I love the message, too, that our maniacal quest for god is corruption -- and that when we think we're staring god in the face what we're really looking at is the worst in US.  Our gods reflect back at us our arrogance and lust for power.  Great point.  Too bad the studio felt the need to reign in Shatner's story to make it more politically correct, but the outline of his radical idea remains.This movie gave me a new respect for a series that I had thought of previously as being merely a lot of entertaining fluff.  Thanks go to paramount for giving it the green light.  Sad to say that, only a decade later, nothing like this could make it past the Hollywood studio PC censors.  "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly bad","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If Roger Corman had produced a STAR TREK movie, this how it would have looked like.The acting, the script, the dialogue, the story, the concept, the sets, and certainly the special effects are woeful.A big budget low budget movie. "},{"Title":"Row Row Row Your Bomb","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was so bad I can't even review it. So I'll jot some sentences about what I witnessed, and it'll be up to you to decide. Captain Kirk, with toupee and tubby gut, is rock climbing Yosemete's El Capitan. Spock meets him halfway riding on a floating skateboard-like hovercraft. Kirk falls. Spock flies down, catches him inches before Kirk hits the ground head- first. Later, that night, Spock, Kirk and McCoy are eating beans around a campfire. Spock likes the beans. Then, Kirk and McCoy sing Row Row Row Your Boat, and want Spock to join in on the three-way harmony. Spock doesn't want to sing. And later that night, he disagrees. But life isn't but a dream, Captain. Should I go on? Okay... A renegade Vulcan, who happens to be Spock's half brother, leads a revolt on a sandy planet - taking hostages. The crew of the enterprise land on the planet, and Uhura, pushing fifty-five and weighing two-hundred some-odd pounds, lures the natives with her bare legs. But they can't trick the brother, who claims he can find God. He kidnaps the crew and the Enterprise. They go to a planet where a big bearded apparition, claiming to be God, spits fire at Kirk, Spock, and McCoy. Spock's sibling, realizing it isn't God - but is really a form of himself - or something - joins with the apparition in order to destroy it and... sparks fly. Then, after stuff happens too complicated to explain involving Klingons who resemble Lorenzo Lamas... The Three Amigos - Kirk, Spock and McCoy - return to Yosemite (did I mention, Kirk was wearing a GO CLIMB A ROCK T-shirt?). With Spock playing some kind of funky Vulcan guitar, they sing Row Row Row Your Boat, this time all three harmonizing as the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Shatner's Triumph","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V is perhaps the greatest science fiction film to ever grace the silver screen, indeed, to ever grace the earth. It is a film of unparalleled stature in its unceasing nature to ask the toughest questions of our time can brother betray brother? does friendship ever outweigh the bonds of family? is there a god? if so, why does he need a starship(LOL!!!!!11)? This movie made me take a step back and reflect on my own search for God and for meaning in this sometimes difficult life. I admit with no shame that Kirk's closing lines on man's search for God brings a tear to my eye, each time I see it. On another level though, this movie not only delves into 'the final frontier' (LOL) but delves into the true echoes of exestentialism in our modern society and seems to ponder if 'echoes' are truly enough for our hustle and bustle society. I think Spock clearly answers this question in his flawless line no. Anyways, Star Trek V does what any good Star Trek film should do, and indeed what any film should do, helps us to understand what it means to be human and boldly goes where no man has gone before.I give this film a 10, but wish I could give it a 12. "},{"Title":"Better than i Remembered","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the first star trek film i saw when i was a boy. i used to think it was OK, but nothing special. then a couple of months ago i started to collect the special editions on DVD. after a few months it came to purchasing Star Trek V Final Frontier.After not seeing this film for nearly ten years i was surprised to see what a great film this is, far better than what the critics say and what i remembered, alright the subject matter is a little bit suspect but still the performances are first rate, William Shatner is superb as are the rest of the cast. my only complaint is the special effects, MAN they are dump, especially seeing as this kind of film rely's quite heavily on special effects to make it work.To finish off all i will say is, It's a very solid installment in a very entertaining and quality franchise.  "},{"Title":"A good movie, whatever its flaws","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Come on, guys, what do you have against this movie? True, it isn't the best of the series, but neither the worst (as somebody else pointed out and I totally agree, Insurrection deserves that honor). But I think the whole Star Trek spirit was about optimism and about how in the end the future will turn out good, no matter what. And that's what I like about it. In a world that's more ugly than nice, I need to believe in the eventual success of the human spirit.The idea of an alien entity posing as God was good, actually. And maybe we should learn to challenge long-held assumptions more often, like captain Kirk did in questioning the identity of the alien. (I really liked his line... how did it go? Just a moment... Why does God need a spaceship?)And the link between the beginning and the end of the movie, with the camp fire and the three of them singing, was quite nice. It gave some sense of continuity. So what if the singing was not so good? What were you expecting, Luciano Pavarotti? And I liked Spock (as always) and the way he tries to do everything by the book - even camp fires.True, there was something really ridiculous Uhura doing that dance. They could have come up with something better. And also... I have not seen the original TV series (maybe there was a hint there to support this), but the scene between Scotty and Uhura was not very believable. When did they fell in love?As for the lack of special effects... I really think they are not vital to a good SF movie. Remember Blade Runner? That was a great movie and I don't remember any FX there...Perhaps I should say that I am a Star Trek fan and so I may be partial. I liked all the nine full length movies (including Insurrection ) and all TNG episodes. But disregarding this, I still think Star Trek V is a good movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok I can see why folks don't like this. Vulcans are supposed to be logical and not supposed to act like Sybok does. That to me is what makes the movie so excellent. Think of all the races they could've picked, and they went out on a limb and picked a Vulcan. Laurence did a wonderfull job as Sybok. I wish they wouldve followed up on the character with a TV movie on how he got exiled from Vulcan. It tells you in the book, but the movie seems to ignore it. I think if they would've thrown in even one or two small scenes where you can see the toll it takes on him or get even a brief clip of why he believes so strongly in it would've made people believe it a lot more. "},{"Title":"Beginner's Luck (DVD)","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of Trekkie's don't like this movie but for me, it's one of the best. But I don't know why exactly.As the guests said on the commentary, this one is really about the trio (Kirk, Spock, McCoy) all the time. They really rejoice together, even if there are tensions between them. But as in true friendships, they can overcome their difference and unite about the essential.I like also the minimalist action and spiritual quest. But, as Kirk notices, it's very unlikely to meet God in person. As our creator, he can't definitely live on a planet like us and sits all the day! I really appreciate the outdoors sequence with the majestic Yosemite Park and the desert other planets. It changes from the claustrophobic space travels.The art direction was great the costumes and the Enterprise have a 70's look that is unusual. The music was wonderful with really beautiful cues! Goldsmith delivered the same achievement of STTMP.It's full of little humorous moments, witty acting.The movie flows peacefully, offers greats shots (Enterprise on the moon, reverberations in the shuttles, galactic background on the ship, &#x85;).Finally, I wonder if all of this isn't the touch of Shatner as a director. As it's his unique directing, we will never know but for a first time, it was a great one! "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is often said to be the worst of the Star Trek films. After watching it I can see why a lot of people would think that. It is a very flawed film but I by no means hated it. In fact, I liked it more than Star Trek The Motion Picture. Star Trek V The Final Frontier opens with the crew of the Enterprise enjoying some well deserved shore leave. Kirk, Spock, and Bones enjoy their time off together by going camping in Yosemite park and this makes for some amusingly cheesy moments. Their vacation is interrupted when they must respond to a hostage situation concerning a renegade Vulcan who happens to be Spock's half brother. This Vulcan's name is Sybok and he is on a desperate search for God and the end of the universe. There are also some Klingons in pursuit of Kirk and the Enterprise, but they don't seem to serve much of a purpose in the end. The Final Frontier is all kinds of weird and doesn't have much of a structure, but I can't say I didn't have fun with this movie.Remember how The Voyage Home added this element of comedy to Star Trek? Well The Final Frontier saw that and thought to itself, 'Hey! I can do that too!' Unfortunately, it was wrong. Any and all comedy in this film is completely unnecessary and either makes you cringe or roll your eyes in embarrassment. There are moments in the film where I was left wondering, 'Why in the hell did the writers think that line was a good idea?' The movie tries way too hard with its ridiculous punchlines and awkward moments that are supposed to be hilarious. A lot of the humor comes around when the friendship between Kirk, Spock, and Bones is being developed. This was always an important aspect of Star Trek, but The Final Frontier almost makes a mockery of it. Never, under any circumstances do I need to watch Shatner, Nimoy, and Kelley sit around a campfire singing Row Row Row Your Boat. But I guess these were the days when Shatner and Nimoy were building their singing careers so they thought they needed those careers to carry over into Star Trek.This movie had the potential to be incredible. Sybok's search for God could have gone much deeper and been much more intellectual than what it was. This aspect of the film had spiritual and existential overtones, but they were buried by silly nonsensical scenes that do nothing for the plot. There is a lot to strip away if you want to get down to the more intellectual meaning of this film. It is something that was so obscured by the amount of crap this film throws together that in the end it was a completely lost meaning.But if you move past that, The Final Frontier can be pretty fun. If you enjoy it for its cheese than you can have a moderately good time. Especially towards the end, the film becomes completely over-the-top and loaded with cheese. It isn't like The Motion Picture, which tried way to hard to be something it wasn't and painfully dragged on for over two hours. The Final Frontier clocks in at only an hour and 45 minutes and just stays lively and fun the whole time. It isn't high quality fun, but its fun nevertheless. This definitely is not a Star Trek film I would watch again, but its a necessary watch if you are a fan of Star Trek like me and have made it your duty to see all of the films.Star Trek The Final Frontier is not a good movie. But its not a bad movie either. It isn't one of those that I just hated by the end, but I knew for sure that what I had just seen was not a very well made film. I love Star Trek so watching Kirk, Spock, and Bones boldly go where no man has gone before, even if they go to a realm of such cringe worthy cheese as this, still puts a smile on my face. "},{"Title":"William Shatner should've never directed.","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"21 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess that after Leonard Nimoy had been successful in directing the Search for Spock and the Voyage Home, William Shatner thought he could direct too. Although he is a competent actor, he shows here that he's just not a good director.Actually, this movie is hard evidence to support the arguments of Trekkies who say that William Shatner being an arrogant egomaniac. For although his character, Captain James Kirk, was always arguably the most important role in the original Star Trek, it seems in this movie that he is the heart of the movie, the two other most important characters, Captain Spock and Doctor Leonard McCoy, are just there to support him, and the other characters are just there to add comic relief.The plot is that some emotional Vulcan outcast named Sybok is mindmelding with people and releasing the pain bottled up inside them from that traumatic event early in life that changed them forever. Grateful, they join him in his quest to make the entire world free of pain and thus at peace. Sybok and his followers commandeer the building in which a peace conference between a Human, Klingon, and Romulan diplomat is taking place. This lures the still-being-constructed Enterprise there, since none of Starfleet's other ships have experienced commanders (honestly, with how Starfleet is run, the Klingons and Romulans should have conquered them years ago). Sybok adds the Enterprise's crew, save Spock (who is revealed to be secret brothers with Sybok), McCoy, and Kirk. Sybok orders that the Enterprise take off to the center of the universe to meet God, who apparently every race has a word for. However, it turns out that this is only a minor entity when he demands the use of the Enterprise and Kirk asks, what does God need with a starship. The entity is destroyed, but not before Sybok, realizing he's been lied to for years, sacrifices his life and earns Spock's respect in death after the Enterprises photon torpedos destroy the entity and inexplicably Sybok as well.OK, science fiction movies are not known for realism, but at some point, rationality must be enforced. Why do people follow Sybok just for releasing their pain? Why are all humanoids defined by a single traumatic event? I've certainly led a trauma-free life. Why doesn't Kirk try his crew for mutiny and treason after they join Sybok? What was the point of Sybok sacrificing himself when the torpedos were going to kill the entity anyway?So the plot's weak. Another problem is that Sybok, though played well by Lawrence Luckinbill, is poorly portrayed. Just because he's an emotional Vulcan doesn't mean he should act exactly like a Human religious fanatic. Shatner (who was a co-writer as well as the director) could have at least developed dialog fitting for an emotional Vulcan. I guess he feels that any emotional being talks like us. Gee, I guess that means that Klingons should say isn't and don't more often than is not and do not. And the Cardassians shouldn't prolong their sentences because they like to talk (yeah, I know it's sad that I know this). Please... every ST race uses unique dialog. Why is Sybok the exception.The only thing to not complain about is the acting. I've always known Star Trek to have great actors, and this movie is not exception. Cudos also go to Leonard Nimoy, for it had to be difficult to play the dispassionate Spock in his old age.Some other things I didn't likeShatner and the late DeForrest Kelly twice show what bad singers they are by singing Row, Row, Row your Boat in this movie. I guess Shatner wished to silence his detractors of his singing ability. What he did was prove their point.Uhura does a fan dance while wearing nothing but tree bark to draw some men into a booby trap. After all, the dreams of all us men are filled with images of middle-aged plump women dancing naked.Comedy's all well and good as long as it doesn't affect the nature of Star Trek too much, but when Scotty bumps into an object on the Enterprise and KOs himself, it's kinda goin' overboard.Kirk is the only crew member who can reject Sybok's offer of releasing their inner pain and see through the God imposter's deception. Not even Spock can manage either of these? Perhaps this scenes were valantines from Shatner to his character, as many suspect.The concept of an entity posing as God had been used in Star Trek before this movie more than once. Be creative, Shatner.Speaking of uncreativeness, I didn't purticularly care for the ripping off of the music of Star Trek the Next Generation.All in all, pretty bad Trek movie. If you're a Trekkie, watch it once because it's Star Trek. Otherwise, watch Star Trek II the Wrath of Khan. It's way better. "}{"Title":"This potentially good film could have been so much better.","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"25 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having recently purchased the box set of all 10 Star Trek films (including Next Generation), I watched Star Trek V, not having seen it since it was released, hoping that it would improve on a second watching.Watching it now, I can see that here was a story that could have been very, very powerful, and the film could have been an equal to Star Trek The Motion Picture, which is also underrated by non-Star Trek fans.The overwhelming sense I got in this film was that everything proceeded so quickly, as if the producers/director felt that a successful film was trim, with no excess fat. Those people who really enjoy a good steak, enjoy that little bit of fat on the edge, or marbled through the meat. It makes it all so much more tasty, even if it has little nutritional value. To remove myself from the metaphor, Star Trek fans enjoy the taking of time over certain elements - seeing the ship, seeing it travel, dialogue en route, etc.If there was a director's cut, or another cut, that wasn't so very lean, I think the new pace would work to the film's advantage. Of course the worst element of pacing is the finale. When we finally arrive at the centre of the galaxy, Kirk & Co. march straight in without much ado. Think to the Enterprise venturing into the cloud that surrounded V-GER. We were given time to savour the beautiful visuals set to a engaging score.To my mind this doesn't happen in Star Trek V, and this is its weakness. I think it is still a reasonable film. The scene where Spock and McCoy are shown there heart's deepest wound is quite moving. With a little more breadth, this could have been incredible. It's frustrating that the film will not get the best treatment the story deserves. When watching the special features, it seems that the production was not smooth sailing, the finale weakened due to poor response (according to Shatner) from special effects teams. As a Star Trek fan, I can't give this film less than a 5. I hope that's not out of sentimentality. "},{"Title":"Dont Blame William Shatner","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"27 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  V has some of the best moments in the entire series. The camping scene is both funny, and insightful. I also love the scene in the brig. (I oughtta knock you on your Goddam ass!.......Want me to hold him, Jim?)The only mistake was hiring an effects crew who had never done motion control blue screen model effects before. And that was NOT William Shatner's fault. That was Ralph Winter's and Harve Bennet's fault. Quit blaming William Shatner. The producers hold the purse strings, and hired idiots. Watch the new DVD and you will see model test shots that were not for action blocking, but were the effects team actually trying to figure out how to do the effects. LameWatch this movie, focus on the characters, and ignore the space shots, and it's pretty good. I think since they reworked STTMP with new effects based on the original story boards, they should have done the same for STV for the new DVD. That would have fixed the whole movie.Besides all of the exterior ship shots, the scenes I would have fixed are as followsThe turboshaft - Change the deck numbers to make sense and erase the shadow made by the boom holding them up.All viewscreens - Insert remastered footage digitally to replace the poor rear-projection versions. The new Enterprise would have an even clearer screen, not a grainy, dim one. The only one that worked was the observation windows as they approached the great barrier.The fall scene at the beginning. Inserting the closeup of Kirk and Spock ruined the entire scene.(Exactly like the parasailing scene in Die Another Day) Seeing a real stuntman is always better than seeing a fake shot of the actor.  "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly bad","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"37 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I tried to keep an open mind while watching this one. After all, many people think Star Trek IV The Voyage Home is the best in the series and I didn't like it; so I hoped that, with many people saying Star Trek V The Final Frontier was the worst, I would find I disagree with the majority on the latter film also.No can do. From its opening scene on the desert planet, I could tell this one was going to go downhill fast. And boy, was I right. But I stuck it out, because I've been on a sci-fi kick lately and decided it was finally time to get caught up on all the Trek films I had never seen (i.e. the fourth, fifth and sixth entries).First of all, the script seems like something a junior high student would write. The characters are paper-thin, with the exception of Kirk, Spock and McCoy, who turn their act into a sort of high-brow Three Stooges impression at times. The plot makes virtually no sense, jumping around between set pieces like a poorly contrived Roger Moore Bond film. Apparently they got halfway through it and then realized they had to have a more definite villain as well, so they threw in some idiot Klingon who would come along and pick a fight with Kirk just to throw his weight around.Further, why would Starfleet decide that Kirk was the only person in their ranks who could possibly handle the hostage situation? What was that meeting like? Oh my God, some clown in a white robe and a bunch of sunburned hermits have taken three people hostage on a planet in the middle of nowhere! Well let's see, we have starships and spacedocks all over the place that could easily handle this, but let's drag Kirk out on this one! And not only do they insist on sending him, but they also make him take a substandard ship that doesn't even have working transporters. Not to mention that it has a skeleton crew. I think what happened was Paramount felt they were spending enough on The Next Generation and didn't want to spend any more money than they absolutely had to on this old school film.Nothing else about this premise rings true, either. A middle-aged Uhura doing a striptease to help ambush the bad guys? The 23rd Century and they don't have flashbangs? And the finale is just ridiculous. Apparently what happened was the top FX guys were already doing other movies, so Paramount tried to do the FX on their own and they were so bad they cut them out of the final film. There's a lot of other things they could have cut out of this one as well.Finally, there's the pitiful attempts at humor. Apparently after Voyage Home it was decided that they could make anything work as long as they stuck some one-liners in. Sure, that works. Ask the James Bond producers.This was hardly the worst movie I've ever seen, but it was just so inane. It had Shatner Vanity Project written all over it. Yet another reason why I'm leaning towards thinking Next Generation is the superior Trek series. "},{"Title":"Holy noble effort Kirk, but something missing...","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though it isn't as bad as many Star Trek fans assumed or judged when they saw the movie, but however, we noticed here the work was plagued by many factors.First, I can give credit to William Shatner and its effort to direct a movie with many disturbing factors (SAG writers strike, low budget due to another Star Trek production (TNG), rewriting the ending, etc...)Second, it is difficult to make a movie where the central subject is God.Third, too much liberties taken which led to confusion about the multi arc storyline (3 story lines melded into one hostage crisis/Klingon conflict/meeting with God) However, result is a passable movie. Yes, there were some bad or mediocre TV episodes among the various Star Trek series, I can rate it one mark over mediocre...What was missing consistency, and I would have put something more about the Klingons, since the latter have a secret grunge with events happened during Star Trek III. (The sequel, Star Trek VI, resumes this rivalry...)To conclude Shatner did its best... but took a wrong turn instead... "},{"Title":"The weakest of the original Star Trek films","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek 5 The Final Frontier without question the worst of the original Star Trek motion picture. Now I am a long time fan of Star Trek but this film was just a total wreck.It just goes to show that some people should just stick to what they are used to. Some people should never be a director for a motion picture. The plot for this film just feels like it should be on another series outside of Star Trek and most of the plot just feels like they were trying too hard.There is only about four scenes I find redeeming about this Star Trek film but other than that I don't see anything much more worse.The acting in the film is just up and down and the new characters that are introduce into this movie just shows you should never introduce to the fans.I just can't find anything I could say that makes this film worth your watch it just feels like a poorly directed episodeI give Star Trek 5The Final Frontier an 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Im sure it seemed worse the first time around","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is mediocre, its not the best but maybe not the worst film I have ever seen. I guess its a film for the die hard Trekkie's like myself. If you love the franchise you will put up with anything! It kind of feels as if it had a budget similar to the TV shows. And to be honest the film feels much like one the episodes from the original series. Low budget effects, low quality acting, but its still a trek movie so what do you want its better than no trek movie! Hell even some of the story line of the film feels like it was taken right out of the original series. Maybe that's because they took the story of IMO one of the worst episodes and made a film out of it. At least they avoided that awful music from the original film.If you like The Original Series you will like this film. Treat it like you would any other episode from this show. "},{"Title":"Not really bad.  It could have been better.","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen and heard a lot of trashing of this film over the years ever since it hit the theatres way back when. I missed it when it was first released, and, and it's even more surprising because I am a great fan of the show.So, now that I've seen it as a film crew type and as a fan (and as a creative person), here's what I think fans objected to;First off, the film itself is exceptionally well shot, and has high production values. If I had one real criticism that crossed technical and artistic boundaries, it would be that a good portion of the spaceship shots were not well composed and poorly lit. Beyond that, the acting is fine, and the overall production values are good, but the script wasn't well vetted.What we have here is essentially a family member getting drawn in by a cult following. Only there's no setup for it. The fans are given a character who has a vision, but we as the audience are not privy to how that got manifested. Regular Joe movie goer and Star Trek fan alike needed the character driving the film to demonstrate to us how he got going. We're never given that. Therefore you have to take it on faith that there's going to be a payoff to the story at the end. And there is, but it's empty, or at best half full.The actors are older. And by older I think the script needed to address why these people were getting back together again, and to give the audience a bit of reality that, like a naval officer in any nation's navy in the here and now, you can't remain a command grade officer doing the same task over and over again. I do think that was needed to give some emotional grounding to this movie, to let the fans know that even in the Star Trek universe, life goes on.The film opens up with yet another shakedown cruise of the new Enterprise. Well, no offense, but is that ship ever going to be ready? In Star Trek the Motion Picture, ten years before, the Enterprise was about to go on a shakedown cruise. Then again in the next couple of movies. Granted this is a new ship, but, well ... is she ever going to be ready for active duty? One wonders.Shatner helming this installment of Trek actually does an okay job. Unlike Nimoy's style, where Nimoy focuses on character nearly to the exclusion of all else, Shatner doesn't lose sight of the fact that Trek was about addressing issues, and not really showing off how fun the characters can be (that rose organically out of the story and plot). But the story is more or less a glamorized TV episode, and for all of the high production values that went into the film, it does appear that things were skimped on for budgetary considerations.The planet in the opening scenes has a history. We're told about it in the dialogue, and never shown how it got to be that way, as perhaps we would have in a higher budget feature film. I already mentioned the main character of the film never giving his reasons, and us never seeing them, for his actions. The supporting characters also seemed to be a little too easily swayed for what the plot unveils. Again, this is not an issue in Shatner's direction of the film, but a script issue. And for the climax that we're given, things are lacking.So, implausibility from the start with a ship that is not fully ready, a main character whose background we don't get to witness in terms of the plot's relevance (i.e. why is he doing what he's doing), the world on which he is on is skimped on in exposition for the audience (and I'll add that the opening scene should have been grander; perhaps the main character stops a fight between two war-bands, showing the audience that he has great persuasion), inadequately staged SFX space shots, and, at the end, we're still not let in on who is doing what and why, nor why the main character brought the everyone to the point of climax in the film. Nothing is explained.And Trek fans, although being a pretty thoughtful bunch, perhaps couldn't quite nail what it is that was gnawing at them about this movie. And so they chose to nitpick at things until they believed they had found what was bothering them. I'll say this, if this film had been shot as a TV episode with a team of writers, it would not see day one in front of a camera until all the story shortcomings were worked out. As it stands I think the creative team felt they could patch over the points lacking in the story with dialogue and on screen talent emoting their parts. It's a superbly shot film as far as the live action sequences go, but without a cause for the characters to be doing their thing you're left with a pretty empty film.I don't know Shatner's background other than he was a Shakespearean actor before donning the Captain Kirk mantle, so I don't know whether he knew the script's faults before going in on the project, but he seemed to do the best job anyone could with the screenplay. And I think that's really all that can be said. Yes, there's a better movie there somewhere, but such is life. If you're just into the characters and want to see some Star Trek on the screen, then this shouldn't disappoint in that regard, but it does fall short of a full theatrical feature film. "},{"Title":"Misguided","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is misguided in every respect. The very idea is bad, the script is bad, the direction is bad, the set design and special effects are bad... One can't help but wonder what they were thinking when they approved this project. Kirk meets god? Seriously? And why is god so underwhelming? Why is god on some planet that is literally a few hours away from the area of space that Federation ships traverse at all times? Why did they not investigate that planet before? If Enterprise can reach it, why haven't other ships reached it? Why did they shove the rogue Klingon into the otherwise philosophical and deeply emotional script, merely copying the Klingon from 'Search for Spock'? The guy doesn't contribute to the story in any real way. Apparently they wanted to provide some action for the fans, thinking the film might be too boring otherwise. In reality they just damage the script about the search for meaning and the ways in which we deal with our pain. Of course, there is a problem with the way this main idea is probed, as well. Why does the Vulcan have the ability to take away people's pain? He is not god. It simply doesn't make any sense at all. Finally, the ending is underwhelming. What is the message? That we must accept our pain and the fact that we must live our lives without ultimate knowledge? Did we need to watch the whole thing to reach that insight? A well written script could have conveyed that idea without any reference to gods and forbidden planets and crazed Vulcans. "},{"Title":"Maybe not ill-advised, but definitely ill-fated","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It doesn't help matters that the Final Frontier follows the trilogy of good Star Trek movies, but even on its own, it's an assortment of ideas that range from pretty good to woeful. The portrayals of some of the cast (supporting Enterprise crew, especially) are fairly cartoonish, a lot of the jokes land with a thud, the Great Barrier doesn't make a lot of sense, and then there's Uhura's fan dance. But it also features some gorgeous Yosemite National Park scenery and nice shot compositions aboard the Enterprise. Nice little production touches, too (I've always liked that Captain's chair, and Shatner beefed up the phasers). And McCoy has a good scene with his father. Also Kirk does have the balls to ask, What does God need with a starship?. But mostly it's just flat. I remember Shatner's book detailing his plans had the budget allowed, but I'm not sure more money would've fixed this. It ain't Into Darkness bad . . . well, it's not really bad, either. Just mediocre, as Star Trek movies go.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the worst Star Trek films","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a bit of a mess, really. William Shatner is nowhere near the director that Leonard Nimoy is. Much like Planet of the Apes (2001) in which David Warner also appeared, it feels like a first draft rather than the finished product. Considering that there was a writers' strike in 1988, I may not be far off. The ideas behind the script, which were admittedly recycled from TOS, weren't bad. They at least had potential, which was never realised. On the bright side, Laurence Luckinbill - whose mother-in-law Lucille Ball approved TOS' production by her company Desilu - is very good in the fairly thankless role of Sybok.Speaking of David Warner, one of my favourite actors, he has an excellent first scene in which we are introduced to St. John Talbot, a drunken, broken man assigned to a backwater planet where his superiors presumably hoped he would cause no damage. The character has also had a great deal of potential but Warner has exactly four lines after his first scene. His part was originally bigger but it ended up on the cutting room floor. It's a waste of an excellent actor. He spends most of his screen time standing around the bridge. I liked that he developed a relationship with the Romulan ambassador Caithlin Dar but it's literally in the background of scenes that this happens! He has less screen time as Chancellor Gorkon in Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country but better material and a more important part.The scenes featuring Kirk, Spock and Dr. McCoy camping in Yosemite National Park may not be the cleverest, deepest or best written scenes in Star Trek history with talk of marshmelons and Row, Row, Row Your Boat and whatnot but they were my favourites because of the sense of warmth and easy camaraderie between the Big Three. Some films take ages to start off and get better from there but, sadly, this one took ages to start off and got worse as it went on.As well as being a disappointment artistically, it was a major disappointment financially. Like Timothy Dalton's second and final Bond film Licence to Kill, it had the misfortune to be released during the Summer of Sequels, which has since become an almost annual tradition, and it performed badly against films such as Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Ghostbusters II, Lethal Weapon 2 and Batman (which was the major exception). Surprisingly enough, it actually did better than Licence to Kill in the US, earning $49.5 million to the Bond film's $34.6 million. Worldwide, however, Licence to Kill earned $156 million to this film's far less impressive $65 million.It has a few great lines such as Bones saying that he liked Spock better before he died, Kirk saying that he misses his old chair from TOS and, of course, the unforgettable What does God need with a starship? which by itself makes the film worthwhile. Almost.I think that Roger Ebert said it best when he said that the film was of interest only to Trekkies and then only so they could discuss what's wrong with it. "}{"Title":"What's the Word I'm Looking For&#x85;?  o.o","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS (if you can call them that&#x85; o.o)SPOILERS=======SPOILERS======SPOILERS!!!When a mysterious Vulcan prophet and his army of bungling misfits take over a backwater embassy of peace, where three bungling ambassadors of the Federation, the Romulan Empire, and Klingon Empire are taken hostage, only the heroic, legendary, brilliant Captain James Tiberius Kirk can save them. Called back from R&R in Yosemite National Park, where the 60+ Captain is free-climbing rocks with his friends, the socially-bungling Vulcan First Officer, Spock, and the socially-bungling Chief Medical Officer, McCoy, the legendary Captain is tasked with saving the hostages.The bungling crew of the starship Enterprise must work out the kinks on the ship, which their bungling Chief Engineer, Scotty, has failed to have ready in time. They race to the planet, where their bungling Weapons Officer, Checkov, pretends to be captain of the ship, fooling the otherwise-canny terrorist leader. Meanwhile, Kirk and his crew mount an invasion against the terrorists, who bunglingly fall for the sexy-yet-competent Lt. Uhura's ruse, and the usually-gifted terrorist leader bungles a violence-free defense of his camp, resulting in massive bloodshed.But the Vulcan leader gets the best of the crew and commandeers the Enterprise. As they attempt to return to the ship, a bungling Klingon and his bungling crew arrive to destroy the Enterprise, and Kirk's bungling helmsman, Sulu, crashes their shuttle into the Enterprise docking bay.The Enterprise escapes the bungling Klingons, only to confront The Great Barrier, an energy field surrounding the Galactic Core that bungling Federation scientists have claimed is impenetrable. Easily flying through it, the ship arrives at a secret planet where bungling God attempts to win them over, only clumsily revealing His hand as a charlatan and prisoner looking to merely mount a galactic jail break. God then chases everyone around pouting, NOOOOOOO! and shooting laser-cat beams out of His almighty eyes as if in a film adaptation of the 80s coin op game, Sinistar, and the Enterprise escapes, taking a minute to capture the bungling crew of the Klingon ship and take its bungling captain over the brilliant, legendary Kirk's brilliant, legendary knee&#x85;Oh, screw it. Let's do it this way&#x85;A bungling TV actor turns bungling director to bungle a paint-by-numbers script, combine it with bungling special effects, and create a full-length feature film less interesting than any of the original series episodes made decades earlier with a fraction of the budget. And why has he done this, you ask?The question bungles the mind. o.O "},{"Title":"1960s Meets 1989","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spock finds he has a brother (Sybok) with special powers.William Shatner (Kirk), Leonard Nimoy (Spock), Laurence Luckinbill (Sybok), the Jerry Goldsmith score, the humour, the drama, the storyline about past events impacting on you in later years....what a wonderful movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The lesser special effects are actually rather pleasing to me as Star Trek started with lesser special effects in the old TV series...so it fits well here.There is another old meets new thing about his film the location filming on that rocky planet at the end is actually the exact same location used for TV's Lost In Space (1965-68) when the Robinsons/Dr Smith were also on a rocky alien planet in the first few B&W episodes. "},{"Title":"Glad this didn't ruin the Star Trek movie saga","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only reason I didn't give this movie a 1-star is that there were a few enjoyable scenes but overall, the movie was terrible. The plot was just ridiculous. It surrounds a guy name Sybok, who we find out is Spock's half-brother, who kidnaps 3 representatives on a planet called Nimbus 3 in an effort to draw a ship to the planet so that he can capture it and take the ship to a place he is convinced is the center of the universe. He gets the crew to cooperate by making them release their pain to him, which also turns out to be a form of brain-washing as after they do this, they blindly follow his orders. After a good Star Trek film like Voyage Home, it's a shame that this was the best the writers could do to follow it. I'm just glad Star Trek VI saved the saga. "},{"Title":"just call it Star Trek 5, what's with all this Roman numeral crap, who do we need to impress?","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" No, not a good movie. Not really worth critical review either. Not to say that this Star Trek movie is undeserving of critique, merely that such a critique is too easy- Shatner directed it, bless his heart. Let us put this movie into context- if you were stuck on a plane for two hours and your choice for stuff to watch was Star Trek 5, the cinco, or Almost Famous, wouldn't you pick Star Trek? If you had to watch the new Tron or Star Trek el cinco, again wouldn't you pick Star Trek? Contextually while this is a sh*tty Star Trek its a far far better movie than Sleepers, Basic Instinct,Regarding Henry,Pearl Harbor,Friday the Thirteenth parts 1 through 5, Friday the Thirteenth parts 6 through 10,Gone In Sixty Seconds,Transformers....etc.etc.etc. "},{"Title":"Heavily flawed film with a good plot and performances","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following Star Trek IV, generally considered to be the second best Star Trek film after The Wrath of Khan, this film proved to be wildly disappointing for most fans of the series, and is often referred to as the worst Star Trek movie (I personally think that title rather easily belongs to Star Trek Insurrection), and I don't at all feel that the case. This film has many flaws, but it's brought up enough by its intriguing plot and the performances of the leads.The plot involves an exiled Vulcan named Sybok with strong spiritual beliefs in a Vulcan mythological figure known as the God of Sha Ka Ree. While the Enterprise crew is on shore leave and the kinks in their new ship are still being worked out, the Enterprise is hijacked by Sybok, and holds the crew against their will, planning to use the Enterprise to get through the Great Barrier, the other side of which is where Sybok believes the God of Sha Ka Ree to be.A lot of great moments occur in scenes where the lead characters are forced to confront the decisions they made in the past, the acting is quite strong and you can sense much emotion in the characters. How different Sybok is from other Vulcans and the reasons why that is so are quite interesting, as are the parallels included revolve around things both spiritual and dark.The biggest flaws of the film are the special effects and the actual execution of how the story is told. The special effects are really cheap in this, while all the previous Star Trek films had great effects. This being the first film Shatner directed, he lacks experience as to how a story should actually be executed, and it shows.So overall, worth a watch. It's far from great, but has enough good qualities to make it worth your time. "},{"Title":"God Almighty","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As with most of my reviews at the moment i have seen this film a few times before, though i have tried to avoid it. It had always been the worst Trek film in my book. However, having watched it for the first time in ten years today, it is actually tolerable and possibly pushes 'The Motion Picture', alongside some of the TNG films, as the worst.The basic premise if the film is that Spock's half brother Sybok, seeks to find God. I guess as another reviewer has stated, maybe in 100 years this film will be looked upon as a classic but, my word, present day makes it a poor film.The comedy of IV The Voyage Home was subtle and funny but in this it seems forced. I have to say though, there are a couple of laugh out loud moments mainly coming form McCoy. On the other side of the coin McCoy gives one of the most emotional performances of the film during the moments when he regrets the death of his Father. Apart from that there is a lack of caring for the crew. Something seems to be missing, it really is hard to put your finger on it.There is a lack, dare i say it, nearly no confrontational moments of the film. It is more of a thinking film, like The Motion Picture, really. Thank the lord the re was some aggression and cliffhanging moments in the next film The Undiscovered COuntry.Scotty, Uhuru and Zulu are totally underused. In fact you could have had the film without them and it wouldn't have made much difference. A note however to Scotty's I know this ship like the back of my hand line. Kirk, doesn't really feel like the Kirk we love, maybe this is down to him having to concentrate on directing.Having said all that, it is watchable. It has no baring on the rest of the films however. You could easily miss this one out if out wanted.Considerng this featured the maiden voyage of the Enterprise A, it is sadly not even really touched upon, and there is no great fanfare moment that sticks in the memory like the TMP Enterprise refit reveal.There are some cringe-worthy moments, like a hint of romance between Uhuru and Scotty and the evil laughter of Sybok at the start of the film. You grow to like Sybok in the film as his character never really is/becomes a baddie and his redemption at the end of the film is touching. Anything that takes away from the moments when you are watching the so called God, helps! Great to here the TMP Jerry Goldsmith theme once again but the overall soundtrack doesn't stand out at all. To be honest, you will be glad when the film is over. Leave it a decade then watch it again and it is a nice trip down memory lane! Rumour has it that the poor performance of this film nearly killed the franchise. Thankfully it did continue but in the order of things, this could be deleted out of the series and no one would mind. "},{"Title":"To boldly go where no moron has gone before","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not quite sure if The final frontier is the worst Star Trek movie,but it's certainly the goofiest.The whole film feels like a bad joke,the only thing missing is the Wawa sound effect.Here is an early scene from the movie - A human,a klingon and a romulan walk in a bar...but wait in that bar there is also a stripper with 3 boobies.I wish I was joking.Anyway,the story itself is poorly constructed and the whole Spock reuniting with his brother plot point feels really unnatural.I won't go into details,but if you watch this abomination yourself,you will find out.The thing that really irritates me is the final part of the movie.It's so bad and incoherent,that it's not the least bit believable and that's saying a lot,considering that this is a Star Trek film.Supposedly the Enterprise finds Eden and they land on it.The planet viewed from the surface looks nothing like itself viewed from space,alright,I'm willing to accept that.Then they find what is supposed to be the creator or something like that( I lost interest in the movie by this point,due to the stupidity of the plot).This space god asks for passage on the Enterprise and when they refuse he starts shooting death lasers.Spock's brother sacrifices himself to destroy the evil laser space god of doom(do you even care anymore) and everyone else escapes.Who or what was this evil entity - an A.I. ,a very advanced life form,I don't know,it's never mentioned again.This movie shows very well that Shatner should stay the hell away from directing.To the film's credit though,it did manage to keep me entertained,I got some good laughs from both how bad it was,and actually from some of the in-movie humor,though I will admit,I am very easily amused.If watching naked 50 year old women is your thing(don't even get me started on that scene),then you can give The final frontier a watch. "},{"Title":"Could be better","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this way back when it first came out. I was five, and just starting to get interested in science fiction. When it was over, I wasn't impressed, but it wasn't bad. Now that I look back...it's still about the same. It's certainly on the low end of the series, but it has parts of it I enjoy.The easiest thing to do with a dud is blame the director, and William Shatner does deserve at least some blame, if not much of it. Shatner didn't have his focus on the script (he was away during part of the shoot, during which time producers and even co-stars Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelley helped rewrite the script), and it shows throughout the film. And his idea for the key plot element (the Enterprise being used to find God) was even loathed by Gene Roddenberry! So this project seemed doomed from the start.Another element to consider are the effects. More than any genre, sci-fi films need great special effects to make audiences suspend their disbelief. The effects of ST5...fail to do that. The Enterprise of this film looks like a step back from the original films, the torpedoes don't look real, and even the opening fall scene doesn't look right. In short, it proves that ILM (which was removed from the project early on) is head and shoulders above the rest.Now, about the plot. Let's delve deeper into each plot point-The Enterprise, despite barely working and with a skeleton crew, is sent to the planet Nimbus III when a renegade Vulcan named Sybok kidnaps three ambassadors. Why would the Federation send a ship clearly not ready to fly into such a dangerous position? Simply because they want Jim Kirk on the case? Where do they send these other ships?-Before that, Kirk and crew relax at Yosemite National Park. It leads to Kirk, Spock, and McCoy attempting to sing...Row Row Row Your Boat. What, Mary Had a Little Lamb was too complex!? Just a silly pick for a song.-Once the mission get under way, Spock reveals the renegade Vulcan is his half-brother. This is admittedly nit-picky, but why now? Why not during the TV series? This is simply a matter of degree, so I won't dock them too hard for this.-We get a subplot of a Klingon who wants to become famous by defeating Kirk in battle. This is just a poor attempt to cover that there's no true villain in this picture, and is really unnecessary.-We find out, after crossing the Great Barrier, that it's really an evil God who simply wants to use the Enterprise for his own purposes. A bit of a letdown, but it does lead to my favorite line (uttered by Shatner) What does God need with a starship?.-The payoff of a threesome of Row Row Row Your Boat? Wow, glad you could end on a high note!The film does try to follow ST4's lead in injecting more humor into the series. But while 4 was able to make it work by not getting too slap sticky, 5 has moments (such as the Row Boat singing, Sulu and Chekov getting lost in Yosemite, and Scotty knocking himself out by running into a beam) that make you groan rather than laugh. It's almost like they thought it was a parody of a Star Trek movie!The best parts are the tender moments that are sprinkled in. When Kirk, Spock, and McCoy bear their true feelings (such as when Spock reveals Sybok's past, or when McCoy talks about his true feelings after the Row Boat singing), it shows why the series is so popular. The all-for-1 and 1-for-all feelings are truly nice to see.Overall, though, ST5 is, at best, a lightweight in the series. Those who want a basic Trek that doesn't have too much to think about, or those who want an easy intro to the original cast, should check it out. Otherwise, this is for serious Trekkers only. "},{"Title":"Flawed, tacky but unique and deceptively deep!","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't get it? I really don't! Why are people so down on this film? Most fans say it's the worst of the series, and yes it does stand out but that is because it is unique, not because it is bad.I personally thought the story was fantastic. Unlike other reviewers here I actually watched the film and it IS NOT about God being on a planet in the centre of the Galaxy. It's not even about a God like creature, it is simply about a creature that has some strong powers who is PRETENDING to be God! Can't get off the planet alone? Hardly God like is it, but still the concept was intriguing and who better to go in search of 'heaven' than the crew of the Enterprise.True it's not perfect, there are a few thin scenes and the 'humour' should have been culled a little but William Shatner has brought a whole different feel to the film and I applaud that immensely. Small touches like the Klingons using and old earth Satellite (can't remember which one it was) as target practise and the enterprise by the moon was great. It also showed some of the deepest acting of the series with DeForest Kelley's touching portrayal of Bones and his father.So many people say that the touch of Shatner ruined it, but he didn't hire the effects crew and his unused ideas were far and away more spectacular than any that would have been seen before.I'd have loved to have seen this film with the correct budget and effects team behind it, then it really could have been the best.Unfairly flawed and tacky effects hide a much deeper portrayal of the three protagonists that we will never see again.Bravo Mr Shatner, bravo! "},{"Title":"When Making a Star Trek Movie...","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A. Pick a director/writer who has experience and has a story to tell.B. Don't copy one of the worst episodes of Season 3 and revamp it.Basically, Star Trek V is The Way to Eden, but instead of Hippies in Space, we get Ham in Space. The storyline is similar. The sad part is the characters much like in that ill-fated season 3 episode are completely wrong. In The Way To Eden, Chekov was made into a neo-con, career minded officer. Spock was playing his groovy Vulcan lyre, Scotty was this close minded, establishmentarian, griping about lazy, no good young people. In Star Trek V we have Spock with a half-brother rebelling against the logic of Vulcan and searching for the Supreme Being. (For a logical man Sarek seemed to get around a lot!) There are some good spots. But the humour was awful. The effects were plain bad. There was zero continuity. I actually felt sad for Takei, Nichols, Doohan, and Koenig as they were made mockeries of their characters and were the butt of the jokes. Perhaps if the writers strike and a better budget weren't in the way this might have been a decent film. I'm not sure if anything could have been done with a pretty flimsy plot. I'm not sure if the whole film was simply to stoke Shatner's ego or what. Fortunately, they got it right on Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country. "}{"Title":"Captain Quirk's Version Of Star Trek","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The way that I figure it, this is Captain Kirk's version of the Star Trek universe, his take on things. It's not so much that the movie sucks, but that Kirk's own version of reality is so slanted and skewed that when the rest of us are allowed to see things through his eyes the results don't add up. It's not the way things really are. They are they way that Kirk, or William Shatner, would *prefer* them to be. He can blame writers strikes, budget conflicts or special effects deadlines being missed all he likes. Bill screwed up, not by making a crummy movie, but by slipping and honestly showing things as he really sees them. I think the results fit his vision perfectly.Take for instance Kirk's interaction with the rest of the crew. Longstanding behind the scenes legend painted a less than harmonious relationship between Shatner the actor and the rest of the contingent that made up the Star Trek family. We saw a unified front that was a wholly fictional creation, while Shatner was reportedly deliberately distant and off-putting, regarding his costars as subordinates who cut into his screen time. He was the star and they were there to make him look good, not shine out or create authentic characters that we as fans came to know & love, an unforeseen side effect he actively resisted.So Shatner the writer/director immediately sets things to rights in his world view by subordinating and humiliating the characters who had worked so long for their dignity. Spock is subjected to fart jokes, retarded mispronounced word jokes, drunken McCoy jokes. Scotty is turned into a clumsy buffoon horny for the receptionist, who herself does a nude fling in the desert to re-objectify Uhura as Kirk's occasional Chocolate Fantasy, while Chekov and Sulu wander around lost even though they are supposed to steer the starship. All of these people are elementarily inept compared to Kirk, who climbs a god damn mountain with his bare hands, showing everyone who wears the pants on this bridge once & for all.The film has no real villain since science fiction thrillers are often more about their villains than their heroes, something that would have threatened Shatner's quest for personal validation by being the focus of the story. Which concerns itself with the Wizard of Oz Complex of exposing a fraud with a fancy bag of tricks behind a mask. Via this perfunctory story of forced cosmic redemption the film celebrates Kirk's relative physical youth, his amazing vigor, and the male bonding that he has enjoyed with his closest confidantes at the expense of all other relationships. Kirk's personal life is hollow & empty without his professional obligations to Starfleet, which must exist even if they need to be created via chaos manufacture.And that is how the primary conflict is set into motion, existing only to have James Tiberius Kirk prove once again that he is as fit & capable as any 35 year old former Academy legend, that his crew are dotingly loyal to the point of being sycophants, and that everyone shares his ingratiating sense of humor. That's the one thing that always bothered me the most about this movie, its presumption that everyone would find its jokes to be endearingly appropriate rather than cheap, demeaning little shots that amount to devaluement tactics. Shatner did manage to come up with at least one great Star Trek scene though, a quiet one where Kirk is trying to figure a way out of the Enterprise brig and Spock offers some play by play advice. If the film had more of that and less of the smarmy pandering to sentiment that defuses whatever engagement of the viewer was generated it might have amounted to something. It also introduced a marvelous piece of hardware to the Trek universe in the form of Spock's instant marshmallow fabricator. Screw the limited edition phaser reproductions, I want one of those!Ultimately the story is secondary to the film's function of celebrating Kirk, and as such is the weakest of the classic Trek crew's theatrical outings. Legend has it the plot was arrived at after Shatner's original plans for the crew to travel to the center of the galaxy to find a fountain of youth were rejected due to practical concerns. Shatner apparently pursued a personal version of that theme regardless; He looks younger and more vital than he did in any of the other Trek movies, with a nasty rumor persisting that he fully intended this to be the final Star Trek film even if that meant bankrupting the whole franchise.Who knows. All things being equal William Shatner is my favorite screen personality, and Captain Kirk one of my dearest personal heroes. For my money Kirk was the essence of Star Trek, and the fun in watching the original crew adventures is in seeing him learn from having his lunch handed to him repeatedly. By the Klingons, the Romulans, assorted women, the Gorn, flying space pancakes, you name it. Take Kirk's narcissistic buffoonery out of the equation and there's nothing to learn, no growth that was needed by anyone. On their own Spock, Bones and Scotty did just fine.But it would have been a pretty boring show without James T. Kirk screwing everything up, and this film is maybe an ironic example of how untenable the universe would have been with him in control. I wouldn't have wanted to have been the one to tell him no at production meetings, and from the looks of this bloated, overstuffed movie nobody else could get up the nerve either. Though there are certainly worse things you can do with your time, and bad Star Trek beats most forms of entertainment hands down anyway. But just between you & me, I'll go for KINGDOM OF THE SPIDERS again next time I feel like a two hour William Shatner overload. 4/10 "},{"Title":"This was NOT the worst Star Trek -- it was better than IV","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this particular Star Trek Film to be way more engaging than Star Trek IV and its stupid, trite storyline. At least this one did not have quite as many boring moments as the previous Leonoard Nimoy -- directed movie. OK, I have to admit -- the special effects in this film were EXTREMELY lame. It is almost as if Paramount or the producers of this movie did not have any sort of a budget to spend on effects. All of it is very cartoonish and dumb-looking.The roundup of the good guys/bad guys on Nimbus III was the weakest part of the movie. Not only was it dull, it did not even draw you in. Further, the hostages, as soon as they are rescued (or not rescued, as it turned out), they are no longer important to the story. It is as if we were supposed to care about them one minute and then not care about them the next. They were plastic, phony characters.I did enjoy the Jerry Goldsmith soundtrack very much in this movie. He was in his element to make up for a weak story. I always enjoy the banter back and forth between Kirk, Spock and Bones. They somehow pull it off well enough to be entertaining.PLOT HOLE the Shaka-ri character kept demanding that Sybok bring the enterprise closer to the planet so that he could escape his imprisonment on that lonely planet. He seems to be powerful enough at this point to destroy the humans/and Spock. Why was he not able to take over or destroy the Bird of Prey when it came within 25 feet of him and the surface of the planet? This was a huge plot hole that was never explained.Overall, somewhat worth seeing, but a mediocre space movie at best. "},{"Title":"Favored nations contracts....","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, Shatner and Nimoy had such a contract clause, meaning if Nimoy directs, so does Shatner.Now, I'm not going to bash Bill's direction, definitely the story he worked with, but not his direction. Paramount, in a summer where they knew they had no chance in hell against 'Batman' or even a poor James Bond effort, never mind Indiana Jones' Last Crusade, cut the film budget incredibly short day by day. Shatner, to his credit, worked with what he had.Yeah, Trek meets God just sucks. But, Kirk and crew get to play in the dirt and run around and save some people before being hijacked and so on... Sure, some of the back-story effort should have been left alone, Spock's mysterious brother for one, but there is some good to it, such as 'McCoy's pain'.Though not an epic effort, it makes for a great shore leave interrupted buddy film. "},{"Title":"William, get out of that chair, who let you sit in it?","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Special Collector's Edition review. I imagine one thing could be widely agreed on... Shatner should not direct again(and I'm not just referring to the many odd and/or downright misleading, confusing bits). Some might add perform spoken word, and certain might say do fake pain. I understand that he spends the vast majority of the commentary track complaining about not receiving enough money or getting the time needed. It shows. Half-hearted would be the polite way to put it. This starts out with reasonable atmosphere, and I won't claim that I hated this. The effects aren't all bad, and at their best, they can be pretty good(in the other end of the spectrum... the less said, the better). Almost half of the humor does work, it's more that far too often, this tries to be funny, and falls so flat on its face, the ground is *still* shaking from the impact(and the Klingons have the worst appearance of any of the TOS movies, from the bad hair day to the punk-rock clothing). The lighting, well, when it was there(which is not nearly enough), it was at least fine. The new cast-members, their acting... it seems to go back and forth between overdone to the point of being unintentionally funny, and being next to nonexistent, to a large degree. Why the retread? Plot, situations, music... it was better the first time these were seen in this series. The action and story seem as if they should have had a far stronger wow factor, yet they wind up tame and unremarkable, wasting a lot of potential. The language is pervasive like the others, with a few relatively harsh exclamations. The guns in this were nice, and probably my favorite part of it. The DVD has several extras, mainly featurettes, they are so-so and one of them is cut in an interesting manner. I recommend this to fans of Star Trek, or, rather, those of them who *must* see all there is in the franchise. 5/10 "},{"Title":"By far, the pulpiest of the Star Trek movies","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Comedy in Star Trek has certainly worked in the past--consider the sequence in _The Voyage Home_ where the Star Trek crew try to adapt to life in 20th c. San Francisco (and where Spock attempts to fit swear words into all of his sentences The hell I am). This type of humour has a poignancy, considering what it says about the crew's culture shock and the realization of Earth's barbaric past. (Remember also that Kirk warns the crew to watch themselves since they are entering a rather intolerant world; this is not the first time Spock has had to hide his ears.) There has always been a humorous rivalry between McCoy and Spock; although after Spock's resurrection in ST III, there is an alteration in the doctor's attitude, which is, however, plausible after all, McCoy has had the unique opportunity to empathize with Spock and learns that he may have taken the relationship for granted. Again, the humour has a certain poignancy AND a function in the development of the plot.ST V, on the other hand (yes, Shatner directs but also supplied the story, as the credits indicate), indulges in a humour that fits in well with its pulpy style Spock's jet boots; Uhura's sultry dance; Scotty's header off the new plumbing; the campfire singing (perhaps the least offensive of the bunch since it reinforces the camaraderie between Spock, Kirk, and McCoy); the Klingon's scolding at the end of the movie (which miraculously, at least in this film, reconciles the deadly conflict instigated in ST III). Eliminate these elements and the plot falls apart Kirk dies in the first five minutes of the movie; the crew never make it into the fortified Nimbus III, etc. This does not mean that these goofy pranks are necessary but that they're a prime example of awful writing. There are more pratfalls per page in this story than a Gernsback pot-boiler (and not even as much gadgetry!).The whole plot of ST V lacks a consistency and plausibility, as other reviewers have noted. As my only example I am never convinced that Sybok is a genius, as Spock claims (think of his foolish fanaticism, not to mention his needless death). I would have been much more interested in a Sybok that could persuade the masses through other means--i.e., through his genius (and not his mind-melding). Since he believes in revolution, as Spcck also claims, I assumed that he would employ some military and/or rhetorical tactic to convince the downtrodden Nimbus III inhabitants to join him. The let me share your pain motif is another weak feature of the story (although, I admit that the opening scene is quite provocative what followed was rather disappointing). "},{"Title":"If This Really is the Final Frontier, Count Me Out.","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie while not as bad as the first film in the series, still lacks that Star Trek feel that makes the series over all awesome. I feel this film was haltered by William Shatners very bad direction. It is obviously untalented at it. I can just see how he got the job... William I want to direct the new Star Trek! Studio No. William But Nimoy gets too? Studio Darn your right, your hired. William Yeah I would say that is pretty much how the negotiations for Star Trek V went. I do think Shatner is great actor and is not as dumb as most perceive him to be, but this shows he is not technically talented. Even when Leonard Nimoy was directing you could see he least comprehended the series and tried to take himself out of it somewhat. Not Shatner, he is the star. In this film he directs himself climbing a mountain, fighting epic battles against Vulcan henchmen, and William even gets to direct himself fighting God (or a version of him anyway) This film disregards the loyalty the crew would have each other and makes them hostile. I cannot believe this film is so much worse than Star Trek IV, which is one of the best things that has happened to this series. Watch this only to complete the voyage, or for unintended laughter for Shatner's escapades. "},{"Title":"Shatner to blame as film lands on its face","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off - the basic idea is sound, a maniac thinks his found God and steals a ship But even that basic idea is ruined by daft directing - why the hell do 450 people aboard the Enterprise (none of which we see....) suddenly follow a madman and allow their captain to be imprisoned? Almost as an aside its explained that Sybok has allowed them to release their 'pain' - but how the hell did he do that? The special effects are very weak, and at times it would have been better to cut them rather than leave them in (the green torpedo fired at God just looks stupid) The film is just badly put together, and crawls along at a snails pace - the rock climbing sequence and the camp fire bit are just tedious. The real shame is that this film boasts perhaps the two best sequences in the entire franchise - the shuttle landing in which they have to dock before a Klingon ships blows them to pieces is superb, and the sequence is which the enterprise just misses the torpedo is excellent The sets are very weak - the bridge is so bland. I did love the side story of the Enterprise not working right, i thought that was a novel addition. Ultimately good ideas are squandered time and again, a shame "},{"Title":"...and may your God go with you","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The one where Shatner finds God but the audience discover theirs doesn't exist. This is the anti-Voyage home, a classic combination of star indulgence coupled with studio interference with the resulting picture being unsatisfactory for everyone. Shatner, here doing a Nimoy and taking the director's chair envisioned something more grandiose and thank goodness because if what made it to the screen was his vision fully realised you'd want to gouge his eyes out. The Final Frontier's problems are numerous and all equally damaging. For a start it's obvious that the budget has been brutally slashed so you have a would-be blockbuster that looks cheap and has no scope for the kind of set-pieces that may have lifted the material a few notches. The posters asked the question 'why are they fitting seat belts in theatres this summer?' Watching this thing flatline for 100 odd minutes, the answer becomes clear - to stop people walking out. Poor special effects and bad continuity make for an adventure that seems cobbled together on a shoe-string and hurried to completion. The script isn't particularly good either - a lot of plodding metaphysical ruminations coupled with yawn inducing siege drama. Every so often you get the faint impression that there is a good movie here trying to get out because the premise may have had potential if Paramount had been willing to spend a bit of money on it but clearly that wasn't on the cards. Very dull stuff indeed, not especially well made and a colossal disappointment after the heady enjoyable heights of the previous film. "},{"Title":"A typical odd-numbered original series Star Trek movie.","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen most of the Star Trek movies, and they are mostly alright. I guess it's important to say that I'm not a huge Trekkie. I've watched most of the movies, and I read a few Star Trek novels in my youth. Star Trek is average as far as science fiction universes, and the stories I've seen or read that are placed there are also generally average. I'm also more a fan of The Next Generation than the original series (on which this movie is based).The structure of Star Trek V contains one of my favorite story elements--themes from early on that come back later. The movie opens with Jim Kirk rock-climbing, and a few times, later in the film, he finds himself once again climbing. This gives the story a nice neatly packaged feel that appeals to me. The theme ties the story together, and the character traits exemplified by Kirk climbing a mountain have a broader significance.The movie also contains a clich element that I dislike people doing stupid things. In this case, the stupid thing is that the crew of the Enterprise sets out on their mission at all. Their ship, we soon discover, is in terrible condition because it was put together by monkeys, (as Scotty hilariously hyperbolizes). Yet, they set out on an important mission anyways. What offends me, by conveniently ignoring realism, is that they encounter no serious set-backs due to their ship being in the beta/testing phase. I once read that the original Star Trek series, as compared with The Next Generation, based a lot of it's conflict (in the literary sense) on malfunctioning technology. If this is true, they seem to have gotten away from that in this movie. However, the story is set it up as if the malfunctioning ship should cause problems later on, and when it doesn't, I don't get that nice, wrapped up feeling.....Star Trek V The Final Frontier certainly has that western frontier feeling to it. Although it is cleverly woven into the story line, the fact remains that characters in a high-tech world end up camping out under the stars, riding horses, rolling in the dirt and shooting one another. It has a nice swashbuckling attitude, and is really fun, if you like that kind of stuff. I'm more a fan of the more enlightened aspects of Star Trek--exploring strange new worlds, creatively using technology, and the personal lives and relationships of the characters. This last thing is a big part of this movie, but the others aspects are relegated to the background.It's an interesting phenomenon, and a huge coincidence, but I think it's true what they say odd numbered Star Trek movies just aren't as good! I recommend Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan, and Star Trek 8 First Contact. "},{"Title":"Religion and Shatner mix to form something mediocre","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSIn the later television series in the world of Star Trek, something which always amazes is just how many of the main actors in the series go into directing. With Jonathan Frakes (Commander Riker) being the most obvious and most successful of the later generations, the listing includes half of the crew of The Next Generation, a few of Deep Space Nine and about half of Voyager. Skipping back a few years however and it was Leonard Nimoy who began this pattern. Directing Star Trek III The Search for Spock (1984) and Star Trek IV The Voyage Home (1986), Nimoy would relinquish the directer and writing roles to William Shatner for this fifth film. Irrelevant of Shatner's directing ability however, the general plot of this film is so dire, that it's no wonder nobody let Shatner behind the camera for any more of the series.In Star Trek V we are introduced to Spock's half-brother Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill). Sybok is a unique Vulcan in that he has embraced emotions and has rejected the teachings of logic. Taking over the intergalactic planet of peace, Sybok eventually takes control of the new USS Enterprise NCC 1701-A and sets course for the barrier at the centre of the Universe and an appointment with God.After two decent films and a mediocre one, it was only going to be a matter of time before the Star Trek universe was given another awful film. With Shatner's idea of a God at the centre of the universe, and a plot which devalues the menace of the Klingons (once again), Star Trek V is towards the bottom of the pile, along with the original movie. With no major enemy (Sybok being misguided and God being a dodgy special effect), this film suffers from a lack of proper direction. Whilst the better films in the series possess enemies of malice and wit, the worst ones tend to be those which leave us uninvolved and cold. With Shatner attempting to philosophise about God and the meaning of existence, the film does have the ability to get it's audience pondering these questions, but at times it feels like these people are asking themselves these questions to take their mind off the dirge which is this movie.Ultimately, there are only really two highlights in this awful film, one is the shuttle-craft docking scene and the other is arguably the finest moment of Star Trek slapstick ever created. When people talk about films, they always naturally refer to their favourite moments. Star Trek V is ridiculously limited in candidates for decent moments, but where Scotty walks into a bar after claiming I know this ship like the back of my hand is priceless. Sadly this one moment of joy is not enough to save this dire film.When making Star Trek V The Final Frontier, someone made the mistake of letting William Shatner run wild. Aside from his directing ability, his general storyline was so abysmal that this film was doomed from the start. This is one of few Star Trek movies worth avoiding. "}{"Title":"Nowhere near as bad as many say&#133;","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All right the &#145;God' plot was a load of cobblers and the ending pretty poor (was the production crew having a sweepstake on how many minutes of clambering about on rocks they could legitimately squeeze in?) but the rest of it was pretty good.Some recycled sets (those corridors look strangely familiar if you are a fan of Star Trek The Next Generation!) and the apparent total lack of crew (the regulars plus about two engineers and a rather confused looking lady Ensign on the bridge) meant this was done on the cheap but it does not suffer too much.We will overlook the obvious clanger with the deck numbers (i.e. about forty decks too many and at one moment in the wrong order!) and the Klingons where little more than a sideshow but the main &#145;bad guy' (except he isn't really) was well acted, it seems a pity he did not have more to do really.The new Enterprise's troubles add an interesting and amusing side plot but I wonder like many others just what would have this film have been without the studio interference and a better budget? "},{"Title":"Here's $10, finish the script.","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***** PLOT SPOILERS ABOUND, PLEASE BEWARE *****I'm not the biggest Star Trek fan in the world - I don't care for TOS, but I thought the films were interesting, if only because the production values were usually pretty good.  Then Star Trek V reared it's ugly head. Ugh.Certain parts of the story are decent, don't get me wrong.  The religious faction comandeering the Enterprise was a good twist on the usual Klingon/Romulan insurgence.  The soul-searching that Sybok forces on Bones was very well acted.  And the comraderie between Bones, Spock and Kirk around the campfire was great - it made them seem more human and real than in any of the other films.  But the story...  They build up all these really interesting principles about religion, commitment to your beliefs, the use of force to attain peace, but they never capitalize on any of them.  Where did it go?It's like they ran out of money for the script half-way through the movie. They're forced to travel to the center of the galaxy...  and they get there in a few hours?  No one has ever survived a journey into the nebula at the galaxy's center...  but both the Enterprise and a Klingon ship survive, largely unharmed?  They're confronted by a being powerful enough to pass himself off as a god... and they do him in with one phaser burst?  Not only is the storyline weak, but it provides for an utterly disappointing conclusion.  Too many of the plot points get summarized with cliches and one-liners about faith and religion.The ideas behind the movie could have been a lot more engaging than they were, and it's a shame to be shown a glimmer of this movie's potential only to have it squandered in the last half hour.  If you're a purist or interested in the series as a whole, by all means see this film.  For Star Trek fans, it's still an enjoyable film.  If you're only marginally interested, I'd encourage you to pass on this one and move onto the far superior The Undiscovered Country. "},{"Title":"They Boldly Went Where No One Has Ever Gone Before, and This Time They Went Nowhere.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It looks like the Star Trek franchise has finally jumped the shark with this incredibly weak entry.  In STAR TREK V THE FINAL FRONTIER, the Starship Enterprise is hijacked by Spock's Vulcan brother (Luckinbill), who sends Kirk and crew on a voyage to a secret planet at the center of the galaxy.  While not a total waste, THE FINAL FRONTIER is easily the worst of the Star Trek movies, from Shatner's unappealing campfire songs to his utterly bizarre direction, proving that Shatner can't sing or direct.  Fans of the franchise will definitely enjoy STAR TREK V, but few others will.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Simply awful","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why is it that cable channels seem to show this Star Trek installment almost every week? It's awful. Simply awful.Once this was the worst film in the Star Trek line of movies. Now that Star Trek Nemesis has been released, it can no longer claim that honor. The acting was especially horrid, perhaps they should have titled this one Star Trek We're Here For The Money because the regular players are only going through the motions. "},{"Title":"The Black Sheep of Trekdom","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is SO STUPID it is even and embarrassment to Trekkies. It's too insipid and lamebrained even for a Golden Turkey award.Its sheer idiocy is summarize in my favorite script line, when a dumbfounded Captain Kirk blurts Why does God need a starship?'nuff said. "},{"Title":"If only he fell!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I refer to the early scene where Kirk (William Shatner) falls of a cliff, however Spock (sadly) saves him, the movie is about Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill) and he believes he is the Messiah so he leads the Enterprise and crew to Sha-ka-ree where God supposedly lives, however He of course turns out to be a faker who wants to take the Enterprise and (probably) kill William Shatner, the whole movie is terrible from start to finish and you would be better off watching Insurrection instead.Rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"Something went terribly wrong...","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek V had a good premise but it was executed poorly by director William Shatner. The idea of discovering God (though offensive to some monotheists in the 20th century) had a lot of promise. The idea of making Spock's brother a catalyst for the discovery was also an excellent idea. Where the film fails however is in the script and the special effects. The actors just couldn't vivify the fact that they were possibly encountering the incarnation of the Almighty. The concept proved to grandiose to convey. The special effects were primitive even for 1989 and didn't convince me in the least that what Kirk and company were encountering was an omnipotent being. Still I, being a fan, enjoyed another romp by the crew and the film is by no means a total loss. It's just a disappointment in light of what it could've been. 6/10.   "},{"Title":"You want to know why?","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why Did They Put Seatbelts In Theatres That Summer?  To keep people from walking out on this turkey in droves, that's why!  Here is William Shatner at his self-indulgent worst, showing his complete lack of creative ability and talent, and dragging his whole supporting cast with him.  He should have listened to a replay of his own Get a life! bit from Saturday Night Live to pull him from the brink. It's a shame that it took five more years and two more movies to finally put Captain Kirk to rest.  This is just one more confirmation of the notion that the odd-numbered ST movied are best avoided.  "},{"Title":"If they only had that Rockman...","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING! SPOILERS MAY LEAK THROUGH THIS INTRO! SKIP THIS FIRST PART!Space... the Final Frontier... these are the voyages of the hardly tip-top condition Starship Enterprise... its 10x minute mission... to save some hostages... to end getting raided and finding God... to boldly go where no other Trek movie has gone before... to the bargain bin!*sigh*Perhaps I'm being a little overboard. The movie, disliked by many, is not half bad on paper. The only thing is that this thing seems rushed and the final product was less than subpar. Supposedly, Bill Shatner wanted to redo the movie in time for the DVD release, similar to what Robert Wise did with The Motion Picture. Alas, Paramount wanted nothing to do with a special edition of Trek 5 (at the time I write this - perhaps they've changed their minds later). They're probably thinking that a odd-colored god being is a much better sight than a much-improved rockman scene that Shatner originally invisioned for the movie. It's too bad, really. On the other hand, it's nice to see Bill cared enough to want to improve the movie.Oh yeah, I'm supposed to be reviewing this movie as it is... a movie with potential but brought down by crap special effects and confusing story, possibly due to editing. Not even seeing a half-naked woman can save this movie as it is...If only they had that Rockman, things would have been different. Oh well... "},{"Title":"I've Never Written a Review This Bad!","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dealing with this movie is like ignoring someone else's bad fart. Just be polite and pretend it doesn't exist.This is one of  2 or 3 movies I ever walked out on at the theater. The topper came at Uhura's sand dune belly dance and show biz line. That did it for me. After that, the exit sign was too over-powering to ignore (not your fault Nichelle, we know where to put the blame at). I eventually caught up with the last half on TV years later. I had no regrets on my hasty exit.The only difference between this movie and a bad case of diarrhea is this at least when you leave the bathroom, you leave satisfied!3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Comments on this Star Trek stink-fest","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me relate you a personal anecdote.Im a Star Trek fan.Ive seen virtually every episode of every series.I bought dozens of the novels.I once dabbled in a few months in learning the Klingon language.There are more devoted fans,but Im pretty good. Back in 1990,I bought the first five Trek movies in a box set,and promptly watched them all-save one. Star Trek Vremained in its original cellophane wrapper until about two weeks ago,when I sat down to view it.(And I havent slept since then).If a die-hard Trekker will avoid one of the movies for ten years,youd be out of your Vulcan mind not to know it is BAD!And the auteur of record,the captain of this cinematographic Hidenburg,is William Shatner.Hollywoods institutional cluelessness is enormous...but not so big as to let Shatner direct another movie,ever.He crossed Hollywoods threshold of pain.He broke the stinkometer. "},{"Title":"the worst Trek film","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spock's half brother hijacks the Enterprise to search for God, yes that's right God. This movie is a combo of bad jokes, bad acting, and a bad storyline. And yet it had it's moments such as the cool seen when Kirk falls of the mountain but, other than that this movie is a dud. Shatner directs need I say more? "},{"Title":"BY FAR the worst Star Trek movie","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And, this is saying something considering the first Star Trek movie (the Motionless Picture).  This is such a mess of a film I am surprised it made it past the screenplay stage.  Another thing, can people PLEASE stop Shatner from directing?  He REALLY sucks at it, and this movie proves it.  I like him as an actor, but his directing is completely inept. "},{"Title":"Only if you really like William Shatner","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this one in the theater and was very disappointed when I left. It's a shame that William Shatner directed and had so much to do with the story. I have been learning to enjoy his work a little more over the years; but this movie is more than just William Shatner at the helm behind the camera - it is a *Star Trek* movie. Thusly, there are certain standards that were not upheld here that should have been.  My biggest complaint is that for over 20 years, Scotty has been the miracle worker. Why was that reputation so cruely destroyed in this movie? Were all those technical problems really so crucial to the plot? I understand that the cast and crew had fun with the added humor that this movie contained, but some of the one-liners were predictable and telegraphed, such as the gravity comments made by Spock and Kirk which were overly obvious and unnecessary. A lot of the humor (not all) was, IMHO, more juvenile and thusly unbefitting in this movie and in the Star Trek universe in general. The rumors are that Star Trek VI would never have been made if this movie had gotten better response from the fans. I don't know for sure one way or the other, but this movie did have problems. I agree that it has moments that are good, and the (not the Big Three) cast members get to have more exposure and fun, which is great to see, but for the most part, it does not hold up with the canons and precepts that have already been established.    "},{"Title":"The worst Star Trek movie","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It stinks.  The only thing it has going for it is light humor interspersed throughout.  Enjoy the moments while they're there, the rest of the movie (plot, acting, etc) disappoints.  Definitely the worst of the (currently) 9 Star Trek movies out there. "},{"Title":"Yes, Virginia, it DOES stink","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I paid $4 to see this movie in a theater.After five minutes, I was ready to walk out of it.Yes, it IS bad.  While it's certainly not all William Shatner's fault -- the basic premise and the script ebar a large part of the burden -- his attempts at slapstick comedy made a bad situation worse.Don't be deceived, folks, STV is a stinker.  "},{"Title":"Well, its the worst.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I read all the reviews and comments posted here and its not changed my mind in one bit. Its crud on a stick. Simple straightforward crap. This should have never been released. I actually paid to see this. I bought the box-set, and promptly threw away this movie.It wasn't the direction, or the acting it was a lousy script. Luckily for everyone they got it together for the next films. "},{"Title":"Why this movie was bad!!!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am usually the first to defend a Star Trek movie.  This movie was a failure though for a variety of reasons.  First and foremost was Paramount's idea to do a trek movie on the cheap.  For instance, besides breaking away from ILM(Industrial Light & Magic) to do the special effects, Paramount was very restrictive in soundstage space as you can tell by looking at the hangar deck set.  The hangar deck width is the same as the entire width of the secondary hull of the Enterprise.  The set version was perhaps only 15 feet wide.  Some make the claim that William Shatner directing this movie was a mistake, this is incorrect.  His job as director wasn't bad as this movie had some very distinguishing scenes.  The mistake was letting him in on the script writing.  As somebody who put down the book Tekwar after reading about half of it I can say Shatner's writing ability leaves more than a bit to be desired.All of this combined with the completely goofball comedics (ie.  Scotty banging his head, the Brand-New Enterprise falling to pieces) is why this movie rates on the bottom of all Trek films. "},{"Title":"GOD I LIKED HIM BETTER BEFORE HE DIED!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know that many, many Trekkies weren't thrilled with this movie, in fact many down and out hated it. I am not one of them I actually Really liked and still like this movie very much.That isn't to say that I loved everything about it, The encounter with the God like creature isn't great. But the line that comes at almost the end of the movie where Kirk is going to hug Spock on the bridge of the Klingon ship and Spock says Please Capt. not in front of the Klingons is timeless.The reason I loved this movie is because of the exploration of the relationships between the crew. I am well aware that many argue that Uhura and Scotty's love affair came out of no where but I thought it was a nice touch. The scenes with Kirk,McCoy and Spock in Yosemite by the camp fire are timeless and it makes the movie worth watching. The scenes where Sybok is exploring McCoy's and Spocks source of pain gives a better insight to why they are they way they are, in part at least.If your a Trekkie,Trekker or just a SiFi fan and haven't watched V in awhile you should go back and watch it again and you'll see what I mean.It is a good movie and I thought Shatner did a good job at directing. The fall from the mountain is a very cool scene and directed well. "},{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning, Spoilers included! I do not hate this movie. But the fact remains that this is simply a very bad film. There is a huge lack of excitement and plot in this film. Going to search for god was not at all exciting. As you all know, it's Predecessor, Star Trek IV was far better because it was good drama, exciting, and had good humor in all the right places. It's just that when you have a story about searching for god, that kind of storyline has already been used a million times, and is too banal for a Star Trek film. "}{"Title":"20 reasons why I love Star Trek 5","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  20 REASONS I LOVE STAR TREK 51.  (CLASSIC) TREK LIVES! After the first rough weeks of THE NEXT GENERATION I could understand and like the new characters,  it was exciting to turn back to the Enterprise-A's first adventure.  We take it for granted.  Imagine if they had scraped the whole series and concentrated on TNG?  Or if Nimoy or one of the other majors backed out?2. SYBOK'S ENTRANCE A beautiful shot!  That freaky alien and the horseman coming across the horizon. Once Sybok confronts him, the dialogue is compelling. Remember, after THE VOYAGE HOME, this was a new beginning.  Sybok's appearance effectively clears the palate.3.  ROCK CLIMBING OPENING Bigger than any scene in any other Star Trek film.  It's organic, and a sweet, subtle sign that nature will be preserved 300 years from now.  More importantly is James Kirk's presence here.  No longer the tired old Admiral muttering things like Galloping around the cosmos is a game for the young...4. SPOCK'S DEVELOPMENT Sybok's right. Spock developed a sense of humour.  His are probably the only really funny lines in the film.  Spock's reserve keeps him immune to the over-the-top goofiness that most of the cast suffer from  ...gravity of the situation.. hold your horse not in front of the Klingons and my favorite... yes (see #7)  Not only that, but he's learned to swear.5.  THE PLANET OF GALACTIC PEACE This is a great concept.  Wasted.  We catch only a very brief view of what has happened here and the possibility of a future.  It belongs in a movie ABOUT that.  Would have made a good Next Generation story.6. DAVID WARNER...as the Human on Nimbus III.  Possibly the best actor in the movie.  All of his lines ring true and carry a dramatic flare.  I want to know more about these people. (see No. 5)  He plays the tired, frustrated diplomat with a passionate indifference.  Even 'hypnotized'.7.  THE CAMPFIRE SCENE For those of you who find this out of place, compare this to the Officers lounge scene in the first film.  A journey has happened here.  Kirk is no longer defined by his command.  Spock welcomes his friends ideas.  McCoy is good natured and not suspicious of the others motivations.  I'll die alone is a powerful moment of foreshadowing.8.  THE HANGER DECK Finally, we get to see this often overlooked part of the ship.  There's a great exchange between Kirk and Scotty which is an example of the new relaxed vibe between the characters.  Again, compare this to the conversation between them in the Travel Pod during the first film.  This scene works right up to the turbo lift ride.  We see the longest STAR TREK dramatic pause ever, followed by KIRK (muttering) I need a shower pause SPOCK Yes Beautiful stuff!9. OH PLEASE... Kirk's response to the Admirals plea of  I want Jim Kirk!  He is no longer throwing his weight around in order to get what he wants.  Kirk has become a little tired of the living legend bit and just wants to get on with business.10.  OFFICER'S LOUNGE Nice design.  Every scene in this place works.  It's no coincidence.  Most of the other set's are bland.  Even the bridge.  But that big steering wheel just seems to bring out the best in these actors!11.  THE RESCUE MISSION This moves really well.  The landing crew readying for battle on the shuttle.  Captain Chekov. The new fatigues.  We get phaser blasts and Kirk in hand to hand combat for the first time since the old series.  This works right through the prisoners' double cross and onto Spock's dramatic exchange with Sybok. Unfortunately, after this scene, our heroes loose control of the mission...and the movie.12.  SOUND FX Mostly taken from the series.  Bridge sounds, communicators,.. nice touch.13. SYBOK The only character in the movie DOING something from beginning to end. One of the reasons this film is difficult to 'get' is that we believe that they're all gonna find GOD.  You can blame this on actor Laurence Luckinbill.  His controlled but focused motivation is believable. His fraction of doubt when Kirk accuses him of being mad shows endearing vulnerability. He's not a madman, but a man of passion.  Justified in taking over the ship as Kirk was for stealing it to get Spock back.  We applaud passion in the Star Trek universe.  His double cross by the GOD thing is not fully flushed out, so we have a hard time feeling his regret.  Still as he turns to Spock, in an effort to take the blame, Luckinbill again delivers.  For a moment, I believe Spock has a half-brother... almost.14.  THE SHUTTLECRAFT CRASH LAND Let me do SOMETHING ... Kirk's  (and William Shatner's) last plea to have a role in his own movie.  The landing is a highlight of the film dispite a contrived attack by... Klingons.15.  JERRY GOLDSMITH A beautiful score adds a aural soft focus on scenes that otherwise mightn't work.16.  McCOY'S PAIN / SPOCK / KIRK'S RELUCTANCE Sybok This is who they are... Didn't you know that? Kirk No, I didn't. We gain an overdue insight into McCoy's character.  We learn that Spock's journey is complete.  Kirk sums up what we feel in a beautiful speech.  A profound moment for these three.17. ARRIVAL AT SHA KA RI Beautiful shot unlike any other Trek scene.  It really seems spooky and other worldly.18.  EXCUSE ME... Why does GOD need a starship?  The voice of reason....19.  SPOCK'S PLEA TO KORRD Although it stands out a little awkwardly because these characters have done nothing through the whole movie, it's a nice attempt at showing some character development in Korrd.  He is given a chance to 'come out of retirement' and make a difference.20.  YOU WERE NEVER ALONE Spock shows a kindness he never could, or would have disguised.  Kirk is moved and it shows.  THEY are the brothers of this movie. "},{"Title":"Hokey, and not worth the time.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie twice, and that was two times more than I needed to. I really like Star Trek, but this movie was too stuffy and canned, and definitely the worst so far in the series (up to IX now). The acting was some of the worst I have seen in Star Trek, especially when they are singing Row Row Row Row Row (you'll get it if you see it) Your Boat. I sure am glad the series got better after this one.  "},{"Title":"Let's go.  It -must- be over.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't think I can add much more to what has already been said about this film.  However, I can offer a small recollection from seeing ST-V in the theater.  In the last (dreadful) scene, as the camera is pulling out from the camping shot and it seems likely that the credits will start rolling at any second, the audience seemed to rise in unison.  Normally, for a movie like this, at least -some- die-hard fans stay to watch right up until the final disclaimer.  As the people filed out, I remember hearing no laughing and cheerful banter, only low murmurs.I remember reading a movie review in the local paper in which the critic said that it was so bad that only Trek fans would like it.  What an idiot. The fans were the ones most apt to tear it apart first!Favorite worst scene  Target shooting on a Voyager space probe, through a periscope no less!  Space must be a much smaller frontier than we thought. "},{"Title":"The worst trek of them all","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek V The Final Frontier is indeed the worst film in the Star Trek series. This movie was a major disappointment for me because I'm a big fan of parts II, III, and IV and I was shocked that the series went from the best (Star Trek IV) to the worst for the very next movie. The things I liked best about Star Trek IV is that it was fast-paced, funny, and well-acted. Plus, it had decent special effects. Star Trek V is exactly the opposite it's slow-moving, the attempts at comedy fall flat, the acting is far from impressive, and the special effects were incredibly weak. What was William Shatner thinking of while directing this? Leonard Nimoy did a good job directing Star Trek III (which marked his feature film debut as a director) and did an even better job directing Star Trek IV. Nimoy has proven that he can be a good director. He even did an exceptional job on 3 Men and a Baby, which was a much different kind of film. But Shatner did a lousy job on Star Trek V and that's a shame because I had high hopes for this film. Shatner directs alot of awkward scenes in this movie. The most ridiculous scene in Star Trek V is the one where Kirk, Spock, and Bones are sitting around a campfire and they start to sing Row, Row, Row Your Boat. What's this scene doing in this movie? Is this scene necessary? I don't think so. It's not funny, it's just preposterous. The main story of Star Trek V has to do with a renegade Vulcan (who happens to be Spock's brother) who takes the Enterprise crew hostage and forces them to travel to another dimension so he can meet God. It's too bad George Burns didn't show up because his presence could have ejected some life into this mess. Star Trek V is a groaner for trekkies and non-trekkies alike. Not even a few good moments can save this one. *1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Has some humour, but that's basically it","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Final Frontier is  probably the worst Trek movie out of them all.  The special effects were just OK, but it didn't out-do the predecessor movies.  William Shatner's acting was better than average though, but his directing was just plain awful.  This movie had bloopers everywhere.  Take note as they are rocketing up the turbo-shaft, the order of decks as they ascend, your at deck 52, then higher you get 42, then 78.  Just how many decks does that ship have? And I suppose they build them in any order they feel like?  A clear error on part of the director and editor.  On a few shots you can even see reflections of the movie camera, like in a monitor display, and some shadows it casts(lighting team fault), a definite NO for cinematography.Spock's character seemed a little out of place.  Singing Row Row Row your boat?, well I suppose it was acceptable.  The story/plot was weak, everyone who believes in God, like me, should feel insulted by this movie.  Then again that is William Shatners fault as being part of the writing team, he should just stick to TekWar novels.  The set construction was just average.  The ships corridors were obviously from the set of the Enterprise D(ST The Next Generation).  At least make an attempt to make it look different like in Star Trek VI, its successor.A few things on the positive side are the light hearted moments and humour that was inserted, Scott bumping his head on a bulkhead.  The McCoy and Spock conflicts that continues on.  Little things like that, but that is insufficient to carry this movie to be successfulOverall, 5-5.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Worst Star Trek Movie so far (spoils the plot...)","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm aware that there are some fans who might like this movie. I'm aware that the idea of 'searching for god' might appear interesting to some, to me, however, it's really boring.The movie is simply boring. When it does get a little bit interesting, it gets stupid. Come on... Kirk fights against god and wins? How low can we possibly get? The only good part in the film is the camping scene at the first 5 minutes, which is truly great, but after that, the movie becomes boring, irritating, with nothing more than a good music.Thank god we have Star Trek VI. (Oops, Kirk beat him). "},{"Title":"Very bad, Trekkers wince everytime they see it.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright, for the record lets just clear up some misguided thoughts about this film.  This Trek adventure had an enormous budget!  (32million).  William Shatner is an arrogant, stuck-up actor, who thinks that Spock and Kirk are the only two people who make the whole damn thing work.  (At one point while filming this movie, he wanted to kill off all the other characters, save for the two already mentioned, just to save money!)  You can not have a director like that and expect him to deliver a masterpiece to audiences.  This film sucked!  What is up with Scotty and Uhura having a romantic relationship anyway?  It was never covered beforehand and producers never went there again!  Why is Uhura dancing naked with palm leaves?  How come Sulu and Checkov get lost on earth and need Uhura to guide them back, eventhough these two are navigators?  Why does Scotty claim to know the Enterprise 'like the back of my head.' then knock himself out walking into low metal bar?  Fans will be so disapointed with this movie, watching their favorite characters being made fun of.  William Shatner is totally responsible for this fiasco, notice how the only people not being laughed at are him, Spock, Bones and Sybok?   The special effects are weak, but that is due to the fact that ILM was busy doing effects for Indiana Jones, and Ghostbusters.   Still for all of their flaws, and there are a bunch of them, Final Frontier does give us a few nice scenes with our three main heroes, sitting around a camp-fire singing.  This is one moment where Frontier does stand alone, and there are a few other nice scenes, but not many.  Easily the second worse of the series ahead of Motion Picture, but behind Generations!   "},{"Title":"Drives home the odd-numbered Star Trek movie curse","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No one expects the Star Trek movies to be high art, but the fans do expect a movie that is as good as some of the best episodes.  Unfortunately, this movie had a muddled, implausible plot that just left me cringing - this is by far the worst of the nine (so far) movies.  Even the chance to watch the well known characters interact in another movie can't save this movie - including the goofy scenes with Kirk, Spock and McCoy at Yosemite.I would say this movie is not worth a rental, and hardly worth watching, however for the True Fan who needs to see all the movies, renting this movie is about the only way you'll see it - even the cable channels avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Skip it ... you won't miss much!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek V definitely earns the dubious distinction of being the weakest film in the Star Trek series.  Despite the good acting efforts by the actors, it suffered from a general lack of funding from Paramount Pictures.  Paramount Pictures was not enthusiastic about this film at its very onset.The movie begins with the Enterprise crew enjoying their extended shore leave as a reword for saving the Earth from total ecological disaster.  Their shore leave is cut short when a disturbance occurs on Nimbus III, the Planet of Intergalactic Peace.  Captain Kirk and the Enterprise arrive at Nimbus III only to have their ship hijacked by Sybok, Spock's half-brother.  Sybok brainwashes the crew of the Enterprise and sets it on a suicide mission to rendezvous with God just past the Great Barrier at the center of our galaxy.  Captain Kirk must then figure out a way to regain control of his ship and to fend off the Enterprise's Klignon pursuers.The only bright spot in the film is the acting and directing.  William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, Laurence Luckinbill, and the rest of the cast all give good performances.  William Shatner also does a pretty good job directing this film.However, the film suffered from a general lack of enthusiasm and funding.  First, the part of Sybok was initially offered to Sean Connery, but he refused.  So, Laurence Luckinbill got the part.  Second, many of the special effects were severely cut back ... reducing the movies entertaining potential.  Third, the scene that depicts the arrival at the Great Barrier left much to be desired.  Finally, the romance between Scotty and Uhura in this film did not make much sense at all ... considering that no such romance ever occurred prior to this point in the Star Trek universe and it was never explained how such a romance could suddenly materialize between Star Treks IV and V.Overall, this is a very weak film.  You should probably just skip this film and move on to Star Trek VI.  After all, the cast and crew made Star Trek VI partly to bail themselves out after their debacle with Star Trek V. "},{"Title":"Star Trek 5 is definitely one of my least favorites of the series...","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek 5 is definitely one of my least favorites of the series. The special effects were horrible and William Shatner cannot direct films. He has proved this before.The aliens in this movie are strange and just plain stupid. The worst part about this film is probably the campfire scene where Dr.Mcoy,Captain Kirk and Spock sing Row Row Row Your Boat. Its the awfullest singing youll ever here. However, if it wasnt for the performances by the main characters,this movie would probably be a total disaster. Lawrence Luckinbill turns in a fine performance as Sybok.Trust me,only watch this film if you're a very big trekkie,I mean very big.Rating **1/2 out of ***** stars   "}{"Title":"Ugh. My brain will not let me think about this film.","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The horror; my God, the horror.I am a die-hard Trekker, and I could barely make it through the campfire scene before I realized how stupid this movie was going to be. Shatner really screwed this one up; hard to believe the best actor of the series directed the worst movie of the series. In Star Trek V, there are so mant things about this film to bash.1. The writing The three diplomats on the planet of galactic peace, sitting around, doing nothing. Boring.2. The Great Barrier Which is actually not a barrier at all, just a great build-up to nothing. And the F/X sucked.3. The Klingon captain stalking Kirk throughout the movie Another build-up with no finish. I was expecting a titanic battle between the Bird of Prey and the Enterprise, up to par with the excellent fights of II, VI, and First Contact. Instead, all we got was a single lame shot from the Bird of Prey, which caused very little damage. I felt cheated!4. The scene where Kirk falls off El Capitan Hands down the worst special effects I've ever seen. I halfway expected to see the wire holding Shatner appear. I almost turned off the TV at this point. But no, I punished myself further.5. The crew acting out of character Kirk wearing a T-shirt that says Go climb a rock!, Uhura doing her fan dance, Scotty banging his head, Sulu and Chekov getting lost, then lusting after the Klingong woman like two teenagers (they must REALLY best desperate), etc.6. The big finale We know already that they're not going to find God. Oh, it's just an alien; big surprise. It's supposed to be some bad-*** alien, but they whack it with a couple of rounds of phaser fire, and Kirk's safe again.To be fair, the movie did have SOME nice moments. I thought Spock and McCoy were fairly well-presented in the film. Laurence Luckingbill as Sybock gave as excellent performance as the crazy Vulcan. The scenes where he shows Spock and McCoy their pain was well-done. Kirk's line about losing a brother and getting him back was good. I know most people hated it, but I liked the campfire scene, especially McCoy's line about other people having families, so why do THEY spend their vacations together? But these good scenes do not make up for the barf that was the rest of the movie. It's no wonder Roddenberry chose to ignore this film. It cannot suck enough! The special effects are worse than those in Plan 9 From Outer Space (and that's saying a lot). The plot was weird, for lack of a better word, and pretty weak (almost as bad as that time travel garbage we keep seeing in ST). It's a testament to the strength of the Star Trek series as a whole that they were even able to recover and make another movie.Tiny bit of trivia--the woman who played the Romulan ambassador (I can't recall her name), about two years after the movie came out, suddenly showed up here in Texas as a local CBS affiliate station news anchor. Guess Trek V killed her movie career! )Final Grade 4/10 "},{"Title":"That's bad","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A 12 year old could've probably wrote a better script.  I was looking forward to the fifth movie.  We had a new ship and Kirk was back as Captain. Before it came out, it seemed like the best was yet to come.  Afterwards, I said to myself, What was that?  It seemed like the story was thrown together.  The comedy at times seemed forced.  And there's the recent Star Trek penchant to psycho-analyze stuff past it's death. "},{"Title":"If only I were in charge of this movie.","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Might contain spoilers.Here's the deal, if I were in charge I could have done a whole lot better. I would have made the special FX rock. I would have cut out the stupid comedy (some of it was ok, but most of it was stupid). I would have made the god planet look like a lush green forest full of life, instead of a dried up desert. I would have not made Sybok Spock's brother, in fact I would have stuck with the story the way Shatner had orginialy written it. Paramount, for the first time since cancelling the series, screwed up in forcing the screenplay writer to add in really bad comedy. I think that if you compare this film and the previous one, we could go on for a couple pages explaining why this one was really bad the previous was not. "},{"Title":"Bad to the point of satire","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would consider myself a bit of a trekker and, because of this, I've always taken pains to avoid this movie which even Gene Rodenberry tried to say wasn't really part of the Star Trek canon.  I mean, I always knew that Bill Shatner was at best an average sort of actor and, having read one of the TekWars books on a train journey once, knew that he couldn't write for toffee, but this acting/writing/directing disaster truly plumbs new lows.This movie is the momma of all turkeys and I am still cursing my wife for buying me the movie box set for my birthday and exposing me to it.  Ignorance, in this case at least, was bliss. STV is so bad, in fact, that I am going to spare the delicate feelings of IMDb users and only review the first half hour, just to give a taster of how completely awful the whole thing is.  But where to start?How about basic logic flaws?  At Kirk's opening scene, for instance, he falls thousands of feet off a mountain and is caught by Spock (wearing magic boots) a scant six feet from the ground without damaging himself at all - inertial dampers in Kirk's wig anyone?  Or in the bar on the Planet of Galactic Peace which features a sexy dancer who appears to be half-woman and half-cat and is obviously intended to entice in horny drinkers, in spite of the fact that there seem to be no half-man, half-cat beings on the planet (certainly there are none in the bar - she gets thrown into a bath or something later on by Kirk which knocks her out - did anyone miss the wires lifting her out of the good and somewhat over-weight captain's arms and propelling her through the air?)Or how about the plain embarrassing - Nichelle Nicholls doing some kind of sexy dance wearing mainly see-through bri-nylon sheets and exhibiting the fact that, while she might look good for her age, she has the legs of a lumberjack and would not - as in the movie - lure every guard in sight to throw their weapons away and run up a hill to ogle her, thereby allowing Kirk et al to slip into the city (and where does the music come from anyway ?).Or let's try the rationale for the Enterprise going to the PofGP in the first place, despite the fact that even the doors don't work and with, as Scottie (James Doohan as splendid as ever at least) points out, not even a skeleton crew.  Well, eh, you see, there's no other Starships about, um, and hey - half a dozen over-age and over-weight fifty and sixty year-olds plus a few expendable security types must be better than sending half a dozen faster smaller ships with a full complement of highly trained and motivated troopers...or something.Frankly, the entire movie is dreadful.  Even the special effects are a bit ropey and the actual premise of the story is not worthy of an episode of Space 1999, never mind a multi-million pound chunk of Paramount's most profitable franchise.  Now at least we know why Shatner never directed another one.  "},{"Title":"Not Up To Par","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A silly movie with bad humor, worse dialogue, a contrived plot, poor special effects, and some of the worst acting of the normally wonderful series.That said, the scenes in which the key crew members confront their inner fears is excellent. More of this and less of that and the movie would have been much better. "},{"Title":"One voyage best not boldly taken","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This fifth installment in the Star Trek series happens to be the worst of the bunch. I originally had high hopes for this film,after the huge success of #4. New Enterprise,Kirk back as a Captain,new adventures. Instead we're given this,a lackluster effort with flimsy special effects,cheesy dialogue and a script to match. Beginner's Luck is definitely not with director Shatner. Kudos must go to Mr.Lawrence Luckinbill,who performed outstandingly as the Vulcan outcast Sybok,and Jerry Goldsmith's score is pleasing to the ears. Overall however the negatives outweighed the positives,resulting in one voyage the Enterprise should never have taken....1 1/2 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"I don't know about others who claim this movie is best.","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Either they were high on some drugs or drunk, or they are special obsessed Star Trek fans. I saw this movie hoping it would be pretty fun to watch. The special effects... really, really, sucked. It's 1989, not 1970. Since when did Romulans have huge hair? This is probably the worst Star Trek movie ever made. That display of Lt. Uhura was gross! Nothing like a 50+ woman semi-nude to make you puke. Whoever directed this film did not know what the heck he was doing (William Shatner, Kirk) I guess Kirk needed some money, so he made this movie on a tiny budget hoping he would rake in alot of money.  "},{"Title":"Weak, but not the worst Trek film","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was 18 when this movie came out, and I was a much bigger Star Trek fan then than I am now.  I was very, very disappointed in it then--because I was watching with the hypersensitive eye of the Star Trek fan, rather than the eye of a film aficionado.  Now that I'm older and wiser, I see that this movie, although weak, is not the worst Star Trek movie ever made.I'm going to admit, first and foremost, that I think William Shatner is an incredible actor.  He's able to sell us Kirk in a way that, for me, Patrick Stewart has never been able to sell Picard.  Second, I'm going to admit that I thought that Next Generation was a seven-year string of duds.  The characters were boring, the actors lifeless and insipid, the writing lacking.Back to The Final Frontier.  Purely in terms of story, this was easily the most revelatory film in the series, next to The Wrath of Khan.  We get to learn a lot about Spock, McCoy, and Kirk in the scene where Sybok shows them--or, in Kirk's case, is not allowed to show--moments from their personal histories.It's difficult to sit through this movie; it really isn't very exciting or engaging.  It does have its moments--the aforementioned scene being one of them, the brig scene being another, the confrontation with God being a third--and those moments are easily worth the price of a rental from your local video store.In short, if you're a fan of the true, real Star Trek, and you haven't seen this movie because you've been told it's the worst one, see it anyway. (Look at it this way your favorite band probably has an album or two that is weaker than its other albums, but which for you is still better than anything by a band you don't like.  For me, it's Test For Echo by Rush. I'd listen to that before, say, the Backstreet Boys any day.)  Yes, it has its insider moments (specifically, the scenes bookending the movie), but it is far, FAR better in that regard than the dull, insipid Star Trek Insurrection.  Watch The Final Frontier with an open mind, and you'll probably come to the conclusion, as I did when I rewatched it a couple of times recently, that while they should have stopped making movies after The Wrath of Khan, this isn't the worst Trek movie by a long shot.On the other hand, if you're the kind of person who LOVED The Voyage Home, and who thinks that The Next Generation was the best show on television, you'll probably want to give this one a miss and rent the adventures of Captain Baldy and First Officer Potsie instead.(For the record, the worst Trek film is in fact the lifeless Star Trek Insurrection, which has a horribly large collection of little fanboy moments and showcases horrible performances from Stewart and Brent Spiner.) "},{"Title":"Bad, Really, Really Bad...","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't overlook the strings which appeared EVERY time there was a special effect. The story was weak and lacked any notice of the familiar interaction between the characters. However in the grand scheme of things it's not as bad as Manos Hands Of Fate. "},{"Title":"weak","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is all this garbage about the even numbered Trek flicks being good, and the odds being bad?  Although I must admit this odd numbered Trek flick is BAD, it isnt the worst...number IV is probably one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and next to it this one shines. Yes, the effects are the worst of any other Trek movie, and the acting isnt stellar, but the story is interesting.  I think many people have missed the point that the crew are searching for God...Kirk and cohorts are obvious skeptics but dont have much choice in the matter.  And in the end it is displayed that the entity is not God, but has instead manipulated others into believing that it is. In the end, this is by no means a great, or even a good movie, except for the most intense among Star Trek fans, and even then I think they will merely accept it because of the name on the VHS box. "}{"Title":"The second worst movie in the series!","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I hated this movie watching it for the first time.  I actually thought it was watchable the second.  Yes, the special effects are bad, not completely done by ILM who only had a small part in it.  Yes, the humor is corny.  Yes, the premise is stupid.  Finding God?  Has Shatner lost his mind and truly been where no one has gone before?  But, despite all this it is a Trek movie.  The same as Jedi was the worser of the Star Wars movies. "},{"Title":"Yeeeeeeeecccccchhhhh!!!","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film seems to be the accumulation of disasters. First, the embarrassing Search for Spock. Then, the disappointing The Voyage Home. And now this. William Shatner decided to adventure himself in directing and writing.And we paid the price. "},{"Title":"Terrible, absolutely terrible...","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the pits. Many people consider either this film or Star Trek The Motion Picture to be the worst of the series. Sorry to say, but TMP is a masterpiece compared to this mess. To sum it all up 1. Special Effects, HORRIBLE! Really liked those wires hanging from Kirks side when he fell from the mountain. 2. Acting, SHODDY. Scotty bumping his head on the beam? The laughing Vulcan Sybok? Seems like the Enterprise crew was acting bad just to get in a few cheap laughs for us trekkies. 3. Captain Klaa. Obviously the worst villain in Star Trek history. He looks like something from Motley Crew! Don't you think? Equally annoying is his henchwoman, Vixus. 4. PLOT, Oh how can someone think of something so horrid? Finding GOD at the center of the universe? I always thought GOD was in heaven? Maybe he IS at the center of the universe! (Yes, I know, it is only a movie) Anyway, I must admit I do have this film but it is strictly to complete the series. I hardly watch this film at all. Seeing this film should make anyone, trekkie or not to run to the bathroom and pray to the porcelain god.By the way, I never knew the Enterprise had 79 decks? She is a REALLY big ship! "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So two hours in to this film and I have absolutely no idea what is going on.Directed by Shatner, this is a colossal vanity project where Shatner gets to be the key person in every scene.Plot holes and effects are beyond awful, starting with Spock hovering hundreds of feet up a mountain that Kirk is 'free climbing' - with Shatner's physique I find that highly dubious, and then Spock racing to the ground when Kirk falls and saving Kirk by a few inches. Then the reverse later in the film as Spock dons the hover boots again to go up an elevator shaft with Kirk and McCoy apparently holding on but when hovering at the top Spock doesn't seem to be carrying their weight at all.Ulhura doing a fan dance - bleargh!!! The 'acting', 'singing', 'jokes', all horrible. It kinda feels like a Bond movie from a similar time where the 'writers' felt the need to take what was a successful formula and then make it all things to all men. Well hey, it was the late 80's, everyone was making money and having fun so why not try and make this movie fun too.Oh wait, as I write this Spock is now 'witnessing his birth' - what did I miss? how did we get to this scene? and why?I'm off for a lie down...... "},{"Title":"The closest the Star Trek series comes to actually being a 90 minute TV episode","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not content with being the main character of the film, Shatner picks up his pen to write the script and goes behind the camera in probably the weakest story of the first 8 Star Trek films.Kirk gets saved from falling to his death off a mountain by Spock, so he can sit around a camp fire with Spock and Bones singing Row your boat (no, really). While this action is taking place, Spock's half brother, that he only talks about when he needs to provide expositional dialogue regarding the backstory of a character introduced specifically for this film, takes a Romulan, a Klingon and Dave Warner (great actor having a bad day) hostage on the Planet of Universal Peace Nimbis III. The Enterprise crew arrive and discover they aren't hostages, but have all been brainwashed by Sybock using Vulcan mind meld to heal their pain. This doesn't work on Spock, and Kirk refuses to let Sybock in.It turns out Sybock wants to get to a place called Sha Ka Ree, on the other side of The Final Frontier, where mythology holds creation sprang from. Spock and Kirk agree to help him and off they go in their spaceship to meet God.I am a religious man and always find any movie that discusses God or Origins to be fascinating, whether I agree with the film maker or not, so I quite liked that part of the film, though I'm well aware many others didn't.The story here just isn't that well thought through. The new characters aren't very well fleshed out. We've got a great actor in Warner playing a character who's just bored to be there. And the effects are pretty poor in the main. The big strength of the film is the great character moments for Spock, Kirk and Bones, and it does introduce the idea that Kirk will die alone. Star Trek V, while the weakest entry yet in the Star Trek series, is not a terrible film, and does explore some interesting ideas and continuing to progress the friendship between Kirk, Spock and Bones while explaining their back story. It would have been an effective and memorable entry in a TV series, but not so much a film series. On film, it's just mediocre with some redeeming qualities. "},{"Title":"Star Trek V The Final Frontier","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember when this was released many people thought it was the old crews final film due to the title. Then once people had seen it most thought that maybe it would be best if it was their final film...zing! But seriously they did.This fifth adventure starts off on a good note with some nice sequences. A short intro with the main antagonist on the sandy world of Nimbus III which looks good (sandy desert like worlds always seem to look good in sci-fi films). Then its straight into some good old fashioned soppy Star Trek humour courtesy of Kirk, Spock and Bones as they enjoy their leave in Yosemite National Park. I can't deny that rock face climbing sequence was pretty amusing and virtually the highlight of the entire movie!Following that we get a brief intro back on board the Enterprise where everything is in the process of being fixed as its not working too well. Obviously this is the cue for Scotty to huff n puff with frustration at the circumstances yet we all know full well he will fix absolutely everything with time to spare. God bless that light- hearted Star Trek nonsense.After this pleasant start which all point towards the beginning of a good fun film things take a bit of a nosedive. Basically there is no real plot here and little explanation for anything. Oh OK, Sybok wants to hijack the Enterprise and use it to find the mythical planet of Sha Ka Ree...yes you read that right and I spelt it right. This planet is at the centre of the galaxy and is supposedly where all creation began...highly doubtful I would imagine seeing as there are millions of galaxies beyond our own. Why don't the crew ever venture outside our Milky Way galaxy and explore another? now that would be exploration alright.Renegade Vulcan Sybok isn't really explained at all unless you count Spock's brief flashback where we are given more big news that he and Spock are half brothers. We have no reason for his religious crusade, where he came from or how he ended up on Nimbus III. There is also no explanation for Nimbus III, its inhabitants, its name (the planet of galactic peace?), why there are horses from Earth on it and why exactly everyone is on Sybok's side. Beats the Dinks outta me!It also kinda amused me that originally Shatner wanted Sean Connery to play Sybok but for whatever reasons he declined. Thusly we have the mysterious Laurence Luckinbill who just happens to look very much like Sean Connery with a beard. I mean really Shatner...OK you wanted Connery and he said no, you didn't have to use another actor that looked like a poor mans Sean Connery, surely it wasn't that necessary.Of course the main issue here is the fact they all run off looking for God at the centre of the galaxy. Personally I really can't think of a more risky idea than this! apart from possibly alienating a huge amount of the audience who will have their own religious views and beliefs that are sure to conflict. The flip side is you know straight away they won't actually find God as how could a sci-fi film proclaim what God would look, sound or behave like. How could the film makers preach or force their own beliefs and ideals of God on a world where there is such religious diversity.So right away you know the plots outcome and thusly the film becomes pointless. On top of that the obvious alien creature/power (that isn't God) which they come across is not explained. No idea what it may have been, what it wanted, how it lead them to believe it was the one true God etc...Another issue that bewilders me with the Star Trek film franchise is how or why the special effects seem to have gotten worse as the sequels progressed. As discussed in my review the first film really did have an epic feel to it with some beautifully sweeping model shots, but this fifth entry really does look dire. As usual we get more dodgy looking bluescreen shots and yet more hokey looking shaky sets which I have come to accept (sign of the franchise I'm afraid). The actual models are sound and are clearly well made but it just looks as though the act of putting them on film has been rushed. From what I've read it does appear things were done as cheaply as possible and without the best folk available. To be honest you expect a lot more from a huge franchise and its fifth sequel.So a very silly choice of plot which could of completely back fired (amazed it didn't), plus it has too many similarities to the first Star Trek film with the V'Ger story. Dull pacing, poor effects, weak characters and the rather creepy and definitely un-sexy fan dance by the aged Uhura was also a bit ewww.Not much really happens in this film after the events on Nimbus III in my humble opinion. Its a very mediocre outing throughout with a very predictable anti-climactic finale which almost killed off anymore adventures for the original cast for good. Striving for glory clearly...but alas a supreme failure on all accounts truth be told.3.5/10 "},{"Title":"A man should know when to leave the party! Disgusting!","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What made the first 4 movies great was not special effects but the great interconnected stories which gave them a miniseries feel. Of course they had some minor flaws here and there like the supposed to be formidable but ridiculous Klingons or the fact that Starship Enterprise was destroyed and it was supposed to be an obsolete vessel so the whole idea of recreating it at the end of forth movie was illogical. They should never have destroyed the ship but they had to leave it badly damaged somewhere in space for future recovery. 23rd century is not that far away and economic laws would not change a lot in 300 years meaning that it does not economically make sense to refurbish an obsolete damaged ship but to replace it with brand new one so assuming that the Enterprise was destroyed, it had to be replaced by an Excelsior class ship to make sense, of course they could have rename it as Enterprise. Then came this fifth installment. A brand new story. I would say the concept had some potential but the scenario was so bad that it killed everything this concept could be in first place. Lets start from the camping in Yosemite. Showing captain Kirk rock climbing was OK but the whole scene of sitting around the fire and toast marsh melon and sing was 100% irrelevant to the resolve of the movie and waste of time. All it achieved was to bore me in early stage of the movie so I had to pause and make a tea for myself, something I rarely do. Next we go the Enterprise. Everything is a mess, nothing works, even elevator doors do not open properly. Looks like the ship was the target of a computer virus. No sane person orders such ship to go into deep space no matter how grave the situation is as that could be suicidal mission. On Nimbus III which is supposed to be an important place but a vast body of dust with only one village, we read PARADISE in English on the sign. Like English is the universal language of the universe but it is not even universal language of the earth and certainly it is not the Klingon or Romulan inscription. Commando attack on Nimbus III. Since when captain Kirk became a Navy seal and when did he learn to ride horses? And since when, the first officer of the ship leads a field attack? Somehow for cheesiness sake, bandits take over Enterprise and they head to that barrier thing. How come no one ever tried to cross? It appears that it was very easy to reach the barrier and yet in 23rd century no one crossed it? why? OK, provided the barrier was something real. Enterprise just passed through like me passing through the door of my bedroom!!! as easy as that without the slightest challenge. Klingon ship also passed through. I guess there was no barrier in first place! On the other side there is a planet. Seriously? a planet out of nowhere? They land on the planet. Everyone looks at that piece of barren Arizona desert like they've seen something extraordinary. The logical response was to either laugh or at least disappointment. There was a genie or something on that planet who caused some scenes. They destroyed the genie with a torpedo. Kirk survived. A party and... I can't say how disappointing this movie was, actually it was disgusting! I would say if you are watching Star Trek series, just skip this one and jump to part 6. Assume this one never existed! 0/10! I assume this movie was never made! "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shatner's plan was to make a gritty film. Paramount wanted something lighthearted. The end result was something that pleased neither party, nor many fans. Inconsistent pacing sees moments that drag on. Bad cinematography gives the film a washed-out look. Bad costumes hurt it and so does the anti-climactic conclusion. I think it is still a reasonable film. It is best rendering of the Kirk / Spock / McCoy partnership the series produced. Watching it now, I can see that it could have been very powerful. This film is not as bad as they say. Watch it as you an old episode of the show and you'll like it. This movie had the potential to be incredible. "},{"Title":"Not exactly terrible, but a lackluster entry to the series","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" All of you Star Trek fans out there can argue that the first Star Trek was a lackluster start to a successful franchise, but that's not the case here. While the previous three were were very good and vast improvements over the first film, this entry is easily lackluster. Not exactly terrible, but just an example of a film that caused a successful franchise to go downhill like most other films in Hollywood history.There are some good stuff, however, before I can get to the flaws. The cast from the previous films did their best for what they were given from an otherwise terrible script. The music score is decent; the visuals and scenery are nice to look at and the special effects are pretty good.Now to the negatives. The script, like I said before, is terrible and the story is contrived with several plot holes that go absolutely nowhere, the dialog is cringe-worthy, the pacing is very sluggish, and the direction is a bit choppy.Overall, not terrible nor good, but a lackluster entry to the series. "},{"Title":"The Worst Star Trek,","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek 5 The Final Frontier is a decent movie,it isn't awful but it is the worst Star Trek movie,and it shows that directing really isn't William Shatner's thing,he obviously decided since Leonard Nimoy directed the previous two Star Trek movies,but he didn't do nearly as good as Nimoy.The movies story seemed very promising,but it ended being very little story and a lot of not very entertaining action sequences.The only thing that really made this movie enjoyable was,like usual for Star Trek,the cast is brilliant,and I also was surprised with how much I enjoyed the ending.I don't think that the Final Frontier is awful but it's without a doubt the worst Star Trek and fans of the franchise will be very disappointing.Captain Kirk must take on Spock's half brother Sybock,who seizes the Enterprise to travel to space's final frontier to find the Almighty. "}{"Title":"I'm Just Pleased This Wasn't The Final Film","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V The Final Frontier** (out of 4)107 mins/ PGCast William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, James Doohan, Walter Koeing, Nichelle Nichols, George Takei, David Warner, Laurence LuckinbillDirector William ShatnerPlot The enterprise is hijacked by Spock's half-brother, who wants to use it to reach the holy land of God.JJ's Verdict Star Trek V The Final Frontier is undoubtedly the worst of the Original Cast's films. It starts off with a strange opening in a desert, in which a Vulcan manages to get some peculiar looking planet inhabitant, to join him by hugging the fellow. This is not well explained at all and leaves you confused as the Vulcan's situation moves towards civilisation. Jump to a forest where, (ironically) DeForest Kelley is looking at William Shatner climbing a mountain for no valid reason, Leonard Nimoy ascending the mountain on booster shoes for no valid reason and Shatner then falling down the mountain for no valid reason and then being caught by Nimoy who manages to save his friend without even touching him. It is awful logic like this, which just makes it, pure and simply, a bad film.The effects still look poor and homemade and there are some bad slapstick humour and some horribly cheesy one-liners and jokes. The villain, an okay Laurence Luckinbill, can brainwash anyone to join his pilgrimage to God, which begs the question; if you can brainwash anyone then why not use it to get rich or achieve world domination? No, he'd just rather travel forever to find somewhere no one has ever found before, so he can talk to God. The character isn't even comparable to Ricardo Montablon and Christopher Lloyd who have played previous Trek villains extremely well. And it turns out in the end, that he isn't even bad! The crew themselves, really show off their age in some of the action scenes and it is quite worrying to see how much weight some of them have put on. The film isn't all-bad though. The lighter approach in places makes way for some good buddy humour between the three leads and the cinematography is very good. In one part of the film, we get to see the whole of the Enterprise's interior &#x96; which is pretty cool &#x96; and James Doohan puts in a perfectly timed comic performance. As director, I don't think Shatner did a bad job, just not a good job either! The storyline is poor and although watchable this is just too cringing, and they were very lucky that The Final Frontier wasn't so and the crew returned in 1991. "},{"Title":"Star Trek V is underrated","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite how so many people think that this movie is flawed, I still like this movie because it talks about our place in the universe and with its Yosemite scenes teaches us to respect the environment. I enjoyed this movie and how they went to a God Planet near the center of our galaxy in the direction of Sagittarius the Archer. This movie had an astrophysics consultant on the location of the God Planet and they chose the center of our galaxy. I like how this movie commented on religion and how flawed it can be and the God villain had one voice and many faces which makes sense. I also love the Cosmic Thoughts scene near the end of the movie. This movie is a paradigm to the glory of Star Trek about searching outside in the universe and inside our minds. "},{"Title":"Downright boring and rather embarrassing fifth installment.","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Credit IMDb) When the newly-christened starship Enterprise's shakedown cruise goes poorly, Captain Kirk and crew put it into Spacedock for repairs. But an urgent mission interrupts their Earth-bound shore leave. A renegade Vulcan named Sybok has taken several ambassadors hostage on the planet Nimbus III, an event which also attracts the attention of a Klingon captain who wants to make a name for himself. Sybok's rag-tag army captures the Enterprise and takes it on a journey to the center of the galaxy in search of the Supreme Being.Spock's half brother and his obsession with God? Who thought that was a good idea in the first place! It moves it at a snail's place, I had to listen too much mumbo jumbo a lot of the time, and I really felt cheated when all was said and done. The acting was fine, David Warner was a good choice, but this just felt like a silly sci-fi plot, which was rejected from a T.V movie. I watch Star Trek for the mystique, the suspense, and ultimately the relationships of the characters, not this silly junk.Bottom line. I don't know what they were thinking, but it certainly was a horrible call of judgment to go ahead with this. What we have here is a mediocre installment, which is much too silly to succeed. I'm contemplating saying it's worth a look, but that's really pushing it.4/10 "},{"Title":"Star Trek 5 Not As Bad As You've Read","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie could actually be the best odd-numbered Star Trek film. It's entertaining, got great action scenes. The characters are back better than ever. The directing is pretty good in my opinion and this film is highly-underrated by critics and especially by Star Trek films. This film does not deserve the 5/10 star rating on IMDb, this movie is terrific. Exciting and wonderful. They fly into the centre of the universe to find God only it turns out not to be him, just someone who was imprisoned thousands of years ago and has God-like powers.I was actually really cautious when choosing to watch this movie, I thought I'd hate it because of the bad reviews its received and bad ratings its had. This movie has got to be the best odd-numbered Trek movie "},{"Title":"Star Trek V The Final Frontier","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With Leonard Nimoy having directed two predecessors, it was obvious the leading star William Shatner should want a go, and he lucky (well, unlucky) to win a Razzie for doing so. Basically the new Enterprise is performing a bit poorly, so Captain James T. Kirk (Razzie winning Shatner) and the crew have gone to Spacedock to make repairs. They are interrupted during their Earth vacation time by an urgent mission, renegade Vulcan and Spock's half-brother Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill) has taken many ambassadors hostage. They are being held on the planet Nimbus III, and the situation has also grabbed the attention of a bunch of Klingons, and Captain wants to make a name for himself being the one who kills Kirk. When the Enterprise is taken over, Sybok wants to to go the farthest part of the galaxy, the centre, in an attempt to find the supreme being, God. I can't remember really how it went, only that Sybok was forgiven for his stuff, the Klingons turned nice, and the film finished with Kirk, Captain Spock (Leonard Nimoy) and Dr. Leonard Bones McCoy (Razzie nominated DeForest Kelley) singing Row Row Row Your Boat round a camp fire. Also starring James Doohan as Capt. Montgomery Scotty Scott, Walter Koenig as Cmdr. Pavel Chekov, Nichelle Nichols as Cmdr. Uhura, George Takei as Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu and David Warner as St. John Talbot. Of all the original cast films I have seen, this is most definitely the least memorable, with not as good as before special effects, a boring story, and the feeling that the cast are getting too old, a disappointing science-fiction adventure sequel. It won the Razzie for Worst Picture, and it was nominated for Worst Picture of the Decade and Worst Screenplay. Star Trek was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Mr. Spock was number 23 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Don't let the naysayer bandwagon fool you, this is a Great Star Trek adventure!","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great Star Trek movie and it's amazing to me that there's such a negative general response; those guys are all crazy! Great Star Trek movie.First the villain Sybok is second only to Khan in the franchise. Spock's half-brother is not only one of the smartest Vulcan's to ever live but his intellect may be the greatest in the galaxy, yet he's been banished from Vulcan for abandoning logic for emotion. That right there is damn interesting. He uses his vastly superior intellect for mind control to facilitate his quest to find God...yet he is peaceful eschewing physical violence. Throughout the film we question, is he insane or pure genius for pursuing God? This is an epic character and one of the few interesting villains in the series. A lot of reviewers mark the plot- line of the quest for God as ridiculous, yet no one notes this is Sybok's mad quest that the Enterprise combats...and a quest proportionate in scope to the size of Sybok's brain. How did we all get here? The great metaphysical question of the world, that even in the 23rd century creatures still ask. Sybok uses mind-control on the Enterprise crew and a host of followers to steal the Enterprise to embark on a journey to the very center of the Galaxy. Great character, great plot.Secondly Shatner's direction is great! In case you didn't know, in movies epic heroes who are humble with good senses of humor are liked very well...that's what Shatner does here, he pokes some fun at the seriousness of Kirk, Spock, Bones, and crew - by showing them on vacation where we get to see them for the first time outside of work. On mission they're all business, but outside at least Shatner gives them some humility and senses of humor. It's completely refreshing. Spock, Bones, and Kirk on vacation singing Row, Row, Row your Boat around a campfire is helarious! This Star Trek has perhaps the only quality laughs in the entire franchise.Thirdly the special effects are as good as any other Star Trek film...sorry to break it to you. From today's perspective all those 80's sci-fi movies pretty much look the same.Fourthly, Sybok's quest for God ends appropriately...in futility. They don't find any supreme being semi-confirming the villain's madness. Instead at the center of the galaxy they encounter a powerful alien they must defeat and escape from...all great action and an interesting twist to put beyond the final frontier. The actual madness is not liking this Star Trek. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse....","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... Once. Manos, the Hands of Fate. That was worse than this, quite a bit worse but it did have one thing it had beautiful women in negligees wresting each other -- for about 20 minutes. This has a fat 45 year-old with 3 tits and a tail, in a cantina scene cloned directly from Star Wars. Not to mention an obese, blue seductress Uhura, her fat legs and ass hanging out of some sort of insane bird costume, in this Method Acting Mess. She always wanted to perform before a captive audience? She must have meant the poor slobs who shelled out 8 bucks hoping to see another Wrath of Khan, or at least a Voyage Home. Captive is right. I wonder how many people in the theaters tried to slit their wrists while crying out mother, make it stop.No question about it, Final Frontier is not just an unmitigated disaster, it's cruel and unusual punishment. This is Star Trek from hell. This is Shatner on mushrooms -- or maybe peyote. This is Where No Man Has Gone Before and Wished He Never Had in the First Place. Or, to paraphrase a review of Heaven's Gate It's as if Gene Roddenberry sold his soul to the Devil for the success of a TV series, and Devil is just now coming around to collect.And don't even get me started on a drunken Kirk and a grinning McCoy singing Row, Row, Row Your Boat together, like they were lovers in some sort of demented gay fever dream. Then we've got the Hideous Dynamic Duo of Sulu and Chekov, hiking through the woods together... probably en route to a Barry Manilow concert. Then there's Laurence Luckinbill as Spock's brother???!!! Yeah, right! Amazing how these relations we never heard of suddenly crawl out of the woodwork when we need a new plot line. And not to forget Spock rocketing through the air after Kirk when he falls from a cliff in Yosemite. Sure. He catches up to Kirk and saves him ONE FOOT away from the ground. Where'd you get those nifty Rocket Shoes, Spock?! "},{"Title":"Not the worst of the series but certainly not the best.","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" William Shatner directs what many people consider the least of the series. I'm not so certain about that. While far from the best, I think the film is as good as many of the episodes of the original series.The plot has Spock's brother commandeering the starship in order to try and find God whom he believes is trapped on a remote planet on the edge of the universe.Notorious film had all sorts of problems in its making as Paramount tried to keep downsizing things, even as its TV counterpart was increasing in the ratings. No one seemed happy with where Shatner was going with it and many feel its little more than a vanity project created purely to keep Shatner tied to the franchise.I like the film. By no means is it a great one, but it is a solid one on the level of many of the clunky TV series. Its the sort of thing that an episodic space opera occasionally would turn out. Is it dumb at times? certainly, but ultimately the plots were not what we watched the TV show for but the characters, and as long as they are on screen everything is alright.recommended with reservations "},{"Title":"People just don't know how to have fun...","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I rated this a 6/10 because its definitely worth watching, but no, not as good at Star Trek II, IV, or VI. I like the humor in this movie, it brings to life the characters and shows the more human side of everyone. Come on, you've had a job before where everything just seemed to go wrong, or one of those days, right? Well thats I how I see this film. The new Enterprise was still in spacedock and many of the kinks still being worked out while the crew was on shoreleave. Everybody interacted much the way you would expect a crew who has worked together for 20+ years. But there was definitely some humorous moments and lighthearted nature involved in the original series and I feel Shatner was trying to bring some of that back in this film. Star Trek IV definitely had a lot of humor and comedy interwoven with the script as well. I also like the references to past films, something that a lot of sequels will leave out. People just want everything to be overly serious and dramatic all the time. This film is fun, entertaining, the plot isn't too entirely bad, and come on! The Enterprise is back in action! Sit back and relax. Grab a bowl of popcorn and throw the DVD in, this movie is not as bad as they say. If you turn it on with preconceived notions you won't enjoy it. But if you go into with a balanced veiwpoint you'll get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"Star Trek V The Final Frontier","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In much the same way asThe Motion Picture was a long journey to a less-than-spectacular pay-off, The Final Frontier feels like a TV episode stretched out overa feature length.  It's clear from the opening scene thatSybok is no villain, so that leaves the film sorely lacking in the tension department. There's a bored KlingonCaptain out to get Kirk but the character is introduced late and is underused to the pointof pointlessness. In fact therealbad guy isn'tintroduced untilten minutes before the film ends, andhis scene is a frankly pathetic excuse for a climax. In place of dramatic tension we'releft withpratfalls from Scotty, scenes of Kirk, McCoy and Spock singing Row, Row, Row Your Boat around a campfire and Uhura performing an erotic dance - none of which is as much fun as it sounds. While some scenesborder on the epic (by Star Trek standards) others seem to be grappling with budget restraints - the ship that picks up the campers is represented by sound effects and flashing lights, and the less said about the Face of God finale the better - which give the film a curiously schizophrenic feel.  Probably just edging out The Motion Picture as the weakest of the first seven original crew films (not counting their cameos in Generations.) Like that film it's not exactly bad, justvery thin on plot and not much fun. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as it seems","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will readily admit I've never been a big fan of Star Trek V, but a lot of the criticism levied against William Shatner isn't entirely fair. Much of the blame for how the movie turned out has to be shared by the suits at Paramount - from the miserably low budget Shatner was given to work with to the constant interference with the script.Shatner's original concept may have been unfilmable (politically speaking), but it was ambitious and very much in line with what Star Trek was always about - using a futuristic setting to discuss highly charged issues; and what could be more explosive than a movie questioning not the existence but the nature of God; that each person, each society through time recreates God in their own image.There's on old saying that there's no substitute for experience and that applies to movie directors as well. One thing experience as a manager teaches you is which battles you pick and how hard to fight; some things you blow off and some things you have to be willing to fall on you sword for. A lot of the humor people complain about was inserted at the insistence of the studio. If a light touch had succeeded with Star Trek IV, their reasoning went, then let's insert even more here. Same with the basics of the plot; the movie went from questioning out concept of God with a capital G to the tired old plot device of an alien who only looks like god (small g intended).Same goes for the lesser quality special effects. Shatner himself admits the results weren't what he envisioned and a lot of that was due, once again, to his inexperience as a director. He got caught up in the micro detail of making sure scenes early in the movie were just right and lost sight of the fact that he had a limited, and fixed, budget and would have nothing left at the end when it came time to create the payoff when Capt Kirk confront God. "},{"Title":"Favored nations contracts....","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, Shatner and Nimoy had such a contract clause, meaning if Nimoy directs, so does Shatner.Now, I'm not going to bash Bill's direction, definitely the story he worked with, but not his direction. Paramount, in a summer where they knew they had no chance in hell against 'Batman' or even a poor James Bond effort, never mind Indiana Jones' Last Crusade, cut the film budget incredibly short day by day. Shatner, to his credit, worked with what he had.Yeah, Trek meets God just sucks. But, Kirk and crew get to play in the dirt and run around and save some people before being hijacked and so on... Sure, some of the back-story effort should have been left alone, Spock's mysterious brother for one, but there is some good to it, such as 'McCoy's pain'.Though not an epic effort, it makes for a great shore leave interrupted buddy film. "},{"Title":"about as amusing and cheesy as Star Trek could ever get, and with moments of real interest","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So here we have it, the most flawed and ill-reputed-by-fans movie entry from the original cast of the Star Trek TV series. Which means, oddly enough, it isn't actually *as* bad as you might have heard. It depends on perspective; if you're willing to give in to the 4-score-cheesy humor, which includes Spock being instructed on how to sing campfire songs, James Doohan doing a stupid hit-of-the-head just walking down a hall, and some delicious overacting by many of the cast (including the 'evil' Vulcan Sykbok played by Lawrence Luckinbill), then it might be worth it for some of the oddly interesting ideas regarding belief and allegiance to someone promising a life without fear thanks to God. It might even dawn on someone, as thanks to a note of interest from my girlfriend, that it has more than some allusion to evangelical right wingers.So, trying to put aside political notes, which could go on for so long here that it would be didactic of me, just to note the good news first Shatner, for all of his moments of folly thanks to the crappy special effects (and it's not just the 'God' bits watch for that one little ship speeding by and wonder how far we've come in 20 years with CGI), he's usually a pretty sturdy director of scenes which don't require a lot of action. He keeps a good control over the enterprise crew, and there's even some moments of earned corny-hilarity thrown in here and there like with the rocket-booster shoes. And, yes, there's a not bad *central* plot involving Spock's half-brother, Skybok, who only wants to take people hostage and go to the center of the universe to attain something no one has seen before. I was even slightly moved by a scene where Skybok gives a moment of revelation for McCoy and his dead father.But for all that Shatner might get right as a pure 'Trekkie' fan (and, thankfully, he doesn't make it too much of a vanity project, so no excess close-ups or the like), he also goes too far in other respects. One of the biggest goofs is in the logic that hey, it's Star Trek, we'll need Klingons, just because when they're totally ancillary figures, used only for an awkward, un-funny laugh towards the end where somehow Klingons and Enterprise crew come together following that whopper of a battle between Kirk and whatever-that-God-thing was. And as well, almost in spite of Shatner's skills as a director of certain scenes, there's a slightly dull quality to how some of the story progresses, of the ho-hum-ness of the ship's parts not working, including (GASP) captain's log. Shatner and the writers are obviously digging for something intellectually stimulating as well as going for some stirring drama, but too often they fall short of making it more than just an average episode of the series. Not even Star Trek's first movie in 1979, which had a bloated quality here and there, had the trouble of being just 'average'.If you're into Trek, you'll check it out anyway, and opinions will vary though probably not by much from what I've read. And if you've very limited interest in Trek, it's not a good place to start and might be liable for helping sleepless nights. I liked certain things about it, a lot, and then other things just... stalled. "},{"Title":"It's not that bad.","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is just shot down and obliterated every time it gets reviewed. It's not that bad. Shatner takes the director's helm for this one, and that makes Star Trek fans uneasy. The only accepted Star Trek films are 2,3,4,6 and were all directed by Nicholas Meyer and Leonard Nimoy. Number 1 is terrible anyway and it should not be considered part of this wonderful collection of movies, but 5 should be because honestly it is not that bad. The script is a bit humorous at times, but the hijacking, escape, and mission with Sybok are all very entertaining. A true Star Trek fan knows this a good film, but certainly not the best. Shatner, Nimoy, Kelly, Luckibill, hell everyone puts up a good performance. Some compare Kirk, Spock, and McCoy to the three stooges, I find the roles entertaining but they still keep up on the task. So my best bet if you have not seen it yet, see it for goodness sake. Form your own opinion, don't listen to the panners and the Razzie Awards. NOT THAT BAD! "},{"Title":"What does Scotty need with Uhura?","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Supposedly, director William Shatner had in mind a much 'darker' film when it came to 'Star Trek V The Final Frontier' but the suits at Paramount, looking at the huge box-office receipts taken in by its humor-filled predecessor, insisted the new film have plenty of laughs too. So what we get is arguably the weakest and goofiest of the six Star Trek movies with the original cast. There are bad ideas aplenty, along with a few good ones, and if you're in a charitable mood, you could look at 'The Final Frontier' the same way you would a so-so episode of the TV series. On the plus side, Laurence Luckenbill is a fine actor and gives one of the best 'guest star' performances in any Star Trek, big or small screen, ranking right up there with William Windom's Commodore Decker. His portrayal of Sybok, Spock's half-brother, consistently lifts the film when it threatens to sink, which happens all too frequently. Charles Cooper is good too as the fat old Klingon General Korrd; too bad his role isn't as large as he is. If the story about Shatner's intentions is true, then I owe him an apology, because I was prepared to lay the blame for the incessant silliness and not-very-convincing action scenes squarely at his directorial feet. The reason is I've always felt that, of all the Trek regulars, Shatner was the least 'tuned-in' to everything that makes Star Trek work and what makes it special to its fans. Having read his Trek memoirs, it's very apparent to me that he considered the show another action-adventure series that just happened to have a science-fiction setting. He preferred the vision of Gene Coon over that of Gene Roddenberry; Coon was known for his work on the popular western series, 'The Wild Wild West.' Shatner also mentioned that a favorite Star Trek episode of his was 'A Piece of the Action,' a silly second-season episode co-written by Coon. So, finally given an opportunity to direct a Star Trek feature film, would not Shatner follow his instincts and produce an action-filled flick with lots of tongue-in-cheek humor? Well somebody did, because that's what 'The Final Frontier' ended up being. Shatner himself definitely returns to form as The Great Ham and, as Leonard Maltin points out, the film suffers from a bad case of 'the cutes.' In the opening scene at Yosemite National Park, it's hard to say which is worse, the super-cheesy special effects or the godawful dialogue. Running gags about equipment malfunctioning on the Enterprise have run all the way from 'Wrath of Khan' and by this, the fifth Trek movie, have run themselves into the ground. So has the idea of a 'skeleton crew'. One new development is an apparent romantic relationship between Scotty and Uhura and suffice it to say one does not exactly sense flames of passion burning between the two. It's a pointless subplot and adds nothing. The climactic scene where 'God' is encountered doesn't add much either; whether or not this was a good idea in the first place is debatable, but the scene itself doesn't make much sense. (The 'God' creature's abilities seem to vary according to what is needed at the moment.) Roughly half of this is a tired retread of the climax from 'The Search for Spock.' Leonard Nimoy manages to salvage Spock's integrity, even while spouting such un-Spock-like lines as Get a grip on yourself, Doctor. And DeForest Kelley, as usual, outperforms both Shatner and Nimoy; he really came on as an actor in the final Trek films. So this Trek outing isn't terrible, it just isn't very good. There was to be one more original cast Trek movie before the baton was passed to the 'next generation,' and it was far better suited to the task than 'Star Trek V The Final Frontier.' "},{"Title":"Okay for Television","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have been a huge fan of the original crew of the Enterprise since I was eight years old. I watched all the movies and appreciated each one for what they retained from the old series and for further developing the characters (and the Star Trek universe, in general). Even in The Undiscovered Country I thought the aging of the characters was well handled and the story worthy of a theatrical release. However, having said that, Star Trek V The Final Frontier is easily the worst of the series featuring the original crew. I agree with many that the camaraderie of Kirk, Spock and McCoy is well handled, but the overall script, the direction -- by William Shatner -- and the special effects are not worthy of anything more than a television episode. This is a buddy movie and, at times, almost unrecognizable as a Star Trek movie. The action sequences are not sustained and therefore, build little or no tension. The dialogue is weak though it does provide for a few laughs, both intended and not-intended. The Klingon's seem thrown in as an afterthought. The whole Sha-Ka-Ree concept is just silly and Laurence Luckinbill, a fine actor in everything else I've ever seen him in, boarders on the absurd in this movie. The scene where Sybok conjures up images of Spock's pain and McCoy's pain shatters the image of the characters as we've known them. Spock would never be party to such stupidity and McCoy, trying to save his father is full of insipid, redundant dialogue and totally wastes DeForest Kelley's acting abilities. The whole scene is wasted and really shows us nothing new and nothing we want to see from these characters. I understand that Shatner didn't have the luxury of working with ILM for the special effects and that the budget for this movie was tight, but that doesn't allow for such a bad story. In some respects, I think this story does fit in with the old series, but the movies, including Star Trek The Motion Picture are all much better quality than this. It's a shame that most of the other characters have so few lines and so little to do with most of this movie. The focus on Kirk, McCoy and Spock is nice, but way over used. The old crew really seems to be out of character. I liked the old Klingon General and the sultry Romulan in the bar. I liked some of the humor and the idea that Spock has a half-brother, but that's about it. If this was a TV episode, I'd be able to accept a lot of the faults. As a movie, this is just bad, uninspired film making. It's a shame too, because I want this movie to be good. Even if it was the level of Star Trek III I would be happy, but this movie makes all the other movies in this series seem like works of Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"So bad the Trekkies disown it","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" STV actually manages to be so bad that some of the Star Establishment refuse to include it as canon. Shatner's direction is pretty hit and miss and while he does some good work with the Kirk/Spock/McCoy relationship little else really shines. The plot is pretty shoddy (they are taken by Spocks psychotic brother Sybok to find God) as are the effects. They look a whole generation away from what was being done on the Next Generation at the same time, screaming 'done on the cheap'. If your a dedicated trekkie then you might just be able to stand it but everyone else steer clear.Finally, note to William Shatner. Uhuru doing a dance with nothing but feathers would have probably looked very sexy. In 1969. She wasn't quite so attractive by 1989. "},{"Title":"Engaging enough for fans of the series but so-so fare that is nowhere near as engaging or entertaining as it needed to be","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kirk, McCoy and Spock are enjoying their leave on Earth when a hostage crisis breaks out on a peaceful planet &#150; with the Enterprise being the closest ship with an experienced crew. They are dispatched to recover the hostages but it transpires that the entire situation has been a ruse to allow leader Sybok to claim the star ship and use it to pursue his wider goal &#150; a journey deep into space to a mythical planet at the centre of the galaxy to discover the place where all the answers are to be found, to confront God himself. Throw in the brig and the only ones to have avoided the powerful influence of Sybok, Kirk, McCoy and Spock try to stop him.Opening with Kirk free-climbing in Yosemite National Park this film immediately makes out several of its consistent problems. Firstly it is filled with half baked ideas. In the first part this is seen in the silly fall but over the whole film it manifests itself in the rather heavy plot that stutters along a very obvious path. As creator of the story Kirk did not have to go far for his inspiration as the ideas here have been done in similar ways in the series but even with that it doesn't do much with it at the ending and it feels like a lot has just been dropped in favour of lightshows. It does enough to get by though and fans of the series will just about find enough here to keep them interested. I think part of the reason so many people dislike this film is that it came after part 4, which was great fun and before part 6, which again was good fun. I know people talk about the curse of the odd numbers in the first 6 Star Trek films but this is less to do with the number and more to do with the fact that the even numbered films are consistently more enjoyable.The fact that Shatner is writer, director and actor is also a weaknesses and was a poor decision &#150; just because Nimoy did it doesn't mean he can. It is shown in the first scene where we are treated to the podgy Shatner effortlessly working his way up a vertical cliff-face and this ego-massaging continues throughout the film. Even as we get to the end of the film and confront God, Kirk is the one that stands up to him, while the majority of the film he is very much the focal point of the whole film. As actor he shows his as he forces himself into every scene; he has always been a good ham but here the material and being behind the camera make his performance difficult to take. Nimoy and Kelley are good and work well together. Koenig and Takei are good but I'm not sure about the script forcing Doohan and Nichols together (even less taken by the latter dancing naked). Luckinbill is all a bit cheesy and isn't that good a character (nor Murdock).Overall then an average Star Trek plot with typical ideas but not carried through to completion. The influence of Shatner across all aspects of the film is not a good thing and it does drag the film down. Engaging enough for fans of the series but so-so fare that is nowhere near as engaging or entertaining as it needed to be. "},{"Title":"TOS on the big screen.","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know why some people call this the worst ST movie ever. It's TOS on the big screen, the story, the acting, well even the special effects aren't so far away of what we used to know as TOS(those styrofoam rocks- myohmy!). True some glitches and logical flaws which made the movie hard to digest could have been ironed out, or some of the special effects could have been done better, even by 1989 standards. But if you watch the original 79 TV shows and then the movies 1-5 directly afterwards, you'll find 1 and 5 to be the closest to TOS as it could be. True, 1 is rather lengthy and gets boring while watching the Enterprise's endless way into V-Ger, but story and plot seem to come directly from TOS scripts. The same with 5. But nevertheless the idea of dealing with self-proclaimed gods is nothing new, remember Who Mourns For Adonais?, or The Squire Of Gothos? While one can expect some better results from multi-million dollar productions, like the aforementioned effects and a better cut-out story, those two movies (especially 5) are the heart and soul of what Star Trek was and is about, to boldly go where no man has gone before and not just techno-babble and cliffhangers. A 7/10 from a TOS fan. "},{"Title":"Nervously going where no Trek has gone before","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not as terrible as fans like to jeer.It does have faults, some of which are obvious to any film goer, others probably more painful for Trek fans, but in the scheme of all the original Trek movies, this is possibly the closest to the old show. Maybe that is it's mistake; to feel like an overlong TV episode, on not one that really shines either. The plot is messy, possibly from having to much edited in the wrong places than anything else. Sybok's history, his vision from God, his mode through the barrier and the power he has over the mind is woefully lacking. By the last half hour, one feels that a tighter script could have at least saved the finale from feeling empty even if it couldn't raise it to being amazing.In the end, for a mainstream franchise, tackling theology was an idea no studio would really go out to back, and from what the crew have said on the matter, it does sound that the dead ending is partially through this lack of conviction in realising the productions intent. Blame the studio, blame the production for truly going where no Trek probably has the sense not to go.That said, there is a lot of good in here. Sybok is a well realised character. Despite the rather soap like connection to Spock, it never stuck me as awkward. Spock is a proud character and a character which embraces all he's fought against who is a blight on his family is unlikely to come up casually. Sybok is well acted and has enough presence to keep the plot from sinking under it's own theological confusion.There is a lot of fun here. I know cast and audience have grumbled about the crew being sent up under Shatner's direction, but I think it works. While Sulu virtually vanishes in the excellent Star Trek IV, being lost in a forest is not only a nice character scene, it warms you to the character. Again with Uhura, while her dance is contrived, it is memorable; it spotlights the character. As for Scotty, well after being the deux ex machina of the engine room, it's nice to throw such a small comedy scene in where he smacks his head on a metal housing after proclaiming his ultimate knowledge of the ship. Lighten up.What really holds the film together is the trinity of the Original Trilogy. The set up camping scene is endearing and beautifully acted. The characters feel real and honest to their roots. Throughout the film, this threesome of Kirk, Spock and McCoy are a joy to watch. The scene in the forward lounge as Sybok explores the pain of Spock and McCoy is beautifully directed and very well acted.As for the production, the effects are poor. The Enterprise suffers from some poor motion effects, and the end finale is lacking in the spectacular such a theological climax demands. There are some Trek glitches, there are three times the amount of floors to the Enterprise, the initial elevator scene seems to imply the elevator only goes upwards (even a casual watcher will notice the shuttlecraft bay is at the aft of the craft and the bridge is forward front) and some of malfunctions on the Enterprise are fairly trite.Nevertheless, the pacing is light and the script has some nice character gags - particularly from the main three. Certainly not the most perfect Trek film but not as terrible as fans declare. It has some lovely character moments, a gentle score and some solid acting all round. While it doesn't deliver it does entertain and I think Shatner and co deserve a seven just for that. "}{"Title":"Not the best but...","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though this admittedly is not as good as the others either side of it I like it.It is, however, a good viewing of the friendship between Spock, McCoy and Kirk with some stunning shots at the beginning of the film. You also get to know a little bit more about our top three which is a bit I love.DeForest, Nimoy and Shatner do wonderful jobs at the acting with Bones slipping in his usual witty lines. It's just a shame it wasn't a better film. James Doohan is brilliant in his part! Makes me laugh every time!I have to say I do like the start of the film a lot better than the second half but that's just my personal opinion and I won't tell you why as it'll spoil it for you.It's worth at least one watch then you can decide for yourselves whether it's a good one or not. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most people say","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V The Final Frontier - Stardate 8454.1This fifth entry in the Star Trek saga is perhaps the weakest (although better than the tenth installment, Nemesis), but there are certain qualities that make it very worthwhile to watch.1. Jerry Goldsmith's superb score - the maestro has done it again! The family theme for Kirk, Spock, and McCoy is very fitting and really helps to bring an emotional emphasis when they are on screen.2. Unlike the Next Generation, there is real character interaction between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy which makes it worthwhile to watch this film. You really feel for them, especially when they are around the campfire.3. What does God need with a Starship? A CLASSIC line! Yes, the story is illogical, the special effects are sub par compared to the other installments, and the acting can be atrocious (especially Shatner in an overly cute performance), BUT regardless, the above 3 points make up for it. Recommended. "},{"Title":"It's true, this the weakest of the Star Trek movies","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just watched ST V The Final Frontier SE DVD last night, and let me tell you, this is truly one of the worst Star Trek movies ever made, more than ST The Motion Picture by far!Why, I ask, this movie became such a painful experience to watch? It has an interesting plot (specially the relation between Kirk, Bones and Spock), and a good score from Jerry Goldsmith.Maybe the answer is the direction from W. Shatner. I known that he writes pretty well trek novels, but it's obvious that when he took over the director's chair after L. Nimoy, he failed big time.Another failed element are the horrible special fxs not made by Industrial Light & Magic, what a shame...But if you are a Star Trek fan, you'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"The low water mark of Star Trek","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Star Trek franchise has its ups and downs but overall it has produced quality entertainment.  ST V is the exception, the worst Star Trek film made to date.  There are a few humorous moments but not enough to make watching this turkey worthwhile.   "},{"Title":"Hardly ground-breaking","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The thing with Star Trek films seems to be that they are always trying to convey a rather deep message. I am not saying this because I feel they do not succeed in conveying that message, but because they choose a rather elaborate approach to make their point. As in most Star Trek films I've seen so far I must say the acting is good and there are also a few funny dialogues. The problem with this film is it's execution. It just takes to much time to reach that Final Frontier. Besides that, I think that more could have been done to emphasize the emotional part of the film. I think it is rather stupid wait an age before Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill) talks to Spock, Bones and Kirk and then rush through their individual pains so fast that the viewer has no chance of feeling some of it. The first one and a half hour could have been better, but the last thirty minutes were worth a look.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Star Trek At Its Worst","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love Star Trek - I really do. But I have to be honest. This movie was awful. It was bad enough to put me to sleep for a good chunk of it, but I remember enough of what I missed from seeing it years ago to be able to say again with absolute certainty - this movie was awful. It never seemed to establish where it wanted to go. There were at least three different story lines slapped together and none of them really had anything to do with each other. The original cast (primarily of course William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelley, but the others as well) show their age in this. Kelley especially looks rather decrepit. It's hard to believe Star Fleet Command would send this geriatric crew on an emergency mission. Their age also shows in the acting. There doesn't seem to be any real energy in anyone (maybe they just realized how bad this was.) Lines are delivered half-heartedly and the chemistry between Kirk, Spock and McCoy just isn't there, in spite of the attempt to force it by having them go camping together. (I thought Vulcans didn't take vacations?)Somehow Paramount Pictures must have had the impression that they could slap the label Star Trek on any piece of garbage and get away with selling it. It's surprising that this particular piece of garbage didn't kill the franchise. The plot holes are gargantuan and there is no consistency in the characters from previous incarnations of Star Trek. Since when does Spock have a brother? (OK, he's a black sheep sort. Maybe he's never been mentioned.) Since when does Spock curse? (Damn you, sir! he says to the Klingon officer.) Why would the ever cynical McCoy be taken in so easily by Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill) even to the point of believing that Sybok has taken them to God? (You're talkin' to the Almighty, Jim.) When the three of them need to beam up from the planet but Scotty (James Doohan) only has enough power for two, he's ordered by Kirk to take McCoy and Spock. Appropriate for Kirk to order that, but Scotty says nothing. McCoy and Spock are just immediately transported. (Come on - Scotty would have at least said But Captain, objecting to leaving Kirk behind.) The only character who really comes across looking good and as relatively consistent with his previous image is Kirk - not surprising since William Shatner wrote and directed this.I could go on and on. Folks - this is really bad. 2/10 (2 only because I really did love McCoy's line about Spock - I liked him better before he died!) "},{"Title":"Why have a go at Shatner","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  William Shatner has been blamed for the box office performance of this Star Trek movie for years because he wrote the story.I have read Shatner's account of the makeing of the film and I think that if the studio had let him make the film the way he wanted it would have been a better entry to the series.However I think the the movie as it stand is not that bad it is better than STMP for story and has more action than the last Next Gen movie.Shatner did a great job of directing his first big movie all the main cast said he was a great director to work with and some of their problems with him over the years are well known.I say dont blame Bill Shatner it was not his fault. "},{"Title":"Underrated Classic!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In Star Trek filmdom, it is often cited that the fifth installment is the weakest. However any film that contains the line Please Spock, not in front of the Klingons and the 'triumvirate' (Kirk, Spock and Bones) singing 'Row,row, row your boat' around a campfire has to cherished for future generations. Basically the story is about Spocks long lost half brother (!) hijacking the Enterprise for a meeting with God, yes, God who was in another Galaxy all this time. Along the way you'll see Uhura doing a sexy dance, Scotty hamming it up and hitting his head and Kirk falling off a cliff. High camp all the way and fun because of it, which is what Shatner wanted. Remember 'What does God want with a starship?'   "},{"Title":"Worst in the series, but does that make it bad?","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of course not. Star Trek V may be the worst in the series, but it still is a decent film. A lot of people don't like this film, but would they rather it never be made? I wouldn't. It's another adventure for my favorite Star Trek crew in which I will enjoy in any Star Trek motion picture. I do agree this would have made a better TV show, but it still works as a film. Trekkies do not expect it to be as good as parts II, III, IV. Just sit back and just enjoy it as you would a TV show.  "},{"Title":"Oh dear god! The worst trek film of the series!","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Leonard Nimoy directed Star Trek III, which wasn't half bad. Maybe William Shatner thought seeming as how Nimoy did it he could. After seeing this film he should have reversed that decision.Star Trek V The final Frontier is the worst in the series. The acting from all involved and that includes those like Shatner and Nimoy is bad and washed out and making them seem as old as they look in real life, the special effects are tacky like when Spock has to rescue Kirk on a jet pack when he falls down from a mountain.The attempts at humor were pitiful and story is so awful it dosen't bear thinking about which basically involves a Vulcan stealing the Enterprise to find god (seriously) I just didn't care about any of this film and oh not to mention Uhura does a belly dance to distract male guards. She looked like she was taking part in a granny competition. If they meant to make her look sexy. They were wrong. She looked grotesque.How this got to production or even written...well it dosen't bear thinking about. The only place good for this film is in the garbage. The worst one of the series. "}{"Title":"What Does God Need With a Starship?","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This may just be the worst Star Trek film, or the second-worst thanks to Star Trek Nemesis, but it does manage the incredible feat of including a truly remarkable little scene near the climax.Our heroes have just landed on a planet at the center of the galaxy and met a being who claims to be God. He tells them he needs the Starship Enterprise so he can travel around the galaxy. Captain Kirk steps forward and says, Excuse me? What does God need with a starship? God glares at Kirk and asks him who he is.Kirk is bewildered and replies, Don't you know? Aren't you GOD? It cracks me up every time, first of all because Kirk doubts the existence of the Almighty to His face, and second because the very idea of God not knowing about a man like James T. Kirk is hilarious. Even assuming He is not totally omniscient, He would have to know about Kirk, right?The rest of the movie doesn't work quite so well. The plot could have worked as an episode of the show (actually it already worked as several different episodes, notably The Way to Eden and Who Mourns for Adonais?), but as a film it doesn't hold together. There's a little too much silly humor at the expense of the supporting cast, a bunch of random Klingons marauding throughout the the screenplay, and of course most of it is dominated by William Shatner's ego (he also directed). The direction and special effects are amateurish, and even though they'd blend right into the classic show, I expect a little more from a major motion picture.Edit I watched this on DVD recently and decided I quite like it. It's still a bit of a mess, but I dig the filming locations (Yosemite!) and the cosmic thoughts. It feels more like the classic show, less grounded in the mundane than the rest of the Trek films. The production design is good, Jerry Goldsmith's score is excellent as usual, and Shatner understands that it's okay to move the camera around the set while shooting. Not great, but not awful. "},{"Title":"Paramount ruined this film based on IV's success!  FX was no IL&M!  Character driven..this is of all the films!","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this film for the first time in '90 after purchasing it on VHS. And I loved it. I was a huge fan of the series even back then and thought it was a great entertaining movie.The years have gone by and I have now watched all episodes of the original series and films. Of all the films, this one does contain the most interaction and involvement between ALL the cast members. True, some were for laughs (thanks to Paramount more than Shatner) but overall re-watching it again the one major thing lacking in the film is the BAD ENDING!! The story is not so bad until you watch it all the way to the end, and then it's like ok, next! Structure wise is one's the weakest! Please Keep these three things in mind (PERSONAL OPINION) I think Gene was so upset with Paramount and the past when it came to Trek that he looked at TNG as a new beginning and ANYTHING that was made up to this point with the original cast (especially since Paramount booted him out of the films) would have been disapproved by him. Of course, if this film had made more $$$, then maybe he would have embraced it a little better with private reservations. Second, this film suffered the same fate as the later Batman films from the late 80's and 90's. The first two Batmans were good, but due to studio interference (Warner Bros.) the next two suffered! Some can be blamed on the director, some cannot! Lastly, the main characters of the original trek were always Kirk, Spock and McCoy. The others were always secondary..That is, to help move the stories along. Over time, however, these characters were loved and cherished also. So of course the film is going to focus more on the main rather than secondary characters.The film reminds me of a season three episode re-done in the late 80's. Even though season 3 was not great, it did have some great moments and even the bad episodes can be watched ONLY from the performances and love of the characters/actors. That's what V is. A return to classic Trek. Not great, but fun. With no knowledge of Trek or love for it, of course this film was doomed to fail! At least II had a great villain and a death scene, III had a mystery of how to get spock back and the destruction of the beloved Enterprise and IV was just a fun time travel escapism. After this, Paramount pitted Shatner (who was to direct under contract) with greed and insistence that more humor than a dark or serious story be included. It was the success of IV that led to the downfall of V. Paramount wanted another action/comedy film based on the results of IV. However, in Voyage Home it worked. In a story like V, it did not! It was meant to be more of a darker, philosophical Trek than what was produced because of studio interference. Don't believe me? Check out some parts of the film which were very dramatic..* The teaser before the credits really gets you in the mood. A laughing vulcan? very interesting.. * the Nimbus III meeting of the three races is pretty decent and a great opening. All three major aliens to that point (terrans, klingon, romulan!) are actually together and talking things out. Makes sense since the kligons and romulans were trading and the terrans (earth) were in peace negotiations with both. * Most of the campfire scenes with McCoy's statement of being on shore leave and spending time together with Shatner's Other people have families, not us is just so deep. I will say that DeForrest's performance through this picture is just great. * the wonderful meeting of Sybok trying to seduce the trilogy is the highlight with the young father of Spock, Sarek, declaring So Human and Shatner's I need my pain! speech topped by McCoy (DeForrest) wonderful scene with his father. The film was worth watching just for this..the best dramatic character driven scene of the original series. It shows the three characters have definitely aged and not just making a movie. They have matured and stays cannon with the rest of the films. * Kirk's hatred for klingons is still apparent, but kept to a minimum. This is probably due more to Paramount than Shatner as he at least tried to emphasize it in a few scenes. * All the cast at least have something serious to do in this film as opposed to all the others! If this was all on Shatner, why did he even waste his time with even directing everybody else? Very considerate of others from my point of view. The scene with Chekov as Captain of the USS Enterprise trying to negotiate with Sybok was great!Even though disappointing after the success of II-IV, not bad. Those were hard to top. Blame Paramount more than Shatner! He had the Trek idea in hand. VI was only made and successful because of the 25th Anniversary and the studio wanted the original to go out with a bang instead of a flop that THEY had made and knew it. Why Shatner was denied making a director's cut is beyond me! They'd rather put it all on him rather than themselves. Decent movie, just relax and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good movie if your not a critic...","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't let all the negative comments about this movie dissuade you from viewing it. It has all the elements that people were missing in The Motion Picture. Its the most like the Original Series of all the TOS movies. The characters really seem as if they have been working together for decades. Poking fun at each other and having fun. Interesting question posed with an interesting answer. I really didn't have a problem with it and I was not unhappy after I watched it. I really think that some people go into a movie looking for flaws. Is this movie perfect?? No.. is it fun and interesting? Yes. A fair sight better than Star Trek Nemesis or Insurrection... "},{"Title":"Vulcans are three dimensional (almost)","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hey, Sybok was the best Vulcan character to come along since Spock.  Spock by himself, contrasted to humans, was a hoot. But, Sybok next to Spock was a mind blower!  Sybok seemed to be what all Vulcans were logical about everything to the point of doing about anything to get what they want.  Sybok's biggest crime?--he could laugh at himself.  Now Vulcans are shown as being extremely petty!  Where the hell was Infinity in Diversity?  Sybok was totally unexpected and entirely welcome--I rank this as the third best of the Star Trek movies!P.S. If Kirk could have a son he did not know about, why could not Spock have a brother he told no one about, especially if he was the antithesis of everything Spock promulgated as being Vulcan? "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think Star Trek V is quite as bad as some on here would make out. I have seen some rate it one out of ten, that is just silly. It is however a huge disappointment after the fantastic second and third parts of the series. I would also blame Paramount's decision to try and make a Star Trek movie on the cheap rather than William Shatner who directed it. Although Shatner has to take some of the blame for the poor storyline as he co-wrote it. I also never thought I would see such poor SFX in a Star Trek movie. In amongst all the dodgy effects and poor jokes there is some good stuff here, I liked the camping scenes at the start as Kirk, Spock and Bones spent shore leave together, some of the Star Trek magic is still apparent here. Also Jerry Goldsmith once again creates a great score for the movie. Sadly however the film slowly headed towards its lacklustre ending. Thankfully the original crew got a much better film to end on with Star Trek VI. "},{"Title":"An Insult to Star Trek fans","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V is as appealing as it is watching a naked old lady striptease, As intelligent as sending a incomplete and untested ship to a battle situation. (Starfleet should of been conquered by the Klingons ages ago, and as GENIUS as letting William Shatner direct and co-write.Star Trek V is the low point of the Star Trek films. It introduces ideas that are too insulting (Sulu and Chekov would't get lost in a forest,Scotty would't of KO'd from a low ceiling)and to far from canon (Sybok) I'm a long time Star Trek fan and this movie is insulting and god awful.This movie should Go climb a Rock... and jump off it!!! "},{"Title":"an unusual entry","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An unusual entry into the Star Trek movies saga, the Enterprise is hijacked by Spock's half brother in an obsessive quest to find God in the center of the galaxy. The special effects aren't bad, and neither is the movie. Best line What does God want with a spaceship? However, the movie could have been better in many ways. It was just too weird an entry.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Kirk Vs. The Almighty","Date":"28 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The majority of Trekkies will tell you that The Final Frontier is the worst Star Trek movie. Some of the Next Generation movies were bad, but none quite so incompetently put together as this one. The tone is inconsistent, the special effects are shoddy, the plot is weak, the climax is anticlimactic. But for all that, it captures the adventurous spirit of the original show better than any of the other films in the series.A few things stood out to me the last time I watched it. First, the red toy-soldier uniforms look more out-of-place than ever; I kept expecting to see the classic costumes, which would have been more appropriate than the movies' military duds. Second, Captain Kirk sports blue jeans and a flannel shirt in the campfire scenes, as if they took place in the 20th century instead of the 23rd. Finally, the Klingon antagonists seem to have arrived from a different movie only to cause trouble.Where The Final Frontier absolutely nails the source material is in its combination of humor, action, metaphysics, and warm characterization. It probably has the best moments between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy of any of the films -- especially since the previous three movies rarely got these iconic character together. Sybok's quest for god may be a little too heavy, but at least it has ambitions. Sybok turns out to be one of the more memorable Star Trek villains a deluded cult leader on a monomaniacal mission to discover the Garden of Eden, who ultimately realizes where he went wrong and redeems himself in the final reel. None of Trek's other cinematic enemies can boast that sort of dramatic arc.It sounds funny, but I think it might be one of the best Star Trek movies after all. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!!!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent film!Arguably the best of the series of the Star Trek feature films!Great beginning and the music by Jerry Goldsmith is awesome! I just love this film because of the action,the effects and just how everything is! I recommend all Star Trek fans to see this one! "},{"Title":"Flawed, but not too bad","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Trying to convey some message in a film needs to be done with care. The results can be a disaster if in the wrong hands. For one thing, it needs to not be one-sided. It also shouldn't be pretentious. The fourth 'Star Trek' film gives an environmental message and it worked well. For the next chapter, the quest would be to find an answer to an age old question Is there a God? Part V is one of the most critically hated in the series. After more than 20 years, is it really so bad? Pros Cast does fine. Beautifully scored. Great cinematography. Humorous at times. Nice production design. Many of the effects are solid. Moves at a good pace. Some interesting ideas.Cons Lacking in plot. Cheesy at times. Some of the effects, especially near the end, are cheap. Direction is sometimes heavy-handed. Some plot holes.Final thoughts The series was on a real winning streak from II to IV. With this installment, it takes a bit of a dive. Word has it there were many problems during production. It shows, but the film is far from being a total failure. It still delivers in a lot of ways and isn't lacking in fun.My rating 3/5 "}{"Title":"not so bad...one for the Trek fans I say","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek V The Final Frontier is not by any means the best Star Trek movie. There are things you MUST keep in mind when watching this movie. The budget was cut for this movie by Paramount...then it was cut again...and again and again until the reality was that they had no money for expensive actors, expensive sets, or expensive props. The Enterprise-A you see in Star Trek movie had to be malfunctioning because the budget didn't allow a fully-functional Enterprise to be made. The story originally planned that the Enterprise would find God and that he would hopefully be played by Sean Connery. However, Connery was too busy filming Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989) to star in this movie. So, they based his name for the mythical planet Sha-Kah-Ree. William Shatner is certainly not the best director in the world, but he made a lot out of nothing. This movie deserves much more credit than is generally given. The thing about Trekkies/Trekkers as I say is that we love everything....from the excellent (Khan, TNG, tribbles) to the not so excellent (Nemesis, Enterprise, this movie). We embrace it all and I encourage everyone to keep an open mind when watching this movie. Embrace it for its humor, action, and the development of the relationship between Kirk, McCoy, and Spock. The growth their relationship makes in this movie--to me--is the sole reason Shatner set out to make this movie...6 stars. "},{"Title":"not as bad as people say","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" i don't get it.people say this is the worst Star Trek movie of them all.i'm not sure i agree.i kinda liked it.i know it's not action packed to say the least,and the plot may be unusual,but so what.i found this movie to have a fair amount of humour in it,not as much as the fourth installment,but some.the whole movie is really one 105 minute philosophy lesson,but that didn't really bother me.personally,i thought the story was interesting.enough to maintain my interest for the full running time.i wasn't bored at all.the premise could be called absurd,but it's certainly no more absurd than a lot of other films that get churned out.i think it was better than The first Star Trek movie and as good as the second one(The Wrath of Kahn).i realize i may be in the minority here,but that's life.for me,Star Trek 6The Final Frontier is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Unjustly panned","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is it the best Star Trek movie ever done, no but neither is it as bad as people say it is, I happen to like this film very much. Just because it is not as strong as the other movies doesn't mean it should be slated, there are still some very good scenes and character elements.The reason I like this film is part of the film is about the friendship between Spock, Kirk and Bones. It starts off with them camping, Kirk nearly falling to his death and Bones worrying like a mother hen at the bottom.The funniest scenes are when they are around the campsite trying to teach Spock camp songs and him not understanding the purpose of them and as a result getting it wrong. Then their friendship is threatened when Spock's brother enters the picture and manages to convince Bones and Spock God is out there in space and he know's a way to meet him. We see things we never knew about Bones and Spock, Bone's father being ill in a hospital bed and Spock's father's reaction when his new son is born, disappointed his son looks more human than Vulcan. We see Kirk is still in pain over the death of his son who he lost in the third movie and doesn't accept what Spock's brother Sybok is saying and for the first time, he is on his own as his crew believe in what Sybok says and he has no control and has to go along with Sybok's plan.There are some very funny scenes in the film, I've mentioned the camping scenes but another hilarious scene is Scotty hitting his head on the beam after saying he knew the place like the back of his hand. The film still has the essence of Star Trek, exploring the unknown, conflict and resolution between the characters and fun, not taking itself too seriously. On the whole, it could have been a lot worst and not be funny at all which can't be said about this film. "},{"Title":"Great Star Trek movie.","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why do people hate this movie so much? So what if the special effects weren't as great as usual(personally, I had no problem with them at all)? The movie had a lot of great moments, a great musical score by Jerry Goldsmith, and was very well directed by William Shatner. It had more depth than a lot of the other Trek films, and I'd prefer it over a Next Generation movie any day. I'd give it 5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I loved it, truly the best of Trek","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people consider this to be the worst single piece of Star Trek ever made, but if you can just let the suspension of disbelief take hold (as with the original series) for just a few moments, you might find yourself enjoying the movie a bit more.  In my opinion, the character interaction, the dialog, and yes, even the story, was *extremely* well done.  The scenes with Spock and Kirk are the best scenes in all of Trek.  Yes, I even think that William Shatner did an exceptional job of directing the film.  The one and only complaint I have about this movie is the exterior space shots weren't as good as Trek could be, again, more like the original series.  A great film for the truest of fans. "},{"Title":"After watching Star Trek IV, go directly to Star Trek VI","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, maybe it's worth ONE viewing, because there are some classic moments, but otherwise this film is just ludicrous, muddled, and not-at-all-good.  (We can at least be grateful that Shatner didn't get to do the original story he'd planned, with the Enterprise crew really finding GOD -- then we'd have to add blasphemous to the list.)Before he died, Gene Roddenberry disavowed that this movie was part of the Trek canon; one of its most basic premises was discounted in later STThe Next Generation narration; and fans have generally (though admittedly not universally) just credited this as Bill Shatner's obligatory turn at the helm, swallowed hard, and then forgot about it in favor of the other, better Trek flicks.The best comment on this film came from the Star Trek spoof in the first season of TV's In Living Color (with Jim Carrey as Kirk).  Spock joins the rest of the crew in a mutiny against Captain Kirk.  Why? Kirk asks.  Spock's reply Because I'm smarter, stronger, and a better director!  "},{"Title":"The worst of the Trek films, but still not that bad","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most people who know about the Star Trek films feel that the fifth outing was the weakest of the series... and they're probably right. Nothing really fits for the big-screen. The villain isn't particularly villainous. The Klingon sub-plot is pretty lame. There isn't much action and there's never much of a feel of threat to the characters.However, despite all that, the film isn't too bad. I look at as more as an extended episode of the TV show. The Enterprise gets taken over (rather easily in my opinion - it must have been the Security staffs' lunch hour or something) by some blokes wearing rags, lead by Spock's half brother (who should have been played by Sean Connery, only he turned the part down). Then, the ship is taken to the centre of the universe (which is apparently only a few hours journey away) in an attempt to meet God.Since Star Trek 4 The Voyage Home had a lot of humour in it, it seems like they've tried to recreate a humorous atmosphere in number 5, too. However, it doesn't really work and take away what little tension there is for the situation. The banter between the Kirk-Spock-McCoy triangle is nice, but, again, it only serves to make this a light-hearted film that deals with serious subject matter.William Shatner, aka Captain Kirk, also directs. And, to be fair, he doesn't do a bad job. Everything here is pretty standard stuff. It certainly won't win over many new fans to either the genre or the franchise. However, if you're a fan of the old crew and have an hour and a half to spare, there are worse sci-fi outings out there. "},{"Title":"The Moral Of What You're Doing With Your Life Watching This","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek has always been about the moral of the story and this one has some value to it. You gain experience points by watching it. After you watch it you really will wonder what's wrong with life. It deals with ideas such as if there's a god. Could god exist in Star Trek? Is it worth it to know by thrusting your through a 70 year old naked lady? These are the answers to life. Couldn't you be out enjoying yourself and not watching and bitching about some terrible Star Trek movie?For those that don't know, the Star Trek films are said to be cursed. In that the even numbered ones are vastly better than the odd numbered ones. To go over them, Part I had balls for being different than The Original Series but lacked color, Part II had the color and actual people that were in tough situations, Part III focused on telling a story of getting someone we love back while facing consequences, Part IV had a message, a heart, people, and comedy, and Part V is about telling a fake god off. So I don't actually believe the curse is real because 3 in all honesty isn't bad and 1 was brave enough to be different. The also appears to stop by First Contact.Star Trek V is gross and doesn't make us feel good about ourselves the way the previously ones did. It's a work of evil. You will gain an appreciation for how good the other films are once you watch this so that's about the only plus.Star Trek V will really make you think about what you're doing with your life. Star Trek V is only to be watched if you want experience points in life. Because it is an experience I must say. "},{"Title":"Not the worst Star Trek film, but still a pretty awful one","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For love of all things holy, can I please have a Star Trek movie that doesn't suck? The only one out of the original 6 that I've liked is The Wrath of Khan! This one had promise too. But no. They had to go and screw it up! The the plot sounds cool on paper. The Enterprise and crew have to go and save some people who have been taken hostage by a revolutionary Vulcan, then being taken over by the Vulcan themselves and forced to fly to the center of the galaxy in hopes of finding the place where everything was created. That sounds awesome. Unfortunately the movie tries to be funny and it fails miserably. The most painful of these attempts is Uhura performing a lap dance too draw the attention of the enemy. Terrible, terrible, terrible. Towards the end of the film, it becomes incredibly boring very quickly. One scene felt like it had been going for 30 minutes when in actuality it had been going on for maybe 5. This isn't my least favorite Star Trek movie, that honor going to the first film, but it still sucks and I recommend you skip it. "},{"Title":"A very strange ride..","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***After the success of Star Trek The Voyage Home(1986) , many including the studio and cast declared the movie run a complete success. Success yes, Complete no.Three years after delivering whales to 23rd century earth, we see a truly unique part of the crew's personal life vacation. It is short lived as family interferes. Sybock(Laurence Luckinbill), the half brother of Spock , has approached his humanity with a completely different angle. He now searches for God and requires the enterprise to find him.William Shatner takes a crack at the director's seat in this one , but it doesn't hold up ,somehow religion and Star Trek just don't mix , even the good performances by McCoy (DeForest Kelley) and Scotty (James Doohan) can't seem to get it over the top. Equally amusing was the character of Capt. Klaa (Todd Bryant).The story comes off dry and uninspiring with very few moments of either Dramatic intrigue , or humorous outlet , thus causing it to drag.Community Consensus states this is one of , if not the weakest entry in this franchise. I do not disagree.Two Stars(of 5). "}{"Title":"Not a good movie, but not a bad movie.","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Final Frontier is not a good movie. But it's not a bad movie either. It is probably the worst Trek movie ever made though.The writing was full of odd scenes that made no sense in the context of the movie (the campfire scene with Kirk Spock and McCoy singing Row, Row, Row Your Boat). There are plenty of ways to establish a sense of friendship in a movie, but grown men singing childhood songs around a campfire is the worst possible way.There is a definite lack of continuity in the plot. The movie drops main characters into a scene with no introduction and explanation of how they got there (several scenes occur with Sybok before Spock establishes that Sybok is his half-brother). Spock has a half-brother?? And just like that, with a single line, the star trek time line gets a weird kink in it from an unexplained Vulcan love affair that was never established before, and is never touched on again.Sybok is searching for God, and this would seem to make the movie a spiritual quest, but the number of silly, nonsensical scenes in the movie completely overwhelm any apparent plot.To make it worse, God only appears in a scene at the end of the movie (another character dropped into the fray without any proper introduction) to wrap up the whole quest, but the scene leaves the viewer with more questions! The scene with God is a badly written deus ex machina (a contrived plot device where an unexpected power appears to try and save the movie from it's bad writers).The problem is that Kirk's attempt at humor in the scene (Why does God need a starship?) goes unanswered though, and the movie fails to ever address the simplest questions that arise from the scene If not God, who is this being at the center of the galaxy? How did he get there in the first place without a starship? With that much obvious power, why is trapped in the center of the galaxy and why does he need a spaceship to leave?The special effects in Final Frontier leave a lot to be desired. The movie was released the same year as Star Trek The Next Generation was premiering and STNG had better graphics than this movie.All in all, Star Trek The Final Frontier is not a good movie. However, if you don't mind the continuity problems, the characterization problems, the graphics and filming problems, and the obvious problems with the script and acting, then it's not a bad movie. "},{"Title":"C'mon guys - it's not THAT bad!","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, Star Trek V - the most hotly debated of all the classic Trek films. Arguably, the fifth installment of Kirk and Co's cosmic adventures could be considered the weakest, but is it really the behemoth of directorial ineptitude so many make it out to be? My position most certainly not.Sure, The Final Frontier has its flaws - perhaps an abundance of them - both technical and mythological inconsistencies, but I feel that, what it lacks in some of those other areas, it more than makes up for in others. In its defense, V is a big change of scenery from the previous four films, which all take place on or near Earth - or Genesis. This time, however, the crew truly embodies the spirit of Star Trek and, as silly as the whole center-of-the-galaxy scenario is, they actually GO where no man has gone before. In this respect, it is actually quite refreshing, despite the fact that it takes Voyager 75 years to cross The Milky Way and only 6 hours for Enterprise to go half that distance, but whatever.Moreover, there is the more closely scrutinized and well played trinity of the relationships of Kirk, Spock, and Bones. Their camping trip in Yellowstone is actually pretty charming and, although some of their dialogue is a bit iffy, the actors themselves pull it off with grace and style. Friendship, the film reminds us repeatedly, is the most valuable aspect of human - or alien - existence.While the primary villain this time around is a highly emotional, mystical, irrational Vulcan (really, an oxymoron, if you think about it), the actor does a decent job of pulling together what little material was actually written for his character and he executes it all quite well. Finally, and I think this is a very crucial aspect of the Star Trek films (both Kirk's and Picard's generations) the cast is a living refutation of ageism. Yes, they're older in years, but their vigor, wit, charm, and heroism are all still there in spades and, like a fine wine, only improve as time passes. It's simply a silly cultural and societal prescription to believe that if you're such and such an age, then you ought not ______ or people who are over __ just shouldn't _____. Who cares? Why does such a thing matter? Star Trek breaks down boundaries and borders in this topic as much as it did originally for African- Americans via Uhura's role (racism) and as it did for female empowerment with Captain Janeway (sexism). Although VI demonstrates this idea even better, of course, V is a testament to the power of maturity and experience.The effects might not be the best of the Trek films, but they're not nearly as awful as some of these reviews make them out to be. I think they serve the story relatively well, as absurd as some of the scenarios became.Overall, while Trek V does suffer from inconsistency and not the BEST direction by Shatner, it's still canonical Trek and, I find, a pretty damn fun adventure nonetheless. Try to let go of any expectations or biases upon watching, and just enjoy!7/10 "},{"Title":"And this is where my interest in Star Trek Movies died...","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" They search for God...No really, they search for God. They get in the Enterprise, blast off into space with the help of a Vulcan Jesus who can heal people's ills, and find God...Fantastic, absolutely fantastic, A* Grade for the people who just took any plausibility of this franchise and threw it out the window. This film is silly, it's pointless and makes no logical sense. Unlike Star Trek IV which made it's environmental message quite subtle and again rather plausible, this film tries to roll in religion, which seems quite offencive if you take it too seriously.Oh, and guess what, they actually kill God! That's right, a Clingon ship fires it's fasers at God, and that kills him!Wow, there are limits, but this film doesn't seem to have any comprehension of what those limits are! My Lord in Heaven! No wait, he's not in Heaven, he's behind some strange vale of cloud in space that no-one appears to have bothered to fly into because, well... it's a cloud.... in space...Apart from that, the acting is goofy, it's filled with quite a few ridiculous One-Liner's, the Special effects are nothing to write home about and I think a few of Shatner's fetishes come out with the ever popular 'Three-Breasted Cat Woman'!If you want your faith in Star Trek to remain intact, avoid this film like the plague viewers!! "},{"Title":"I love you Captain Kirk, William Shatner","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" You were primer inter pares amongst the cast and crew of Star Trek and gave us the lead we all needed in those troubled but now innocent seeming 60s. You were a hammy, egotistical actor of middling quality, but perfect for the role of the daring, enterprising man of all seasons captain of the galaxy's preeminent star ship. Sure, Patrick Stewart, Picard was a better actor but his mopey, pc captain was enervating to depressing, not inspiring. But Kirk/Shatner should never be allowed to write or direct. His hamminess is a positive detriment. Kirk was spending down the immense pop culture and studio capital for this turkey. Basically, Spock's brother, Sybok, is some borderline mystic ala Dune meets Dr. Phil who creates a rag tag desert army to hijack the barely functional, reborn Enterprise. He is planning to go to the end of the Galactic rim to find GOD! The direction, dialogue, scenes etc are lame to the extreme. The movie starts out with this overgrown Boy Scout bonding scene in Yosemite with Spock, McCoy & Kirk drinking and singing Row Row Row Your Boat around the campfire, with the navigator Sulu getting lost and making bad jokes all of them. If it wasn't Star Trek, I would never allow anyone to watch it. Even the reborn childish actioner of last year was light years better than this, with the original series cast and all. "},{"Title":"Weakest of the Star Trek Films but it has its merits!","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First the bad news the story is confusing and has no ending. The fifth in the Trek film series is ultra confusing and seems more dream than reality. Too many questions. Were they in heaven or outer space? Did they experience God? If not, what did they experience? Now for the good news it has one of the best music scores of all the films, thanks to Jerry Goldsmith, it has some terrific visuals and some interesting characters. Plot involves a Vulcan named Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill), who hijacks the Enterprise for the purpose of his mission to seek God. Sybock is a rebel Vulcan who rebukes the Vulcan system of logic and seeks out the meaning of life. It turns out that he is Spock's half brother. Luckinbill is terrific as Sybok but the script is too complex and almost incoherent and drags the film down. Director William Shatner does his best but the film's theme is too difficult to deliver. Still, it has the elements of what makes Trek 'tick' and that's enough for its fans. "},{"Title":"Thankfully, Not the Final","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah, part 'I' was pretty bad. Not horrible, but long, drawn out and paper-thin plot. 'Star Trek V The Final Frontier' is just plain awful. Unbearable plot, direction &#x96; finally Shatner's ego caught up with him in an important (director's) chair off the bridge, and some of the most hilariously bad special effects in any sci-fi film. Let's hit the two positive points/scenes of the film the campfire and scenes leading up to were decent and the What does God need with a starship? dialogue scene in the (so-called) climax. Other than those two sections, this movie is a complete waste of space and is the worst of all Star Trek films. Leave it to Hollywood; they have on their hands the highest grossing (to date &#x96; 04/04/09) 'Trek' film, 'IV,' and what do they do? Cut the budget. Huh? The 'Superman' franchise did this too, sort of 'Superman III' made a sizable amount, and they slashed the budget for 'IV' and in turn, made pennies. Same thing with 'Star Trek V.' The budget seemed like it was a fourth of the size of one of the original episodes. The movie begins with an iconic MST3k meeting in the neutral zone with a renegade-Vulcan and a Michael Stipe on Meth. Meanwhile the new Enterprise from 'IV' has it share of problems &#x96; enter in the lame Scotty jokes &#x96; but is still sent to rescue hostages from the Vulcan. His mission (and yes, I will ruin to save you from seeing this crud) is to lure a Federation ship, in order to steal and meet up with God in the center of the universe, a la 'The Wizard of OZ.' Honestly, beyond 'Star Trek,' this was one of the worse movies I've ever seen. Thankfully, Shatner didn't kill the series. Watch 'VI' for redemption. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone seems to make it out.","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went into this movie expecting such a bad pile of cinema that I thought it might be more prudent to just skip it. Well, I'm glad I didn't. While it has it's awkward spots and shoddy special effects, the movie is still an entertaining ride. The first thing I noticed was that it just felt different from the previous movies. It took me a few minutes to realize why. This movie was much more lighthearted than the previous ones. If anything, it seemed more in line with the original series than anything else up to that point. They used a lot of the same sound effects as TOS, the effects were kinda cheesy, and even the communicators and phasers looked to be the same. The movie was actually funny, too, lightening the mood that much more. I'm not saying that it's perfect. Like I said, the effects at points are so jarringly bad that they take you out of the movie for a few moments; the exact opposite effect they should have. Some of the plot elements were a little questionable, such as how easy the ship was to take over, or Kirk's over-reaction to one of Spock's choices later in the movie. But if you can look past these little things and the canonical inconsistencies (something with 78 decks? I don't know, I've only just gotten into this stuff), you'll find a story that's pretty interesting, and actually thought provoking at some points. Go into this movie expecting little, and I think you'll come out with a lot. now, if they can remaster this one like they did TOS, we'll be in business. "},{"Title":"What does God need with a starship?","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" By the time The Final Frontier was released in 1989, it's amazing how far the crew of the Enterprise had sunk. Gone was the campy appeal of the original series - replaced by childish jokes and lame one-liners. The plot involving Spock's half-brother (Was there ever any mention of a half-brother before this movie? How convenient!) searching for what is essentially God is so utterly ridiculous that it hardly merits mention. Most of the crew is shoved to the background as the movie centers on Kirk, Spock, and McCoy, who I swear seem to be doing their best Moe, Larry, and Curly routine. Shatner seems intent on embarrassing himself at every possible turn, Nimoy acts as if he'd rather be anywhere else, and Kelley is just pathetic. In the end, I've got nothing positive to say and I'm scratching my head in vain trying to remember why I rated this dog a 2/10 instead of a 1/10. It's that bad! "},{"Title":"If you ever have insomnia rent this movie","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a fan of the original series. This film should have nothing to do with that franchise. It is pedestrian, slower than a snail about to take a nap, utterly awful in so many ways I'm ready to beat my computer with a baseball bat if I don't get this out...They did this on a budget of about 200 bucks. Most of this tripe is filmed in the desert or the forest while everyone is out camping - expensive sets those.The script is abysmal. Horrible. A Klingon looking for God, and then God appears? Did somebody really say, If you hadn't killed him he would have lived? I don't know because this film made me want to get my old tape of Plan 9 From Outer Space, often considered the worst film ever made, and unwind it and hang myself with it, until I realized that Plan 9 is actually a better film! "},{"Title":"ST FILM FIVE Row,row,row your Enterprise gently to Eden","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" You know a Trek film has some problems when the episode of the original series it calls to mind is The Way to Eden, the one with the space hippies seeking their own version of a planetary Eden. This film has good intentions; it seeks to return to Trek's potent theme of exploration, of seeking answers on more than just the physical level, after a trilogy of films which stressed space battles, chasing about and future politics. However, the writer and first-time director Shatner should be court-martialed they seem to have no understanding of the concepts presented or even of the general Trek universe. The first half of the film seems influenced by Shatner watching too many action movies taking place in the desert; he appears hellbent on transplanting scenes from Lawrence of Arabia into the Trek worlds. Overall, Shatner's approach is best described as flippant; he sets up scenes well, then throws them away with ludicrous turns of plot, such as the early one where Spock plays Superman to the rescue of Kirk's Lois Lane in Yosemite National Park. No one paused to think or challenge Shatner with the opinion that it just looks plain silly. He extends this approach to his fellow actors. Yes - Doohan, Takei, Koenig and Nichols are given more to do than usual here, but the extra stuff usually involves them looking clownish; we're not laughing with them, as in the previous The Voyage Home, but at them Sulu & Chekov lost in the woods; Uhura's 'erotic' dance; Scotty knocking himself out. Was Shatner hinting that they were all acquiring senility by this point? And what was the point of all the business about nothing working on this new Enterprise? I guess Starfleet rushed in putting this NCC-1701-A ship together? Shatner is now ridiculing the ship, on top of everything else.This isn't a total mess. A lot of the casual banter, mostly among the main trio (Kirk,Spock,McCoy) still works, a benefit of these actors having worked together for so long. But, the one who steals the movie is Luckinbill as the enigmatic Sybok, the emotional Vulcan who drives the plot. It's a charismatic performance and you kind of buy into the whole premise of his hypnotic power to gather his followers, including even key members of Kirk's crew. The most powerful scene must be when Sybok uses his power on McCoy and we get a glimpse into what drove this character during the original series, including his often fatalistic approach to things. The whole thing revolves around Sybok's plan to acquire a starship so that he can journey to the galactic barrier (the same one from the Where No Man Has Gone Before pilot episode?), pierce it to enter the galactic center and meet God. It's not very complicated. And they make it look easy enough so that almost anyone could zoom in over there. Once there, they encounter a run-of-the-mill energy alien - the kind they ran into every other week on the original series, and Sybok gets a cold splash of reality; yes, life is certainly not a dream. Shatner is not able to tie the thought-provoking concepts together into some kind of cohesive whole, probably because he was more concerned with presenting an action picture. For him, it was more exciting to have his character climbing rocks or scrambling to avoid an angry alien than to attempt some metaphysical answers. Blame was placed on lack of money for better FX at the climax, but I really don't think that would have helped. This should have been the death-knell of the film series, but they managed to bring them all back together for a classy finish in the next one, The Undiscovered Country. "}{"Title":"Don't ever allow Mr. Shatner to direct another film,...please!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Uggh! After three wonderful Star Trek movies (II, III and IV), the fifth one was an embarrassing mess. There will always be debate among the Trekkies (or, Trekkers if you are a younger fan) about which is the worst Star Trek film--STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE or STAR TREK V. While I narrowly think the first film should get this honor because so much was expected from it and it had such an enormous budget, I could definitely understand those who would vote for the fifth one as being the worst. The script and direction, to put it mildly, stink. And, BOTH can be traced back to William Shatner--the sole reason this film turned out to be like a giant turd.The film's plot is just dumb. Spock apparently has a brother we've never heard about who has devoted his life to anti-logic. He's a hyper-emotional freak who is so charismatic that beings from across the galaxy join him on his quest to find God. Not exactly logical, huh?! Anyways, he obtains helpers due to his psychic psychoanalytic powers (huh?) and gains control of the Enterprise. The commandeered ship arrives at a lonely place where he determines God is waiting to have a pow-wow. Unfortunately, it turns out this probably isn't God as it's evil and they manage to kill it! And, when it's all over, the crew and Spock's brother realize the entire mission has just been a waste of time--I sure could have told him that!! The movie is dull and the plot is mega-stupid....nuf' said?!By the way, although it really had NOTHING to do with the film, there was a segment where Kirk, Spock and McCoy are camping out and rock climbing back on Earth. It is, without a doubt, the worst portion of the film. Watching them sit around the campfire and sing and eat beans was embarrassing to watch and a bit painful. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Final Frontier has a first part,or segment,which is far better than The Wrath of Khan,and which has humor,ideas,vigour,liveliness,fun,original and agreeable aspectsa marvel. The second part,instead,is a swindle,and far worse than Star Trek II.It is a philosophical tale,infantile and ridiculousa stupidity and an unpleasant failure.The acting is,in itself,quite charming,sprightly,cheerful,amusing,free and fully acceptable. The cast (Shatner,Nimoy,Takei,Mrs. Nichols,etc.) is admirable and efficacious.The comic moments do not lack.The story is at first average,then plainly stupid and hateful,until the last limits of the ridicule.This looks like frank disdain for the viewer's mind. "},{"Title":"Not Nearly As Bad As Some People Say","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plot Spock's brother kidnaps some people and hijacks the Enterprise to travel to a place where he believes he can find God.Star Trek fans tend to consider this the weakest of the Trek films. Well, that's just too bad for them. I've been watching the movies and I've seen all of Next Generation and Deep Space Nine. I'm not the biggest fan, but big enough, and I say this is one of the best films in the series.The film highlights the tight bonds between Spock, McCoy and Kirk that aren't covered enough in the other films. There is plenty of humor. It's corny (Scotty hitting his head) but still funny in a way that shows the actors are comfortable in their roles. Even Spock tells a joke (whether he realizes it or not).And can you argue with a film that stars not only God Himself, but that guy from the Lexus commercials? You know, the Lexus guy... the vampire guy from Lost Boys. He's in this movie! What does God need with a starship? is the line that, if nothing else, makes this movie worth watching.Allegedly, Satan and some rock monsters were supposed to be in this film and McCoy was going to end up in Hell only to be saved by Kirk. I'm sure glad they cut that falderol out of this film... that would make it go from fringe to just plain ludicrous. "},{"Title":"So...singing isn't the only thing we should never let shatner do.","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" William Shatner wrote and directed what would become the death of the original crew when he made this preachy snooze fest. The fourth entry in the series was a light adventure that everyone seems to love to death and Shatner tries, unsuccessfully, to keep that mood while bringing forth a heavy handed take on the perils of seeking God. The crew is lovable, including that green blooded Vulcan, but singing row your boat around a campfire? Turning Uhura into a a dancing girl? Sending the crew out on a dangerous mission in a malfunctioning ship? The worst part is the therapy session with Spock's brother. So, he has fooled all these other people, diplomats from other worlds and the always disposable rest of the original crew, with...showing them their inner pain and telling them it wasn't their fault? I am really supposed to believe that they are that ignorant? This is the first of the trilogy of Trek movies to be Frankensteined from other movies in the series and it is the ugly, First Contact being the good and Nemisis being the bad. If you love Star Trek, you will like this, I watch it when it is on TV, but it is the weakest of the films. "},{"Title":"God 1, Enterprise 0","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Shatner takes over the directing on this one and demonstrates an irrefutable axiom, Never let Shatner direct!  This things stinks up the place so much that a tanker of air freshner is required.The cast is joined by Lucy's son-in-law as Spock's half-brother.  The gang is made to look like a bunch of idiots and they go in search of God.  If God looks a little cranky, it's probably beause he read the script.  There is also a subplot involving rogue Klingons (including stuntwoman, bodybuilder, and domination-wrestler Spice Williams).  It's all a mess and sucks the film into a black hole.  David Warner is wasted until the next film.  This solidified the avoid the odd numbers mantra.Do yourself a favor and just skip this one. "},{"Title":"Odd","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kirk and the gang's vacation after saving the Earth at the end of Voyage Home is interrupted by a rebel Vulcan (Laurence Luckinbill) who prefers being in touch with his Vulcan side unlike his fellow Vulcans and starts up a battle on a long forgotten desert outpost. The shrewd Vulcan manipulator turns out to be Spock's long lost half brother and faster than you can say Live long and prosper he starts taking advantage of people, takes Kirk and the gang prisoner and uses their ship to get to another planet to confront God or something like God. But is he as mad or evil as Kirk thinks? And who is that young Klingon commander out to kill Kirk?Surprisingly funny in places and features the usual allegory of questions about what it means to live and how we the people deal with the mistakes we make in life and how those mistakes contribute to who we are, and of course, questions of religious faith, but the film never quite gels together. Shatner isn't a bad director and Laurence Luckinbill is fun to watch in a few scenes, but on a whole this is probably the weakest of the Star Trek films to star the original cast. "},{"Title":"vanity, thy name is Shatner","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kirk and The Gang manage to get themselves and the Enterprise hijacked by Spock's half-brother Sybok (why does that sound like a Cylon withlearning disabilities?) and trundle off to the center of the galaxy to find God.  Y'know, folks, vanity pieces like this never turn out well; just ask Kevin Costner (Waterworld, The Postman), Warren Beatty & Dustin Hoffman (Ishtar), or Barbra Streisand (Yentl), to name just a few.  While it may be unfair to blame Shatner for the atrociously bad effects, he did write the script (along with co-conspirator Harve Bennett, the same guy who gave us the immensely forgettable Time Traxx) and he did direct, so he does legitimately share the blame for this trainwreck of a movie.  The script tells us that no one has ever ventured to the galactic core and lived to tell about it, yet the Enterprise, as well as the pursuing Klingons, do it with all the apparent risk  of lacing up your shoes.  Laurence Luckinbill does his level best with the part of Sybok, but he can't save the film.  It's not his fault; Laurence Olivier couldn't save this film!  It's as if the movie were a two-man sack race with both contestants inside the same sack.  And that fan dance by Uhura?  How embarrassing was that? Easily the worst moments in the film came when The Three Caballeros Kirk, Spock, and McCoy (aging, over the hill Space Cowboys all) groan out their rendition of Row Your Boat.  WhatintheHell was THAT?  You CAN'T be serious!  The buzz is that when Paramount execs saw what Shatner had done to their prize cash cow, they told him as politely as possible that if he ever picked up a pencil again to write another Trek script they'd break his fingers.  Subtle, no?  This horrible film ties with the first Trek film as being the worst of the lot; avoid it as if your very life depended on it. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The One-liner is pretty much all i have to say about this movie.  Next to Nemisis and Insurrection, Star Trek V The Final Frontier is the worst Star Trek Movie ever made.  From the lame premise to the awful direction by Captain Kirk himself, the movie displays none of the qualities seen in previous or future Films in the franchise, save one there was some stuff blown up. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Does everyone realize what this film is?  The wanted to do Star Trek IV The Voyage Home, but the only way they could get Shatner to sign on was to agree to let him write and direct the next film (admittedly, with some help).  Up to this point, Shatner had written one television episode (in 1960) and directed episodes of TJ Hooker.  They know this would be a disaster, but the really didn't care.  The Star Trek movie franchise has always been based on the good movie, payback movie sequencing.The movie is just plain stupid.  They are going to the center of the Galaxy on a quest for God.  They have a Vulcan who enslaves people by seeing their pain.  And they have the famous bean-eating and row, row, row your boat singing scene that most viewers never make it through.  Nobody asks any obvious questions about what they are doing.  Nobody doubts what the Vulcan has to say.  The characters are all one-dimensional and dull.  It's just awful.  "},{"Title":"Marsh melons?","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was ridiculous, from the Psybok's brainwashed army to the Journey to find God.  It's not even considered to have truly taken place within the Star Trek timeline.  My suggestion to you if you've already rented it, just watch the first and last five minutes.  The scenes with Spock, Bones, and Kirk camping are a gem. "}{"Title":"ST fans reject this episode from the canon... and no wonder...","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not a fan of Star Trek in the conventional sense. As a matter of fact, the only knowledge I have of Star Trek has been through the feature films. Not that I'm indifferent to the obsessive cult that has sprung up around the shows, but when you get down to it, I am totally in agreement with the statement on one anti-fan's site. Let them go people, it's only a TV show.Having said that much, even a casual viewer of a long-running series gets a feel for what should be considered canonical and what shouldn't. The fifth feature film in the Star Trek franchise screams out that it should not be considered canon so loudly that it is almost deafening. I know the odd-numered Star Trek films are supposed to be worse than the even-numbered films by a strange kind of default, but this is ridiculous. Some of the scenes in this pile feel like they could have been better-acted by grade-school children. Adding to this problem is that the most rotten dialogue has been heaped upon the shoulders of a singular character whose presence is utterly apocryphal.Nonetheless, the blame for this disaster often seems to be sent in the wrong direction. While William Shatner will never be my first choice to direct a film, much of the problem seems to be with the people he's working for. Paramount seemed to be in a hurry to get this film out of the gate after the success of the previous film. Special effects houses were too booked out to get the shots needed to complete the film properly, or at least according to what the writers had in mind. Rather than hold off on releasing the film and wait for the chance to get things done right, Paramount simply threw good money after bad. The result, inevitably, was a weak and lifeless film. Fox would later repeat this mistake with Alien 3, but the producers of the Star Trek series at least saw this as a hard lesson learned.When you get down to it, however, Star Trek as a franchise used to thrive on not having the money or resources to dazzle the viewer with flashy effects. Instead, like a certain long-running British television series, it concentrated on presenting strong stories with a powerful humanistic theme. It is a testament to the power of stories that the original Star Trek, in spite of looking as if it were made for six pennies per episode, has more of a hardcore following today than any of its spin-offs.This, unfortunately, is where a major part of the films' weaknesses come from. The first film, The Wrath Of Khan, and The Undiscovered Country notwithstanding, as the films' special effects have evolved, the stories and performances seem to have devolved. Nowhere is this more evident than here, where the scaling back of the effects due to a lack of available expertise has left the makers struggling for something to fill the void with. Many sequences, especially the moment with McCoy recalling one of the formative episodes of his past, feel tacked on for the sole purpose of padding out the running time. If you're stuck for material to make a 100-minute film, make a 90-minute film instead, guys. Or better yet in this case, ditch the script you're working on and write something else.Finally, Spock's long-last half-brother seems about as Vulcan as a Uruk-Hai berserker. This brings two explanations to mind. Either there are more Human women on Vulcan than previously indicated, or Sarek is in fact quite randy. Neither explanation really works, and Sybok comes off as the kind of last-minute story element a child comes up with during playtime as a result. The fact that, as previously mentioned, he has the burden of carrying almost all of the worst-written dialogue does not help.I gave The Final Frontier a one out of ten. Gene Roddenberry had all but indicated that this was not canonical Star Trek, and after seeing this abomination for myself, I am not surprised. Its only real use would be as the basis for a new MST3000 episode.  "},{"Title":"I've seen this movie twice","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" and the second time because I missed the first five minutes that first time.Trekkers and non-trekkers be warned KEEP AWAY FROM THIS FILM!An end to end travesty--at best an attempt at poking fun at everything about itself, including the movies up to that point. At worst, and this IS the way I see it, it's an abomination. At one level or another, all the characters are assassinated, Professional Engineer and best in the fleet Scotty doesn't know where anything is. My favorite character Mr. Sulu suddenly doubts he can fly a shuttle craft and does badly at it. Uhura gets the most horrific hairdo since the Bride of Frankenstein and Scotty must be so drunk he still wants to do her. Even before falling under Sybok's control, Checkov looks vodka stoned! The best actor in this is McCoy and he too is persecuted, saddled with the most uncomfortable, TEDIOUS scene in all the TOS. Kirk whines too much and has too many close ups and Spock almost abandons all his common sense. Younger step brother should've simply neck pinched his older step sibing when he wasn't looking--end of story.The only action element that works is Spock zipping around in those Anti-Grav boots. The usually exciting Klingon's are suddenly a boring footnote and their involvement at the ending is beyond belief.The thought of purchasing this film is the only thing that stops me from buying the Star Trek movie boxed set. "},{"Title":"To boldly suck where no film has sucked before","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Come on.Leaving aside the poor effects there is still plenty wrong with this film.The holes in the plot They approach a barrier no ship has ever entered and no probe has ever returned from.  How do they get past it?  Keep going!Totally undermining the characters of the Trek series by placing the minor relief they get from a Vulcan flim-flam man over their duty to StarFleet?Turning Scotty into a buffoon by having him walk into a bulkhead?!A chase sequence with something of supposed God-like power that can't outrun a man or survive a blast from a Klingon ship.Shatner's overdone prestige acting I...NEED...MY...PAIN. without a director to try and reign him in just gets ridiculous.It doesn't work on any level.  It's just sad. "},{"Title":"Regrettable Sins","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I won't comment on William Shatner as a director, but his acting in The Final Frontier was embarassing and painful to watch. This ersatz piece of storytelling knocks the first Star Trek film out of its position as worst ever. Truly an unfortunate disappointment. "},{"Title":"Whoops!!!!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh man, where do I start....this one is bad. Real bad. Makes episodes of 'Far Out Space Nuts' look like '2001' by comparison.Badly edited, lousy FX, disjointed plot, dumbness abounding everyplace....stupid mishmash of religion and hokeyness everywheres...I think Jar Jar and Shatner's Rug could have concocted a better movie. Gag puke.Definately, a major boo boo on the part of Paramount 10 years ago. Never, never NEVER let Shatner behind a camera again!! Say that to yourself 4 times before every meeting, my pals in Paramount, you will thank me in the future, trust me... "},{"Title":"An editor must have clipped out the good parts.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Science fiction should have a little science in it, and a series should continue to use that same science.  Some problems that ruin this moving. 1) How does this Vulcan know that God is at the center of the galaxy, since it is pointed out several times that no ship has ever reached there due to an energy barrier? 2) When the Enterprise fires a photon torpedo at the fake God, the crew runs a few steps and then jumps to safety.  Don't they contain antimatter, and would make a nuclear bomb look small? 3) The fake God gets mad at Kirk and Spock, and can only knock them down and burn their uniforms? 4) Lucky there were horses on that alien planet! Well who cares right?  The heroes sing at the end.  I can't blame Nimoy for playing emotionless - but maybe the other characters should get scared, or angry, and stop displaying the smug everything's going to be okay in the end - walk through the movie attitude!  "},{"Title":"Ranks with The Savage Curtain as One of the Worst Star Treks","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the original Star Trek TV series (1966-1969) and the later movies hit the mark with such masterpieces as Charles X, The Doomsday Machine, The Squire of Gothos, Let That Be Your Last Battlefield, and the movie Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, they gave us some of the best science fiction ever produced for the small and large screen.However, when science fiction is bad, it has the propensity of being absolutely atrocious, spinning into the dismal black hole where many-a horror movie turkey has been squashed in the space-time continuum. From the original series, The Savage Curtain and Spectre of the Gun are two episodes that have gone into that abyss. And the worst of the six movies, Star Trek V The final Frontier, literally began its journey beyond the finite universe, and also ended up spiraling into Stephen Hawking's space whirlpool.Based on a quarter-baked story by William Shatner, The Final Frontier begins with a first scene with Kirk, Spock and McCoy at a campfire--well more like Bill, Leonard, and DeForest just goofing around instead of being in their Star Trek characters. The acting in this movie brings the viewer into the strange predicament of actually missing the character of Trelane from The Squire of Gothos. For all Trelane's tomfoolery, at least he had interesting traits. Eventually, the premise of the story is stated a kind of search for God. The crew becomes mesmerized by a renegade has-been Klingon named Sybok determined to find God. At first he kidnaps the ship and crew but eventually moves them to join his quest. A sort of Quest for the Holy Grail via warp speed.For a moment, the movie appeared to be onto something when the ship speeds along to the barrier of the known universe. Unfortunately, the world where captain Kirk and friends find God was not only a huge disappointment but God himself was more reminiscent of a Saturday morning cartoon villain. Even Apollo in Who Mourns for Adonis had much more character and interest. At this point I began thinking about the stupidity of the episode when the Enterprise meets Abe Lincoln. I really felt I had entered into the black hole of cinema abyss. Upon entering, my only hope is that I wouldn't be in a setting with Bill Shatner at a Yosemite campfire trying to sing silly songs for eternity. I would much prefer a 30-year-old Joanna Linville (who played the Romulan Commander in The Enterprise Incident) to come along with me for the ride. "},{"Title":"The worst Star Trek film made, very mediocre","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fans of the Original series and films often complain that the next generation films, such as Generations, Insurrection or Nemesis are the worst of all Trek feature films. However those films are cinematic giants compared to this turkey, a true reminder of the double-edged sword that was the original series and it's films. When it was good, like the Wrath of Khan, it was excellent. When it was bad, like the Final Frontier it was awful.After an inauspicious start with the second worst Trek film made, the Motion Picture, the series found it's silver screen legs with three solid outings in Two, Three and Four, Unfortunately the Final Frontier is no equal to it's three predecessors. At least director Shatner attempted to aim high, trying to blend in aspects of all three films into his picture. The comedy of the Voyage Home, the supernatural elements of Search for Spock and a darker storyline, involving hostages and hi-jacking. None of these elements blend successfully into the film however. The comedy is cheap slapstick at it's best, the supernatural scene with Shakiri is humorous but not in a good way. The Enterprize being hi-jacked by a rag-tag army in cloaks is less believable than the world being saved by humpback whales.And to top it all off the story is complete nonsense. Sure the Voyage Home had a silly plot but it was saved by it's comedy and light-hearted approach. The plot of the Search for Spock is saved by the payoff of seeing Spock alive at the end. The Final Frontier has no such redeeming feature, and as such, the titanic rubbishness of the story is exposed, brutally.There are some good points. The focus on Kelly, Shatner and Nimoy is strong and they have good chemistry throughout the film. The funniest moments involve them, and also the films best and most powerful scenes. Their acting is good and strong throughout and helps save the film from being unwatchable.In my opinion this just pips the Motion Picture for worst Trek film simply because the Motion Picture was a first attempt. This coming after three good movies should have been far better "},{"Title":"What the hell are u thinking other reviewers, come on this movie is great!","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" MAY CONTAIN SPOILER!!! Other reviewers, you must understand that this movie isn't about effects its the fun of it. And this movie is 100% fun! Kirk, Spock, McCoy & of course Scotty (Rest in peace J. Doohan), every time i watch this movie it makes me laugh and think. At the time of release when the movie was made Star Trek needed a GOOD and different story. And this is perfect for Kirk, no one has done this before. The funniest thing has got to be when Scotty knocks his self out that just 100% funny.ID U Haven't SEEN THIS STAR TREK MOVIE Don't' READ THE TOP BIT YET WATCH IT, then come back and read what I've said. "},{"Title":"Boldly Going Where Star Trek Hasn't Gone Before...","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is definitely Star Trek's most underrated film, although it didn't do nearly as bad as Nemesis. But William Shatner's directional debut offers to tell a Trek story that many writers and directors have avoided in Roddenberry's universe; the existence of GOD. Hence, the title referring to ' The Final Frontier ' beyond the universe. This film leaves questions to be answered, but it does indeed acknowledge the fact that mysticism, spirituality and faith are indeed a crucial topic to be discussed in Star Trek, as is science and technology. The same philosophy of Nature/Spirit v.s. Science/Technology can be seen in Insurrection as well. In any case, this film explores another version of the final frontier, which in this case, is the question of our existence. It has great humor and chemistry between our favorite Trek characters , a sweeping epic score by Jerry Goldsmith, and breathtaking cinematography of Yosimite National Park and The Great Barrier. Technically, this is in fact the last mission of the original crew that involves a mission of exploration and wonder. I say this because The Undiscovered Country was a story about a huge political event that would shape the future of The Federation. Out of all the Trek films, this one feels more like an epic fantasy than the cold mechanical feel of let us say... First Contact (another great film). I respect the job they did with Star Trek 5, and I was glad to see Star Trek take a bold approach by touching on the issue of GOD and faith, just like the courage taken by the writers of Deep Space Nine (which I truly see as the greatest of all Trek series). The performances are also great, especially from Sybock ( the antagonist played by Lawrence Luckinbill). Sybock is by far the most complex and convincing villain of all Trek films and is sadly overlooked. So, overall...I absolutely recommend this feature ! "}{"Title":"Absolutely PATHETIC. What were they thinking?","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first and only movie that I have ever walked out of the theatre on, and I am a HUGE Star Trek fan. The Trek movies (and TV episodes) vary in quality like in any series, which is to be expected, but this piece of you-know-what is in a stinky league all by itself. Watching its amateurish direction and atrocious editing is a nightmare for anyone who appreciates well-made films. Along with absolutely pitiful and unfunny humor comes completely awful effects that are not at all special and painfully unthreatening villains.SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD (Not That It Matters)...William Shatner, the true villain for brewing this up in the first place, for some reason treats this Trek entry as a Jerry Lewis-style comedy, and Jim Kirk like a complete moron. Now, I realize that Trek has a special brand of humor that Star Trek IV was able to convey, and Paramount was probably hoping for more of it. But having Kirk act like Jack Tripper from Three's Company, Spock mispronouncing marshmallows and Scotty banging his head on a low ceiling and doing a slapstick-style flop onto his ass isn't just unfunny, it's not Star Trek. And the Klingon having to apologize at the end, oooh, I almost peed myself. Ha ha. (Yes, on one a dark day, I did watch the entire accursed thing on video. My ex-girlfriend made me do it.) Kirk wearing a Go climb a rock T-shirt? I don't think so.And Sybok??? I've seen more threatening characters hanging out in a mall food court. And regarding Uhura... Ugh. We're supposed to believe that if old Uhura did an exotic dance it would bring forth a stampeding horde of horny dudes? Maybe Bones should've taken his shirt off, that would've really gotten results.Yes, I hate this movie. I think you will too, WHETHER you are a Trekker or not. Even Gene Roddenberry, Star Trek's creator, reportedly detested it but unfortunately he had only limited control over his baby. I will force myself to say one positive thing, however. The only even remotely palatable scene in this mistake is the always good DeForrest Kelley (R.I.P.)'s short scene re-living a tragedy. To think that the excellent novel Probe, which told the story of the mysterious Earth-threatening Probe from Star Trek IV, was nearly adapted instead. What was Shatner on? ... Now let's never speak of it again. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzz","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw this film in the cinema on it's release, it was without sound for the first 5-10 minutes. Nobody noticed.That just about sums up the film for me!Star Trek V is contrived, conceited and about as exciting as a very heavy lead weight cast in cement. The ending is so bad it just has to be seen to be believed and could only have been imagined by someone who watched too much sixties TV. It had to happen I suppose, Wrath of Khan, In Search of Spock and Voyage Home were such a strong triumvirate that there just had to be a deep decline to redress the balance, and V did that in style at leastA very BAD film "},{"Title":"hidden gem","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK this film on the whole is pretty pants and uhura doing her striptease is pretty scary by far the best bit is when kirk, bones and spock are in the brigkirk activates the toilet to sit on and on the wall behind above the toilet is a notice saying DO NOT USE WHILE IN SPACE DOCKjust like it says on trains, so, your saying the enterprise just dumps its sewage straight into space?man id hate to be following that ship after worfs just been for a dump! either way was a great joke to put in and saves this film "},{"Title":"star wreck","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sybok, Spock's half-brother, hijack's the Enterprise and forces the crew to go to find 'god'. This movie is the worst of the Star Trek movies to feature solely the original crew. 'Treekies' won't like it because the cast acts out of character. Religious people won't like it because it promotes spirituality over organized religion. Film snobs won't like it, because well they don't like anything. But I digress, this movie isn't totally terrible as there are some moments that are OK, less then a handful of scenes granted, but they're their.But all in all this film is a travesty and people should just pretend it didn't exist, like Highlander 2,Star Wars Episodes 1 and 2, and Robocop 3My Grade D DVD Extras Disc 1) Commentary by William and his daughter Liz Shater; Text commentary by Michael and Denise Okuda Disc 2) a Tribute to Herman Zimmerman; Interview with William Shatner; Cosmic thoughts; interview with Spice Williams & Todd Bryant; a politically correct scare piece; 6 featurettes on Production; Production stills and posters gallery; Storyboards; 2 Theatrical Trailers; and 7 TV spots 1 Easter Egg In the deleted scenes highlight the circle for a gag reel "},{"Title":"The black sheep of the franchise","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before I begin I write this without seeing any of the new edition special DVD features of this film, which may cause you to think the review is not properly researched. The fifth instalment perhaps had too much to live up to given the success of the fourth. The idea that Shatner was literally taking the helm this time round was a welcome gesture by fans before release. The feeling generally is one of disappointment among audiences and I for one can see why for various reasons. The general direction particularly during general conversation scenes on board the Enterprise does lack a natural flow, and there is perhaps too much faith in the humour which falls down. The premise is the appearance of Spocks half brother Sybok, who stages a coup in the first act to get his hands on the Enterprise. His real quest is to reach the centre of the galaxy where he believes god himself awaits. On the upside there are excellent insights into the pasts and angst of the major characters, delivered with some reasonable humanity. There is also a wonderful ironic paradox whereby Sybok is all Vulcan, but has embraced all emotion unlike his half human brother who hasn't. The main complaint I have (spoiler time) is what we find at the end when we arrive at our destination. It appears at first that there is indeed exactly what we were looking for - however it soon becomes apparent that it is in fact a sinister evil. It is this which begs the question Okay, so what was it? and we are never given an answer. It would have been more satisfying if this entity had somehow manipulated Sybok's actions from the beginning - the motive was certainly there. The film in my mind does seem to lack a subplot or two. There were indeed rumours that Shatner panicked towards the end of production and closed proceedings early. The other problem I see here is that we have, like Insurrection, a disconnected isolated story which has no landmark events to progress the series. These events abundant in The Undiscovered Country and the three before this. One feels that you should not squander an entire movie on a self contained yarn. The middle act is definitely the jewel here with the bond of humanity and focus on friendship between our three main friends is priceless, but the dated effects, overambitious subject matter and general strained direction do let it down. "},{"Title":"Why? The horror, the horror!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What was the point in the making  of this film? Poorly made, poorly  conceived, the film probably should  have destroyed the franchise. Fortunately  for us, some very steadfast people had  some guts to make a movie. This  should be one of those films they  show in prisons as alternative to death,  only do it Clockwork Orange style.  This will easily clean up the youth of today. "},{"Title":"Least favorite","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my least favorite Trek film of all time. The special effects are some what below average, the story seems very weak, and the actors don't really give it their best. Star Trek 5 is not very good at all and I would advise all non Star Trek fans to steer clear of this one. "},{"Title":"Not worth watching.  Seriously.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not only the worst Star Trek movies ever made (I have seen them all), but indeed one of the worst sci-fi movies ever put on the silver screen. Upon its completion they should've realized how bad it was and not bothered releasing it. In its weak plot, the Enterprise is stolen by Spock's half-brother Sybok and brought to the centre of the galaxy to meet 'God'. In the Star Trek universe, this isn't possible. The only decent aspect of this film was the sub-plot of Captain Kla's pursuit of the Enterprise. Even Kla is one of the weakest Klingon roles I've seen. Certainly no Commander Kruge or General Chang. I'd have to be dragged kicking and screaming towards any screen that was playing this movie. "},{"Title":"Why is this easily the best of the Trek films?","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A hundred years from now, this will be seen as the best of the Trek films, which it is, because it stands on its own as a story, without the man-god myth that the modern day dorks love so much.Good films, good science fiction, good stories, good entertainment comes from combining these two elements Credible characters and incredible circumstances. That's what the savage heart of the human looks for.However, since about 1965, we have lived in a very shielded society, and the loudest and most obnoxious of the critics are the bubble boys, safe in their cubicles, who actually see some people as born gods, and some as cannon fodder.For those cubicle kids, it is necessary to show Captain Kirk and his top aides as gods, instead of men who get lost in the woods, who fall from cliffs, who don't carry tunes perfectly at campfires, who stumble, who fall.That's what the space pioneers do here. This probably should have been the first of the Star Trek films, because it is more about the characters.We also have some of the most interesting scenery. We begin with an obvious reference to Peter O'Toole and Omar Shariff in a classic film. So much so, that it has to be seen as a memorial to David Lean.It's done quite well, and immediately we get a twist from the usual formula film for dorks. We expect something totally clich, but we get something completely different, with two believable characters. It sets the tone for the film.There will be an obvious dividing line here. Those who love classic style cinema, the credible characters in incredible situations, will cling to this film, while the bubble boys who want to believe in mythology of man gods and demi-gods, will be turned off.It isn't perfect. I'm not much on scenes being shot in the dark. I feel a film should tell a story, not hide a story, but that is a small part of the film.This is clearly the best of the Trek films, and it is for that reason that the dorks try to demean it. This is a good film. "},{"Title":"So bad it's funny","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The one redeeming value of this movie is that it is so bad it's funny. Some movies are bad but simply unwatchable, and while this movie does occasionally make you want to avert your eyes, at least you can laugh at the terrible dialog, unfunny one-liners Hold your horse, Jim (OMG he's riding a horse, get it?!), bad and inappropriate special effects, and Uhura's fan dance.I'd stop this review here, but it's too short. William Shatner directed and partially wrote this movie, it was -- apparently -- a labor of love, and he regrets that they couldn't afford the special effects necessary to realize his vision. Unfortunately, better special effects aren't what this film needs even though the special effects are bad (and have not aged well; this movie was made eight years after Bladerunner (which had roughly the same budget and couldn't recycle production design from earlier movies). A movie can't become this bad without layers of poor creative decisions piled on top of one another. "}]