[{"Title":"Easy to talk about!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  One of my favorite comedies, Who's Harry Crumb is the story of a bumbling private detective played by John Candy, who uses a number of disguises throughout the film. Jeffrey Jones is excellent as Elliot Dreisen. A relatively clean movie, the comedy revolves around Harry and his earnestness and naivete you could say. A lot of viewers will laugh at Harry, but I laugh with him as he tracks down the kidnappers - and find them he will! A number of good lines, interesting dialogue, funny disguises, and cool cameos. Plus this movie actually makes Annie Potts a believable sex object. A very easy 10 for me! "},{"Title":"silly but hit my funny bone square-on","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  They had to take me to the emergency room; I was laughing so hard they thought I'd gone crazy. It turns out my brain was knocked out of joint by the hilarious gags--gags that should never have been funny to a reasonable person, but I wasn't trying to be reasonable at the time. Harry's asinine comments make him look like a real ass but he isn't. Once you get that, it's easy to get into the humor. That's John Candy's genius; his ability to humanize a variety of unlikely or impossible characters and make us love them even if we don't believe them. this is party because of the expressiveness of his face but also because of his indefinable comic spark.Harry Crump is a great comic impossibility. Don't watch it if you prefer to keep you dignity.  "},{"Title":"One of Candy's best","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If you're a fan of the late John Candy (as I am) you will most likely love this movie.  Candy stars as Harry Crumb, a bumbling detective who comes from a line of great detectives.  In his investigations, he uses a great many disguises (much like Chevy Chase in Fletch).  Crumb is totally clueless, and Candy really takes a funny script and makes it even more funny.  The movie doesn't take itself too seriously, and neither should the viewer.  I give this a 9 out of 10 because it kept me laughing the whole way through. "},{"Title":"If this movie were a bomb it would blow up laughing!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Simply hilarious.  I think the reviewers that gave this movie bad rankings were pretty sour old men.  This was a great movie the first time you watch it.  After that, it gets dry (as most movies do).  But the first time is what counts.  And the first time I watched it I was a little lad with a broken leg from skiing stuck on the coach since I couldn't get up and was switching around and ended up with the movie and I could not stop laughing!  I laughed so much I rebroke the bone, haha, no, not quite.  But, I think you get the idea.  John Candy is phenomenal.  Though many of the comedy scenes are not entirely original they are done better than anyone else can do them by the late John Candy.  Fun for the family ; )   Little kids won't understand alot of the dirty humor ; ) "},{"Title":"Just take it for what it is...and the real quality shall shine!","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Well, having lived in 5 countries, understanding 4 kinds of humors and seen thousands of movies in three lingo, I can say that this movie is a good laugh! And nothing more as it was not created to be more.John Candy was an amazing guy in comedy because he could bring you from tears to laughs to thinking moments. His legacy is to take a good laugh and make life an easier one by understanding how to use the positivity to have a sense of humor!I have seen from Uncle Buck to Planes, trains and Automobiles, and John is talented. Even the series CAmp Candy as cartoons for the environment was putting the C in cool. After all, at least he did something about it...Do we?This movie is a must for a good slapstick and a no brainer just what you need after a hard day work... "},{"Title":"not as bad as many say it is","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the better John Candy movies out there, if that isn't damning with faint praise.  It's not terrific, but it definitely will tickle your funny bone if you're in the right mood.  The only real flaw is the soundtrack, which doesn't accentuate the humor enough.  If you enjoy comedies about cute moronic characters who are too blind to see their own faults, you will love this.  "},{"Title":"Whahahahaha... where's my head? I think I laughed it off!!!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  'Who's Harry Crumb?' is by far one of my favourite movies. What can I say. John's in it. Doesn't that say it all?John plays Harry Crumb, a terrible private investigator, who gets called up to the head office to investigate a kidnapping case. He gladly accepts not knowing that *SPOILER* his boss is the baddie. The rest of the movie is about an inept John barking up the wrong tree with the help of the kidnappee's sister Shawnee Smith, the loveable dimwit secretary from the popular comedy 'Becker'. His investigations are accompanied with an array of idiotic disguises. My personal favourite is *POSSIBLE SPOILER* his giddup of Indian cleaner. Especially the bit where someone punches him and he ends up apologising 'I'm sorry sahib for my face hitting your fist...' whahahahaha. And what about the bit where he goes to a beauty parlor and manages to misplace his chest hair on a woman's private parts. Priceless.The movie is funny, has a decent story line and great supporting characters. But let's face it... 'Who's Harry Crumb?' John Candy is Harry Crumb. Watch it if you like Candy. Watch it if you like a good 'screwball' comedy. Watch it if you don't expect sophistication. In fact, just watch it.*****/5 stars "},{"Title":"John Candy We'll certainly miss 'ya","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  John Candy's best film, by far. Granted, he's been in such classics like Uncle Buck, Planes, Trains and Automobiles, and Little Shop of Horrors, but this is a film where he had to completely stand alone as THE MAN. Campy, fun and entertaining, this film is a great find for anyone who loves old-school comedies. As for those who like American Pie and There's Something About Mary, its best you go back under your rocks. "},{"Title":"The Lovable John Candy!","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'Who's Harry Crumb' rests on the shoulders of the brilliant John Candy. The late comedy legend rules the show, with a lovable, hilarious performance, that appeals entirely. 'Who's Harry Crumb' Synopsis Harry Crumb is a bumbling and inept private investigator who is hired to solve the kidnapping of a young heiress which he's not expected to solve because his employer is the mastermind behind the kidnapping.'Who's Harry Crumb' is funny in parts. Some jokes are silly, some laugh-out-loud funny & some are pretty lame. But, in totality, the humor works for its targeted audience - the kids & the kids at heart. Its a passable one-time watch. The Screenplay is flawed, but some memorable moments do the trick. Paul Flaherty's Direction is decent. Cinematography is standard. Editing & Art Design are okay. Performance-Wise Its John Candy all the way. As Harry Crumb, the late comedy legend doesn't miss a beat & delivers in every sequence. He's the soul of the film. Amongst the supporting cast, Jeffrey Jones is terrific. On the whole, 'Who's Harry Crumb' is a must for John Candy Fans. "},{"Title":"All right, some may say this is so low brow its off the face, but I laughed and laughed","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Eliot (Jeffrey Jones) runs an esteemed detective agency for the Crumb family. The founding Crumbs were exceedingly talented but the present heir and gumshoe, Harry (John Candy) is a bumbling stooge. Therefore, when Eliot arranges a kidnapping of a rich man's daughter, so he and the girl's stepmother (Annie Potts) can run off and get married with money, he makes a suggestion to the gal's wealthy father (Barry Corbin). He, Eliot, will put his BEST detective on the case, namely Harry, and the crime will be solved....NOT. What Eliot doesn't count on is that stepmommy is stringing three men along and, that when Harry teams up with the kidnapped lass' sister, the former bungler may solve the napping. How will it end? All right, some fans may say this is Candy's worst couple of hours and that the film doesn't work. Yes, its a weaker version of The Naked Gun and other such flicks but Candy is a great comedian. So, watching him whip out a bunch of stupid disguises and have a series of physical mishaps, to me, is quite amusing. I laughed and laughed even as I groaned. Jones, Potts, Corbin, and all of the other cast members do cute work, too. The setting, costumes, low-brow script and lively direction make a film that is definitely worth watching, especially when one is in the doldrums. The question is not Who's Harry Crumb but where can I get this funny film tonight? "}{"Title":"Kind of like a not as good Fletch.","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" However, I still thought this John Candy was rather funny. Sure it has sort of the same premise as the first Fletch movie mixed with a few new ingredients, but it works for me in a way. John Candy plays the title character, a person who comes from a long line of great detectives who is a bit of a bad, bumbling type detective. So yes, this film adds a bit of Peter Sellers' Inspector Clouseau into the mix as well. Well there is a kidnapping that has occurred as a wealthy man has one of his daughters taken in some sort of spa and for reasons that would be revealed later the private investigator that has been hired gets Crumb on board. The lead police detective on the case does not really care for this, but the father at this point is desperate. The father is married to a new wife and the step mom in this case is a bit of a flirt to put it lightly. Harry immediately has suspicions that it is her so while he is kind of doof, he is also somewhat intelligent as his suspicions of her are not totally without warrant. During his investigation he dresses up and pretends to be some rather oddball characters to try and find the missing girl. It is nice that the movie does not really feature a love interest for Crumb as that would have been a bit awkward, instead he kind of teams up with the younger daughter, but it is strictly a friends only type deal. So in the end I thought this film was a rather good and funny John Candy movie, probably one of my favorite of his where he is the main star and he does not have any real back up like having Dan Aykroyd in The Great Outdoors or Steve Martin in Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. "},{"Title":"What Master of Disguise failed to achieve","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was Candy's attempt in the Peter Sellers venue. Had this movie hit, there would, no doubt, have been a movie franchise involving the bumbling master of disguises. Unfortunately, in comparison to Planes, Trains, and Automobiles of 1984, Uncle Buck of the same year as this one (1989) and The Great Outdoors (1988), this movie was considered to be far below par.However, in retrospect (which does not in any way help Mr. Candy at this time), his attempt was an honest one. I laugh every time I watch this movie. I can say that about very few films.Annie Potts is beautifully cast as the money-hungry, sex-crazed nymphomaniac; Tim Thomerson of Cherry 2000 was great as the idiot you love to take advantage of; and Jeffrey Jones of Howard the Duck was beautiful as the conniving, hard-hearted megalomaniac; but it was Shawnee Smith who stole the show. She's done other films such as Stephen King's The Shining, (TV version), The Stand, Armageddon and about 25 more, or so. She was excellently cast, and her performance was completely endearing.This movie is about 1,000 times better than the recently ill-fated Master of Disguise, but it just did not rise to Peter Sellers's caliber. Sorry John. But it didn't.Gods, I miss Candy's talent. I wish he could have lived to be 100.This movie rates a 7.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Likable late 80's comedy.","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Who's Harry Crumb? is set in Los Angeles where Jennifer Downing (Renée Coleman) is kidnapped while have a mud massage, her rich father P.J. Downing (Barry Corbin) turns to the Crumb & Crumb detective agency where President Eliot Draisen (Jeffrey Jones) decides to put the inept son of the founder of the agency Harry Crumb (John Candy). Harry gets to work & meets the Downing family & any potential suspects, with an adulterous wife who hates Jennifer & her boyfriend who wants to kill P.J. along with trying to find the kidnappers Harry has his work cut out. Using various disguises & his well toned detective skills Harry Crumb tries to solve the case & save Jennifer...Directed by Paul Flaherty this likable comedy starring the late John Candy is one of those films that you may have seen in the eighties & then not watched it again in years & while it inevitably doesn't quite seem as funny as the first time around there's still a fair bit here to enjoy & laugh along with. The whole film is basically a fun example of the bumbling detective genre that include the likes of The Pink Panther (1963, 2006), Inspector Gadget & more recently the Austin Powers films that all feature some inept bumbling detective/cop/spy who comes up against some bad guy's & through luck, chance or a minor miracle manages to solve the case & save the day. While not hysterically funny there are laughs to be had here & the whole film is played in such a way that you just end up liking it, Candy is just great as Harry Crumb who gets some very funny moments of physical comedy as well as some baffling, silly & amusing one-liners. The supporting character's are fun too, from the villain to the kidnapped daughter to her sister who ends up helping & assisting Crumb to a nympho wife who just wants to be rich to a female cop who hates private detective's. The plot is simple, the identity of the kidnappers are given away early on so it's all played for laughs from then on as the cool collected villains face up to the bumbling idiotic Crumb is some nice scenes. At just under 100 minutes it didn't feel that long, there's a steady stream of gags, funny disguises & disasters of Crumb's own making to make the time pass harmlessly enough.The whole film has a very 80's vibe going on from the fashions to the music to the cars & decor. It looks nice enough but there's not much going on apart from a scene in which Crumb drives a car without brakes & a climax set at an airport where Crumb chases a plane while riding a truck. There's no real violence although there is one use of the 'F' word that was cut from all UK version until the 2008 DVD. While not deep or serious I don't really think it was ever meant to be & as a simple light hearted comedy about a bumbling detective I thought it was good & it made me laugh a few times & I did have a good feeling while watching it so it must have done something right.Not a huge box-office success this was filmed mainly in British Columbia in Canada. The acting is good from a very game cast of well known actor's with Candy himself as the stand-out, Shawnee Smith (before the Saw films) is cute & likable as his sidekick while Jeffrey Jones, Annie Potts & Tim Thomerson give decent comic performances.Who's Harry Crumb? is not a masterpiece by any means but as a straight forward crime comedy full of gags, one-liners, puns, likable character's & performances, silly outfits & one or two action scenes then I thought it was pretty good & better than average if not a classic. It's a comedy & I laughed at it, that just about says it all really. "},{"Title":"Harry Is A Crumb. The Comedy Is Fresh Bread","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I just saw this film on local TV Sunday Night,June 17th. I had heard of this film for a long time but never had the chance to see it. Being a late 1980s comedy,I was sure it would be crummy.The movie started out kind of slow for me,I felt it took too long to demonstrate that the bolts of Harry's brain are missing a nut or two. A few of the gags didn't work for me as well but then,thankfully the ball got rolling and so did I! Those having seen this know that Harry's has been hired to fail in the solving of a kidnapped young heiress case,because of his incompetence. Those behind it are the very people who did hire him. I think the first really funny thing Harry said that let me know this would be good after all was,If we can find the crazy typewriter that made this ransom note,we'll have our man! Referring to the pieced together note from magazine letters. Talk about a cuckoo lose in your clockwork!Harry also manages to get his tie caught in a paper shredder,go flying through his employer's office on a runaway exercise bike,goes flying through an air vent system of a hotel dressed as an Arabic air-conditioner repairman.He's assisted by the sister of the heiress,played by then teen Shawnee Smith,who went on to play Linda the receptionist,on Ted Danson's CBS comedy Becker. She likes Harry but knows he really doesn't have a real idea of what he's doing. She doesn't hurt him by saying so,despite how he talks like a man whose watched to many TV detective shows. She doesn't want to see him fail and look more foolish than he does.Annie Potts is great as the mother of the heiress,who could care less if her daughter lives or dies and is a wonderful villainous B. (If you get my meaning. The male players are nit-wits also but only because they foul things up for themselves by both being attracted to Potts. (She looks fantastic in this by the way).In his own befuddled way,Harry comes out victorious in solving the case,rent-borrow or buy he movie and find out how all the little crumbs lead Harry to bread. 8 out of 10,two off for the slow start and jokes that didn't work. Otherwise,Harry was hilarious. (END) "},{"Title":"One of the forgotten gems","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The thing about this movie is that it is silly in a quality manner, it must be taken to account that it was made in the 80's. You really get the feel that it was made to entertain, not just to milk money. A great combination of acting, steady and not overdoing it, making it even funnier without awkwardness and well done, original accident scenes. It's a movie that makes you laugh out loud and have a great time. John Candy deserves the title legend, no one else could have done this part better. A great cast that keeps the spirit up. The fact that it's a forgotten gem makes it even more special... and that's why it's one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Hilarious.  Get the movie and have a good evening.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Barry Corbin, as multi-millionaire (does this guy have any other roles?) P.J. Downing, performs as the mystified victim rather well, always surprised with Harry's (John Candy) easy wit and wisdom, never realizing for a moment that the man is just as lost as anyone else in this case.  Comedy, per se, is not on the screen, but rather in the heart.  As a man with an eidetic memory who couldn't sleuth his way out of an open phone booth, Harry Crumb cleverly deciphers the clues and incorrectly solves the case, which ends up releasing all the right answers and surprising himself more than anybody else.  Harry Crumb is the greatest criminal investigator the world has ever known -- just ask his sidekick, Nikki Downing, the millionaire's youngest daughter, played by a very effective Shawnee Smith. "},{"Title":"Great hilarious film!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a great one!John Candy is so great in the film! Annie Potts, Jeffrey Jones,Shawnee Smith,Tim Thomerson,and Barry Corbin were all very good in it as well!I just love the scenes where Candy is in disguise! If you like the above cast then check it out soon! "},{"Title":"Candy's antics make this movie","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" John Candy could be very funny. But, for such a fine comedian, he made films that were up and down the spectrum of good entertainment. He had many more dogs than hit films, with the biggest batch being in-between mediocre movies. After seeing many of his films, it seems to me that the successes and failures didn't depend upon his material as much as his characters. Of course, the material generally suited the character. But, his best and funniest films were when he played a straight character &#x96; that is, he tried to act the straight role. He had such roles in his best three and most critically acclaimed films Uncle Buck, Planes, Trains and Automobiles, and The Great Outdoors.Who's Harry Crumb is one of his mediocre films. His character here is along the familiar buffoon line. The plot lends itself to humor, but the script just doesn't provide very good fodder for comedy. The only thing that saves the film at all is Candy. The worth of this film is solely in Candy's outrageous antics, funny mishaps, and ridiculous disguises. "},{"Title":"A blah movie that isn't funny and that is a viewer's waste of time.","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" On a scale of 1-10, I would rate this John Candy film minus-zero. It is a terrible movie. I have always been a John Candy fan, but this script sounds like it was written by a high school student who flunked English and drama, not to mention comedy. The plot is ridiculous, the script has no meaning, and I wish Candy had never made it. A comedy should have some logic to it, even if the logic is thin, but this script doesn't come close to making the grade. I have reviewed over 500 movies for magazines and newspapers, and 'Who's Harry Crumb?' ranks near the top of the list with such losers as 'Spies Like Us' and 'Assault on Paradise'. It doesn't come near the comedy that Candy generated in 'Uncle Buck,' 'Planes, Trains and Automobiles' and 'The Big Outdoors.' Don't waste your time watching this dud. "},{"Title":"Might be worth something.....","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Harry is the latest generation of the Crumbs, who are famous and extremely talented detectives. Talent seems to have skipped a generation and Harry is reduced to work at a remote branch of the Crumb detective agency. Back at headquarters, Crumb executive Elliot Draison hatches an evil plan which requires the inclusion of an incompetent detective. With Harry on the case, Draison thinks everything will run fine for him. Despite his best efforts Crumb actually makes some headway in the case...Before Candy made it big with a certain member of a family called Buck, he went all out with this little film, which is basically a hybrid of Fletch and The Naked Gun.Its one of those reliable movies from the eighties that you will enjoy, because your a fan of the star. Films you couldn't imagine to be any good if it starred anyone else, such as Funny Farm, Moving, or even The Golden Child.While it won't win any awards for originality, its still good fun, in a Sunday afternoon sort of way. Candy is fine, and is aided by Smith, sort of preparing her for her future Saw roles.Jones was the posh villain of choice in the eighties, and here he plays the same character as he did in Ferris Buellers and Howard The Duck.Its predictable, and some costumes Candy wears are borderline xenophobic, but its harmless in a way only the eighties could be.Plus its the best film ever where Janine from Ghostbusters is amazingly hot. "}{"Title":"Still Don't Know.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" John Candy is the whole show(despite a good supporting cast with Annie Potts, Jeffrey Jones, Barry Corbin) in this mostly strained and unfunny comedy about Harry Crumb, an inept Private detective who is hired to solve the kidnapping of a young heiress, only to discover that the culprits are close to home...Many sight gags(none funny) and Candy is game as always, but plot is utterly routine and uninspired, and may have just as easily served as a pilot to a rejected TV series. Only bright moment is at the end with the unexpected and amusing use of Holding Out For A Hero, while Crumb tries to stop an airplane. "},{"Title":"An Underrated film by a great actor.","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I went into this movie expecting nothing but a decent flick at best. I was pleasantly surprised with the outcome. For starters, John Candy is one of my favorite actors of all time, he is hilarious, and every time I see him in any movie, I can't help but laugh. Candy plays the jester Harry Crumb, the final kin of a family of amazing detectives. Candy enters the role, and doesn't leave it once as the lead actor, he brings Crumb to life. Jeffrey Jones has a great outing as the Villain, Elliot Draisen. It wasn't an outstanding job by Jones, but good enough to keep the story rolling. Annie Potts makes a great Helen Downing. In conclusion, the storyline of the movie kept me interested and laughing throughout 7/10. The acting was solid by many of the supporters, and headed by a great outing from Candy 7.5/10, and the movie accomplished what it set out to do 7/10. Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"No funny Candy","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Where are the comic element in this crime comedy? Usually the massive John Candy is very amusing, but in this movie he reel off a bunch of worn out one-liners which I didn't find funny at all. And the visual slapsticks had no dash of comedy, they're pretty amateurishly done. Admittedly there were some situations that produced some short laughs, but most of the movie was pretty dull. The one-liners and gags where lined up about to stomp each other to death, and the main story nearly disappeared.So I guess the screenwriters bet all their money on just being amusing, but it didn't word out - the plot became the secondary part of this production. The movie is probably for huge fans of John Candy only, but no matter how hard I tried, I couldn't find it funny or entertaining. Candy just became annoying with his bad jokes, and even worse was his horrible disguises. - he became an idiotic copy of Fletch. This movie was a bore, and a waste of money! "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the weaker points in the career of the talented and missed John Candy","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Who's Harry Crumb? is a title I have now been familiar with for a few years, and I original came across that title simply due to John Candy's starring role in the film. I was only 7½ years old when that renowned comedian passed away, and I never heard his name until probably several years later. It wasn't until over a decade after his premature death when I finally discovered how talented he was by seeing episodes of SCTV and the 1987 John Hughes film, Planes, Trains & Automobiles. However, I was obviously in no hurry to see Who's Harry Crumb? since it's been probably about five years since I first heard of it and I've finally just seen it for the first time. This is not one of Candy's more popular movies, and unsurprisingly not one that I like.Jennifer Downing is the daughter of a millionaire named P.J. Downing, and one day, during a mud massage at a health spa, she is kidnapped! When P.J. seeks help from the Crumb & Crumb detective agency, Eliot Draisen, the president of this agency, puts Harry Crumb on the case. Harry comes from a long family line of skilled detectives, but unfortunately, he hasn't inherited the skills of his predecessors. Although this man means well, he is actually a very clumsy and incompetent detective, and there's a good chance he will louse up this mission! He begins his investigation not knowing that the reason why Eliot put him on the case is because the president of Crumb & Crumb is secretly behind this kidnapping of the young heiress, so he actually wants the investigation to fail! Eliot is well aware of Harry's incompetence, and feels that with him on the case, there's no chance that the mission will be a successful one! In this 1989 crime comedy, John Candy plays a kind of character he was very well known to play, a clumsy but well-meaning and kind-hearted one. He sure was good at this role, but didn't always play it in good movies. This film is unfortunately one of the unfunny ones he starred in. Near the beginning, the part where Harry crashes through the window of an arguing couple made me laugh a little, and what is perhaps the funniest part takes place very shortly after that, when the incompetent detective accuses a woman named Mrs. MacIntyre of having an affair with her own husband! However, I don't think I laughed at all after that, apart from one scene much later in the film, and even that laugh was small. The vast majority of Who's Harry Crumb? didn't even make me smile. There's a lot of slapstick here, but it's generally cheap slapstick, and there are also some fairly poor quality lines, such as the really corny cherry Coke one. In addition to being unfunny, this movie is also usually quite boring.Planes, Trains & Automobiles is an excellent comedy and definitely the best film I've ever seen John Candy in. Uncle Buck is another John Hughes film starring Candy, and I found that one to be pretty good when I saw it for the first time last year. Who's Harry Crumb? came out the same year as Uncle Buck, but sadly, it's significantly weaker. Although Candy basically plays the same kind of character here as he does in the two Hughes comedies I've mentioned, and the late comedian's talent was a big help in both of those, he couldn't save this film. Even if you have found Candy hilarious in certain other works, which I would say I have, you could still easily be disappointed by this particular comedy which he starred in. Many viewers may disagree with my comments on this crime comedy, but I still think it's a mediocre effort, and don't think I will ever really care who Harry Crumb is. "},{"Title":"He's the Lovable John Candy!","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" To say that Harry Crumb is not your average detective would be an understatement. He's the sort a guy who doesn't really take anything seriously. Is this an ideal part for Candy? Of course. The film has many funny moments, and doesn't have a single character that's uninteresting. The movie might not always make sense, but it is never a boring one. And yes, it is predictable, which isn't necessarily a bad thing in a slapstick comedy. Shawnee Smith (from TV's 'Becker') isn't given much to do beyond assisting Candy. I do think the movie gets a little bogged down in trying to explain who the kidnapper actually is.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Ho riso per 3 giorni","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I really love this movie.I've really enjoyed the scene of the car rental and the one when they show him the poster of the kidnapped and he reply With such a big head I'll find her easily. I'm very sorry because I can't explain better my comments about the movie anyway if you want write to me and we can comment this movie or what is happening in Italy.Bye  "},{"Title":"I Love Candy!","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of John Candy's greatest film.  It is full of the subtle humor and physical sight gags that make John Candy one of the greatest comedians of his time.  A must see!  "},{"Title":"that's who","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Throughout most of his career, John Candy starred in innocuously silly movies like Who's Harry Crumb?. The whole thing seems like an excuse to just be goofy, with Candy as a bumbling detective hired to solve the kidnapping of an heiress. The shenanigans in which the family and its associates are engaging seem like they could be the plot on their own. But anyway, this is nice, brainless humor at its finest, especially the scene in the vent. Too bad that John Candy died so young. Pretty funny movie.Also starring Jeffrey Jones, Annie Potts (Janine in Ghostbusters), Tim Thomerson (of Trancers), Barry Corbin and Shawnee Smith (of the Saw movies). "},{"Title":"one of my all-time favourites","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Candy's one-liners and misplaced clichés make the dialogue especially funny in this film. He comes across similar to Inspector Clouseau as one who leaves you wondering if he's just a lucky, bumbling idiot or if he also has a wealth of knowledge and prowess that deserve the respect and position as the president of a detective agency. Also quite entertaining was seeing Candy in various disguises and characters. It's nice to see how Nikki's father learns to appreciate his daughter as Crumb gives her respect. She won't admit it, but she likes the flattery. Though there was no nudity, it was unnecessary even to show the extent of the female body that they did. John Candy was an excellent comedian who is deeply missed. God rest his soul. "},{"Title":"Every line in the movie is hilarious!!!!","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie! It goes to 11 or would if I could select that vote option. It is a timeless classic comedy and John Candy is outstanding! It is very well written and directed. Each actor perfectly executes their roles and any line in the movie can be regarded as a memorably identifying quote. My only complaint is that the closing scenes suggest a possible sequel that never came and never will now that one of the greatest comic geniuses of our time is dead. Alas, perhaps it is for the best since it would have to live up to the reputation of the first. I would recommend this film to everyone of all ages. Better than the naked gun series!!! -Justin "}{"Title":"Candy is a legend!","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'Who's Harry Crumb' is a very underrated comedy.Although some of the acting is weak and the plot is simple, Candy is hilarious! His acting alone makes the film very funny.Crumb is a more subtle, much more amusing character than many of Candy's more famous roles, such as Uncle Buck. His cool confidence, his technique and his brilliant one-liners are creations of genius!Eliot Draisen is a good contrast to Crumb's mixture of arrogance and stupidity, and their conversations together are sure to make you laugh.True, the film has some fairly unfunny, unnecessary moments, but it more than makes up for this with some side-splitting dialogue. Crumb's meeting with Mrs. Mackintyre is a good example.See this film! It should not get such bad reviews. This, is classic Candy.  "},{"Title":"Funny John Candy film","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  For all you guys and ladies that gave this film a bad review, you truly need a funny bone SOMEWHERE in your body. This is probably (in my opinion is)John Candy's best film. Its hilariously funny and can be watched over & over again & you will still laugh. The movie does not take itself very seriously and that is the best part. Some of you negative reviewers should take note! "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud Funny","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Who's Harry Crumb is simply funny. John Candy plays a great under cover private eye. There is also a great cast. Who's Harry Crumb is another funny film that every one will watch and laugh at. This is a must see movie that everyone would also enjoy. I give who's Harry Crumb a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful comedy!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  John Candy - along with Bill Murray and Rick Moranis - remains my favorite comedian of all time. And in Who's Harry Crumb, Candy's talents are at an all-time peak. Both under- and overplayed, the movie itself is rather uneven with both absolutely hilarious moments and rather more dull passages, but whenever Crumb and/or Eliot Dreisen are on the screen it is great fun. You know what Eliot? That WAS a break!. Crumb's complete ignorance of his surroundings make for the greatest fun of all. I mean, he cracks this case IN SPITE of himself, and all along there is a slightly tragic shade to the character as well. In all, Who's Harry Crumb is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. Most of the comedy is in the dialogue. The physical antics aren't nearly as spectacular as in the equally magnificent Naked Gun-movies, but they are present. See it and enjoy the talents of a great comedian who is now, sadly, no more with us. "},{"Title":"Crumb-y....","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is certainly no match for any of Candy's SCTV routines or his work in Only the Lonely or Splash.But not so fast....Who's Harry Crumb? is not an entirely terrible movie.  Candy, in my opinion, could be funny just standing there.  Which he does quite a bit here.  But when he dons as many costumes as he does here, gets into many inexplicable situations as in this film and makes such pithy comments as, Bamboo is my business, you know you're in for something different, if not altogether special.Jeffrey Jones is great as Harry's boss/foil/nemesis Eliot Draisen.  His and Candy's scenes by themselves make for the funniest in the course of the film.All in all, Crumb is funny in a low-rent Pink Panther kind of way. Just don't go in expecting A Shot in the Dark.Six stars.  And any similarities between this film and The Naked Gun are purely intended. "},{"Title":"A great comedy by far","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When people talk of John Candy, it's always see Uncle Buck or see Planes, Trains and Automobiles. Well I've seen both, Uncle Buck is a film I love where as Planes, Trains and Automobiles just isn't quite the great comedy people claim it to be. Who's Harry Crumb is by far funnier and while it's comedy may be predictable it is funny nonetheless.John Candy plays a bumbling detective called Harry Crumb, who comes from a long line of former Crumbs who were great detectives. The only problem is, Harry Crumb doesn't have the brains the former Crumbs had and so ensues the endless errors of the hapless Crumb in his determination to find the kidnappers.Having to stand alone from by far the greatest bumbling detective films ever, The Pink Panther series where Peter Sellars still stands atop, was always going to be a hard task but I think it makes a good go at it.The humour is one you know you shouldn't be laughing at but you find yourself laughing anyhow. The film has a certain appeal about it that makes you feel sorry for Crumb and wish that he solves the case but lets you laugh all the way to the end.One of the better John Candy films and I would go as far as saying that is is better in terms of laughs than Planes, Trains and Automobiles, but if anything see this film for the part when John Candy is on top of the fan, I had tears in my eyes through laughter. "},{"Title":"Good John Candy movie","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is really good and The funny man John Candy stars in this movie and he has been in heaps of movies way better then this one like Cool Runnings,Planes Trains And Automobiles,The Great OutDoors and his best movie he has ever done has to be Uncle Buck.And in the movie there is a girl called Nikki Downing and throughout the movie i was trying to figure out what movie or TV show i have seen her in and then i went onto this web site and i found out that her name is Shawnee Smith and she is in the good TV show Becker.Over all this movie is good and there are some funny scenes and my rating is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bumpy slapstick comedy with some good gags","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of John Candy's better films, playing disguise-laden private eye investigating the kidnapping of a young heiress. Ostensibly conceptualized as a live-action cartoon, the movie, unevenly directed by Paul Flaherty, is curiously mean-spirited at times, with ugly humor and situations nearly taking the steam out of Candy's good-natured lead. Candy, performing in a joshing low-key, is aided very nimbly by teen cohort Shawnee Smith, and theirs is a dryly appealing rapport. Annie Potts, as one of the villains, is stuck in a one-note role, but she gets her share of wild lines and her energy is commendable. The picture is sort of an underachiever, with a tired wrap-up and final tag, but parts of it are winning and Candy shows a lot of heart. ** from **** "},{"Title":"An Unofficial Pink Panther Movie !","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I love (John Candy). However I hate seeing him in something less than his capacities. This movie is one. It seems like they did it in 2 weeks. The plot is simple with one kidnapping, and the comedy is even simpler with farce along the talking scenes, and little clowning sequences as well. (Candy) suffers from being in his fattest conditions. The many disguises of him weren't close to funny. Some of the jokes were pure pathetic. And save the first sequence, the action comedy didn't dazzle or make laughs.Nevertheless, it's watchable and light. (Shawnee Smith) is so cute as the she-sidekick. Although (Smith) went later to TV, establishing herself successfully as the dumb beautiful girl, but I feel sad that she missed the opportunity of doing other lead roles in more comedy movies or even rom-coms. The supporting roles are played by good actors. I adore the soundtrack; having a true piece of the 80s's best soft music and songs (the intro music is on the top). The pace moves nicely without any slacking along the way. In fact, the feel of slacking comes from your feeling that you have seen all of that before and maybe better.After (Trail of the Pink Panther &#x96; 1982), then (Curse of the Pink Panther &#x96; 1983), the series stopped due to (Peter Sellers)'s death, added to the outrageous flop that (Curse..) was, with the new Panther (Ted Wass). So in the 10 years gab between (Curse..) and the late sequel (Son of the Pink Panther &#x96; 1993), the dumb detective's role was used once more and filled this time by (John Candy). If you asked yourself how would it be if (Insp. Clouseau) became a private eye, working under the authority of decayed (Chief Insp. Dreyfus) ? (Who's Harry Crumb) is a good answer. As a comedy, it lacks the human touch that distinguished other Candy's works like (Planes, Trains & Automobiles, Uncle Buck,..). And even as a farcical cartoon, it's pretty old stuff. Anyway, to judge fairly; this is funny time. But not so funny ! "},{"Title":"Too silly","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" John Candy is hilarious but even his comedic talent wasn't enough to fix this slapstick mess. The physical comedy is over the top and the dialogue is full of adolescent nonsensical humor. The movie started off with a bang as a beautiful woman layed on her back naked in a mud pack completely oblivious to the fact that her masseuse was being Chloroformed directly in front of her. Open your eyes lady! Scream before the masseuse goes under and her attacker reloads the rag! She really did look funny, laying there nude and muddy, because I knew she was next and the thought of her being anesthetized in that mud pack was hilarious!And did she ever look goofy trying to pry the anesthetic pad from her mouth with just her middle finger as her lights went out! One thin finger taking on her attacker's entire iron hand while naked in a mud pack and mmmmphing into an anesthetic pad. Now that's funny!Too bad it all went downhill from there. "}{"Title":"John Candy?","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It's a shame that he chose to waste his comedic gifts on cheap movies like this. He hits the few goods jokes squarely and trudges through the bad ones like the professional that he is. Jeffrey Jones does the same and plays well off of Candy while Annie Potts is decent as the money seeking wife. Barry Corbin, Tim Thomerson, and Shawnee Smith round out the serviceable cast. It's the script that is the disappointment. One of it's gems has Crumb trying to take pictures of a cheating husband for his wife, but ends up taking pictures of the couple together. His response? He says he found the mistress, her. Ha, huh? Whatever. My favorite has to be that Jones' character thinks that the women who personally tried to kill her husband and betrayed the lover she told to do it could ever be trusted. Just because the main character is supposed to be oblivious doesn't mean that entire movie has to be. "},{"Title":"far from Candy's best, yet still better than Canadian Bacon","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Harry Crumb (John Candy), the last of the great detective Crumb lineage, is a bumbling idiot who's put on the case of a missing socialite by his shady boss, with the express purpose that he's a clown who couldn't detect himself out of a paper bag. But poor Harry may just goof his way to the truth after all. Harry Crumb is also not Candy's best film by a long shot and a good deal of the slapstick humor falls flat. Even the handful instances where the film works and you crack a smile, they're too few and far between to suggest this one for multiple viewings. Not nearly as sheerly dreadful as Canadian Bacon, but still a far cry from classics such as Uncle Buck, Plain, trains and Great Outdoors.My Grade C- Eye Candy Blink and you'll miss Renée Coleman's nipples in the opening scene "},{"Title":"Mainly infantile comedy.","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Who's Harry Crumb has a few broad, obvious laughs, but for most of the way it's a disappointing trip. Candy and Jones can both be accomplished comedians given the right material, but here their talents are not stretched enough and, other than a couple of amusing scenes, they don't generate the expected laughs.Harry Crumb is a bumbling private eye hired to track down a missing girl. The man who hires him is actually the kidnapper, and he knows that Crumb is so inept that he'll never solve the case. However, by sheer good luck and coincidence, Crumb closes in on the culprits.The film has a surprisingly high class cast. Annie Potts plays a pampered rich adulterer quite sexily; Barry Corbin plays the missing girl's troubled father; Tim Thomerson is in there too as a tennis playboy roped in to a murder plot. If you've got eagle eyes, you may also spot James Belushi in the briefest of cameo appearances as a bus passenger. However, in spite of the talent involved, it never truly hits the mark in terms of hilarity. The best scene involves Candy getting stuck on a revolving ceiling-fan in a restaurant, only to have a mischievous kid switch it onto full power. There's also a great line from Potts, when asked if Crumb suspects anything. He suspects he has a dick, but you'd need a road map to find it! If only the whole film could live up to these two inspired moments! "},{"Title":"Poor Candy...","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  `Who's Harry Crumb?'John Candy was at the top of his game around the point `Who's Harry Crumb?' was released. In the past few years he had starred in highly popular films and television shows, including Canadians-in-Chicago skit show `SCTV,' John Hughes' `Planes, Trains and Automobiles,' and some cameo roles in many films, including `Blues Brothers.'And then, in 1989, around the time `Uncle Buck' came out, he released a little film named `Who's Harry Crumb,' which I can safely say is one of the worst comedies I have ever seen. Well, maybe not one of the worst EVER, but definitely the worst of 1989. It hurts me to say that, especially because John Candy is in it. But it's true.Candy plays Harry Crumb, the son of an infamous detective. Living up to his father's expectations, Crumb walks around trying to be of use, but is the definition of `bumbling detective.' Everything he touches either breaks, or ends up in a mess on the floor. He is truly a disgrace to his family name.And then Harry Crumb gets a big case that he knows he can solve. With the help of a young girl, he spies on various people, including Jeffrey Jones, better known as Ed Rooney to fans of the teen comedies from the eighties.`Crumb' has many problems. First of all, I'll start with the most painfully obvious. It just isn't funny. The second problem is that the film just wanders around pointlessly. The third problem is the fact that the movie JUST ISN'T FUNNY.John Candy tries &#150; and succeeds &#150; in making his character funny, no doubt. But what his character DOES is not funny. I don't see John Candy on top of a diner fan spinning around funny. I don't see John Candy in drag very funny. I don't find John Candy crawling through vents in a building funny. In fact, let me expand on this&#133;We see Candy crawling through the vents. This is supposed to make us laugh, because as we should know, fat people in small spaces are funny. But think how funnier it could &#150; and would &#150; have been if they had decided to give Candy a cigarette lighter and spoof Bruce Willis' character in `Die Hard' while he's crawling through the vent. I can see something like that. But they didn't. They missed out on a lot of material that could have worked.That's really what hindered `Who's Harry&#133;' It really could have been funny, but they missed out on so much material that they should have thought of.I have often wondered what John Candy's favorite movie &#150; that he was in &#150; was. My favorite comedy ever is `Planes, Trains and Automobiles' starring Candy and Steve Martin. A great comedy. I hope that was Candy's favorite. But I can say with a clear conscious that `Harry Crumb' did nothing but hurt Candy's career, and that I would doubt very much that Candy enjoyed it. At all. Perhaps I'm wrong. Maybe he loved `Crumb.' I'll probably never know.But I sure hope not.1.5/5 stars &#150;John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Another John Candy Comedy That Is Not Funny","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Who's Harry Crumb? is a pointless comedy about a private eye (John Candy) and his attempts at solving a complicated kidnapping mystery.  There are very few laughs and no one in the big name cast does much with the poor material.  A few cameos and a few laughs are the only real attractions here. Only John Candy's greatest fans will get anything worthwhile out of Who's Harry Crumb?.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, stupid movie","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A very unintelligent comedy about a very unintelligent detective from director Paul Flaherty, Harry Crumb is a ridiculous, stupid comedy. The film borders on slapstick, parody and send-up, and is often very akin to The Naked Gun. John Candy couldn't even save this film as the humour isn't even accidentally funny. Other stars including Jeffrey Jones, Annie Potts, Barry Corbin and Shawnee Smith are not able to help either.The plot from Robert Conte and Peter Martin Wortmann(derivative of Ruthless People) is pathetic, as in fact is most of the movie. Don't waste your time.Wednesday, December 30, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Who's Harry Crumb?","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Dismal comedy about a bumbling private eye who is put on a kidnapping case. Vehicle for Candy's immense (no pun intended) talents, but poorly executed.  "},{"Title":"John Candy Didn't make many good movies.  No exception here.","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  There's nothing subtle about the humor in this movie.  A more accurate word to describe the humor would be absent.  I didn't laugh.  My sister didn't laugh.  My dog choked a little, but it might have been a coincidence.  You wanna laugh at a John Candy movie?  See PLANES TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES.  "},{"Title":"Who's Harry Crumb? Who cares?!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is an absolute piece of junk. No doubt it was the WORST John Candy flick the late actor made. Even 'Uncle Buck', made the same year, was an improvement on this idiotic waste. This movie just isn't funny at all. Although it wasn't meant to be taken seriously (it is, after all, a comedy) the laughs are few and far between, and most definitely NOT original. Unfortunately this was made on the downhill slope that Candy's career became, after 'Planes, Trains & Automobiles'. It was simply NOT funny and a major disappointment considering Candy's performance in movies like 'Stripes'.Someone who wants a good John Candy movie should try 'Only the Lonely' or 'Stripes'. Avoid this piece of crap at all costs.  "},{"Title":"John Candy took another step back","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This awful film, has no story, originality, or interesting characters.  The only part I liked of this film, was the date that watched it with me, my future wife.  That was better than the time I saw Planes Trains, and automobiles when someones date was talking to me and her guy was getting angry. Well, I better not get too off topic, but there is not much to mention about this film except it total sucks, and is forgetable. Forgetable is the best discription for this stinker. 4/10 "}]