[{"Title":"My Dad hates all that stuff about Jesus and the 12 apostrophes","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It usually takes a special audience to love most of the movies I review.  But there's something truly wrong with you if you can't sit back and enjoy Warlock.  It's nothing but pure fun.  Warlock is a Steve Miner classic.  Like his previous film, House, it's loaded with inventiveness.  David Twohy's (Pitch Black, Critters 2) script is marvelous and gives us many memorable moments.  My favorite occurs when Lori Singer is hammering the Warlock's tracks in the train yard; extremely original.  Another great sequence is when the Grand Grimoire is finally assembled.  The acting is stellar for the genre.  You have gotta love Richard E. Grant's (Bram Stoker's Dracula) accent  Witches loathe salt.  Julian Sands is always superb but is at his most evil in this role.  He truly is the Warlock (which is why I'll never watch the third Warlock installment).  Steve Miner has brought us some good genre flicks and this is, without a doubt, one of his best (forget about H20).Note for genre buffs  Look for Ian Abercrombie (Army of Darkness) and Mary Woronov (Deathrace 2000) in small roles. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, but fun.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's not the most intelligent or witty horror flick ever made, but there's something about Warlock that makes it strangely compelling.  Imagine a sort of Terminator-type plot in reverse, and you've got the gist of the plot.An evil warlock is transported from 17th century Boston to 20th century Los Angeles, along with Gyles Redferne, a world-weary witch-hunter.  Thus their long-standing feud continues afresh (at the beginning of the film, the warlock is about to be executed).  The warlock sets off in search of the satanic Bible containing the name of God which can invoke the undoing of all creation.  Following him are Redferne and Kassandra (Lori Singer), a self-obsessed waitress on whom the warlock has inflicted a cruel ageing spell.  And so begins a cross-country race against time, with a healthy dose of dark humour thrown in amongst all the more obvious time-travel gags.Julian Sands excels in the title role, and clearly relishes playing the bad guy.  Richard E. Grant, as Redferne, makes an unlikely, but effective action-hero, and also seems to enjoy himself immensely, despite his dodgy Sean Connery accent.  Lori Singer's role as the vacuous female lead could have been played by anyone, but she suffices, and, so as not to overshadow her in the company of Sands and Grant, she is given some good one liners.If you're after a fun action/horror movie that will kill a couple of hours without using up too many brain cells, Warlock is certainly worth a look, if only for the strength of the lead performances.  It's a pretty lightweight yarn, but is no less enjoyable for that.And it's infinitely better than any of the sequels.       "},{"Title":"Richard E Grant, brilliant with his dodgy Scottish accent","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is a classic. Richard E Grant puts on a wonderful performance although his Scottish accent isnt as strong enough to be believable as it has been toned down so that Americans can understand it.  The effects are typically eighties adding to the fun.  A good film to watch when you're in the mood for something a bit different and not too serious. "},{"Title":"Lacks substance, but not entertainment.","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A witch hunter (Richard. E. Grant) is chasing an evil warlock (Julian Sands) that got transported from the 17th century to 1980's Los Angeles. With help from a young woman (Lori Singer) who's received a hex from the warlock, they team up and rush against the clock to stop him from getting his hands on the pages of the Grand Grimoire (satanic bible) and in doing so he could undo all creation.Director Steve Miner (Friday the 13th Part 2 & 3, House) achieves probably his best film in Warlock. Some people might say his best is Lake Placid, but I couldn't stand that annoying film myself. Anyhow, the fact is the plot of Warlock might be very formulaic and lack depth in the religious lingo, but he delivers a pleasurable supernatural chase thriller here. Involving some enterprising performances that go in hand-to-hand with the well-paced story, witty humour and energetic action scenes. All of these elements seem to gel perfectly for an incredibly fun ride that hardly has a dull moment to be had.There are some nice effects are on show (warlock flying through the sky) and good makeup is provided. The violence is hardly graphic, but there's some mild graphic scenes and implied violence too. Miner adds in some nice added touches with extremely solid direction that keeps a solid pace and well-orchestrated camera-work that captures the rather exquisite scenery when the film takes a detour in the countryside. Not particularly suspenseful or uneasy viewing, but well organised action set pieces, some horrific sequences and humorous moments (ingenious ending) makes up for it. There are some well-organised scenes of excitement and thrills, especially the sequences involving a farmhouse and a terrific climax in the eerie graveyard. It's layered with a potent score by Jerry Goldsmith that builds on some rare tense scenes, but more on the rapid mood of the film.What truly make the film standout are riveting performances even though they feel hammy. There is such an excellent blend of chemistry between the leads. With each of them throwing back and forth to each other smart and witty dialogue. Julian Sands central performance leaps out as a powerful warlock out to destroy mankind. He fit's the role perfectly with this deviously venomous presence about him. Richard. E. Grant is charming as the very determined warlock hunter Giles Redferne. When these two characters meet, the confrontations between them always spices up the film. Lori Singer is enjoyable as the unknowingly Kassandra who adds to the humour and zest of the film.The film might be nothing out of the ordinary, but you can't deny the upbeat tempo of a thrilling adventure that leads you on a whirlwind trip from Los Angeles to Boston. "},{"Title":"Warlock is Fun, Mystery, Drama and Supernatural. Just great","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I rarely watch any thriller type movies that involve the supernatural and and sort of monster or witch. They all tend to have similar plots and fail to challenge the imagination. I only saw this movie because my wife and daughter had just tuned it in when I arrived home one day. I watched simply to spend some time with them and chat during commercial breaks. I was caught up in this story very quickly and remained glued to my seat until it was over. Basically a male witch, played by Julian Sands, who wishes to reverse creation by finding a long hidden biblical document, makes the leap from the 15th century to present day to search for it. He is pursued by an equally determined witch hunter, played by Richard Grant. The movie is comical one moment and bone chilling the next. It's well presented and thrilling from start to finish. The witch chaser pursues the warlock across country, with the assistance of a young lady who falls into the story, with the chase culminating in a Graveyard in a very old section of Boston. Lots of excitement, drama, comedy and horror along the way. A delight to watch. "},{"Title":"An 80's horror movie thats GOOD!!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is to me one of the most overlooked 80's horror films yet. Its also one of the best. The characters are well developed, and there's even an actual plot! The cast was perfect as well as the special effects which arn't cheesey at all. You don't see the typical teen girls getting butchered along with their boyfriends. You don't see undeveloped unlikeble characters. What you do see is a really good movie, that is totally underrated. Underrated is the key word to describe this movie, Lori Singer is a brilliant actress who is far too overlooked as well as Julian Sands. Its a must see movie for fans of quality horror movies. "},{"Title":"A fun, rather than frightening, late-80s horror film.","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An evil warlock (Julian Sands) travels from the 17th century to modern times, in search of the pages of the Grand Grimoire (the Devil's bible), which, when assembled together, will reveal God's true name and allow creation to be undone. Hot on his heels is a witch-hunter, Giles Redferne (Richard E. Grant), who enlists the help of Kassandra (Lori Singer), a pretty girl who has been cursed by the warlock (for every day that passes, she ages 20 years).Written by David Twohy (Pitch Black) and directed by Steve Miner (Friday the 13th Part 2 and 3, House), Warlock is a fun, if unexceptional, slice of supernatural horror.Twohy has obviously done his homework and fills the script with interesting little snippets of witch lore Redferne uses a witch compass to track his foe, uses salt as a weapon (witches hate the stuff) and creates a potion (from the boiled fat of a boy!) to enable him to fly. Miner's direction is similar in style to his earlier movie, House, with the emphasis on fun rather than fear. The film is workmanlike but not particularly memorable visually, and is unfortunately let down by some poor special effects.Warlock is diverting enough entertainment while it lasts and worth checking out if you're a fan of all things 'witchy'. Just don't expect anything exceptional. "},{"Title":"The sinners are much more fun!","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie actually is a pretty fun film with a lot more going for it than most people might think just looking at the cover.  Sands is perfectly cast as the warlock, an evil-to-the-core witch who works for nothing less than the uncreation of the cosmos.  Fighting him is an out-of-his-element witch-hunter who has chased him to the present (Grant) with a peculiar confidence.  He knows his enemy and knows what he needs to do to prevent the warlock from completing the Grand Grimoire, but is lost in the present. Tagging along is a modern-day girl who is acceptably portrayed by Lori Singer caught between the warlock's unbelievable powers, her newfound friend from the past with an obsession, and her now blasted view of how things work in the real world.  Two things really make this film though.  The first is that the explanations that are given actually don't bog the momentum down (and the filmmakers decide to leave some things unexplained or give the most cursory explanations to catch the audience up in the wild ride that Kassandra (Singer) has found herself in) and that although both the warlock and the hunter have powers, they are closly matched and totally obsessed, making for a very interesting conflict.  There's also enough tongue in cheek to keep people interesting and to break occasional tension.  Very watchable - go and try it on for size. "},{"Title":"This supernatural Terminator knockoff is a lot of fun.","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" James Cameron's 1984 masterpiece The Terminator remains one of the greatest time travel epics ever made. A true Sci-Fi classic, it grossed $78 million at the box office and was an instant favorite of critics and fans alike. Perhaps it was inevitable that its premise&#x97;that of a hero and his mortal foe battling across centuries as well as great distances&#x97;would be duplicated a score of times by lesser filmmakers in lesser films. Universal Soldier, Highlander, and their myriad dismal sequels come to mind, as does the 1993 Stallone vehicle, Demolition Man. Steve Miner's unsung 1989 B-movie Warlock is very much in this same category of Terminator knockoff. Though underwhelming in its production values, Warlock manages to outshine its contemporaries through fine writing, directing, and above all, acting.The beauty of Warlock's story lies in its simplicity. This is not a film with delusions of grandeur; it has more in common with Highlander than Braveheart. Hot on the trail of his mortal enemy the Warlock, our hero Redferne dives courageously after his foe into a magical time vortex that transports him from 17th century New England to 1980s Los Angeles. A true fish out of water, it isn't long before Redferne finds himself tasered at the hands of those infamous proponents of brutality, the LAPD. He's arrested but doesn't stay in jail for long. An innocent bystander named Kassandra (With a K!, as she is quick to remind all) posts bail when she realizes Redferne may be the one person who can free her from the curse the Warlock has placed on her. Kassandra (Lori Singer) is a vain young woman who has been cursed by a spell that leads to rapid aging. At the pace of a decade twice over a day, Kassandra not only rapidly loses her looks but has less than a week to live unless she can reverse the spell. The only way to do that is by confronting the diabolical Warlock, who rightfully terrifies her. After some convincing, Kassandra eventually agrees to join Redferne. The odd couple set off on a quest to find the Warlock and end his reign of terror before it goes any further. Along the way, the Warlock takes council with Satan himself and begins a quest to undo all of creation by uniting the pages of a spell book called the Grand Grimoire. Fully assembled, the Grand Grimoire spells out the true name of God which, if spoken backwards, will destroy the universe.The character to whom we are to relate immediately as an audience is the Sara Connor proxy, Kassandra. Initially, she is not a likable leading woman; she is written as dim witted, cowardly, and vapid. But by the film's end, I came to find her if not pleasant then tolerable. The kindest thing I can say of Singer's performance as this boor is that it is adequate; she is never charming but far from odious. It would take an actress of the highest caliber to make me really care about Kassandra and Singer just doesn't have the chops. Still, she does what she can with the role and her effort is commendable.Like The Terminator, Warlock focuses as much on its antagonist as it does on the heroic duo out to defeat him. The Warlock's true name is never revealed on screen. Instead he is referred to only by title, a nice touch that paints him as less a man than an entity of nameless evil. He is wantonly cruel, blond, and impossibly beautiful. His powers are formidable; superhuman strength, a hypnotic gaze, and flight to name just a few. English actor Julian Sands has a ball as the title character. The scene in which he plays video football with a young boy on a swing set is tremendous; as is the scene in which he admires a victim's pinky ring before rudely hacking the finger off. Misfortune in the form of death and dismemberment inevitably befall all who cross his path, but Warlock takes care not to become an exploitation film. Most violence happens off screen, is merely hinted at, or is handled humorously.Richard E. Grant's performance as the witch hunter Redferne is nothing short of heroic. His character is loosely molded after Terminator's hero, Sgt. Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn). In the hands of a lesser actor, the valiant Redferne could have been a laughable caricature of superstitious Puritanism but Grant finds the heart of the character. Standing over a witch compass constructed of brass and witch's blood, he delivers the greatest line in the film; Now brute, one last time we play the game out! I enjoyed every word of Redferne's dialogue, all intoned with Grant's silver tongued faux Scots burr.On a special effects level, Warlock falls flat on its face. This is a film produced by Roger Corman in the late 80s, which should give you some idea of what to expect. The bursts of magical energy the Warlock fires from his hands are truly garish. And don't get me started on the scene in which the Warlock is supposed to be flying down an interstate highway at 100 mph. Warlock's special effects suffer not only in comparison to recent films, but also in comparison to other films from the same time period such as John Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China. Still, for all of the low budget special effect snafus, I enjoyed the fight scenes between Redferne and the Warlock immensely. I particularly enjoyed the climactic showdown in which Redferne takes on the Warlock with his bare hands.All in all, Warlock is easily the best of the many Terminator knockoffs. It is action packed, well paced, and resists the temptation to get bogged down with a sappy romantic subplot. It never reaches beyond its grasp; it is a B-movie out and out and on that humble level it succeeds. It features an attractive cast and is well written, directed, produced, and especially acted. "},{"Title":"A Good Horror Movie","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The late 80's and 90's have not been a particularly good time for big-budget horror movies, but Warlock, a kind of supernatural Terminator, works particularly well.  Everyone is well-cast, although the focus is on the three leads.  Julian Sands is at his most diabolical, but Richard Grant also does well, neatly portraying Redferne as a man out of time  (essentially Michael Biehn's character from Terminator, in reverse).  Lori Singer is...well, tolerable.  The Warlock is not the all-powerful deity that the writers could have portrayed him as (and as he'll be portrayed in the next movie), meaning that the battles between him and Redferne are actually pretty interesting. "}{"Title":"Cheesy but macabre.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the 80's , Horror movies about the Devil were not very popular mainly because the slasher genre was at it's peek. Warlock has some slasher elements and it works perfectly for the movie. The sinister atmosphere is great and that's what makes it a creepy movie. The plot is macabre and devilish but the black humor makes it a whole different experience than the one you expect. There's gore, violence, and my favorite element, the constant references to the Devil and the anti-Christ. Well, this movie is one of the best of it's kind and should be watched by people who enjoy the supernatural and devilish situations.There are some cheesy scenes mainly because of the cheap f/x but are okay anyways. Oh and you gotta love Giles Redferne's Scottish accent. He is awesome in his character. His unintentionally funny scenes he tries to adapt to the new world although he's centuries past it. The Warlock is simply menacing and with a cool attitude. He truly makes his presence to be menacing and evil when it's needed. Kassandra may be too bland but she's perfect for the role. She's pretty, sexy, and delivers some interesting moments to the movie.My favorite unintentionally funny quote Pastor May I ask what your interest is in finding such a book?Giles Redferne Our interest lies in stopping those who would see all good falter. It lies in stopping the powers of misrule from coming of age. It lies in finding that damned book, and thwarting a vile beast of a man who shall not rest until God himself is thrown down, and all of creation becomes Satan's black hell besmeared farting hole!Pastor (Puts an awkward face like what the f***?!). Kassandra You asked. Warlock is a macabre Horror movie with plenty of black humor and cheese for the please and that's why it deserves to be watched. "},{"Title":"Baptize your kids and never leave home without a witch dial","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Time travel is good fodder for a Hollywood picture, wanna one up it, add a warlock to your premise. Richard E. Grant plays the warlock hunter and hes flanked on all sides by the insulin deficient Lori Singer. Julian Sands turns in one of his best performances as the slick warlock who can really mess up reality. Tongues get bite out, a psychic gets lit up and a Mennonite farmer goes all 80's metal on his barn. There are rules to remember when dealing with the warlock, first of all never let them get hold of your stuff, cause they will curse you. Second if you are not baptized and your under three feet tall, you look like a jet to warlocks. Some great performances in this one that i use to catch often on Cinemax as a kid along with the sequel which was equally if not more awesome. Richard E. Grant must have been real athletic back in 1600 or so Basston, check him javelin that weather-vein! Grant is excellent in this movie and it barks the question why don't we see this guy more? Apparently he's in some great films, while watching it with my roommate he was in steady disbelief that it was Richard E. Grant. It was, it is and it always will be. So go see this one and don't ever stare into a warlocks eyes unless you got no fear, Ya hear me boy NO FEAR. Ten skirts up. "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable late 80's horror chase thriller winner","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An evil and powerful warlock (superbly played to the deliciously wicked hilt by Julian Sands) manages to escape from the 17th century into Los Angeles in the 20th century. He's pursued by determined witch hunter Giles Redferne (a fine and intense performance by Richard E. Grant). It's up to Redferne and brash waitress Kassandra (an appealingly spunky portrayal by Lori Singer) to stop the warlock before he gathers up all the pages of the witches' bible the Grand Grimoire, learns God's true name, and undoes all creation. Director Steve Miner, working from a witty, compelling, and imaginative script by David Twothy, relates the involving story at a constant snappy pace, spices up the horrific action with a neat line in pitch-black macabre humor, and stages the exciting climax in an old cemetery with real rip-snorting gusto. While Miner basically downplays the graphic gore, he still tosses in a few pleasingly nasty touches the warlock cuts a man's finger off, bites the same guy's tongue out, and spits it in a frying pan and acquires the ability to fly by cooking the fat of an unbaptized boy. Moreover, the casting of the smoothly handsome Sands as one very fearsome villain and the scruffy Grant as a decidedly rough around the edges protagonist is quite fresh and inspired. The film further benefits from bang-up acting from a tip-top cast Sands, Grant, and Singer are all excellent in the leads, Richard Kuss does well as a devout Mennonite, and Mary Woronov has an amusing cameo as a phony spiritualist. David Eggby's slick cinematography gives the film an impressively glossy look. Jerry Goldsmith's typically robust and moody score likewise hits the stirring spot. The special effects are a bit dodgy, but overall acceptable. A highly entertaining fright feature. "},{"Title":"A great cult classic","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warlock was made 1988 but due to New World Cinema becoming bankrupt it was released in 1991 by Trimark pictures. Warlock is a charming and entertaining cult classic, it's got some great and memorable performances by Richard E Grant and Julian Sands. The effects seem dated compared to movies today but that doesn't stop the film from being fun, the film does seem like little bit like The Terminator since some of the things that happen in Warlock are similar to things that happen in The Terminator such has time travel, the main hero meeting a young woman, the woman doesn't believe him at first, the main character gets arrested, she starts to believe him, the main villain tries to alter time, etc. The film sees a Warlock in captivity and awaiting to be burnt alive, the witch hunter Giles Redferne goes to talk to him. Suddenly there both warped through time, the Warlock is transported into the home of a man and his roommate Kassandra. When he awakens he talks with the roommate and catches a glimpse at his ring, he chops off his finger to wear it then kills him. Kassandra is told by the police that there's been a murder at the house, she returns there and is suddenly taken by surprise by the witch hunter Giles who is still searching for the Warlock, while he takes a sample of his blood to make the witch compass work Kassandra calls the police. Soon they reach the house and arrest Giles, Kassandra goes to leave when she's attacked by the Warlock. He puts a spell on her which will make her age 20 years by using something that belongs to her, a bracelet. The next morning she wakes up and sees that she's now 40 instead of 20. She goes to the station and bails Giles out of jail, Giles discovers that the Warlock intends to find the three pages of The Grand Grimoire. Once found the book will reveal the true name of God, if the Warlock says it the world will unmake itself. Kassandra agrees to go with Giles but only until she gets her bracelet and stop the spell, they then go after the Warlock and try to stop him before he finds the three pages and destroys the whole universe.Warlock is a great and fun 80's horror movie that should be seen. Check this out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"It stars Julian Sands, what more need be said.","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As others have written, this is a fun horror movie, even if a bit gory. Julian Sands was ideally cast as the warlock, and Richard E. Grant is both funny and compelling as the witch hunter brought to the future to stop him. At first Lori Singer's character is somewhat annoying and whiny but it also grows on you. The scene with the warlock and the little boy is a good one, and the episode with the Mennonite's farmer, who has no trouble in believing Redfern is also excellent. This film is fast paced and that is the mark of a good thrill film also. It is not the best horror film that was ever made but it is well worth a viewing late at night, with the lights turned down, and perhaps a storm outside to add to the atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed Warlock it was good like the movies i watched as a teenager. Scary and nail biting. But not totally gory and bad language like the movies are today. I was scared and thrilled through out the entire movie. I would recommend it to anyone. I loved Julian Sands and Richard Grant they were excellent.I enjoyed the scenes played in the Farm yard and the cemetery. I also liked the dialog between Richard Grant and Lori Sanger in the car. The time shock to Richard Grant(Redferne)was done with humor and that made the movie realistic and fun.Also i enjoy movies that explain what happened to the characters in their time and why they are acting like they are in the modern time that the film is set in. I doesn't leave you shaking your head and saying huh why is that like this etc. I think over all all the actors did a really good job and the actors chosen for the characters were exactly right. "},{"Title":"nice little supernatural thriller","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1691 Boston, Warlock (Julian Sands) is imprisoned and sentenced to death. A portal to present day Los Angeles takes him away and witch hunter Giles Redferne (Richard E. Grant) follows him. The Warlock arrives at Chas' home where Kassandra (Lori Singer) is staying. He kills Chas as he goes on a search for the three parts of the Grand Grimoire, the Devil's Bible. Kassandra returns home to find Redferne. The cops arrest Redferne. The Warlock attacks her turning her into 40 and rapidly aging. She bails out Redferne as they hunt down the Warlock.Julian Sands is a pretty good villain. It's a nice little supernatural thriller. The odd thing is that the Warlock is the most compelling character and seems to be the lead in the movie. I'm not sure aging up Lori Singer for a chunk of the movie is the best move. She's not a great actress and her looks are her better assets. Grant is also not the leading man type. There isn't anything spectacular but it's a well made B-movie. "},{"Title":"Eighties Horror Comfort Food","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Throughout the seventies and eighties, New World Pictures released some of the most endearing schlock cinema of that era. Many of studio's horror, sci-fi, and sexploitation films are looked back on fondly. The last movie the company produced was Warlock. The film appears to be an unambitious late eighties horror flick at first but has developed a cult following over the years. Dig a little beneath the surface and you'll realize why. The film was directed by Steve Miner, director of the first two Friday the 13th sequels and oddball haunting flick House. Screenwriter David Twohy would go on to write blockbusters like The Fugitive and Waterworld, as well as gaining a following for the Riddick series. Stars Lori Singer, Julian Sands, and Richard E. Grant all have fandoms of their own.The story owes more then a little to The Terminator but trades in robots and time travel for witchcraft and magic. A grand warlock, before being executed in 1600s Boston, travels forward in time, winding up in 1980s L.A. A witch hunter with a personal grudge against the sorcerer leaps into the portal after him, following him into the future. The two men cross paths with Kassandra with a K, a snarky twenty-something living in the city. The Warlock uses his Satanic powers to cause chaos, even aging Kassandra twenty years, the witch hunter on his trail the whole time. The MacGuffin motivating the evil witch is an ancient book that could bring about the un-creation of the universe. Needless to say, neither Redferne nor Kassandra want that to happen.Warlock strikes the right balance between humor, campy special effects, eighties action-style thrills, and harder horror elements. The script gets some decent laughs out of its fish out of water premise. Both Redferne and the Warlock have comical reactions to modern society, particularly to airplanes and cars. Lori Singer's Kassandra, meanwhile, frequently reacts to the supernatural insanity suddenly in her life with sarcastic one-liners. Side moments, like a cop's radar going crazy when the flying Warlock speeds by or a surprisingly modern reverend, also provide chuckles. For laughs of the unintentional variety, some of the film's special effects, like animated fireballs or the flying wizard, haven't age the best.However, Warlock is still a horror film and provides some grisly and clever moments for genre fans. Upon arriving in L.A., the Warlock bites a man's tongue out, the severed appendage landing in a simmering fry pan. Mary Woronov's cameo as a fraud spiritualist ends with the villainous wizard yanking her eyeballs out. When a Mennonite makes eye contact with the witch, he's immediately cursed, blood running from his eyes. The most morbid element of the film happens off-screen, when the villain murders a child to rend his fat. That the film's tone isn't completely thrown out of balance by such a dark moment is a testament to Twohy's clever writing.The nature of magic also provides some witty moments. Those removed eyeballs mentioned earlier float in the Warlock's hand, deepening his sight. A cut to the chest magically heals, in a simple but satisfying special effect. When the evil wizard appears in a home, it has immediate effect on the surroundings. Milk goes sour. Bread won't rise. Though the villain is the one that mostly practices magic, it's a two-way street. Hammering nails into his footprints puts the witch in immense pain. Salt burns his skin. A bloodied weather vane is used to determine what ground is holy and what isn't. It's refreshing that the script treats the Warlock as a blatantly Satanic character, an old-fashion horror-movie witch.If the smarter then average script isn't the main attribute here, it's the stand-out cast. Julian Sands' reputation as a cult actor would mostly be founded on his work here. Sands' icy coolness and effete handsomeness suits the part well. (I'm not surprised a certain portion of the female population found him incredibly sexy.) He strikes a good balance between serious threat and wry sarcasm. Richard E. Grant, primarily known as a comedy actor, actually does well playing the straight man, the deathly serious Redferne. He's even convincing as an action hero, stabbing Sands or grabbing him with a whip. Grant's comedic strength still shines through, especially when faced with his own corpse. The best performance probably belongs to Singer though. She shows a deft comedic timing, gamely trading barbs with her male co-stars. She's effortlessly charming and, even if the script can't sell the romance between Grant and her, the two still play off each other nicely.The film's central threat, that the villain could undo the entire universe by speaking God's one true name backwards, probably isn't given as much attention as it deserves. The way the Warlock is dispatched, a payoff on a character's briefly mentioned diabetes, comes a bit out of nowhere. Yet Warlock functions fantastically as eighties horror comfort food. A genuinely eerie Jerry Goldsmith score keeps things rolling along. The film's fantastic VHS-box-lending poster art got the film rented more then a few times which is the ideal way to watch it. The movie was popular enough to spawn two sequels, only one featuring Sands, but the Warlock has never reached the status of a Freddy or a Pinhead. Which is a shame since the film proves highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Sets the bar for all witch movies, past and present","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An odd phenomenon in the movie biz is that some movies that start out as simply good, or better than average, become, over the fullness of time, and after repeated viewings, iconic and unforgettable. This is a prime example. At the time, it seemed yet another outing for the always reliable Julian Sands, and it introduced to audiences around the world the impish Lori Singer (who to be fair never really found another film that connected with viewers as much as this one.) Even the plot seemed standard, old curse, new problems. But after multiple viewings (seen it about 7 times) you realize that the writer and director really had their A-game on, they really spun a yarn that, in the Indiana Jones tradition, just keeps moving and moving, and dragging the viewer along for the ride. Even the last few minutes -- a trick ending -- seems part of the overall experience. Can safely say this is the best witch flick of its kind, all style and substance, no teenage exploitation, and worth a view. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous fun, awesome antagonist","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh man, this movie was fun!-5 for bad camera/quality +/- 0 for special effects, they were not good but somehow they weren't that bad and looked rather realistic for a 1988 B-Movie. -2 for the bad acting +3 for quite kool characters. That good guy totally reminded me of a less capable version of one the Castlevania protagonists. The Warlock was absolutely evil, he was much of a villain somehow you gotta love that guy he is absolutely one of the most villains I ever saw in a movie! +2 Good story somehow, it was fun and really a lot happened. It had it's own type of humor I really enjoyed +1 A lot of different places they went to, a lot sceneries -1 some situations were ridiculous.Even if you can't look at VHS quality, it's rate funny "}{"Title":"A better film than you might think","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A number of things make this film quite worth watching -- starting with a good script by David Twohy of Pitch Black fame. Julian Sands plays the evil warlock (male witch) with flair, but isn't over the top, and Richard E Grant is a good foil. It's melodramatic, but controlled. The music is eerie yet low-keyed, with a hint of sprightly humor throughout. In fact, the slight edge of humor accents the atrocities that the warlock commits in a matter-of-fact manner, although there is nearly no gore shown (well, almost nearly none). The FX are modest and not hokey, and don't get in the way of the story, which moves along briskly. Some nice new little bits of invented witch lore are introduced as well, but they fit within the general conventions and are not distracting. I'd call this a tight little horror thriller that will reward your attention, but won't creep you out, or keep you from sleeping afterward. "},{"Title":"You tellin' me you're a witch...? You ain't no witch! Witches are girls!","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh, dost thou scare me! hang me and burn me over a baskets of cats. I'm dead, you dolt, I don't care what you do after that. I can't believe they believed such nonsense in 1691, but apparently they did.But, the Warlock (Julian Sands) was too slick for them and ends in in present day LA. Soon, Redferne (Richard E. Grant) appears to bring him back in some kind of reverse Terminator. A tongue bitten out and eyes removed in the first 10 minutes. This should be interesting.Lori Singer (Short Cuts) joins Redferne after being cursed by the Warlock to age 20 years every day. Can't think of a worse curse for a woman. They travel to Boston to stop the Warlock, who discovers along the way that a certain priest has been doing unpriestly things, and uses that to get his information.There is not a lot of special effects, but what there was seemed good for the time.The real fun of this movie is the interaction of Singer and Grant. They made it worth watching.Oh, yeah, get thee you male children baptized. "},{"Title":"An awesome witch film!","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's like I say, I really into witches (boy or girl), and Warlock is such an awesome horror film! it's about an evil warlock (Julian Sands) who escapes execution by traveling through time to the present (1988). He's followed by a witch hunter (Richard E. Grant from Bram Stoker's Dracula) who teams up with a modern girl, Kassandra (Lori Singer). I liked the pairing of Kassandra and the witch hunter. They reminded me of Rumiko Takahashi's Kagome & InuYasha, only the other way around the man who overcame time and the girl who helped him.In the film, the pair is trying to stop the warlock from gathering the pieces of the devil's bible, The Grand Grimoire, and undo all of creation. The Grimoire is a supernatural book that has been separated into three parts so as to prevent its evil power from being misused.Here's an interesting fact The Grand Grimoire is an actual book that claims to date back to 1522. "},{"Title":"A fun way to spend a couple of hours","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a rental jewel if you can still find it on the shelf. There isn't much substance but it is fun, a bit gory, suspenseful, and adventurous. There are pretty well defined characters, and a decent plot that moves forward through the film.Julian Sands is great as the calm, cold, and collect warlock, and Richard E. Grant is great as the animated and out of place witch hunter. Lori Singer is quite annoying as the hunter's sidekick, and 20th century guide. But overall there is a good balance of characters and interaction.I bet this film would have been fantastic if the budget had been bigger, especially for the FX. But it does well with a good script and decent editing. "},{"Title":"A good movie that is  worth the watch.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A nasty Warlock escapes from his time in the middle ages into ours, via a time warp, where he continues his evil deeds as well as his search for the dark book itself, but a Witch Hunter from that time as well has come to stop him. This was a fun film, especially for horror fans, JULIAN SANDS made for a very good villain & the acting, make up effects & directing was very good. The film kind of sagged in spots but always kept you watching & had something up it's sleeve to keep you entertained. Followed by two sequels that appear to be unrelated in some ways to this one, the first of which is, WARLOCK The Armageddon***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Warlock Rocks!!!!","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Julian Sands has a quite a taste between good guys and bad villians.  He's my number 1 favorite actor, also has a cute, handsome face.  It was kind of funny for him to hop on one leg and he has a big mouth.  He's the king of horror films.  He's pretty amazing too.  I thought the movie was to be horror, but that's not horror to me.  It's kind of good so far, for the way I watched it, it was a very good movie.  It will be one of my favorite movies in the world.  I just love Julian's smile, his laugh, even his sense of humor.  I even used his first name as my email address because it makes me feel more at home.  I feel sorry for him about his past.  I didn't really think that the warlock would break through the window, but didn't get deep cuts or anything.  The one part that made me laugh was when Kassandra was at the age of 60 years old, whiles she was at the railroad tracks, she nails the earth deeply.  It was so funny when the warlock was crippled!  He even got some hits from the hammer in order to get the bracelet back, otherwise she would've died within a week.  I didn't think the warlock would've seen that coming, about the saltwater.  That has to be very painful right in the neck.  I just thought i would say Warlock rocks in my heart, I watched it like 20 or 22 times because I just love that movie so much.  That's all I have to say about these kind of comments.Crystal Weideman "},{"Title":"Devilishly good entertainment","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the better (but somewhat old now) adventure movies with a good sense of thrills that I have seen.The story of Warlock is interesting and captivating. And the movie will grab hold of you right from the beginning and not let go before the very end.The characters in the movie are good and enjoyable, each of the three lead roles were well played. Julian Sands with his devilish charms was superb for the role of the warlock, and Richard E. Grant equally well in the role of Redfern. Lori Singer, well she was alright as well.Of course the effects of the movie are not so good by todays standards, but back then they were great. And the movie doesn't suffer from the effects, even when watched today.This is actually the movie that made me notice the acting skills of Julian Sands and I have been a fan ever since.Warlock is a definite MUST watch for anyone whom enjoy an adventure movie with magics and good thrills. The story is well written and works well on the screen. The movie is one of those that have repeated-watch value, you can see it over and over, because it never gets old or boring. "},{"Title":"Not that bad, could've been a lot worse","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Warlock' is one of the more impressive and entertaining entries in the witch characters of horror films.**SPOILERS**In 1691, a tiny village near Boston, Massachusetts forces a young man to confess of being a witch. He manages to escape from being hanged by a mysterious cloud, along with a man with the church, Redferne (Richard Grant) tracks him to the year 1991. There, the witch's (Julian Sands) entrance scares a young woman, Kassandra (Lori Singer) and her husband Chas, (Kevin O'Brien) who take in the unconscious man and nurse him back to health. After killing Chas, the Warlock escapes and learns of his reason for being in this particular area of time. Kassandra returns home after learning about Chas and finds Redferne in her home. After his desperate plea to Kassandra for help in finding the Warlock, she doesn't believe him, even after meeting the Warlock face to face. Realizing she needs Redferne's help and protection, she springs him from jail and try to find the Warlock before he reunites the pages of a book that will unleash the Devil from hell.The Good News It may take awhile for the plot to get going, but when it does, it does not disappoint. The race against time to stop the Warlock before Kassandra ages to death adds some much needed suspense to the film. As there aren't much in the way of jumps or shocks, the underlying suspense of weather or not they could stop him in time boosted the film up a tad. The gore in the film was pretty well-handled, as their wasn't many deaths in the film, but those that are here are pretty convincing. It does need to be stated that this isn't a body count film in any way, as the Warlock isn't the killing machine he could've been, such as those in other similar movies. That in itself was a refreshing part of the movie, but the most refreshing part is its smartness. The film has a great way of creating a world mixing violence, religious undertones, and a form of black comedy into a very entertaining mixture. It makes you think about what is going on, but it's fault lies in the fact that it never truly goes inside your head like great thrillers, but it does make you think a little more than the average horror film.The Bad News While not as blatantly religious as a film like 'End of days,' this film does posses a strong religious undertone that some may not gravitate to. I don not wish to spark debate, but I don't care if a film is religious or not, as long as a film entertains me. I simply wanted to post that. The main weak link in this film is that it misses a great opportunity to have a bit of humor in having Redferne be out-of-touch in modern society. By having him have difficulty in operating gadgets of the 20th century would've been a great comedic device they could've used. Also, Redferne's entrance into our world is never explained. I know it was important to get the plot further, but I don't know how he got into this world. I'm still confused on that part.The Final Verdict It could've been done a whole lot worse, but this is still a very entertaining movie, more so than it should've been. If a few parts could've been changed, this would be a more well known movie than it is, but as it stands this is a recommended movie for all those who want to find those hard to find films of any types.Rated R graphic Violence, Adult language.  "},{"Title":"Eighties horror","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A true guilty pleasure this one.  Julian Sands is, essentially, the son of Satan. He is pursued through time to the 20th century by medieval witch-finder Richard E Grant.  Great cast then.  The two plummy Englishmen chase each other across America leaving corpses strewn in their wake. Essentially a horror movie, this won't scare that many people, but is just great fun to watch.  It's actually got rather more in common with the 80s trend for Fish-Out-Of-Water comedies.  But very few of them featured anyone's tongue being bitten off. "},{"Title":"great looking bad-guy and some other comments","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a must see for horror fans and for those that like good looking bad guys.  This guy is wow.I really like horror stories and oldish movies, and this combined both. The really calm bad guy, content in his knowledge that he is able to cope with anything and that he will win, no matter what.  Also the totally weird 'hero' of the story, slightly competent, but not really.  And of course the damsel in distress.Sometimes the bad guys win and sometimes not.Girls, watch this, and be prepared to be knocked off your feet and onto the edge of your seat for this one.  Did I mention this guy is hot? "}{"Title":"Embarrassingly Enjoyable, fun horror film","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warlock is a fun horror film. Despite what seem to be heavy themes, it's all so over the top that the viewer can safely ignore the unbelievable and enjoy the characters and the motion of the plot. Redferne's authentic-sounding dialect and diction and the Warlock's rakish 'nyah nyah my dad's the devil' attitude make for great fun. It's not a movie for the pretentious - this isn't Seven by any means - but it's a good one to watch by yourself, where you don't have to worry about getting embarrassed in front of your friends for liking it so "},{"Title":"A Warlock comes to the 20th century to undo creation itself.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is really a rather good horror movie.  Julian Sands plays the title character sentenced to die in the 18th or 19th century.  He gets a reprieve when some sort of storm seems to take him away.  Unfortunately for him a young man whose wife or girlfriend was murdered by the Warlock follows and they both end up in the 20th century.  The Warlock is after a book that when used can undo creation while the young man wants the Warlock dead.  Along the way a girl gets involved, and she helps the young man.  This movie has some horror in and some action and is very fast moving and very exciting.  Not too many dull scenes in this one.  I liked the scenes where they knew there was a Warlock so the old farmer painted on a barn a symbol so the dude after the Warlock was able to find him.  He then puts nails in the Warlock's footsteps and it hurts him.  There were a couple of sequels to follow, but this one was by far the best.   "},{"Title":"Warlock","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warlock(Julian Sands, perfectly embodying his witch with just the right amount of confidence and joy in his evil activities), granted access through teleportation from 1619 to the 1988 by his Satanic Master, is on a mission to seek the Grand Grimoire, a specific bible which holds the lost name of God, when uttered can undo creation plunging the world into chaos. Christian Witchhunter Redferne(Richard E Grant, cast against type and surprisingly successful in the heroic lead), who followed warlock into vortex, travels to the same year, also hoping to find the book, but is surprised to know that his church folk split the book into three pieces, with pages secretly hidden across America. Redferne will need the help of someone who understands this new world and enlists the reluctant aide of Kassandra(Lori Singer, given the spunky modern 80's gal role, cracking wise..has great chemistry with Grant), a young woman whose friend's home the warlock exploded into from his vortex. She initially joins forces with Redferne because of an age spell the warlock cast on her..a bracelet of hers, in his possession, will need to be retrieved or she will die. But, as these film tend to work, a friendship will form as the threat of our very world lies in danger, if our heroic duo fails in their mission.Miner's snappy direction keeps the film at such a quickening pace that you do not have much time to see the flaws. I think the leads bring a great deal of fun to the proceedings, inhabiting their roles with gusto. There's some religious mumbo-jumbo Grant's witch hunter uses to counteract Sands' warlock's black magic which many might roll their eyes at, but I thought it added to the film's charm. I actually liked the special effects..they're primitive by today's standards, but I think the f/x are handled rather well, particularly the flame which rises from Sands' warlock. Some tongue-in-cheek humor, with many of the gags deriving from the appealing fish out of water concept of two men from 300 years ago in the late 80's, which I found enjoyable. Also, Sands seems to be having a blast in the role as an evil warlock, seemingly relishing the chance to play a character with a chance to dethrone God. Grant, using a heavy Scottish accent, plays his character straight to Singer's jokey quips. Good fun to non-discriminating viewers. Macabre gag of the film..Sands achieves the ability to fly thanks to the off-screen skinning of a non-baptized child using his cooked fat as magic(..we often revisit Sands drinking the lard). Mary Woronov has an amusing cameo as a would-be spiritualist Sands uses to contact his Master. Many, including me, might actually consider this one of Miner's most entertaining films. "},{"Title":"Great horror adventure!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film a few years back, with my family, and we found it to be a funny, creepy and overall entertaining horror film. Steve Miner, who directed Friday the 13th Part 2, Friday the 13th Part 3 and House, directed himself another great entertaining piece. Lately though, he made Halloween H20, which ignored previous films, which were respected by die-hard Halloween fans. He also recently made the disappointing summer flick, Lake Placid. But his great horror movies are always going to be remembered by horror fans. And I hope again, he makes some great horror flicks. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror Here","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, it's not the best movie in the world, but it's worth it just to the always good-even-when-he's-bad Richard E. Grant in a heroic role. Grant plays a witch-hunter who follows a Warlock 300 years into the future (ending up in 1991 Los Angeles) to stop him from destroying the world. Grant and Sands seem to have a blast with their roles. Singer is okay as the modern day babe who is forced to help Grant track down the Warlock after he casts a spell on her.Director Steve Miner already had some horror experience, but I think he outdid himself here. I was pleased with the story from start to finish (a stunning rarity in horror especially back then), the acting was solid (but not wowing), the nuance and discovery of mysticism was developed well, and the special effects were really quite good for their time with the ectoplasm's magical energy not at all looking hokey (although the flying was a bit silly by today's standards) and a nice gory finale! The script is definitely a highlight and although being very far from special, contains some excellent moments. I was really pleased with the ending, had a dash of acceptable warm-fuzzy feelings and a bit of clever tongue-in-cheek humor. This film is far better than horror fans today realize and sadly I fear it is overlooked when people delve into 80's and 90's horror to round their film educations.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"How did this one pass me by?","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Warlock' was released over twenty years ago and I've only just got round to watching it. And, I have to say, better late than never. It really is a fun movie.No, it never tries to be particularly serious. It doesn't have the budget for that. It's about a warlock (or 'male witch' as we learn they are) who, upon being captured in the seventeenth century, only goes and pulls one of his disappearing tricks and ends up in modern day L.A. And, if that wasn't bad enough, he's only figured out a way of 'uncreating' the whole of God's great existence. Lucky for the rest of us that Richard E Grant and his (interesting) Scottish accent have also time travelled to stop him. So, he teams up with 'average Joette' Kassandra (with a K) and we have our movie.And, 'our movie' happens to be in the same ball park as other great chases through Los Angeles. Due to the film's L.A. setting and the fact that we have two superhuman leads squaring off against one another, I couldn't help but think of Terminator. However, due to budget constraints, it's not quite as slick as the cyborg epic and falls more into those lower budget versions, such as Dark Angel and The Hidden. But then I also loved Dark Angel and The Hidden, so I didn't mind.Warlock's special effects certainly aren't that special, but, by the time you find yourself laughing at how they portray someone 'flying' (I'm sure if you look closely you can see the wires) you should already be enjoying the whole film too much to really care.Take the whole thing with a big pinch of salt. It certainly does. The dialogue is nice as our 'out of time' hero struggles to adapt to modern day living and women who wear make-up. All in all, it's nothing new, but it certainly is fun (you may need an appreciation of low budget 'so-bad-they're-good' type movies to really enjoy it). "},{"Title":"Just enough for an entertainment","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The base premise of the story is just so commonly found.But the final story development is quite nice for me. It stays true to the older myths and help shape the myths used in other newer movies with the similar themes.In my opinion, the acting just a -so-so, even for the era the movie is released in. Also, the execution of the screenplay is quite littered with unnecessary goofs and illogical things concerning continuity.But for an overall judgment, I think this movie is quite entertaining, worth a 6 out of 10 score. And I agree at some newer publications referring to this movie as a classic at the genre of occult horror. "},{"Title":"When Horror Films Used to be Fun","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember a time way back in the 80's and even a portion of the 90's, a time when the horror genre used to explore taboos in a fun and entertaining way, a time before torture-porn became the order of the day in serving a delectable horror buffet.Warlock is a fun film. It brings back fond memories of me seeing this film theatrically way back in 1989. It's scary, funny and smart and most of all, entertaining.Julian Sands is rock solid as the titular character, Richard E Grant shines as Redfern and Lori Singer is a treat as the cynic of the piece.Warlock has some wonderful imagery and doesn't shy away from the violence when it needs to. It also has a wickedly funny sense of humour with just the right amount of camp added to the proceedings.For a film now 24 years old, this holds up remarkably well on both a technical and an artistic level. Highly recommended for all genre buffs. "},{"Title":"Not that bad, could've been a lot worse","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a warlock escapes capture and lands in the 20th century, a witch-hunter and a young woman must team up and try to find the Warlock before he reunites the pages of a book that will unleash the Devil from hell.This wasn't all too bad of a film and definitely had some pretty entertaining and enjoyable moments. One of the better elements here is the film's action quotient in the second half, which is a lot of fun with a series of confrontations to be had while the different powers are being unleashed, resulting in some overall great fun with the confrontation at the farmhouse and the railroad yard being among the highlights here with some overall fun elements. The finale in the church is where it hits its' stride, with plenty of thrilling action and a great deal of excitement in how it's going to play out with the evil warlock getting the upper-hand quite a bit and the nice tactics employed to stop him. Overall with some fine gore when it gets displayed, there's some good stuff here but there's some flaws here, most notably in the long extended set-up that takes a long time to get going. As well, the fish-out-of-water storyline for the good guy to result in some decent comedy while the evil character has no trouble reacting to the changes in the landscape could've provided some fun before the main story kicks in, but this is sorely missed over and really makes no sense as to why he had to be brought into the different world, but this is still a decent enough entry.Rated R Graphic Violence and Adult language. "},{"Title":"Very dated , cheesy but decent 80's horror flick","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I haven't seen this in decades and it played a lot on TV in the early 90's. It wasn't as good as I remember it as a teenager , but it still is decent entertainment . Warlock is about a warlock that gets transported to the 1980's from the 1600's to obtain The Grand Grimore and unmake creation . Like The Terminator before it , a hero follows suite to stop him . Unlike The Terminator and a lot like many other 80's movies involving time travel this movie is very dated and very cheesy . I thought Julian Sands did a good job as the warlock , the rest of the main cast did 'nt fare as well . However, as cheesy and blatantly 80's as this is I still find this to be enjoyable as I am an 80's child myself and have fond memories of the era. As far as low budget horror films go, I have seen worst. There are a lot of movies from this period that hold up better , but Warlock is definitely decent and watchable. "}{"Title":"The 80's actually made a good supernatural film! Who'd have thought?!","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will say without apology that most 80's movies that are period, fantasy, horror, sci-fi, or anything similar are pure garbage. This film is anything but! Let's break it down by detailsFirst, the acting. I won't say it was remarkable, but it certainly was above par for the time and subject matter. Julian Sands is always good as a villain, and Richard Grant always does a good job. Lori Singer was a bit weak at times, but not enough to really detract from the movie-- also quite nice to look at, and the lack of a weak romance storyline was kind of refreshing.Next, the effects. The 80's did produce movies with better effects than this one, but they certainly weren't bad--especially for the period. I've seen things made in the new millennium that are worse.Finally, the plot. I won't say it's scary, but the plot was certainly compelling. There were a few interesting twists here and there (especially Renferne's end), and the overall flow was well-paced and anything but dull. If you believe in magic or in God and Satan, then the kick will be even stronger.So, you definitely want to see this at least once. It's a solid 7.5-8. Not going to win any awards, but still quite good. Praise be to God that there actually is an 80's supernatural thriller worth watching! "},{"Title":"Vaguely entertaining - and that's said as a compliment.","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a brief intro set in 1691 Boston we are introduced to two of the three main protagonists in the film, the Warlock himself (Julian Sands) and his captor (at the time) Redferne (Richard E Grant).This brief scene establishes that yep these two guys will be talking funny for the rest of the film &#x96; get used to it. (A couple examples I'll search hither, you thither and Let's tarry not!) It also tries in vain to give credibility to the film, justifying some of the more silly stuff to come.With the costume budget already blown the Warlock escapes to 1988 via some magical portal or something, somehow dragging Redferne along with him to Los Angeles. Why not Boston? Why LA? Well that's where they make movies silly! The Warlock has been charged with the task of finding the three missing parts of the Devil's Bible which are conveniently all located in America. By Devil's Bible contains various nasty spells and secrets, and by re-combining the three parts the Warlock can learn the true name of God and as a result can un-make existence.This is bad for us, but apparently good for the Devil and the Warlock, who gets a promotion if he is successful, and will be recognised as the Devil's son.The first stop on the Warlock's round trip of evil finds him visiting Kassandra with a K (Lori Singer) and her gay flatmate.Kassandra is one of those cinematic reminders that hearkens to a time when every actress didn't actually have a tit job or major plastic surgery (sorry Lori, just the facts). After the Warlocks visits pausing only to suck the tongue out of the gay roommate and to put a spell on Kassandra that ages her 20 years every 24 hours off he goes. Of course Redferne shows up shortly afterwards &#x96; still rocking the 1600s togs &#x96; and using a witch-locating sat-nav device he sets off on the trail of the Warlock with Kassandra in tow desperate to get her 20 years back. (She wasn't that hot to begin with, it wasn't the 20 years that was holding her back.) The ensuing chase is pretty straightforward; a visit to Amish country alerts the Warlock to the pursuit, and then it's on to Boston for the finale which takes place in a graveyard.Richard E Grant does his best with a role that requires him to spout ludicrous dialogue in an earnest fashion, Kassandra is essentially supposed 'comic relief' and a counterpoint to the serious business (in theory anyway) going on around her.Julian Sands fares a little better, he is creepy at the best of times. He also doesn't have as many inane lines and gets to do hammy Warlock stuff that basically consists of pointing at things, squinting and pursing his lips while he waits for the shonky (even for the 80s!) special effects to kick in. And where else do you get to have a convo with a young boy before cutting away to reveal that you have not only killed the boy but plan to drink his boiled body fat to give you the gift of flight! It turns out that in this case it isn't just Red Bull that gives Warlock's wings! Warlock is actually worth a look if only for the fact that they never take it all too seriously &#x96; whether they thought that at the time I am not sure &#x96; it is basically a chase movie used as an excuse to show some Warlock-ey stuff, with a couple of British guys speaking British-ly as they chase each other all over the America countryside. If nothing else it's better than 10,000 Twilights.But so are a lot of things.Final Rating &#x96; 6.5 / 10. They don't hand out Oscars for this stuff, but you could do a lot worse on a lazy Saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Crumbs!  Originality!","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warlock is that rare beast - a horror film which has a genuinely original premise.The effects and production values show clear signs of budget and age but, within those limitations, the movie is attacked with spirit, imagination, and invention.The three main protagonists are well cast, and acquit themselves with credit.The script is punchy, pacey and witty.Most of all, Warlock is huge fun, a much underrated quality.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Cheesy 80s horror flick, good Julian Sands","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is cheesy fun. It's a horror film that's not particularly terrifying. There's a lot of sorcery and black magic. Julian Sands makes a suave and menacing Warlock making the film a lot better than the script deserves. Richard E Grant plays the heroic Redferne and has some nice banter with Lori Singer. Singer's acting is average however, and she occasionally annoys. The climax could have been better written but it somehow still works. The film is a reminder of how cheesy the eighties were in terms of horror movies. Watchable on television or DVD.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Julian Sands is way creepy and cool as the Warlock.","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So, let's review, shall we? Julian Sands is way creepy in this creepy story about time travel and evil Warlocks out to destroy all of God's creations. He has that great villain voice that works and he is way menacing as this character. The other cast members do a great job and the effects are effective to tell the story. But there is a minor thing that bugged me, just a little. Why didn't the Warlock have a name, you know my name is Gary I just happened to be a Warlock. But that is minor, but I for a party one like to mention any abnormality in scripts. But it didn't spoil it for me and I can recommend WARLOCK as a fun scary ride for fans of the horror genre. 9 STARS "},{"Title":"Barking Horror Popcorn Movie","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warlock manages to take a number of pretty stale ideas and turn them into something really rather good. Nuff Respect to director Steve Miner and writer David Twohy for creating this time-travelling good-against-evil odd-couple romp.Nuff respect also for casting UK actors Julian Sands and Richard E Grant in an American movie. Apparently the part of Giles Redferne was originally offered to Sean Connery, who looks and sounds nothing at all like Richard E Grant. Skinny Grant has to fill some big boots as the warlock hunter and he does very well. Julian Sands is perfectly oily as the son of Satan and clearly understands how much ham makes a tasty sandwich.Lori Singer is charming in her kooky sidekick role, although she does appear to take it all a bit too seriously at times.Warlock is a perfect example of thrill-ride horror popcorn fun, much like Steve Miner's earlier hit, House. Recommended. "},{"Title":"The film that gave me Julian Sands (Not literally of course)","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Julian Sands is well known for his passion of experimental, cult, arty films even where horror is concerned. I actually saw this a while ago without having ever heard of him so my attention was fully on the movie itself. It's pure cult on the lines of Phantasm and Evil Dead but it's good cult. Sands is fabulously evil and emotion-devoid as the Warlock, thinking about it now having seen him in straight, character roles it's hard to imagine he can play roles like this but it really suited him. Richard E Grant was also as good (not much of a fan of his but I enjoyed his performance). The storyline has a good premise but needed a little more developing I feel. None the less a good classic and very much worth watching. *** out of a possible ***** "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very funny movie, not really horror like at all. That's why I voted highest. And I saw it at least 4 - 5 times and it still is good for lots of laughs ) "},{"Title":"Hammer house of witches","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a good movie, with good casting, although Lori Singer is a little wooden, Grant is wonderful as the manic witch hunter and Sands has that menacing look that says mess with me if you dare.  The script is slow at first but soon picks up pace.  I know this is classed as a horror movie, but I think it would equally work as a tongue in cheek hammer production with Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing and Diana Dors in the lead Roles.  Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Cream that has turned, an all blue flame.....","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In Boston of 1691, a warlock is sentenced to death, but escapes magically into the future, followed doggedly by a witch hunter.There he is searching for the three parts of the Devil's Bible.Trailed by the witch hunter and the woman whose house he landed in, they must stop him, as the book contains the true name of God, which he can use to un-create the world.....Ever since i saw Sands in Arachnophobia, he has always been a Chicken in a Basket style actor to me, Very bad, but very more-ish.As with the film, it's one of those little lost gems that I have wanted to see since it's initial release but was never able to.I finally saw the movie, after tracking it down on the Horror Channel, and now I really wish I had saw it when I were 13, because seeing it as a 34 year old super film geek, it just stinks.The film is devoid of thrills, or scares, and honestly, the most exciting part of this is when Sands is playing a video game with the kid from Baywatch.Lori Singer provides the bad make up, and Richard E grant proves that Groundskeeper Willie isn't always animated.he effects are eye poppingly bad, even for 1988, and eventually the film gets sucked up in it's own absurdness.I saw the sequel before this, and believe me, it's a hell (ahem) of a lot more enjoyable.so bad it's boring. "}{"Title":"PLEASE, help me to find this movie !!!","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a very very good horror-like movie. I like movies like Warlock is. I have watched it a long time ago (1990). Lori Singer made one beauty American simple girl part- I LOVE HER!!! Julian Sands is a great actor. Every single part he did make in his own unique way and nobody can copy him. But, now, because of the very bad situation in my country, here is no way at all to purchase it or find it in any way. So, if ANYBODY IN THE WORLD wide HAVE A GOOD WILL TO SEND ME VHS or DVD with this movie, I would be very very GRATITUDE to him(her). Thank you in advance! By the way, Warlock 2 (the Armagedon) is nice movie too, but in comparison of warlock 1, it is the less original and copy-like production. Unfortunately, Lori Singer makes only in 1st Warlock. I think 2nd Warlock would be much better if someone better female part did act in it. "},{"Title":"better then the sequels","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Other than Lori Singer, I like everything about this film. Richard E. Grant is at his best, and Sands is pure Evil. The magic stuff is great and I love films that have magic, and/or sword stuff. This isn't medieval, but it all fits well in a modern setting. "},{"Title":"A 1980s Horror Classic","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A warlock (Julian Sands) flees from the 17th to the 20th century, with a witch-hunter (Richard E. Grant) in hot pursuit.From director Steve Miner (a Friday the 13th alumnus) and producer Brian Yuzna (although I believe he jumped on the project later), comes a great little tale about witches and warlocks, even if the historical accuracy may be a little bit skewed.I love the Mennonite scene. I think it is amusing not only that a man knows when he is in the presence of a witch, but finds it perfectly normal for a man in animal furs to bust into his house unannounced to rid them of the evil.(I also love the mention of the twelve apostrophes... oh, boy, this country sure has lost its Christian way...) "},{"Title":"Campy, but not good","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From mediocre writer David Twohy and mediocre director Steve Miner, comes Warlock, a very mediocre movie. There are way way worse films of this sort, but this is pretty cheap. This is the kind of story that Sam Raimi could do justice to. Neither Twohy nor Miner are able to make anything clever out of this. The finished product is disappointing, It begins in 17th century Massachussets (the third British colony in America, famous for its witch hunts) A hieratic is about to meet the noose for worshipping Satan. On the day he receives his sentence, the clouds come and take him away, off to 20th century California. A witch hunter seeking revenge for the murder of his wife follows the warlock (somehow) into the future, and using a witch compass proceeds to track him down. He also has the help of Kassandra, a young lady seeking to reverse a spell that was put on her, when the Warlock entered her house.Warlock doesn't really work as a horror, a fantasy or a comedy. Despite its campy absurdity, it's hard to laugh at, unless looked at as an unintentional comedy, which would relieve you of having to question things like, how does a man dressed in sheep's wool get passed airport security carrying a four foot piece of copper used as a spear?So what is Warlock? it is nothing more or less than a cheaply made, product of the B-movie industry, with bad special effects, sub-par picture quality, and the occasional moments that provoke giggles don't cut it. "},{"Title":"Eldrich Orange Bolts of Doom!!!!!!","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a cool movie. I have just watched it again, for the second time in as many weeks. Remember Kids, some Witches are men!If you wish to watch a movie that has Those more enlightend pagans in it, then this is not the movie for you. But, if you wish to watch a good, ole fashioned good verses Evil flick, this is the one for you. It stars Julien Sands a the nameless, evil, gonna take out the world, Warlock, and The always cool Richard E. Grant as the hunter trying to stop him. Lori singer is also in it as Kassandra, WITH A K. Is The Witch hunter a Belmont, or what? I also have a feeling that White Watched this movie before they Came up with Mage The Ascention Rpg. The actor both take to their roles with a drive that few others emulate, and Lori Singer adds a nice touch as the typical late 80's vally girl. I do not care what my other esteemed crics say, this movie rocks. While the movie play's on the sterotypes of evil, Devil Worshipping, magick users and the fanatics that hun them, at least it don't have Frelling druids. For that, you will have to watch the second installment of the series.Remember, Catholic like to mess with things that are not their religion, but, because of such, we get to have kool movies like this. Good stuff all around. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie. I would like to get a copy. Email me. )","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie blew me away. Julian Sands was outstanding as the Warlock. He is as ruthless as he is handsome in this movie. I could watch it over and over again. I loved the special effects. Every scene kept me glued to the screen. I didn't want to miss one second of it. None of the sequels even came close to being as good as this one. "},{"Title":"Story line could have been more convincing...","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is true that the story lines could have been thought out better and written better, and that some of the actors were annoying (Kassandra), but Julian Sands as the Warlock, and Richard E. Grant as Redferne make up for some of it.  Also, it was much better than the other two Warlock movies. The only reason why I watched the 2nd one was to watch Julian Sands.  All in all, the overall is a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"He aint Damien","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not as well known as other classic horror junk, ie Hellraiser, Freddy, but nicely entertaining. Julian Sands plays the devils son, and looking very handsome indeed. (i think i'll be checking him out after i've finished typing this). He is sent to the 20th century to get hold of pieces of paper that hold the key to the universe or something. I really wasnt paying much attention to the storyline but rather looking out for the host of well known actors like Richard E Grant and Lori Singer 'before they were famous'.The film isnt that memorable even though it did spawn a couple of sequels but i reckon this will be as good as it gets. I just like admiring Sands. Very nice. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Understandable","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warlock is about an evil witch who escapes his death in the 1690's and ends up in the 1980's to wreak havoc.  Fortunately, there's an L.A. waitress named Kassandra(with a 'K') and a witch hunter who's hot on his trail. This was a sick and confusing film.  There are some sick moments in here.  One of them is when the witch acts like he's kissing Kassandra's father but ends up ripping out his tongue and spits it out on the skillet.  Kassandra starts to grow old too quick, thanks to the witch's curse.  I could say more, but I won't.  Anyway, I guess this is an alright film.  **1/2 stars.  (New World/Vidmark/Trimark) "},{"Title":"devil fun","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WARLOCK is a great horror movie involved with the devil. Making a movie about the devil should be treated seriously, making it believable. This on takes it kinda seriously, but it's not a masterpiece. This movie shows the devil in a human form, but still being the devil! that's what it makes it scary to watch.It has cheap special effects, but they're not that needed if you get into the story. Give it a try, it's a good one for the genre. "}{"Title":"'I Put a Spell On You'","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Richard E. Grant steals the show as the 17th century witch hunter tracking warlock Julian Sands to 1980s California for some end times hokum involving Satan's favorite missing black magic book.  The script by David Twohy (later much better as the author of Pitch Black (2000) and a creepy unproduced Aliens sequel) has its moments, especially when feeding Grant some likably cheesy man-out-of-time schtick.  The opening sequence in the 1690's in Boston has promise; it recalls better British period horror from the Hammer era.  But once the story leaves the past, it's all formula.  Sands' blank bad guy, lousy special effects, and a tiresome Valley Girl turn by female lead Lori Singer make this subpar genre stuff.  Watchable only for the superb Grant, who's really slumming here. "},{"Title":"Worth the watch","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not saying it's a great movie, but definitely worth watching. Julian Sands is terrific. I think this is the first movie I saw him in, and he's perfect in the roll.Lori Singer is certainly replaceable, but it's not exactly a movie with a Terminator type of budget... Richard Grant is pretty good for his part.You have to judge horror movies separately from the rest because, let's face it, with few exceptions, they can't stand on their own. I'm not a big horror fan at all, but I like this one...What really makes a good horror flick, for me, though, are the one-liners. A cop says to Lori Singer If I were you I wouldn't stay here tonight. She responds Do you have a watch? Yes, he says. Time me, she responds. Not SNL material, but good enough for me to enjoy... "},{"Title":"My all time favourite film","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This my personal favourite film, because of memories that i have, rather than because of the film itself. Richard E. Grant is suburb, as is Julian Sands. O.K, so the effects aren't fantastic, but the plot and acting more than makes up for that. There are a couple of familiar faces as well as Sands and REG, Brandon Call (you remember, the original son of Mitch in Baywatch) makes a guest appearance, and the outcome of his character made me smile. Anna Levine is also in this film, acting slightly differently than her more famous role as Darla in the Crow. This film is the best out of the three Warlock films, infact I wouldn't even bother with the third, you'll only waste two hours of your life! After I first watched this film, when I was 12, I spent quite some time quoting the spell the Warlock casts over Kassandra, and even though I haven't seen it for a number of years I can still remember it. This film had a great impact on my life and I hope it has on many other people too.  "},{"Title":"THE Horror Movie","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warlock was one of the first horror movies I saw. I found it really exciting and it really affected my taste of movies. Nobody could fill the shoes of Warlock but Julian Sands. He turns this movie to life. Other actors of this movie are OK, but they don't do anything that people haven't seen many times before. The story is really good, but with little less jokes it could have became a real classic.By the way, i saw the sequel to this movie last year and i was REALLY disappointed. It just didn't have any power! "},{"Title":"I wouldn't wanna meet that guy in a dark alley!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A positively scary movie, I made a bad mistake of watchingWarlock at night!  But anyhow, it's a good horror flick thatborrows overtones from The Terminator in a good way.Julian Sands is the Warlock, a sinister dude with magical powersgranted to him from his father, who else, the Devil! The Warlockis executed in 1691 and by some twist of fate manages to go tothe future in 1989. Redferne, a tough witch hunter (played withconvincing nerve by Richard E. Grant) pursues the Warlock to thefuture, and teams up with a gutsy gal named Kassandra (LoriSinger) to nab and eliminate the Warlock.With good suspense and really chilling performance by Sands,Warlock is guarenteed to give you nightmares the first timeyou watch it. It happened to me, for G "},{"Title":"CHECK THIS ONE OUT!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A great movie but I liked the sequel more. Julian Sands portrays the Warlock great. And redferne is also a great character and their final battle is excellent. The story is In Boston of 1691, a warlock is sentenced to death, but escapes magically into the future (our present), followed doggedly by the witch hunter. There he is searching for the three parts of the Devil's Bible, trailed by the witch hunter and the woman whose house he landed in. They must stop him, as the book contains the true name of God, which he can use to un-create the world. An interesting movie with some memorable scenes and I would recommend anyone to check this one out. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WARLOCK wasn't as I'd expected it to be, and I felt disappointed at it. Everything other than the special effects (discard the cheesy video painting from the special effects list) and the excellent performance of Julian Sands, was mediocre. But the movie was a waste of time. Reasons 1) Featured simplicity in plot, a plain storyline and not much to look out for (It's basically just see who gets to the papers first). However, the movie does find a way to keep the audiences awake, that is, to insert various scenes where the Warlock works on his own (like the child's fat and the flames). 2) The movie was made to be a serious film with additional comedy, but somehow it worked out on a cheesy scale.  3) Too much comedy in the movie does damage to the atmosphere, for example, the behavior of the guy from the past. Basically that sums up the low downs of this movie, and my last suggestion would be, only worthwhile if you are interested in movies that follows this kind of pace (fast, but scene switches around every minute or so).8/10  -3(study above) +1 for the terrific musical score PS. If anyone knows the song title in the WARLOCK trailer by Jerry Goldsmith, please E-mail!! I'm looking out for the album with that song. "},{"Title":"Burned over a basket of live cats?!?","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warlock is not a genuine horror masterpiece. It's not even a minor classic and it's not likely to appear in too many all-time favorite listings. This is, however, one of the most entertaining and pleasant horror movies of the late 80's with a familiar albeit reliable theme, a well-written script and &#x96; most of all &#x96; the exact right casting choices. Director Steve Miner (Friday The 13th II and III) and writer David Twohy (Pitch Black) take a subject that was particularly popular in the late 60's and early 70's, namely witch-hunting, and provide it with a typical 80's pop culture twist. The film begins in the year 1691 in Massachusetts, though for once not in Salem, where the fierce and purely evil Warlock is chained in a tower and waiting for the next day to be hung and burned over a basket of live cats. What the hell is that about, by the way? What the added value of kittens when you're already death and burning? Either way, Warlock isn't too happy with this prospect and, with the help of his malignant Lord and Master Satan, escapes towards present day California. His evil assignment is to bring together the three separated parts of the Grand Grimoire &#x96; the Devil's Bible &#x96; and to dramatically reverse God's creation. Luckily enough, for mankind's sake, the tough and handsome witch hunter Giles Redferne also got catapulted forward in time and intends to stop the Warlock. Redferne teams up with local girl Kassandra (with a K) who was put under a curse by the Warlock. She ages twenty years per day! Warlock is a pretty cool horror and fantasy effort, but strangely enough it also qualifies as an offbeat road-movie. Redferne & Kassandra chase the male witch across the country, from California over Colorado to Massachusetts. Particularly the sequences in Colorado, set inside a typically Amish farm, are atmospheric and suspenseful. The absolute best aspects about the film are the precise and imaginative character drawings and the exact right castings. Julian Sands is sublime as the out-and-out evil Warlock. He might looks like a geek, but at the same time he has this inexplicably malevolent aura surrounding him. When the Warlock is interested in a ring, he unhesitatingly cuts off the righteous owner's finger, and he doesn't feel any moral restraints to mix a 12-year-old child into a cocktail potion so that he can obtain flying powers. Richard E. Grant, on the other hand, is the typical medieval macho warrior who unwillingly arrives in modern times and has problems adjusting. Lori Singer, in a totally different type of Footloose, is surprisingly enchanting as the strong female type. There's quite a number of cool make-up effects and eerie scenery, but Warlock definitely isn't a gruesome or exploitative film. On the contrary, actually, I personally appreciate how director Steve Miner insinuates a lot of shocks, but simultaneously he leaves the horror up to our imagination. "},{"Title":"Average horror film.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warlock starts in Boston Massachusetts during the 17th Century where a witch (Julian Sands) has been captured & is awaiting execution at the hands of Giles Redferne (Richard E. Grant) but the witch manages to call upon the forces of darkness to open a time portal which he & Redferne are both able to travel through to the present which happens to be Los Angeles in 1988. The witch is taken in by Chas (Kevin O'Brien) & Kassandra (Lori Singer) but quickly kills Chas before he discovers that he will become the son of the Devil if he finds the three parts of the Satanic Bible, the witch also steals Kassandra's bracelet which has the worrying effect of ageing her 20 years everyday & unless she gets it back she will die of old age within a week. But all is not lost as help is at hand in the form of Redferne who vows to find the witch & kill him before he finds the pages from the Satanic Bible & plunge the Earth into eternal darkness as the Devil is set free...Directed by Steve Miner I personally didn't think that much of Worlock, at best it's OK while at worst it's boring nonsense. The script by David Twohy seems to take itself a little too seriously, is a bit on the dull side & rather slow at times. The story has a few plot holes in it & there wasn't enough action or horror in it. The character's are quite likable & it's watchable on a basic dumb sort of level but I kept thinking that it could have been more & that something was missing, you know what I mean that little something extra that takes a film from being an average one to a good one. Like I say it's an OK way to pass 100 odd minutes but it's all rather forgettable, I think the situation in which Referne from the 17th Century suddenly finds himself in the 20th could have been played up a bit more & produced a few laughs. I may be wrong but I'm not sure that you would be able to take knives, whips & spears onto a commercial aeroplane fight either & I don't think that you would be able to get free plane tickets by just unplugging the credit card machine, I mean if a piece of electrical equipment breaks down the first thing you check is the plug & any leads. Anyway, Worlock is pretty dull stuff throughout & totally uninspiring.Director Miner does an OK job, the film feels very 80's with the clothes & styles present. There aren't really any scares or shocks & the horror seemed to kept to a minimum. Forget about any decent gore, there is one chopped off finger, a severed tongue & a bloody skeleton at the end.I have to admit I was very surprised to learn that warlock had a budget of about $7,000,000, I certainly can't see where 7 big ones went on screen. There's no big name actors, no big action scenes, limited special effects & nothing that jumps out as being particularly impressive about the production. The acting was alright, Sands makes for a cool villain while Grant makes for a likable hero although I'm not sure about that accent...Warlock is an OK way to pass 100 odd minutes if you've got nothing better to watch or if you like horror in particular but I found it all rather average & forgettable, didn't really do anything for me I'm afraid. Proved popular enough to spawn two sequels, Warlock The Armageddon (1993) & the straight-to-video Warlock III The End of Innocence (1999). "},{"Title":"I'll have the tongue omlet","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Come see Julian Sands spew out more lies about the history of witches and witchcraft....some witches are men! If it's a week or two before Halloween and the horror section has two titles, this and warlock 2... pick this one. The spit out tongue and a cut to an omlet makes this watch-able! Grade D ---- 6.5 out of 10..... fun crap! "}{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  not scary at all lol terrible lame special effects, but really entertaining and funny. I love the way Redferne talks that's classic let's terry not or however that would be spelled that's good stuff, Kassandra looks good, and the Warlock looks a lot like HHH of the WWF! he has the big nose, the long blonde hair, everything in his face an almost exact look alike of HHH. Well this movie is pretty good the Warlock needs 3 sets of papers to take over the world I didn't exactly understand it all but he's sent 300 years into the future, well from 300 years ago I should say and Redferne must stop him and Kassandra helps him, she looks really good too until the curse of aging is put to her, but overall good, not scary or bloody, lame effects, but funny. I give it a 7 "},{"Title":"Not very intelligent, but entertaining.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSHistorically, this production begins in the days of the Malleus Maleficarum (also known as the Witches' Hammer), a most dire manuscript written by Jakob Sprenger and Heinrich Kramer (two Dominican priests) who completely fabricated the entirety of its contents, and forged the approval of the theological faculty at the University of Cologne, in 1486. Their deception and lies were discovered and corrected, but not until 1898; it was far too late by then. Of course, the true witches were never discovered, being cunning and crafty people as they are, but millions of innocents were burned, hung, or left in crow's cages to die.  (`Complete Book of Witchcraft,' Raymond Buckland, Llewellyn Publications)The Witch in this movie, is one of christian invention. Luciferians were the original satanists, and they had no need for the blood of innocents, the fat of unbaptized male children, or guidance from satan. They merely saw a different name on the deed to the universe. (`Wiccan Mysteries,' Raven Grimassi, Llewellyn Publications) Without christianity, movies of this sort would have no basis for the characterization of `evil.'It wasn't until the fictitious inventions of those two insane Dominican monks that Satanism was born. Before that, satanists and devil worship simply did not exist. Nor did it exist for some long time afterward, as satanism was their heretical invention...the horned god of the old world religions cast down into the form of the devil of the new religion. Before the Malleus Maleficarum, satan did not have horns, nor did he have a tail. Suddenly, after the introduction of their deceit and heresy, satan/the devil started to resemble Ceronus of the ancient European religions.This movie glorifies Witch-hunters, who were nothing more (in my opinion) than the ale-stoked primeval equivalent of the modern day rednecks with the gun racks in the back windows of their dog-carrying Ford trucks, the John Deere hats which never sat behind a plow or tractor, and the inborn (or is that inbred?) ability to air blow snot onto the ground without the use of a handkerchief.From the view of history, most Witch-hunters were goodly men, doing what they were told was the good and Godly thing.  They were poorly-raised haplessly misled sheep being herded by wolves in priest's cassocks...much like today's zealous bigots proselytizing from door to door. To the movie's credit, I must say that the Witch-hunter's recognition of the Mennonite hex-mark was an inspired idea, as many of the old religions are still very active today.  All ancient religions of the old worlds (ancient christians included) used and believed in magick...including magickal symbols, sigils and signs. Indeed, even today, signs, sigils and symbols are used by virtually all companies, organizations and groups.Simple spells were also used to make determinations, such as the witch-compass used by Redfern the Witch-hunter.  All that having been said, the movie itself, as far as movies of this kind go, is quite entertaining. There are several major eye-rolling moments and a couple of places where you just HAVE to laugh,but all in all, it's not nearly as bad as some movies I've seen.Julian Sands is ... well, he's Julian Sands. If you're into Full Moon Productions, B flix of any kind or just good, off-brand movies, you probably know who Julian Sands is. His acting is quite dramatic and even almost believable.The idea of the flying potion is as ancient as the use of Magick itself; however, the recipe requiring the fat of an unbaptized male child is a recipe which has been bastardized over the years by the dogmatic lies of catholicism. The recipe clearly asks for the fat of an unborn kid of male gender. A baby GOAT, not a human child, and this recipe was used by those who were still doing blood sacrifices; ie Aztecs, Incas, Druids and Egyptians, among others. Early christians also did blood sacrifices to Jehovah. Read the bible and see for yourself. I have.The concept of the Grand Grimoire is not satanist, but actually more Stregherian (Italian/Etruscan Heritage Tradition) in nature. Strega consists today of the family traditions passed down from Mother to Daughter in most Italian bloodlines. With the introduction of the Malleus Maleficarum, most sects went underground, inside their own families, or disbanded all together.Each small sect, group or coven if you will, had a Book of Shadows, named such in order to indicate that the book was written after the commencement of the Burning Times...in the Shadows of the catholic church and their executioners. These books, and I have read 9 such books, contained nothing more than the group's initiation rite, rites to the Moon Goddess/Goddess of Nature... and bounty/harvest rites to the God of the Hunt. These books also contain tables of moon charts and secret herbal names such as eye of newt, and tongue of bat, referring to herbs found commonly in the European mountainsides of Italy and its surrounding terrain.These books are nothing more than what I have described here. Most have neither knowledge, nor desire to possess such knowledge, as Necromancy, or any of the other Dark Arts. Every genuine Grimoire I've ever read (the oldest dating back to 1286) was based around love and light, protection spells, healing and prosperity for self and family. While there are Dark books out there, to be sure, for the most part, Witches did not write them. Christian heretics wrote them. As that is what Satanism IS...a christian heresy.I found the Warlock's use of Latin quite interesting, as many of the ancient texts are written in this language. It was the language of scholars of the time, and is still used in catholic rites today. Go figure. But most male witches do NOT embrace the label warlock, as it means oath breaker, literally translated, and is a highly derogatory term.I also found the qualification Redfern makes to Kassandra with a K concerning the end of all worlds, and not just this one, to be very intelligent and enlightened. Quite open-minded to be coming from a handmaiden of the church of zealots.Another point is the Warlock's use of high magick. High magick is no longer possible on this plane, by any individual. The closest thing we have to high magick anymore are the psychic gifts of a select few; ie telekinesis, telepathy, psychometry, and the like. The creation of magickal forces which are visible to the physical eye just doesn't happen.Magick as such, was portrayed much better in the battle scene between Gandalf and Sauromon in the Lord of the Rings Fellowship of the Ring, where the magick itself was unseen, only the results of each spell cast - each blow from the magickal staves - could be seen.The ending of this movie, from the time they get to Boston and thereafter, is quite entertaining, interesting and satisfying. I find the Warlock movies to be quite enjoyable, but only as B flick entertainment goes.The streams of fire the Warlock sends after Kassandra are very Terry Goodkind-esque, reminiscent of his Wizard's Fire. Not particularly convincing as an effect, but I've seen worse. *lol* (Ever see Killer Clowns From Outer Space? *lol*)When Redfern finally decides to kiss else having been said and done, his soul is ready to rest; he has moved beyond the loss of his beloved Marion, and can finally rest in peace. Nice ending to an entertaining, if not wholly intelligent movie.It gets a 5.5 for entertainment value from the Fiend .  "},{"Title":"Load of bunkum","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Weak tale of an evil warlock who is searching for a centuries old satanic Bible so that he can do Lucifer's bidding by undoing creation. Hot in pursuit all the way is a 17th Centruy bounty hunter named Redfern and his reluctant sidekick Kassandra. Sound like a load of bunkum? It is.This drivel from writer D.T. Twohy gets the superficial treatment it deserves from director Steve Miner (who helmed that romantic nonsense Forever Young). Twohy obviously knows nothing about true evil.Julian Sands just flies around and cackles, trying to look evil, while Richard E. Grant succeeds only in wasting his rich talent. Lori Singer's career also took a nosedive with this one.Special effects crew has some fun, and Jerry Goldsmith provides a score superior to its subject matter. "},{"Title":"not bad at all","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i just watched this a few days ago i liked it entertained me it had solid acting a very cool script a cool plot and i really dug how the opening took place back in time i have always liked that and what else i liked well Julian Sands baby !!!!!!!!! *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil warlock (Julian Sands) escapes a death at the stake when Satan transports him to present times. A witch hunter (Richard E. Grant) is hot on his trail as he tries to stop the evil warlock from getting his hands into three parts of a bible that can end the world. Along for the ride is a woman (Lori Singer) cursed to age at a much faster rate then usual by the warlock. Slow paced horror film takes its time, but never goes anywhere. It is not devoid of humor though, but it never ever is scary or suspenseful. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly unlame","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't see Warlock until 2001, and was expecting a lame-o-rama, but, barring some ropey FX, it's actually not half bad.Its strengths are that it's straightforward and unpretentious, Julian Sands is convincingly malevolent, and Richard E Grant is, well, certainly enthusiastic.  Against that, his accent is risible - it's bad enough that it makes Mel Gibson's Braveheart dialect sound authentic.  Lori Singer is decorative but slightly out of her acting depth - she's not smart enough to play dumb, and doesn't really make any attempt to play trashy.Still, there are many worse genre pieces than this out there.  Give it a try. "},{"Title":"not what I expected","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I expected a really good movie. This was a good movie but not as good as I was hoping it would be. Julian Sands was excellent as the Warlock. Richard E. Grant's character was all right. I wished they showed more of the Warlock and less of Grant's character. I also wish that the Warlock was more powerful than what he was on the movie. There should ( In my opinion) be a bigger fight against the Warlock, and Redferne. Other than that Warlock was an all right movie. It could have been better. But on the other hand it could have been worse.I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good horror movie.    "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn`t think much of WARLOCK . The most irritating aspect is that the whole time travel premise is more or less ignored . I was expecting something along the lines of TIME AFTER TIME or LES VISITEURS but what I got was a runaround with a witch hunter and modern gal chasing after a warlock from the 17th century in present day America . It`s impossible to think how such a fun premise could have been as badly done as it here but let me just repeat - it`s badly done . Also disappointing is Richard E Grant who`s absolutely brilliant at playing camp mincing luvvies in films like WITHNAIL AND I ( And who`d make a brilliant Doctor Who ) but just doesn`t seem able to cut it as a straight actor and his Scottish accent is awfulA classic example of how a great pitch is turned into a very underdeveloped movie    "},{"Title":"Warlock A movie that doesn't use much of it's potential","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought this could be a an exciting and moody film, but Warlock was a huge disappointment.It could have been very exciting if the execution would have been made in another way. The most parts of 'Warlock' takes place in city environments in the 1980's which doesn't fit the idea about an evil wizard from a dark past.Instead I think 'Warlock' should have taken place in a traditional fantasy world with swords, torches, magic, mountains, valleys, creeks, dark forests with glades and villages in a medieval-looking setting.The production design and the set decoration is a total failure just because of the wrong concept from the start. Warlock could have contained more scenes with shadows, some darker scenes with slow camera moves, slow zooms and slow editing that have could create a more creepy and intense mode. The time traveling is unnecessary and there could be some other way the warlock could have escaped from his sentence in the opening scene.The score from Jerry Goldsmith starts very well, the main theme, the first track, The Sentence, is truly superb but after that track Goldsmith just works on routine, mainly providing boring background sound.Actor Richard E. Grant's potential is not used. The rest of the actors doesn't make the flick much better even if Julian Sands is okay. Lori Singer's character is just painful and the film could have been without it - it would have been better with just a struggle between Grant and Sands, which could provide a darker tone. There is also too much jokes and redundant dialogs that just makes the movie less intense. Warlock is the kind of a movie that should have more silent moments with perhaps just some background sounds from the surrounding nature and at times a discrete score/ musical theme that can make the mood and suspense as high as possible.It is obvious when this flick was made and it is already dated. The plot seem to be inspired by The Terminator and at some points it is too similar and just make Warlock to a worse movie than it could have been.Rating 3 of 10. "}]