[{"Title":"Very creepy.","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"69 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This scary and rather gory adaptation of Stephen King's great novel features outstanding central performances by Dale Midkiff,Fred Gwynne(who sadly died few years ago)and Denise Crosby and some really gruesome gore effects.Director Mary Lambert has a wonderful sense of  visual style,and manages to make this one of the few  versions of King's work that is not only worth seeing,but genuinely unnerving.The depiction of the zombie child Gage(Miko Hughes-later in New Nightmare)is equally noteworthy,as what could easily have been a laughable character  is made menacing and spooky.As for the people,who think that this one isn't scary-watch it alone in the dark(eventually with your squeamish girlfriend)and I guarantee you that Pet Sematary will creep you out.Some horror movies like this one or The Texas Chain Saw Massacre shouldn't be watched in group.Recommended for horror fans! "},{"Title":"A very good horror film.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"55 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary is a very good horror film and believe it or not somebody can make a good horror film out of a Stephen King novel. Mary Lambert does a great job with this film and manages to bring across King's creepy story pretty well. Most people may avoid this, but they should check it out.  "},{"Title":"Truly mesmerizing, and scary at times...","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"63 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a big fan of Stephen King's work, and this film has made me an even greater fan of King. Pet Sematary is about the Creed family. They have just moved into a new house, and they seem happy. But there is a pet cemetery behind their house. The Creed's new neighbor Jud (played by Fred Gwyne) explains the burial ground behind the pet cemetery. That burial ground is pure evil. Jud tells Louis Creed that when you bury a human being (or any kind of pet) up in the burial ground, they would come back to life. The only problem, is that when they come back, they are NOT the same person, they're evil. Soon after Jud explains everything about the Pet Sematary, everything starts to go to hell. I wont explain anymore because I don't want to give away some of the main parts in the film. The acting that Pet Sematary had was pretty good, but needed a little bit of work. The story was one of the main parts of this movie, mainly because it was so original and gripping. This film features lots of make-up effects that make the movie way more eerie, and frightening. One of the most basic reasons why this movie sent chills up my back, was in fact the make-up effects. There is one character in this film that is truly freaky. That character is Zelda. This particular character pops up in the film about three times to be precise. Zelda is Rachel Creed's sister who passed away years before, but Rachel is still haunted by her. The first time Zelda appears in the movie isn't generally scary because she isn't talking or anything, but the second time is the worst, and to be honest, the second time scares the living **** out of me. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this movie, it is almost perfect. Pet Sematary delivers great scares, some pretty good acting, first rate plot, and mesmerizing make-up. This is truly one of most favorite horror films of all time. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An awesome premise, but it's not developed enough","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The underlying idea in Pet Sematary seems to be that when people are brought back from the dead, they have all their brains, but no souls. Definitely a cool idea, but for some reason it is never expanded, explained, or even mentioned. Theology aside, even the science of what's going on is unclear. How come Timmy, when raised from the dead, staggers around like your run-of-the-mill zombie, while little Gage actually seems smarter and suddenly knows how to operate a telephone? It's all very sloppily done. In fact, the only explanation at all for why the cemetery does what it does is that the ground is sour. Sorry, but that doesn't really cut it for me. If the movie had focused more on the mystery of the cemetery, it would have been a fantastic thriller. Unfortunately, it ditches the interesting stuff, and instead turns into a Tales of the Crypt episode about a crazy toddler with a knife.Of course, there's still a lot to like about this movie. If it's main intention is to scare you, it certainly does it's job. The scene with Zelda is one of the scariest things I've ever seen, and the death of Gage is very upsetting and hard to watch. The mysterious Judd is arguably one of the coolest movie characters of all time (and to be honest, I was so upset when he died, I completely lost interest in the rest). And while at first it seems a bit odd for a zombie with half his head missing to be the comic relief, somehow it works. But even though it has its good parts, not nearly enough attention is given to the intriguing premise, and it ultimately turns into a cheesy spook story. Too bad, because it could have been a lot more. "},{"Title":"one of King's creepiest, bone-curdling stories amid decent film-making","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the trivia section for Pet Sematary, it mentions that George Romero (director of two Stephen King stories, Creepshow and The Dark Half) was set to direct and then pulled out. One wonders what he would've brought to the film, as the director Mary Lambert, while not really a bad director, doesn't really bring that much imagination to this adaptation of King's novel, of which he wrote the screenplay. There are of course some very effective, grotesquely surreal scenes (mainly involving the sister Zelda, likely more of a creep-out for kids if they see the film), and the casting in some of the roles is dead-perfect. But something feels missing at times, some sort of style that could correspond with the unmistakably King-like atmosphere, which is in this case about as morbid as you're going to get without incestuous cannibals rising from the graves being thrown in (who knows if he'll save that for his final novel...) As mentioned though, some of the casting is terrific, notably Miko Hughes as Gage Creed, the little boy who goes from being one of the cutest little kids this side of an 80's horror movie, to being a little monster (I say that as a compliment, of course, especially in scenes brandishing a certain scalpel). And there is also a juicy supporting role for Fred Gwynne of the Munsters, who plays this old, secretive man with the right notes of under-playing and doom in tone. And applause goes to whomever did the make-up on Andrew Hubatsek. But there are some other flaws though in the other casting; Dale Midkiff is good, not great, as the conflicted, disturbed father figure Creed, and his daughter Ellie is played by an actress that just didn't work for me at all.In terms of setting up some chilling set-pieces, only a couple really stand-out a certain plot-thickening moment (not to spoil, it does involve a cool Ramones song), and the first visit to the pet sematary (the bigger one), including the sort of mystical overtones King had in the Shining. For the most part it's a very polished directing job, though it could've been made even darker to correspond with the script. If thought out in logical terms (albeit in King terms) it is really one of his more effective works of the period. But it doesn't add up like it could, or should. Still, it makes for a nifty little midnight movie. "},{"Title":"Best horror movie ever","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"84 out of 151 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best (if not the best) Stephen King's screenings. Dark as dark can be, surprising non-hollywood ending, terrifying atmosphere, amazing book adaptation, outstanding cast, educational (don't play with afterlife), in short - everything an excellent horror should be...My favorite horror movie, straight 10+. "},{"Title":"Pet Sematary . a good movie","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As this happens to be one of most favorite novels , I was very excited to see the move. I was not disappointed! Yes of course there are a few things that I could pick on , but I think that the movie stuck true to the book, and was a really good movie. It seems that Stephen King films mostly get a bad review , but this is one of the good ones. It is such a dark story , which I guess is why I like it .. and what is better than the dead coming to life.. and something about animals returning from the grave is quite creepy too. If you have seen the movie do yourself a huge favor and now read the book!! It is a well written screen play , the actors could have done a better job ( I only say this for Rachel , and Ellie .. she was so whinny ) I liked everyone else a lot.. and most important to me .. it stuck true with the novel. "},{"Title":"All in the Music","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"32 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Semetary (1989) 9/10 The Creed family have just moved into the small town of Ludlow. The family consists of a father, Louis, a mother, Rachel, a brother Gage, and a daughter, Ellen. They are greeted with kindness by Jud Crandall. Jud is 89, and could basically tell you about the entire history of Ludlow.Behind the Creed's new house, there is a path leading to a pet cemetery (spelled pet sematary). When Ellen wants to go up to see it, Jud willfully takes the family on a trip. That is the start of hell for the Creed family.When Rachel and the kids are gone, Ellen's cat Church dies. Jud feels that Ellen isn't ready for the death of her cat, so he suggests Louis follow him further up the path, past the pet cemetery.Jud tells Louis of this burial ground, once used by Micmac Indians. Louis buries Church, without Jud's help. A couple of days later, Church returns, alive, but from hell.This movie was one of two horror movies that could actually scare me, aside from The Exorcist. The greatest performance would ever be Zelda, Rachel's sister with spinal meningitis, or Victor Pascow, a ghost who tries to help the Creeds from making the mistake of bringing back things from the dead.The music in this movie plays an extravagant part. It is at the same time sad and mysterious. It goes along with the movie wonderfully.9/10 "},{"Title":"On the Road Again...","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby move to Maine with their two small children and cat in a big house on a highway with lots of truck traffic. Close at hand...is a pet cemetery where all the dogs and cats killed on the road are buried. Neighbor Fred Gwynne shows another cemetery with incredible powers just beyond...the power to reanimate the dead. Trouble is the dead are nothing like they once were. Although I have not read the book by Stephen King, he did write the screenplay and must have remained relatively faithful to his own work. The film has many flaws but is also worthwhile. Coincidence and some muddled flashbacks from the past help make the script somewhat erratic and implausible. The acting in the leads is OK, but in the second half really deteriorates. Fred Gwynne is literally and figuratively a cut above the rest. He gives a heartfelt performance as a man run down with time and over-burdened with knowledge he should or would not have. Brad Greenquist is also good in his role as a ghost. His character also causes some believability factors. Director Mary Lambert does do some things rather nicely. There are some well-shot scenes of the cemeteries. The peril of the trucks is made very real, and she also relies heavily on human emotion that is universal. At its heart, Pet Semetary is about loss, coping with loss, and grief, and what are some of the effects of not coping with those things well. The film has many suspenseful moments, and although the ending became a bit tiresome - still manages to keeps its mood and message throughout. Author Stephen King has an interesting cameo as a preacher! "},{"Title":"Sometimes, being dead is better.","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Louis Creed, a doctor from Chicago, moves to a large house near a small town, since he is going to be giving classes in the University of Maine's. Along with him, is his wife Rachel and their two kids, Ellie and Gage,as well as Ellie's cat, Church. Soon, they met their new neighbor,and old man named Judd Crandall.Judd not only warns Louis and Rachel about the danger that is the highway that runs past their house(that is constantly a way used by big trucks) but also show to the family a pet cemetery that is located near their house. Judd starts to talk about the importance of the pet cemetery, but Rachel is against to talk about death and spirituality with her children, since she has traumas from her sister Zelda's death.During the first week of the family in the new house, Louis already has dead people to deal with Victor Pascow, a student who has been fatally injured in an automobile accident, addresses his dying words to Louis personally, even though the two men are strangers. On the night following Pascow's death, Louis experiences what he believes is a very vivid dream in which he meets Pascow, who leads him to the pet cemetery and warns Louis to not go beyond, no matter how much you feel you need to. Louis wakes up in bed the next morning convinced it was only a dream, until he discovers his feet and the bedsheets covered with dirt and pine needles. Anyway, he dismisses the dream. Many strange things starts to happen and Church, Ellie's cat, dies while walking on the highway. Louis stays worried in how he is going to talk about Church's death with Ellie, but Judd, sympathizing with him, Jud takes Louis to the pet cemetery, supposedly to bury Church. But instead of stopping there, Jud leads Louis farther on a frightening journey to the real cemetery an ancient burial ground that was once used by the Micmac ('...Indians...'). There Louis buries the cat on Jud's instruction, with Jud saying that animals buried there have come back to life. And that is where the real horror story begins...I personally find this movie very good. It's not THE most horrifying of all, but it is one of the best horror movies I watched. The way Gage dies, is almost impossible to not stay in your memory, specially being a toddler. It's cool to see Stephen King's cameo as the minister of the funeral.Of course, there are some script errors How can a rich doctor with two small kids, goes to live in a place where there is a dangerous highway near his house? How Gage has no scratches or anything after being hit by a truck? Why Louis continues to resurrect every member of his family knowing they are all going to stay like monsters? Things like that doesn't make any sense, but I can understand that all horror's scripts needs to have some surreal ideas to work.A good thing I saw in this movie, is the necessity to talk about death with the children, no matter what is your religion or if you are an atheist, and also that avoiding important subjects doesn't help anything. Because of Louis being afraid to be honest with Ellie, confronting her and saying that her cat wouldn't be back again, all the nightmare began. "}{"Title":"One of Stephen King's best.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a fairly big fan of most of the films that have been based on Stephen King's books - this one rates as one of the scariest and most memorable.I have just finished rewatching it for about the tenth time and I still find it heart-wrenching as well as scary.The scene where Gage is on a sure collision course with the monster truck is one which stands out.  And the No fair  uttered by little Miko Hughes near the end is a touch of brilliance. "},{"Title":"Good Horror Film, The Book Was Better Though.","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary is an adaptation from the Stephen King novel of the same title. The story follows the Creeds - an all American, middle-class family, who move into a house out in the country. The family consists of Louis and Rachel, and their two young children, Ellie and their toddler son, Gage. The house couldn't be better, and the family meets a strange but friendly old man, Jud, who lives across the road. He leads them down an old path into the woods one day where a pet graveyard lies - filled with a huge amount of animal graves. And just beyond there, lies a sacred Indian burial ground that seems to possess a strange power. When the family cat, Church, is killed, Louis sees it fit to bury him in the pet cemetery - and strangely enough, soon after, Church returns to life. But there's something evil about him now, he isn't the same cat he used to be. And when a tragic accident takes the life of young Gage, Louis decides to apply the same concept in hopes of reviving his dead son... unfortunately, he gets more than he bargained for.Having read Stephen King's novel, I can say that the book is much better than the film. Not to say the movie is bad, because it isn't - the book is just a little bit better. The real strength in this film lies in it's story, which is both bizarre but extremely original, something that King's stories are typically known for. The script is very well adapted from the story, and while it minorly differs in some aspects, it's a pretty good page-to-screen transformation. There are a few plot holes here and there, nothing major though. Besides that, this movie is actually pretty scary, and it succeeds in it's intention to do so. There are some really disturbing scenes throughout the film, and I'd have to say that the flashback sequence of Rachel's sister Zelda is the number one. Honestly, that is one of the most disgusting, disturbing things I've ever seen in a horror film - it's not gory and bloody, it's just flat out sickening. One thing's for sure, that image won't leave your head anytime soon.The performances in this film were all very up to par and I really had no problem there. This film is actually on the gory side, there are plenty of nasty little sequences to please all of the gore hounds out there, including the shocker of an ending. I really liked the way they ended the film, it was abrupt and somewhat inconclusive, but it worked better that way with all things considered.Overall, Pet Sematary is a good horror movie that I'd recommend to those who are fans of either Stephen King or just fans of the genre in general. The story is the film's greatest asset and it's a creepy one too. One of the better Stephen King adaptations I'd say. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Underrated little shocker","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERUnderrated little Stephen King shocker.  It's not perfect, by any stretch of the imagination--even if the limp performances of Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby were better, there'd still be the mismanaged mystical story elements to contend with.  The old Micmac burial ground, Rachel's terminally ill sister, and the Jacob-Marley-an Victor Pascow never really come together into anything coherent, and the film in places feels confused and overstuffed.  But few horror movies really are perfect, and what this one may lack in other areas it makes up for in its willingness to shock.  `Pet Sematary' may actually be one of the cruelest horror films in recent memory, with its murderous zombie baby and its insanely insensitive portrayal of Zelda.  It's politically incorrect, it's tasteless, it's gratuitous--and yet it makes us squirm with revulsion in a way `safer' horror movies never can.  Add to that one of Fred Gwynne's best performances and Mary Lambert's witty direction, and you have an intensely satisfying scary movie--even with the hokey ending.  Highly recommended for genre fans.  7.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Sticks to the book, but loses A LOT","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Louis Creed and his family move into a new house in Maine when Louis gets a job as a doctor in a local school. They meet a kindly old man, Judd, living across the street from them, who tells them about a burial ground where kids bury their pets. However, when the family cat is hit by a truck, Louis doesn't want his daughter pained about the death of the cat she loves and Judd knows this, so he tales Louis beyond the 'Pet Sematary' to an old American Indian burial ground and miraculously the cat is revived, but it is not the same old friendly cat... and things get really bad when Louis baby boy is accidentally killed. He knows that reviving him won't bring the same boy back, but is it better than not having a son at all?From the first scene right up to the last, this film sticks right with the book with literally no deviation. Not a surprise, since Stephen King himself wrote the screenplay and oversaw production. That makes a for a faithful adaptation that is pretty compelling, but those who read the book will see just how much better it is. Many anecdotes, supporting characters, and scenes have been chopped off. The overall tone is less tense and the dramatic elements seriously down played. While that pretty much comes standard with most book-to-screen adaptations, it is always annoying when the book is so freakin' good!But overall this is a decent adaptation that still keeps certain strengths of its source. 6/10Rated R violence/gore "},{"Title":"Sometimes, READ Is Better...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Making a book into a movie by following the story page-by-page is NEVER a good idea. When people read the book, they automatically start making their own mental movie of who the characters look like, the places they exist in, how the situations progress. And everybody's mind's-eye opus is different, which is why when the 'REAL' movie finally comes out, you're always going to have a ticked-off segment of the movie-going audience who are disappointed that it just doesn't measure up.All a screenwriter and a director can hope to accomplish is whatever their own vision of the movie is, and hope that it comes as close as possible to what their audience is expecting to see.There is no better case for this situation than the movies based on the novels of Stephen King. When filmmakers capture at least the essence of his stories, the results can be breathtaking and truly terrifying (CARRIE, 'SALEM'S LOT, THE DEAD ZONE), or they can be what fans consider to be a gawd-awful mess (Kubrick's version of THE SHINING; the miniseries for IT and THE TOMMYKNOCKERS). Although it's not even close to being the perfect King adaptation, PET SEMATARY has so many moments of just skin-and-bone-deep unease that seemed to have bled onto the screen directly from the book, that you can pretty much forgive its shortcomings. For that, we have music video-turned-film director Mary Lambert to thank, (she also directed SIESTA, not exactly a horror movie, but another freaky-as-hell must-see you should put on your list), working from a screenplay by the 'Man-ster' Himself, and probably one of his better ones.Since the majority of you know the story, I won't put you to sleep with too many of the details. Dr. Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff) has moved his family out to the perfect house in the country. Well, almost perfect, except for two nasty little details the dangerously busy stretch of interstate highway out in front, and the large pet cemetery in the woods out back. Since Louis is a veterinarian and has a young toddler for a son...well, even if you haven't read the book, do the frickin' math. It IS a King story, after all, so no mystery where this is headed. It's not so much the destination that counts here, but the spooky stops along the way. Certain scenes that are so familiar from the book are brought to shivery, scream-inducing life here Rachel Creed's (STAR TREK'S Denise Crosby) horrific memory of her terminally ill, crippled sister; Louis's encounters with the mortally injured jogger Victor Pascow (Brad Greenquist), both before and after his death; the trip into the other cemetery beyond the pet cemetery. And that third act...if it doesn't give you a few nightmares, maybe you should check your pulse.Good performances by all here, especially the late Fred Gwynne as the well-intentioned neighbor, Jud Crandall, who gets the best line in the story that sums it all up Sometimes, dead is better.About the only problem with the movie version is the casting of Louis's son, Gage (Miko Hughes). Knowing that it would be damn near impossible to get the kind of performance needed from a kid that age to seal the deal on this, Lambert and crew still did the best they could, and unfortunately, Hughes at the time was just too damn CUTE to sell his intended role as an evil, demon-possessed zombie. This takes you out of the movie whenever he shows up, though the scenes where he's featured are still masterfully staged, (especially Gwynne's death scene.)Other than that, everything else is still about as good as it gets. CARRIE still holds the title for best King adaptation as far as I'm concerned; but SEMATARY is right up there in the Top Five.Still, will anything adapted for the screen based on a King book be as terrifying as reading the story? Not BLOODY likely...for now. "},{"Title":"The book was so much better","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While Pet Sematary wasn't too bad (At least, it wasn't so bad as other adaptations of any Stephen King book into a movie, and it was certainly much better than the awful sequel) I think that this film doesn't make any justice to the original book, which was darker and more complex.That being said, I think that, at least, Pet Sematary was somewhat entertaining to watch, despite (Or maybe because of) some cheesy scenes (Particularly the ending, which includes a laughable special effect failure) On the other side, the atmosphere was pretty well done, there were a couple of interesting scenes, and Fred Gwynne was perfect in the Jud Crandall role.I guess that it could have been much worse. (Like Pet Sematary II.) But there are much better adaptations of the books written by Stephen King, such as the original Carrie film, The Shining, Misery and 1408. "},{"Title":"Good Thrilling Horror","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary is actually a pretty decent horror film. It's not perfect but it is scary at times. It has a mysterious look and feel to the film along with its story that kept me engrossed in it.This is one of the types of films that will have you thinking about bringing back a deceased loved one or beloved pet in real life. Yet I don't think I would want to bring them back to life like in this movie - that would be terrifying.In some ways this movie is a bit sad the loss of a child - not just a beloved pet. This is where the movie draws you in closer and gets very scary.Yes this is a good horror film that is worth watching - just have your popcorn ready before hand ;) 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Better than average Stephen King adaptation","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary is a late-eighties adaptation of Stephen King's horror novel, and King himself wrote the screenplay for the film. The film follows the Creed family, recently moved from Chicago to a small town called Ludlow, Maine. The main plot concerns an ancient Micmac Indian burial ground close by, which has the power to make the dead living again, albeit as horrible zombies.In my opinion, Stephen King movies usually works very well as mini-series because the characters are more fleshed out and their inner lives are explored more thoroughly. There's no time for this here though, so the characters feels a bit hollow and we don't get to know them all that well.Relative unknown Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby lead the pretty anonymous cast, the best acting performance of the movie is Fred Gwynne as old-timer Jud Crandall.Overall, this plays pretty much like a standard horror flick, more or less, with average acting but with a better-than-average script and it builds tension well. Top marks to the makeup department though, for making the zombies look pretty good. "},{"Title":"Rather huge missed opportunity","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Moving to a new home in the Maine countryside, a man finds a special burial ground behind his house and tries to use it to save his family only for things to take a wrong turn when the returned beings aren't the way they were before.A rather curious affair, as this one's reputation tends to make it far better than it really is and seems to have gotten by based on rather dubious merits. Although there's a fine cast and certainly worthwhile talents behind-the-scenes, this one's more a product of those elements rather than what's on-screen since not too much actually happens since this one tends to abandon what had been rather fine material with the cursed burial ground and his growing realization of the area's powers, but this is abandoned in favor of family melodrama which really isn't that interesting or exciting at all. That seems to be what the film is mostly going for since there's very little scares or chilling moments since the first burial doesn't occur until nearly an hour into the film, and very little happens once that starts becoming common-place. While it does have some pretty decent killings and bloodletting on display, especially once it gets to its end where the action really kicks in and are even treated to a spectacular burning-the-house down finale, the main focus on actually offing a child seems to be the main selling point here and what happens once that plays a part in the plot, not based on any other real determining factor. This one's gotten by on reputation rather than anything else.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult Language, and Adult Themes about death. "},{"Title":"Stephen King should always write scripts for adaptations of his novels","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie script was written by the original author, so the point and lesson of the story remains instead of turning into mindless horror. This movie is also definitely a treat to a fan of psychological horror and I believe to a fan of gore too. There is not much of gore but the little there is, is very...impressive.I was delighted to see how dynamically he got the entire point of the story and every crucial element into the first five minutes of the film. All of it happening during a sunny day in a relatively happy atmosphere, sets a fine mood to the movie; we get the feeling that this idyllic happy family is going to go through hell in an unusual way. And because it and the scene, crucially involves an innocent little baby, most people get emotionally drawn in immediately.Although it made it impossible to portray Wendigo even nearly the way it is in the novel while possessing the bodies, I was glad that they cast a 2-year old child as Gage. Because it is highly important for emotional effect that the child was a baby. And I consider that more important for a movie than having a full-blown Wendigo portrayed, even for horror. The only thing that bothers me is that Gage looks like he died quickly of some inner cause instead of an ugly death by a high-speeding truck. There is no way anyone could repair a toddler's body that perfectly after such a death. To have it come off even semi-believable, they should not have shown the full grown man so horribly mangled by a truck and thus create an illogical contrast.But, because showing Victor Pascow is crucial to the story and there is no way you could stuff the needed make-up on a toddler without torturing him and making it impossible for him to have patience to play nice, the beautiful baby body is excusable and doesn't distract too much. And what Wendigo-Gage did to the old guy was disturbing enough anyway, perhaps even more so with the angelic baby looks than it would've been if he'd looked like the zombie he was.The creepiest movie character ever; Zelda. In the novel she's actually a 10-year old child but here they had her be a full-grown woman although portrayed by a man...Anyway, I hated the Zelda-bits even in the novel, so I really did not enjoy them in a visual form in a movie. She's just TOO creepy in all fate, looks and the insane mentality and the things she says. Be warned; she is VERY disturbing and scary in this movie. Not as much in the novel.The story's point of how far a human being may go in his/her deepest and most immense grief, and how much horror a human mind can take before it goes insane...and most importantly the lesson of how sometimes dead is better...are the reasons why this story is worth knowing to anyone who can stand horror at all. Because I don't think there is any better way to make those matters clear, than this story's way is. It all just hits home perfectly well and memorably. Those basic points and the lesson this story tries to teach, are the reason why this is worth watching over and over again and isn't as disturbing and sick as this otherwise might be. Of course also the great actors add to the worthiness of watching. Especially Gage's, Louis' and Pascow's actors are spot-on. But Ellie's is rather awful...but bearable.The basic points and the lesson are brought up relatively well in this movie adaptation, but I think could've been done better if they'd dug more into the minds of the characters, at least by voice-over narrating or something.I'm not gonna spoil the ending but just want to say that the ending is hands down the most important part of a story because if the ending is utterly changed, the very essence of the story utterly changes, and therefore if you're not going to respect the ending of an author's story, there is no point in adapting the story into a movie at all. In most adaptations of King's novels, they change the ending. But not this time! This script was written by King himself. Thus, not only is this movie respectfully novel-faithful all in all but indeed the ending is what it should be; just like it is in the novel apart from one addition. But since it was by the same author, it doesn't count as a change of that kind. (And minus Gage's character who is much tamer in this movie than in the novel, but it's excusable because you can ask only so much of an actor who's at toddler age.) Sooo, this movie including the ending ought to be delightful for the fans of the novel and should creep the ever-loving crap out of also those who don't know the novel.Denise Crosby, (Rachel Creed's actress), has an interesting idea about the ending, which she revealed in the 20th Anniversary Reunion. After you hear that, you might enjoy this movie even more because it changes the way you look at its horror aspect, into a quite fascinating point of view. (Her idea is only her personal interpretation, NOT necessarily Stephen King's vision.)Hence the intense and in some sense disturbing horror aspect of this brilliant and deep story, you'll be happier if you don't watch this or even read the novel. But hence the basic points and lessons of the story, it is not all bad and can be essentially enjoyable. Consider carefully which format you can take without regretting the decision, or if you'd better just study the story without personally reading/watching it. "}{"Title":"Dead certainly would've been better in the case of this film.","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Once upon a time, Stephen King novels and short stories were adapted to the screen and told by top notch directors using A-list actors. Fine performances and good films were created.Then they got greedy and every novel was rushed to the screen, made by any available director and portrayed by anyone they could afford.There are thankfully, notable exceptions(Stand by Me, Misery, The Green Mile) but most renderings have been terrible.And here we are. Mary Lambert created several stylish music videos for Madonna, but I'm afraid her direction on Pet Semetary shows her inexperience.Dale Midkiff, familiar for his appearances in cinematic and episodic television, mumbles and drawls his way through a very poorly drawn character.Denise Crosby, the wife/mother, is a favorite of mine from Star Trek - The Next Generation (Tasha Yar). Perhaps she's a contract Paramount player and took this after her STTNG stint. She certainly does try to deliver, but it's not very effective within the confines of this slopfest.Fred Gwynne is fine as the on screen narrator and is enjoyable until the end.The child actors aren't all that effective. Even the cat leaves me cold.The ending is just silly, and most everything leading up to it is dumb. Child's Play meets Psycho crossed with Night of the Living Dead.Somebody made this and it was rejected by Tales From the Crypt. However, instead of leaving it dead in the ground, this film's production team dug it up and placed it in the pet semetary.The rotten junk that crawled out is what we're forced to view.3/10. "},{"Title":"One of the worst King adaptations...","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love Stephen King. Really. His novels are masterpieces; his short stories are fully conceived and lovingly written with a healthy dash of the macabre. But he really should stop writing screenplays. This, having finally read the book, has to be the worst adaptation of any of his books. Not only is this movie NOT scary in the least (with the possible exception of possessed Gage), it fails to take advantage of any of the suspenseful parts of the book (i.e. the trip to the burial ground) and fails to develop any of the VERY well-drawn characters from the book. It's as though Stephen took the Cliffs notes to his own book and handed them to one of the most inept directors to make Hollywood cliché-riddled drivel with sub-par actors (with the exception of Herman Munster). (Dale Midkiff has since, thankfully, disappeared...). "},{"Title":"Could have been SO much better","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a horror movie fan, I must say that this one just didn't do it for me. Pet Sematary is my single favorite King book with The Shining and Carrie being numbers 2 and 3 respectively, both of which were made into real winners of films, but this one is a steaming pile. The direction was almost as bad as a Ewe Boll film, and it may as well have had a bunch of store mannequin as actors with the exception of Fred Gwynne as Jud Crandall-the ONLY redeeming part of this film. Preposterously stilted dialog (written by King himself!) delivered in a totally unbelievable and stilted way by the worst cast in film history, directed by Mary Lambert who must have been using a baseball bat on the actors makes this a really painful experience. If you have read the book, STEER CLEAR of this film- you'll probably curse King, Lambert and yourself for being led by the nose into this real bomb. I have an idea. Let Lambert and Boll work together on a new film. At least it will give us something to write about here in the IMDb comment boards. Actually, I have another idea. This film should be shown to film making students in a class titled DON'T DO IT THIS WAY! Utter Garbage. If King were dead, he'd probably rise up just to burn this drek. "},{"Title":"Revolting horror film","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A family with dad Louis (Dale Midkiff), mom Rachel (Denise Crosby), 10 year old Eileen (Blaze Berdalh and about 3 year old Gage (Miko Hughes) move to this beautiful house in Maine--seemingly unaware of the semis that roar down the highway in front of their house every 90 seconds or so! The neighbor across the way (the wonderful Fred Gwynne) makes them feel at home...and shows them a pet cemetery where children bury their pets. But a little further on is a sacred ground which can bring the dead back to life...but the dead come back in a nasty mood.DEFINITE SPOILERS** The novel by Stephen King was good--it was long but it developed characters and situations that made you care what happened. This movie jettisons ALL the character development and just plays up the gore and violence. Animals are killed ON camera (I know it's faked but it's still repulsive); a little boy is hit by a semi and his casket pops open during the funeral (in a totally sick scene); he's brought back to life and attacks and kills people including his mom (I DO wonder how a 3 year old was able to hang her); a ghostly jogger (don't ask) tries to help the family for no reason...The movie just works the audience over shoving every gruesome death or violence into your face. It just goes out of its way to shock you. **END SPOILERS**Acting is no help. Midkiff is just dreadful as the father--he's handsome and buff but totally blank. Crosby isn't much better. The two kids are just annoying. Only Gwynne single-handedly saves this picture with his effortless good acting. This picture shows a total contempt for the audience taking large leaps in logic and having characters do incredibly stupid things (especially Midkiff at the end). This movie was (inexplicably) a huge box office hit in 1989 which led to the even worse sequel in 1992. I saw it in a theatre back then and was disturbed how the audience kept cheering on the violence and was just appalled by what I saw. A sick repulsive horror film. A 1 all the way.When you think it's all over and can't get worse the Ramones sing a title song!!!!!! (I don't wanna be buried in a pet cemetery). Truly beyond belief. "},{"Title":"Veers between moments of creepy tension and too many moments of goofy horror","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary is another screen adaptation of a novel by Stephen King - interestingly King actually adapted the screenplay for this film. The sight of the words 'screenplay by Stephen King' across the screen during the opening credits filled me with some confidence and I was honestly expecting Pet Sematary to be a decent offering, but I was so disappointed when the film finished....I think the problem with some of King's adaptations is that they perhaps work better in some cases when the ideas are confined to books. When reading a book (in this case a horror book) you can use your imagination to try to envisage how some of the evil characters may look and sometimes your imagination can possibly conjure up terrifying images - this could mean something as basic as an evil cat trying to intimidate a family could potentially evoke some fear for a reader. However, when this concept is put to screen it doesn't quite work so well - the sight of a cat snarling, growling and flashing yellow eyes just isn't particularly scary, but it has to be said that it is quite a creepy effect. There are other problems such as the undead guy who keeps popping up now and again to give random warnings to Louis & Rachel Creed - this guy is presumably supposed to be creepy and scary, but when seeing him on screen it actually comes across as being more goofy and funny. It's arguable as to whether his presence is necessary in the film at all, but he's not exactly a terrifying presence.As with other King adaptations it seems that 'family dynamics' are important and it's made clear here that this family are the perfect example of a typical Surburban family - they're actually superficially and nauseatingly happy at the start which has probably been done deliberately to make us care more when things start to fall apart for the family. This works to an extent as the family are generally likable, but they're so superficial and poorly developed that I didn't find myself caring for them as people anywhere near as much as I should do. The family dynamics are a bit syrupy here, but they're nowhere near as bad as they were in Cujo which was basically a soap opera for the first two thirds of its run time. In some ways the heavy 'family dynamics' are a problem again because they prevent the film flowing well and as a result it's another King horror adaptation that drags badly and frequently (despite only running for around 95 minutes).King and director Mary Lambert do up the ante in the final third and these scenes provide some of the creepiness and tension that I'd hoped for. The idea that the dead people come after those that they feel are responsible for their death created an interesting angle in the narrative, but sadly it's barely explored and although the final scenes are well-staged and fairly suspenseful I do feel that it barely explored its own concepts leaving the narrative a little threadbare. As a side note, the film also looks cheap and has a real 'TV Movie' feel about it which didn't really help to be honest. Oh yeah and the ending was beyond weird!!!!! For me, this stacks up as one of the weaker King adaptations, but for what it's worth I still thought that it was slightly better than both Cujo and Christine. "},{"Title":"not particularly scary or that compelling","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff) and his wife Rachel (Denise Crosby) move from Chicago to a rural home with their young family. Neighbor Jud Crandall (Fred Gwynne) pulls their infant son out of the road traveled by heavy trucks. There is a path behind their house that leads to a pet cemetery. A dead patient's spirit warns Louis about crossing the barrier. When the family cat gets run over, Jud brings Louis to a secret place with strange markings to bury the cat. The next morning, the cat returns alive and then neighbor Missy Dandridge commits suicide. When his young son gets killed by a truck, Louis dares to break the barrier once more.Director Mary Lambert doesn't have quite the vision to bring some style to this Stephen King story. To be fair, the material is not a straight forward slasher movie until the last act. The first two acts are an examination of death. It does not do it with any intensity or moodiness. It looks more like a TV movie. The creepy killer child is very effective but I don't think Dale Midkiff is a particularly good actor. "},{"Title":"One of Stephen Kings best film adaptions.","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I would never say any Stephen King book is confusing. He has an easy style that's easy to read. It is true that The Stand from 1978 and Under the Dome from 2009 are both thousand pages novels and have a lot depth but with these books you have know to know what you are getting yourself into. Along with Cujo, Pet Sematary is King's simplest novel with both an easy plot and it is one of my favorite books of all times. The plot involves a family moving into rural Maine with the property right beyond an Indian burial ground with a pet cemetery and the family does not know that the both are going to tear the family apart.Following the same plot to the movie, I've always loved the Pet Sematary from 1989. This is the type of horror to introduce people into the genre and other King's adaptations. Pet Sematary is filled with so many interesting scenarios that they are worth noting.A) It is directed by Mary Lambert who's career highlight is sadly only this but she was a female director doing horror which is not a common thing.B) With a cast of Dale Midkiff as Louis Creed and Denise Crosby as Rachel Creed, this is a film that led by lesser names. The biggest name you are going to find here would have to be Fred Gwynne known for The Munsters. Still, the quality of the acting is nowhere close to being an issue here anyway you look at it.C) This is filled with some of the most bizarre and creepiest scene of child killing of child actor Miko Hughes. Hughes is a child actor who's legacy is those scenes and for his role in Kindergarten Cop.D) Let's also not forgot the plot element involving the dead sister of Zelda which adds to the creepiness level and it tackles the concept of death quite nicely. And yes, Zelda is played by Andrew Hubatsek, a male actor which is really is something else and maybe not surprising.E) It's quite forgotten the eerie atmosphere this film provides. One part is a lake in the back of the family's house and there is also a house that's very dated but has a nice late 80's touch. The house is off a main road where trucks are known to speed which is the site where killing happens to animals and people too. Last but not least is the pet sematary and Indian burial ground which involve some pretty original sets. With the song Pet Sematary by The Ramones rolling once the credits hit, I would really go as far as to say that Pet Sematary is one of the most important horror film around. It has one central idea and also puts a lot more into the subplots. This is impressive horror indeed and one of Stephen Kings best film adaptions. "},{"Title":"The soil in a man's heart is stonier.","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Behind a young family's home in Maine is a terrible secret that holds the power of life after death. When tragedy strikes, the threat of that power soon becomes undeniable. The Creeds have just moved to a new house in the countryside. Their house is perfect, except for two things the semi-trailers that roar past on the narrow road, and the mysterious cemetery in the woods behind the house. The Creed's neighbours are reluctant to talk about the cemetery, and for good reason too. It is as heart-wrenching as well as scary. The tone is dark and oppressive, and this movie is ultimately about tragedy, death and the destruction of a once happy and hopeful family. All the actors play their roles greatly, especially Midkiff (Louis) who gets increasingly numb and devoid of emotion as tragedy after tragedy takes his family from him. If you are looking for a horror movie that takes itself and the subject matter seriously, while also accompanied by worthy acting and directing, look no further than this title. "},{"Title":"And the night when the cold wind blows, No one cares, nobody knows.","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Stephen King novel from which the screenplay was adapted very nearly didn't see the light of day. It was actually written by King based on a real place and instances during a stay at a rented house. He was never quite happy with the tone of the book and only submitted it as a contractual obligation. Glad he did because it provides a very solid grounding for horror and deals with the very real horrors of overwhelming grief.The film gets the tonal flows right, the family dynamic is neatly pitched in readiness for what is to come later, the house and the titular Pet Sematary of the title are eerie personified, and Fred Gwynne is on hand for a sage old characterisation. The potential for shattering horror is not fully realised, yet the makers deliver a good quota of scares and unease to make this a better than average King adaptation to screen. The use of the Ramones in the soundtrack is a good one, King loved them, they loved him, so much so they wrote the title track and named an album after it. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"You want to watch out for that road after you watch out for this movie","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a movie night with my best buds and this movie, I was reminded of what Stephen King is best at slow, creeping, unpredictable characters and motives. I had seen bits and pieces of the movie before, but I never really became engaged in it, possibly because of it's supposedly obvious plot. However, the pieces of the story that freaked out a number of my friends were nothing they could have guessed. Case in point Zelda, Gage, and Pascow. Wow. This freaked them out entirely, to the point of one of my friends admitting that Zelda screwed up his childhood dreams for many years when he was taken to the film as a child.The music was not your typical brooding, synthesizer-pad, horror movie score all the way either, with The Ramones writing a punk rock song for the film and having another of their hits jamming in the truck-driver's cab. The cat they got to play as Church (the family cat) was an amazing animal-actor (I guess you could say), and the effect they used on the eyes was really cool.The plot is almost half-given away by the cover art and title, so I'm trying to leave out as much as possible, but it seems that the story was more about past guilt and trying to make amends with your guilty conscience by bringing things back, to save them and your guilt. It's an excellent thought, but as Fred Gwynne puts it, Sometimes dead is better.Go rent it the next time you feel like a horror movie and see a nice twist on the zombie/ghost genre. It's a classic. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Film adaptations of Stephen King's work don't fit into the category Good that often. Most of them are better classified as Not very good while a handful can be filed under Great (step forward Frank Darabont and take a bow). However, Pet Sematary is good.Louis Creed and his family (wife, daughter, toddler son) move to a new town their new house is next to a road which enormous trucks roar up and down, so you just know this is not going to end well. When the daughter's cat is duly smacked into oblivion by a truck, kindly old next door neighbour Jud shows Louis that if you bury things in the old Micmac burial ground behind the Pet Sematary on the hillside, well, they come back. 'Course, they don't exactly come back in exactly the way they were before they died... Nonetheless, when toddler Gage is injudicous enough to play chicken with a truck (and lose), Louis gives in to temptation. Further unpleasantness ensues.This follows King's novel quite closely, albeit it beefs things up with some supernatural special effects, and underplays what, for me, was the most nightmarish part of the novel, namely Louis' expedition to recover Gage's body so that he can rebury it up in the Indian burial ground.The adaptation is solid, the creepiness and scares are there, the cast is all good (especially Fred Gwynne - Dale Midkiff is a little bland), and the film keeps King's ending, I'm glad to say.This is a decent horror film with a good sense of escalating awfulness. "},{"Title":"Creepy story  , nasty deeds and morbid scenes by the master Stephen King","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Supernatural terror for a curse caused by a cemetery against a happy family. The Creed family formed by the father , a successful doctor named Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff) , mother (Denise Crosby) and two sons has moved to a little community, at Maine place , but shortly after they move , their son is murdered by a great truck that thunder pass near his newly purchased rural home . The father learns by a neighbor (Fred Gwynne) that there is a graveyard where you can bury your loved ones , and then he plans come back to life his kid ; as he attempts to revive his three-years-old little boy with the magical resurrecting qualities of an Indian burial ground . He takes his son to this location, and he is brought back to life . It seems all is well again, until the son kills a person. Now, he has to find out a manner to stop his child before he murders other people . Louis is shocked to discover that danger and horror lurks .The big success at box-office ¨Pet Sematary¨ was written by Stephen King , who sometimes writes under pseudonym Richard Bachman and based on horror master bestselling novel of the same title . The Paramount Pictures took the production with interesting script by Stephen King. Casting is frankly decent, Dale Midkiff as grief-stricken daddy , Denise Crosby as affecting mummy , but the honor acting goes to Fred Gwynne as untrusted neighbor . And of course , brief performance of Stephen King , an usual cameo , as church minister . The film displays adequate musical score fitting to terror and suspense by Elliot Goldenthal . The motion picture is professionally directed by Mary Lambert though seem doesn't improve in the transition from page to screen and fails the visualising of complex narrative plot by means of confuse flashbacks . She also realized the following (1992) , much worse than original, with Edward Furlong , Anthony Edwards and Clancy Brown , causing similar terror and same kind of gore as the previous movie . The result is better than previous Stephen King adaptation, the mediocre, Running man . King movies rendition are converting as prolific as his novels, from ¨Creepshow¨ along with ¨Cats's eye¨, ¨Silver bullet¨,¨Maximum overdrive¨ unique directed by King and various TV take on as ¨Rose red, The storm of the century,The stand,Golden years and Langoliers¨ have been numerous his adaptations. Rating  Passable and acceptable ,well worth watching for Stephen King fonds. "},{"Title":"One of the Better King Stories","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A doctor (Dale Midkiff) and his family move to a new home, dangerously close to a busy highway. After the death of the family cat, the doctor's neighbor lets him in on a secret there is a sacred Indian burial ground where buried pets come back to life. The obvious question is does it work on people? Not to say this is a bad film (it's not), but the thing about this one is that its reputation and cultural impact have overshadowed the film itself. We all know that burying things in the sacred ground will bring them back to life, and that's without even having to see this film.There is much good to say about this one an amazing talent in Gage Creed, the little boy. Some nice violence and gore (including an Achilles tendon slice). One of the most painful things I've seen on film, when the doctor falls out of bed (I admit I winced a bit).Mike Mayo points out that this is something of a variation on The Monkey's Paw, and we agree it's a praiseworthy version. He says the film lasts 30 seconds too long, and I see his point, but cannot comment on that here. Howard Maxford is considerably more critical (as usual -- he is the most negative horror critic I know) and says it is over-extended and could have made a good half hour of television.Stephen King has made some good films and some bad ones (how much this is his fault or the fault of the directors is debatable). This falls firmly in the good category. Not among his very best (Shawshank Redemption is number one), but still worth a few watches. "},{"Title":"Very good adaptation from the master of macabre","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King is my all time favourite horror author, I love all of his books that I have read, Pet Sematary is one of them.I thought they did well with the film. Actors were good and did well with the suspense and horror and keeping it close to the book.There were a few bits from the book that were missing in the film that I recognised. I understand because it would make the film 5 days long.I also realised that made the film a lot more graphic than the book.Stephen King did an excellent job writing the book and doing the screenplay, Mary Lambert did well at directing the film.They make a good team together. "},{"Title":"Scared you, didn't I?","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Stephen King had second thoughts before releasing Pet Sematary upon the world. He thought it was too dark and depressing. Director Mary Lambert did his vision justice. Pet Sematary is one of the eeriest, most nightmarish movies in the horror genre. Dale Midkiff stars as Louis Creed. He's just moved his family into the perfect home, except for the creepy cemetery that's basically in his backyard. But beyond that cemetery there is another burial site; one that brings life back to the dead. And Louis Creed finds many uses for it. Miko Hughes is too scary as the dead child brought back. His dialogue and his age give him one of the scariest images in film history. Forget Freddy and Jason, this kid will give you nightmares. First I play with Jud, then I play with mommy. Now I want to play with youuuu. That's one of the scariest things that you're apt to hear. And his no fair speech gives me the creeps. I can't say enough about Fred Gwynne as Jud Crandall. The guy is pitch-perfect here. His ominous warning that sometimes dead is better goes unheard by our main character. And many suffer for it. On a lighter note, Pet Semetary is a dark and nihilistic view of life and death. You know that there can't possibly be a happy ending to this movie after viewing the first half hour. The main character can't possibly redeem himself after all he does. One person can only screw up so many times. It's not a movie to watch if you're contemplating the meaning of life. But if you're in the mood for a rocking, scary as all hell horror flick, you can't go wrong with Pet Sematary. "},{"Title":"King does it again","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now, I haven't read the original short story to know all the literary points that went wrong here, so I'm not going to go down that path here.But I have some time ago learnt that Stephen King movies simply -are not- horror films, with perhaps a couple of exceptions. This was not one of them. It started well enough, and for once I'm not going to complain about the acting, although Fred Gwynne was as usual wonderful.. Also I will forgive the total lack of parenting skills, as they were necessary to make the story here move forward...But there was one consistent point that I couldn't help but get annoyed with. And that came pretty close to the end of the movie, and at least 2 characters partook in the activity of dumb stupidity. The moments I refer to are thus There is a tiny zombie running around the house. You suspect it is under the bed. Do you (a) get as close to the bed as you can before blindly raising the duvet cover up, exposing pretty much your whole body to whatever damage such a teeny undead cannibal might inflict on you, or (b) move a little away from the bed so you can peer under the completely open end from a position of slightly increased safety, or at least see the mini terror coming at you, giving you a little reaction time.I know, let's go with (a). I feel like offering myself up for the slaughter today. BlehFun enough film though... Just not very scary. "},{"Title":"This Should Have Been Buried IN the Pet Semary!","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I find it disheartening that so many of King's masterpieces were treated so badly in their film adaptations...and perhaps it's mostly because his books are too complex to adapt well to film...I'm not sure. Delores Claiborne, Stand By Me, Misery, Carrie, Shawshank Redemption, The Shining, and the Green Mile all did well. Then we are treated to stinkers like IT, Maximum Over-drive, Dreamcatchers, Thinner, The Running Man, Firestarter...and of course, this one.Did I forget to mention Stephen King's own remake of The Shining? He should have settled for the original.This film has all the feel of a made-for-TV movie or direct-to-video film...and, in fact, that's what it should have been. The film was terribly fast-paced and left out some of the more necessary plot elements of the book. They jumped into the darker elements way too quickly. There is barely a set up for the horror to come.That they left out Norma Crandall was very disappointing as she added to Judd's character so much. He's barely even interesting in the film. Fred Gwynn turned him into a goofy, drawling, old man. Over-acted. Not subtle at all, as his character was in the book.Ellie, the daughter, was a terrible actress. I am sure they could have found a better actress than her. She was whiny and abrasive and her lines were very forced and unnatural.Even the cinematography was badly done. Everything is way too bright for the plot line. Too many primary colors. It felt like they were on the set of a soap opera. At least it matches the acting of the principal characters.They tried to sew it all up with gory makeup effects, but set in the backdrop of a badly made film, it just makes the blood and gore goofy and laughable. The only way this film could be considered scary is with the cheap haunted-house BOO! scare tactics...like when a hand shoots out of the dark and grabs a shoulder.Why would they choose Mary Lambert to direct this film? She barely had any experience as a director before this gig and most of the experience she did have was with music videos. And, as expected, beyond this flop, she has barely done anything worth mentioning. Well, except for more music videos and the follow-up stinker sequel to this film.Let's hope the 2008 re-make is better. "},{"Title":"An Excellently Scary Night Out","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I should possibly be giving this movie a 10-out-of-10, I'm only giving it a 9 because I think this is my first review on this site.I look at the release date of this movie I must have been in my late 20's when I saw it I remember paying for the experience at a real movie theater. It scared the hell out of me, and had the same effect on me as The Exorcist (which I saw in my teens).So, if you are into seeing a movie that will keep you awake for the rest of the night and give you terrible nightmares this is the one for you. (Alternatively, if you have a girlfriend you need to dump and just don't know how have a cuddle and watch this together she'll do the rest of the work). "},{"Title":"Pet Sematary  (9/10)","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the most dark, gloomiest films that will put anyone in a serious damper is Mary Lambert's Pet Sematary. It was quite astonishing when I first learned a female directed this gruesome somber movie but it does have a personal, family-oriented atmosphere a women would incorporate. The story is amazingly written with obvious help from Stephen King who wrote the book prior. The characters are all real and fully developed, offering great dialogue and some incredibly chilling one-liners. The movie itself has a few terrifying moments, the most iconic scenes being the wife's memories of her sister Zelda. Lambert did a fantastic job of mixing up jump scares, tremendous gory make-up effects, and horrific moments the viewer anticipates. Pet Sematary is a phenomenal horror film, really underrated, and if someone is ever just in a little too good of a mood, watch this movie and it will no doubt go away. "},{"Title":"Sometimes, dead is better...","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of Stephen King's more memorable books (in my own, ever humble opinion), PET SEMATARY is likewise one of the more memorable movie adaptations- thanks in large part to Dale Midkiff as Louis Creed, who goes through a gradual and completely plausible on-screen deterioration. Fred Gwynne is just as memorable as neighborly neighbor Jud Crandall, who reveals the secret of the nearby Pet Sematary to Creed when the family cat, Church, dies. Jud suggests burying the cat in the old Micmac Indian burial ground in the woods beyond the pet cemetery. The next day, the cat returns... with Cattitude. Louis refuses at first to believe that the cat has been returned from the dead, that he must've buried the cat alive, but Jud points out You only stop melting the frost under where you're layin' when you're dead. Jud becomes visibly upset when Creed asks if anybody ever buried a person up there. At this point, Stephen King puts in a cameo as a priest at the funeral of the Creed housekeeper, Missy, who has committed suicide. We learn, too, that Creed's wife Rachel (Denise Crosby) had a sister, Zelda, who died of spinal meningitis, a dirty little secret, in the back room. In one of the scariest scenes in the movie, Rachel enters the Creed home to find her dead sister crouched in a corner of a bedroom. As she stares at the dead woman in horror, Zelda comes hunched over across the room at her/the camera. The first time I saw this one, it was THIS quick little scene that had me looking for the nearest exit; it's an extremely effective moment in a movie packed with memorable moments. Need something to chill the blood this Halloween? Give PET SEMATARY a look. "}{"Title":"Spooky and fun to watch","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Creeds are a happy family Louis the dad, Rachael the mom, Ellie the daughter, Church the pet cat and Gage the baby son. They move to a beautiful house in Maine, and meet their kindly neighbor Jud, an old man who has lived in the area his entire life. He warns about the Orinco chemical factory trucks that speed down the road day and night, and when the family discovers the Pet Sematary behind their house in the mes of woodland, Jud explains to Ellie that there is nothing to be afraid of there. After Church is run over in the road, Jud takes Louis further past the pet sematary into the old Micmac natives' burial ground to dispose of the cat. The next day it comes back to life and jumps out at Louis while he's in the crawlspace. It also leaves a dead rat in the bathtub. Louis asks Jud if they'd accidentally buried Church alive, but as it turns out, Church is a living dead creature, and for bringing things back to life in the burial ground, there's a price to pay... I often get a little bored by King's movie adaptations, I was not impressed by Firestarter (1984). However, Pet Sematary remains suspenseful 'till the end. The acting of the characters, especially Jud, was great. As the story unfolds, it turns out that a traumatic event in Rachael's past left her terrified of death, and her mom likes Louis but her dad finds Louis a bad husband for his beloved daughter. The soundtrack was pretty eerie, there was a brief funny moment when an overweight Orinco truck driver is singing off-key to a Ramones song on the radio. The beginning theme was very creepy. One scene always haunted me, the part where during Jud's childhood his beloved dog spot comes back from the dead after being killed in rusty barbed wire. Holy cow that dog was horrible, totally scary! And Jud's death was absolutely horrifying. Because of Stephen King being a Ramones fan, the band performed a song especially for the movie, which played during the end credits. The movie trails slightly from the book; rather than Jud's wife Norma, Jud is single and the character has been replaced with a depressed young woman named Missy who does laundry for a living, and she hangs herself after finding out she has cancer and will not survive remission. Great movie, if you're a fan of creepy horror or Stephen King, check it out! "},{"Title":"Another classic film that horror fans should dig into // instagram moviesmaniax","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another classic film that horror fans should dig into. The film is atmospherically SCARY and creepy that will leave you jumps and goosebumps in several scenes. The sound effects here also plays a big part in building the creepy mood as well as the devilish performance from little Gage in the story (he kinda looks like Chucky at one point). The GORE effects here are impressive and really help adding that creepiness and brutality to the scenes. Overall, even though the script feels a little too undeveloped which sometime makes the character's action seems stupid and nonsense but the film still succeeds in delivering the thrill, chill, and scares effectively >>B+<< "},{"Title":"Sometimes dead is better...","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For most families, moving is a new beginning. But for the creeds, it could be the beginning of the end. Because they've just moved in next door to a place that children built with broken dreams, the PET SEMATARY. It's a tiny patch of land that hides a mysterious Indian burial ground with the powers of resurrection. This film starred Dale Midkiff, Denise Crosby & Fred Gwynne.Pet Sematary is not that good of a film in my opinion, I was looking forward to it because I am a fan of Stephen King, and like films based on his books. I don't recommend this film because it is a let down.**/***** Poor. "},{"Title":"Some really frightening ideas are trapped and gasping for air in a typical 80's scare flick","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Pet Sematary' is a brilliant story with rich and profoundly frightening mythology. Stephen King who for some is more about quantity over quality knocked it out of the park with this one in my opinion. My praise goes to the original story though and in some ways I cannot transfer it over to the film. It is just too much of an 80's scare flick with foolish special effects, bad acting, and clichés. What deserves utmost praise here is King's work, Mary Lambert and crew's execution in bringing it to the big screen is sort of muffled and unfortunately predictable. In my humble opinion 'Pet Sematary' is King's horror masterpiece. The horror genre is at it's best an exploration and exorcism of our fears and demons. There is no greater fear or demon than what lies beyond death. 'Pet Sematary' has taken that very fundamental human fear and tells a story of grief and death being perverted and twisted. It is a story much like the original 'Frankenstein' but it's supernatural overtones and the lead being a loving father with his young family make 'Pet Sematary' all the more tragic, poetic, and horrifying. The image of the grieving father holding the corpse of his son before he plans to reanimate it is utterly spectacular, the stuff real human nightmares are made of.The film's shortcomings come from just poor directing and acting from our lead. Mary Lambert unfortunately only saw a chance to make a scary movie in King's deep novel. She has taken this masterwork and really sought to only make a 'Friday the 13th' esqe thriller with it. We get very silly gory jump scares and extravagant make-ups that are used for nothing more than cheap shock value. 'Pet Sematary' does not need cheap shock value in the least. Despite this I think the film could have still been close to excellent despite Lambert's stale staging had a better lead been chosen to anchor the film than Dale Midkiff. Midkiff is just simply a bad actor who is given a rich role and can't really deliver on it. I'm surprised a lot of the film works despite his shortcomings because the role is so integral to the success of the story. When the film works it is because King's work is so strong. I forgive a lot of this though because King's screenplay is strong and because I must admit I have a sense of deep nostalgia about the film. I've loved horror films for years but not for their ability to 'scare' one. As a child 'Pet Sematary' scared the living hell out of me. I now recognize as an adult that it was King's mythology and story rather than Lambert's film that scared me but the film has a certain charm still despite it's temptations to follow the formula of Freddy Kruegerness. I mean who can't help but be drawn in when old Fred Gwynne warns us that sometimes dead is better? "},{"Title":"Roaring recognition for anyone who's traumatized by child decease","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In spite of the fact that the story couldn't happen in reality, the smart core of the storyline is that it will horribly recall anyone's unforgettable memory of whom has lost a child in a car accident as a parent. Indeed, I suppose that most parents who have had this tragedy eternally suffer of a sense of guilt they wonder how they could make it up to the deceased child, if the child would have a second life after death and most of all, how the parent ought have prevented leaving the reckless child alone just before the deadly collision. All these recognizable elements are probing merged in this paramount story about coping with all the fears, sorrow and despair that are humane consequences of one of the worst imaginable nightmares of any parent. Therefore, I would dissuade watching this impressive movie for any parent coping with a similar trauma, unless this is a way of inundating yourself with overcompensation for soothing the pain. Contrary to this appeal, this story is strongly recommended for any other adult who is fascinated by life after death of an early deceased child. "},{"Title":"So many things worse than death","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King, the man has an incredible fan base and some really good books. The man knows how to create true fear and suspense. He's written so much and naturally many have made his books into films, one of the most famous being Pet Sematary. Taking a typical Be Careful What You Wish For story and bringing it to life on the big screen. The story was pretty basic, having the opportunity to play God and bring those you love back from the dead has been done before. But Pet Sematary knew how to take something so basic and really give you the genuine chills of a family who was very normal and who's whole life got turned upside down by a high speed road and a pet sematary that was just plain bad news.The Creed family moves into a new home, close to a road where high-speed truckers often carelessly drive by. They befriend their neighbor, Jud Crandall, who tells them about a pet cemetery nearby. Later the dad Louis is working at the University of Maine at Orono hospital, treats a car accident victim, who dies on the operating table, but not before suddenly grabbing Louis and whispering a mysterious and cryptic message to him just before dying. Church, a cat owned by Louis's daughter Ellie, is run over by a truck on the road in front of their house while Rachel, Ellie, and Gage are in Chicago. Jud takes Louis to a burial ground beyond the pet cemetery they visited earlier. He buries the cat underneath a cairn. Church is brought back to life, but is an evil shell of himself; he attacks Louis and reeks of decomposition. Jud tells Louis about the grounds. Louis asks if a person was ever buried in the grounds. Sometime later, Louis's young son, Gage, is tragically run over by a truck on the same road during a picnic and is killed. Louis considers burying Gage in the burial grounds. Jud tries to dissuade him from doing so, telling him that Gage won't come back normal, but Louis wants Gage back so badly that he does it anyways. But be careful what you wish for, because Gage isn't acting like the Gerber baby any more.The make up effects were really good, the corpses of the people and the cat were just disturbing and can easily give you nightmares. Miko Hughes who played Gage at age 3 did an amazing job, for a kid who can't even tie his shoes, he sure can play an evil little boy. Dale Midkiff who plays the dad did a decent job, though over the top at times, he really captures how he looses it so easily and decides that any problem can be answered with this cemetery despite the fact he knows the consequences already. Fred Gwyne who is usually used to giving the scares in the hit TV show The Munsters is now the one warning the family to be careful of the cemetery and he does a great job. One of the things I found that didn't work in the film though was the ghost of the student that Louis failed to save in the school. He comes back to haunt the family to warn them of Louis' intentions with the cemetery, it felt a little too made for TV and didn't quite match the tone of the film. Also the pace can be a bit slow at times cutting the tension. Over all though, the film does work and gives you the chills and making you question what would you do if given the chance to bring someone back. Well maybe you should watch this film before thinking too much about that.7/10 "},{"Title":"The cat came back","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Despite having one of the sillier premises you'll find among Stephen King's folk-macabre/bizarre Americana tales, this movie is a lot more fun than the standard horror fare, probably because it cleaves to an obvious but coherent story arc with a clear underlying theme. The primitive FX and spates of careless writing & acting don't undermine the viewing experience; even with major plot turns I could see from a mile off, I still felt the need to watch it unfold. Plus you've got Fred Gwynne, the Ramones, and a nice cameo from the literary genius himself halfway through. In my mind the only grating aspect here was the overused trope of the clairvoyant little girl. Can't imagine how they'll handle things in the hypothetical remake by Guillermo del Toro (!) but whatever its flaws, this one at least moves along briskly and keeps it simple. "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can see why people tell me i'm crazy for loving this film so much! I can clearly see why people wouldn't like this film.....but I don't care because I LOVE IT!I remember watching this film when I was very young and being absolutely terrified by Zelda - Rachel's sister! I brought this on DVD not long ago and she still scares the living day lights out of me ha ha. The cast is brilliant and the youngsters are the stars especially Gage, he's so cute (at the start of the film anyhow). I just think it is fun and enjoyable horror, doesn't take itself to seriously and delivers where it should.Watch it, it's dead (is better) good!!! "},{"Title":"The Soil may be Sour but the movie sure isn't","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another masterpiece by Steven KingEver had a pet who's died before it's time has truly come? The Creeds who have just moved into their house have this experience after their cat gets run over by a truck, but fortunately for them, their neighbor Jud Crandall informs them of a sacred Indian Burial Ground beyond the local cemetery of which if the deceased are buried, they will come back to life, there is a twist in which whatever is buried, isn't exactly as what it used to be.I definitely recommend this movie to both horror and Stephen King fans as it delves into Murder, Mayhem & Imagination. "},{"Title":"It was actually alright! 7.5/10","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I originally saw this in my mid teens, and made a mental note myself that it 'wasn't that good' - which in turn made me forget it.I read the book for the 1st time 2 weeks back and LOVED IT!, so I thought I'd give the movie a try again to see how it fared.I am 36 now and i thought It was actually pretty good!Still quite spooky for its age, (especially on your own at night) stayed pretty close to the book too! I actually thought the scary characters in the film were more scary than they were in the book.One of Kings better film adaptations (apart from stand by me & the green mile)Definitely worth a watch for horror fans!7.5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Near Perfect King!!!","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Growing up in a small Pennsylvanian town, Halloween was a bigger celebration than Christmas or even July 4th. Every where you looked, little stuffed ghosts and witches hung from front porches. Lit jack-o-lanterns grimaced back at you. And the Halloween parade brought out the whole town once a year. Local legends cropped up, ghosts and mysterious creatures lurked the nearby woods. Perhaps given that kind of background, it's inevitable that I'd become a fan of Stephen King. A man who shows what every kid knows Beneath every quiet small rural town, lies a sinister secret. King's books work so well because they speak to our underlying fears. In PET SEMATARY, King does one better and shows us the destructive power of love and death. While some claim that it's based loosely on a short story known as THE MONKEY'S PAW, it stands on its own merits. Performances are terrific all-around. I was genuinely creeped out by the performance of zombified Gage, the kid. And Church, the demon cat? Well, in my opinion, that could be any cat- living or undead! Throughout the film, you get the feeling that all the characters are doomed. And by the film's end, it is very much a tragedy. Granted, some characters do stupid things. But the reason for that is because the story is done in the style of gothic horror where character inexplicably wander down dark corridors and whatnot. Genuine horror happens when the tragic meets the terrifying, and that's what this movie does best at showing. "},{"Title":"Messed Up Stephen King Movie","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King, you know he writes scary, messed up books. If you want proof, watch this movie. Its messed up, a baby is hit by a truck, a woman turns into a freaky zombie monster, the baby that died comes back to life and bites a man's neck, how more messed up can this movie get? This movie is about the fear to die, and it delviers, and this movie will make you even more afraid to die. The fear of death is a fear everyone, even I, have. This movie will crank the fear up. Stephen King is a messed up man. Pet Semantary is taking the zombie genre to a whole another level we have never seen before. It's genius, yet scary. Is this a scary movie? Yes, it is. Propaly the scariest movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"I haven't read the novel.....but...... this is horror to be sure!!!","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Inspired by the The Night of The Living Dead ???When a body dies its soul escapes...for good. If that body is to regain re-animation it needs a soul - any soul will do, preferably an evil one. This is the theme-in-a-nutshell of this film.A Louis Creed, doctor arrives in a small countryside town and moves into a new house. His family consists of his wife, daughter and young son, who is a toddler of 3 years.They befriend their neighbor, Jud Crandall, who tells them about a pet cemetery and the burial grounds nearby.He has a dream in which a recently deceased boy he had tried to save Victor Pascow, haunts him and tells him a chilling warning. The ground is sour he says keep away from this place (the place beyond the pet cemetery).Beyond Pet Cemetery a place which was an ancient Indian burial ground of ages gone by. An evil place filled with wicked disembodied souls ready to wreak havoc on the living.Church, a British Shorthair cat owned by Louis's daughter Ellie, is run over by a truck on the road in front of their house while his wife and daughter and young son are in Chicago.But as in all horror films, the breaking of a fundamental warning has to take place. So they bury the cat in the ground beyond the Pet Cemetery. And it miraculously comes to life. However it is still dead and stinks a lot which bothers Ellie.In the midst of all this another tragedy Louis's young son Gage is tragically run over by a truck on the same road during a picnic and is killed. Despite Jud's protests, Louis considers burying Gage in the burial grounds.....What will happen next is for you to see.This film contains disturbing scenes not for newbies to the horror genre. Expect gore, expect sadistic killings and expect the unexpected.You reap what you sow is the motto in this film. Movies For Stephen King AddictsMisery,Rose Red,The Langoliers,Cat's Eyes,The Dark Half,The Shining, IT,Firestarter,Salem's Lot,Cujo,Needful Things,The Green Mile,The Dead Zone,Children of the Corn,Silver Bullet,Sleepwalkers,The Night Flier, Apt Pupil,Dreamcatcher,Riding The Bullet,The Mist,1408,Dolan's Cadillac, Carrie, Hearts in Atlantis, Sometimes They Come Back, Sometimes They Come Back... Again, Sometimes They Come Back&#x85; for More Thinner, Dolores Claiborne, The Mangler, The Shawshank Redemption, Golden Years,The Tommyknockers,The Stand,Storm of the Century, Maximum Overdrive, Trucks,The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer. If you manage to see all of these films, don't blame me if you see ghosts in the daytime, get committed to a mental asylum or become a zombie.Your friendly neighborhood Vivekmaru45@yahoo.com. Email for more movies lists.Have a NICE life. "},{"Title":"scared me as a kid...and adult","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember this being one of those forbidden movies that my parents wouldn't let me watch because it was too scary. I also remember watching it with my brother and sister when I wasn't suppose to. There was a lot of pulling the covers over my eyes and being scared to watch. For the time of the movie (and even now) the make up and zombie effect was pretty cool. I still get especially creeped out when little kids are the killers. Something about it is un-natural...but then again that was suppose to be the feeling that the viewer was to have. Creepy kid, lots of suspense, murders, strange old guy, and an evil undead cat. As an adult I still cannot bring myself to watch this without covering my eyes, remembering my experience as a kid. I tried to read the book, but Stephen King was too good of a writer and I was not able to sleep after reading a few chapters. Happy watching! Chickidoodle www.getyourlogon.com "},{"Title":"A solid adaptation of one of the most horrifying novels ever written. Daring and deeply unsettling.","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Few horror experiences can compare with reading Stephen King's Pet Sematary for the first time. If anybody has the art of terror flawlessly mastered, it's Stephen King. The man can make even the most hokey concept terrifying, through his mastery of word use and his deeply intricate characterizations which make the horror feel more close to home. One of the finest examples of this is Pet Sematary. On page, it's as scary as can be. Naturally, it would be quite difficult to fully capture the novel's full terror in a film, but with the help of Stephen King's faithful screenplay and competent direction and acting, Pet Sematary is as scary an adaptation as we could possibly want.Pet Sematary is a relentlessly brutal horror story about a close, loving family whose world is gradually torn apart in the most devastating and horrible manner imaginable. King spares none of his characters the worst possible fates, even fates worse than death. I won't spoil anything for those who don't know what that entails. Suffice to say, you may want to sleep with the lights on for a few nights after this one. It's rough, bleak, unforgiving stuff.As a fan of the book, all I can say is, well done. It's as realistically faithful to the book in all the ways it needs to be, and some of the scares translate very well to the screen. The character Zelda, for example. Terrifying in the book, just as scary in the film. And the story's most tragically horrible event is as shocking and upsetting as it was in the book. As in the book, death is dealt with in a disturbingly frank manner. Psychologically, this is as harsh as it gets.Naturally, the film does pale in comparison to the book and isn't without its flaws. Stephen King's style isn't easy to translate to the screen as a lot of his plots are driven by what the characters are thinking, and King taps directly into their minds and tells us how they rationalize some very bad decisions. Since this isn't nearly as easy to accomplish on film, the characterization suffers. The acting makes up for it for the most part. It's nothing spectacular, but the actors are competent and as likable as they should be.Overall, despite the flaws, I highly recommend Pet Sematary, though I'd read the book first. I wouldn't recommend it for anyone who can't handle extreme grimness or a little graphic gore. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Nasty stuff","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" PET SEMATARY, which will be remade shortly, remains a nasty exercise in ghoulish horror and sometimes intentional or possibly unintentional humor. A young doctor and his family move from Chicago to Maine, to a house on a very busy road. Instead of putting up a fence or moving to a quieter street, they stay and watch their cat get hit by a truck and then their toddler son get hit by a truck. Behind their home lies a vast pet cemetery and beyond that is an old Indian burial ground, where the dead may rise to walk again. Guess where the plot is going. Director Mary Lambert, who would also direct the sequel, provides a very frightening and unnerving atmosphere. Fred Gwynne plays heir pushy neighbor, and it is he who introduces them to the cemetery and what lies beyond the barrier. Dale Mikiff and Denise Crosby are the cuckoo husband and emotionally troubled wife. Crosby is a stunning beauty who has specialized in edgy roles, and she would go on from here to a similar oddball role in the camp classic, MORTUARY. The movie is not for the faint of heart, as it deals with child death and cannibalism, among other lovely topics. I can only imagine where the remake will take us. "},{"Title":"Grieving parents can make grave mistakes.","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on a popular book by the miniature horror industry that IS Stephen King, Pet Sematary has always had plenty of fans, to my knowledge, and has remained etched in the memories of many who saw it upon it's initial release. Yet I have never quite understood why.The story concerns the Creed family (hubby, wife, daughter and toddler son) as they move into their new home and settle into what they'd like to consider domestic bliss. That bliss looks set to be seriously tested by the large trucks that tear by the main road directly in front of their house and the first such test occurs when a neighbour (played by Fred Gwynne aka forever Herman Munster) finds the family cat dead in their garden. This leads to a surreptitious trip by the neighbour and Louis Creed (played by Dale Midkiff) to the pet sematary (sic) of the title, where strange things can happen and beings can be given another shot at life, albeit with quite a change in their character. When the cat returns all seems well for a while even though it's a bit more aggressive than it used to be. Then tragedy REALLY hits the family and the path, indeed the destiny of all involved, seems to lead right back to that burial ground where the ground is sour.While it's hard to discuss this movie without revealing too many details I am going to try my very best. The central subject matter, mixing some ideas so rarely used within the genre that they almost feel taboo along with a riff on one of King's very favourite tales The Monkey's Paw, is certainly disturbing and morbidly fascinating for fans of the macabre. Director Mary Lambert provides a fine balance between showing the scares and keeping some moments tastefully hidden in shadows. King, adapting from his novel, provides a screenplay that's excellent when it comes to the scares but rather flat when it comes to the rest of the character moments and dialogue. And his use of a helpful spirit really starts to grate somewhat as the movie unfolds (a mechanism that may have been in the novel too, though I cannot recall as it's been many years since I read the original material).In the acting department nobody really stands out apart from the wonderful Fred Gwynne, who elicits such fond memories from people who grew up with his wonderful TV character Herman Munster that it's hard to decide whether he is better than those he shares screen time with or whether it's nostalgia and familiarity creating a warm empathy with anything he does. Dale Midkiff gets most of the bigger scare moments and does okay but Denise Crosby is rather flat as the mother while the children are both great in their vital roles, especially Miko Hughes as young Gage who injects some memorable scenes with a mixture of malevolence and childish innocence. Brad Greenquist does well with his annoying helpful spirit role and Andrew Hubatsek is pretty terrifying as Zelda, a twisted figure mostly shown in flashback and probably still haunting the psyches of those who saw this film back in the late 80s.So I guess this is quite a positive review, overall, but as I said at the beginning I just don't understand the adoration that some fans seem to have for the movie. It's a decent enough horror with it's flaws that stands out from others thanks to it's nasty main story strand but the execution of the movie is rather flat, the acting is variable and the writing (from King's own pen/typewriter/PC) isn't anything to . . . . . write home about. Above average. Just.See this if you like Pet Sematary 2, Sometimes They Come Back, Don't Look Now. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully scary and depressing film","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Don't let the fact that I said depressing in the summary scare you out of seeing this movie. You'd just be cheating yourself out of one of the best Stephen King film adaptations out there. Director Mary Lambert weaves this movie, twisting its characters into some demented, dark fairy tale of human tragedy that seems to hint at something deeper and more important than your average, run-of-the-mill horror film presents.We start with the Creed family moving to a small, rural Maine town so the father Louis can take a job as a doctor at the local university. There are high hopes for this young family as they move into their new home the first day, but even as their new lives begin it is disrupted by their daughter Ellie falling and hurting herself from the tire swing in the front yard. This tiny tragedy is soon forgotten as we are introduced to greater dangers around their new home. First off, just beyond their yard is a busy highway where trucker traffic is a constant threat day and night. Second, though it doesn't appear to be a threat at first, there is a pet cemetery in the woods surrounding their house, and beyond that is another cemetery of sorts, an ancient Native American burial ground, but, get this, the natives stopped using it long ago because the ground is sour.Their old, friendly neighbor Jud (played brilliantly by Fred Gwyne) helps them adjust to their new surroundings as they settle in. Then the family cat is killed by a passing semi one day when Louis is home alone. Knowing how much the cat means to Ellie, Jud shows Louis to the ancient burial ground and instructs him to bury the cat there. The next day, the cat shows up on the front step. It's alive but it seems to have gotten mean and nasty since its resurrection and frequently threatens Louis around the house. Sadly their cat is not the only member of the family to die on the busy highway and (in a disturbing and emotional scene) tragedy befalls the Creed house. This leads to Louis once again using the burial ground to restore his family, against Jud's adamant objections. But if you thought the cat was bad, people brought back to life from the burial grounds are just plain wicked, as if they are angry about being brought back to life, and they will seek revenge on those who were closest to them.The tone is dark and oppressive, and this movie is ultimately about tragedy, death and the destruction of a once happy and hopeful family. All the actors play their roles greatly, especially Midkiff (Louis) who gets increasingly numb and devoid of emotion as tragedy after tragedy takes his family from him. If you are looking for a horror movie that takes itself and the subject matter seriously, while also accompanied by worthy acting and directing, look no further than this title. "},{"Title":"A heart-wrenching experience","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The living dead have never been more evil. Most of the time they're portrayed as shambling, moaning corpses who devour living flesh. Not that that's not scary, but after seeing so many films with that type of zombie it does make one crave something a little different. Making them look and sound like they did when they were still alive, but basically being the opposite of who they were is pretty frightening. And that's what author Stephen King came up with for his novel 'Pet Sematary' and that's what we get in this film adaptation, one of the better based on his work.Pros Excellent performance from each member of the cast. A strong feature debut for Mary Lambert, who maintains a creepy feeling all the way through. Makes you think and raises some big questions. Well done and very gruesome make-up effects. A subtle, eerie score and a cool title song by The Ramones. Some good shots of the beautiful Maine countryside. Some moments and images that'll stay with you. Pace is slow, but steady.Cons Some subplots are way underdeveloped. In some shots it's too obvious that it's a dummy standing in for Miko Hughes, which lessens the impact of the scene.Final thoughts After years of fans being disappointed by films based on his work, Stephen King decided to adapt his own novel to a screenplay and it wasn't a bad idea at all. Both him and director Lambert delivered what is one of the most hard to watch horror films of recent times and it's just as unsettling now as it was nearly 20 years ago.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Awful in all the right ways","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A faithful and effective adaptation of the original Stephen King novel that also works well in its own right, portraying the original themes and tone superbly. In contrast to a lot of its fellow eighties horror flicks, Pet Sematary does not rely on gore to frighten its audience but instead juxtaposes different emotional extremes that have a far more sustained effect on the viewer. It may sound strange, but what makes this film different is that it does not simply include death, it is truly about death, and about the powerful and awful nature of grief.The film has a difficult premise - the resurrection of the dead - which if handled without care could have become a farce or just another zombie film. A strong cast ensure make the fantastical story seem believable. Particularly worthy of mention is Dale Midkiff, who plays the father, Louis Creed, who plays a difficult role convincingly and effectively. Also Miko Hughes, who for a 3 year-old was already almost unnaturally talented and who won the hearts of many Stephen King fans. The score for this film also goes a long way to make it what it is, the chilling discordance is reminiscent of earlier classics like Psycho.Of course, the film is by no means perfect. The dialogue is a little weak in places and is strongest when almost directly quoting the novel. Some people may find the whole thing too much and will laugh instead of cry, which is often expected when a film takes itself this seriously. And horror fans who were expecting a nonstop bloodbath may be disappointed or bored by a film that builds suspense slowly before snowballing to its final, terrible climax.In summary, this is a chiller rather than a slasher, but works because the horror is so very real and close to our own lives. The truly terrifying parts of this film are not the zombie scenes but the portrayals of human fallacies such as sickness, madness and ultimately death. A truly memorable classic that stands up to multiple viewings and stays with you long after the end credits.What you buy is what you own, and what you own ... always comes home to you. "}{"Title":"Pet Sematary is pretty good.","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With consideration that I have not read the book, I felt Pet Sematary was a better than average horror movie. It's strengths lay in it's ability to build suspense. There are many excellent creepy sequences. The bonus is that some nice fluffy soft moments add to make a well rounded film. The movie would actually be nearly perfect, were it not for the often laughable, and overacted performances of Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby as Louis and Rachel Creed. Whether this is a fault of direction is unknown; it does tend to detach the viewer from any emotional investment in the storyline. The best performance comes from Fred Gwynne (Herman Munster!) who steals the show with some of the most important and memorable lines. A quite young Miko Hughes also does an excellent job, and does not demonstrate the distracted child acting so often seen elsewhere. Some of the camera angles, mostly overhead views of the cemeteries, are both beautiful and creepy. Be sure to watch for one of Stephen King's famous Hitchcockian cameos. "},{"Title":"Okay film","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a big fan of Stephen King, and this film was okay i would say. The only problem with the film is that nothing actually happened until the end. Except that this film was very well done and also the film gets depressing at some parts and also creepy. I will give a 7 star rating.I tried to read the book once but i never got to finish it mostly because i forgot about it i guess. i would say that the graphic in it is not as good as Sleepwalkers though, yet another Stephen King film about creature like vampires that are afraid of cats who are also very strong creatures that can rip you apart. U should also see this film as well if you like graphic violence and gore. "},{"Title":"Book was better but the movie is good too","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rated R for Strong Violence/Gore and Language.Pet Sematary is in my opinion Stephen King's best book.It is very frightening and disturbing.After reading the book, I wanted to see the movie.I heard that the movie was scary as well.So I watched it yesterday.If you have not read the book, you will really enjoy this movie, it is fairly frightening,disturbing and gory.But for those who have read the book, you will find that the book was better.The movie is fairly faithful to the novel but there are some things missing, most importantly the fact that the character of Norma Crandall(Judd's wife) is not present in the film.Pet Sematary is about a family that moves into a small town, their neighbor introduces them to a pet sematary where kids bury their dead pets.Louis Creed, the father of the family finds their cat dead so while the rest of the family is gone, him and Judd bury him in the pet sematary.HOwever he comes back as a meaner cat.The pet sematary is located on an Indian burial ground.One day, Louis's son gets run over by a large truck.Depressed, Louis buries him in the pet sematary but then the kid comes back to be an evil murderer.Louis's wife also has a story about her sister who had spinal meningitis, this is one of the most disturbing scenes in the movie.If you are a horror fan, check out pet sematary and then read the novel. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked this movie a lot. It has everything a good horror movie should haveThis is the story of the Creed family, who recently moved into a home in Maine. The family consists of Louis, his wife Rachel, their kids, Ellen and Gage, and their cat Church. Their neighbor, Jud Crandall, introduces them to the area, and leads them on a trail behind their house, which leads to the Pet SemataryThey live in a quite area with few people nearby. However, the road has huge trucks that go about 90 MPH down it at random times. A lot of pets have been killed on the road, and were buried in the nearby Pet Sematary. However, the Creed family seems to have non-stop bad luck which starts as soon as they move in. Firstly, Ellen is on a tire swing which breaks and she gets hurt. Then Gage runs into the street and almost gets hit by a truck. Then, on his first day of work, Louis gets a student who's head has been smashed open. Despite Louis' attempts to save him, he dies but returns as a ghost to help Louis later on. Soon after, Church is killed by a truck and this is when Jud teaches Louis about the burial ground beyond the Pet Sematary, where if you bury a dead pet there, it will return to life the next day. However Louis soon finds out that Church is not the cat he was before he died. Soon their Son Gage is killed, but he is returned as well, and not quite the same. This spells disasterAlso there are quite a few side-stories in the movie. Like Missy Dandrige's medical condition. And there's also Rachel's story of her sister Zelda.Over all this is a great movie, recommended for all horror fans. "},{"Title":"I finally came back for you, Rachel . . . . ","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The book Pet Sematary is, perhaps coincidentally, perhaps not, one of the deepest AND most frightening things that Stephen King has ever written, possibly because he was driven to write by two things that happened in his own family - The death of the family cat and the near death of his son, at that time a toddler, who ran toward the road. According to one of the extras on this DVD, King thought of the basic outline of the story as he was carrying his son, who he had successfully stopped from running into traffic, back toward his home.This story is, quite literally, about death itself; the conflict between Louis (Dale Midkiff) and Rachel (Denise Crosby) over what, if anything their young daughter (Blaze/Beau Bernthal) should be told about death; the ACTUAL death of the family cat, followed shortly by the son (adorable and born actor Miko Hughes). The question If you knew of a way to bring back the pets/people you loved and lost, would you do it? For Louis, the answer, tragically it turns out, is YES. Early on in the film, his is cajoled into promising his daughter that nothing will happen to their cat, Church, although he knows the futility of promising her that nothing will happen to anyone, as this is ultimately beyond his or any human being's control. When the cat does indeed die by being run over by a truck, his is guided by Jud Crandall (the wonderful Fred Gwynne) to the Micmac burial ground, a place where dead animals - or people - who are buried will come back. Although the film makes no reference to this, the book mentions the wendigo, a spirit in Native American folklore that can possess a human and turn them into a cannibal - the implication being that perhaps it is a wendigo that is reanimating the bodies of people and animals that return after being buried on this ground. In any case, what comes back ain't the same, and it ain't pretty. In the case of Church, it doesn't seem to be THAT big of a deal; the kitty seems moodier, hisses a lot and, in one EEEEWWW scene, tosses the remains of a nicely mutilated mouse into the tub while Louis is in it. Yucky, but the cat isn't going to kill anyone. Meanwhile, Rachel has explained her hang-up about death to Louis, telling him the unpleasant story of her sister Zelda, who died of spinal meningitis - while a very young Rachel had been left alone with her. Rachel is quite literally haunted by her sister; haunted by guilt over having wished by the end that her sister would just die and end her own and everyone else's suffering. She admits to being frightened as a child that she would be accused of murdering her sister by people who knew her every thought and feeling. Scary stuff.But then, adorable toddler Gage is killed when he runs after his kite toward traffic, and his father is NOT able to stop him in time. There ensues, of course, deep grief, and a nasty fight between father-and-son-in-law, between whom there was never any love lost before Gage's death, at the funeral service. This scuffle, in film and book, leads to the little coffin being knocked down and, momentarily, jarred open, giving us a heartbreaking glimpse of a small boy's hand and funeral suit cuff.Shortly after the tragedy, Rachel and Ellie go to stay with Rachel's parents for a time, leaving Louis at home by himself (see where this is going?). Louis, perhaps inevitably, does bury his little son in the forbidden burial ground, and the results are far more horrific than before. Gage comes back, a killer still packaged in the body of a sweet little boy. His first victim, in one of the most genuinely frightening scenes, is old Jud (the shot of the knife slicing his heel is truly cringe-worthy). Louis, who has gone home exhausted and fallen asleep, wakes up to remember what he has done. Then, the phone rings. Louis hears his tiny son's voice again, asking him to come play. He goes, taking with him a vaccine he has prepared that can be used on any resurrected body to put it back to sleep. He gives this first to Church and it works. Next is Gage - but before a surprisingly believable fight between a grown man and a three-year-old boy, Louis discovers that Gage has already claimed TWO victims - Jud and RACHEL, who got to the house first and saw Gage just after imagining that she was being confronted with her long-dead sister, who warns her that she will never get out of bed again! Foolishly, Rachel rushes to embrace her boy, who says to her, I brought you something, Mommy . . . that something is a knife.Having long since been pushed beyond sanity, Louis administers another syringe of the drug to his little son, who does indeed go back to sleep . . . and buries his wife in the forbidden ground. What happens next is probably the biggest difference between book and film . . . but I've gone into enough detail. The book AND movie are recommended for all my fellow King fans, just don't read the book's ending at night before going to bed and trying to sleep (I made that mistake once).Cheers. "},{"Title":"Freaky!","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Loved this movie. When i heard Pet Semetary was on TV i asked my mum to tape it, after hearing good reviews about it i wanted to see it. It started of really good, it head straight into an amazing story-line. A normal family move in to there new home next to a pet semetary. There pet cat soon dies after being run over by a passing truck. Hes soon buried in an ancient burial ground behind the semetary, after that the horror begins to stir. The actors are pretty good and play interesting characters, the plot is scary and the tension and climax grows more tense, there's a few jumpy scenes and a few gory scenes. Apart from that the chatting scenes are interesting too. Well worth watching! Stephen King has chilled me out this time too! "},{"Title":"Pet Cementary","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Louis Creed, a doctor from Chicago, is appointed director of the University of Maine's campus health service. He moves to a large house near the small town of Ludlow with his wife Rachel, their two young children, Ellie and Gage, and Ellie's cat, Winston Churchill (Church for short). From the moment they arrive, the family runs into trouble Ellie hurts her knee after falling off a swing, and Gage is stung by a bee. Fortunately their new neighbor, an elderly man named Jud Crandall, comes to help. He warns Louis and Rachel about the highway that runs past their house; it is constantly used by big trucks from a nearby chemical processing plant, The rest is movie magic history. Pet Sematary keeps you on the edge of your seat and clutching your cats tale throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"an underrated horror- if not a classic","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sometimes its good to watch things with low expectations. I saw Pet Semetary back in October, at a retrospective in a horror festival. I had just laughed my way through the hilarious Friday the 13th part two and expected this to be the same kind off excellent crap. While it has some hilarious moments ( the old man, try not doing impressions of him when your watching the film)I was taken back by how well...good it was. Its undeniably dated but then so have most horrors from the period , even greats like hellraiser and some off the acting isn't the best but its a decent well made horror film. What i loved about it was how it builds up the tension as a supernatural film before exploding in to violence at the end. Also some off the moments surrounding the child's death are surprisingly poignant. Overall an underrated horror film that while no classic perhaps deserves to be reconsidered. Oh and finally the Ramones theme song is kick-ass "},{"Title":"Saved by the interesting concept","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first stumbled upon this film around Halloween, a few years back. Although obviously not one of the stronger adaptations of a Stephen King novel, I was generally impressed with it. PS's theme of resurrecting dead pets and having them turn on their former owners is pretty cool, sometimes dead is better indeed.PS falters at times but what it does well it does with considerable effectiveness. The idea of an innocent child being resurrected as a sadistic killer, lurking in the shadows, is very creepy and unsettling. The filmmakers use this device to full effect to shock and unnerve the viewer. The lead up to the confrontation between Gage and Jud in the 2nd half of the film is especially tense. But by far the scariest part of the film is Rachel's childhood flash back of her sister. It made my hair stand on end.Unfortunately the acting and script leave a lot to be desired. The dialogue keeps coming across as forced and unnatural, as though the actors were reading off queue cards (or more likely word for word from the novel). The progression from one scene to the next is also a bit uneven and disjointed at times.Another problem is that PS often throws in tense, creepy, music just before something is about to happen to a character, ruining a lot of potential suspense. In particular the inappropriate overuse of tense music makes it so blatantly obvious what is going to happen to Gage at the mid point of the film that you almost have to hold back laughter when it hits, so to speak.Despite PS's weak acting, the plot is intriguing enough to hold your attention, and it should provide enough tense moments to satisfy horror fans. Just don't expect anything spectacular and you'll have a fun time watching it. "},{"Title":"One of the better Stephen King adaptations","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is somewhat of an important horror film, at least for me, that has been forgotten or maligned over time. When it came out, all of the popular horror movies were hack and slash/dead teenager/empty bogey men tales. Stephen King adaptations helped put the humanity back in horror, even if the films didn't always do his books justice (The Shining, Children of the Corn), but this was the first one to really strike a cord since Carrie. There are no heroes here and no real villains either. No starry-eyed buxom brunette or burly square-jawed male is triumphant in the end. No silent intense man-monster gets it. In fact it doesn't end happily at all. Something of a rarity in popular horror at the time. Also rare is that all the performances are 1st rate as is the music (wonderfully haunting and sentimental at turns). The lighting of the movie is documentary-like, giving the film a realism and naturalism lost in today's under lit, over-stylized gore-fests. It also makes the shift from family drama to zombie tale feel all the more startlingly believable. Though underdeveloped and slightly rushed, this movie is a fast-paced horror-tragedy with real heart in its story and performance and direction. A rarity in Hollywood then and now too. "}{"Title":"Jaba, the cat in Pet Sematary.","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I would like to have a picture of Jaba, the cat that was in Pet Sematary. He has also won several different awards.He probably is no longer alive.I Appreciate any help with this search.I read the book and saw the movie. I no longer remember in what order, but they both will raise the hairs on the back of your neck.The other Steven King movie that comes closest to being as spooky is the car that renews its self when driven or pushed in reverse. I can't recall the name of the movie. It is a girls name that begins with a C. I also read the book. "},{"Title":"Pet Semetary","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Distributor Paramount Pictures (VHS) Plot For most families, moving is a new beginning. But for the Creeds, it could be the beginning of the end. Because they've just moved in next door to a place that children built with broken dreams, the Pet Semetary. It's a patch of land that hides a mysterious Indian burial ground.Audio/Video Excellent! Extras None.Final Thoughts Pretty average horror movie. Not one of my favorite's but it can be creepy sometimes. The sequel is pretty good. "},{"Title":"Best Horror Movie Ever?","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, maybe not, but it's up there. I fist saw the movie when I was 4 or 5 while my mom's friend babysat me and my siblings (real responsible choice of movie, wouldn't you agree?) complete with a live action improv performance afterward, where she and her husband convinced us that she had just returned from the grave. To be quite honest, it had me f***ed up for most of my childhood years, until my developing brain grasped the difference between movies and reality. Just the other day, I was able to catch the movie in it's entirety on DVD, so now as an adult, I can see it for what it is; messages, flaws, and all. It's really a story of letting go, or the inability to do so. Once you look past the horror and gore, which there isn't an outrageous amount of, you will find a story of a man who can't let go of the life he was trying to build when it is taken all too suddenly from him. Acting wise, everybody pretty much played there part without deviating from the book, emotionally. The stand out has to be the kid who played Gage. The boy (grown man now) really played the part of a toddler well, probably because he was one, but you could feel the change from innocent baby to the personification of ultimate evil. Also, when he fell over after being injected, I laughed until I cried. He sure knows how to take a fall. My main complaint with the movie is a common one for a book-to-movie translation, and that would be omitting the small but important details in favor of the popcorn flick aspects. Another gripe I had goes for both the book and movie. At the end, Louis told Pascow that it would work on Rachel because she had just died. Well, Judd and Louis buried church right after he became flatmeat, but he still turned out to be evil as a woman when Aunt flow comes around. I don't recall Judd telling him one darn story of someone or something being buried and coming back to volunteer at the Red Cross. But that doesn't cancel out the bigger picture. This is a good movie. Must see for any fans of horror. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Dead Is Better","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary was an excellent horror film on pets that was really beyond be-life that a movie tat should ever have,this should be in the top 50 scariest film and be placed in number seven.This scared the s**t out of me,this was not crap,this is not a disappointment,this is the top scariest movie of all time.A very disappointment when I saw in guide to see the stars in Pet Sematary,it showed one,one.This should deserve three or more stars easily,I saw worser movie than this fabulous movie.And it showed Fred Gyeene from the t.v series the Munsters.He did great in he and so did he in The Munsters and My Cousion Vinny.Pet Sematary was the greatest horror film the I had seen in my miserable life.It made me love horror and life,thanks to this I have a reason to live,to make horror films just like this imagination. "},{"Title":"Genuinely scary horror film","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Excellent film adaptation of Stephen King's novel. The happy and loving Creed family (husband, wife, daughter, and baby boy) move into a house next to an interstate in rural Maine. Their only neighbor is a kindly old man named Judd (beautifully played by Fred Gwyne), who takes the family hiking one day to visit the Pet Semetary, where people from the area have been burying their pets for ages. When the Creed's cat, named Church dies after wandering onto the interstate Judd tells father Louis Creed about a cemetery beyond the Pet Semetary where things can be buried and brought back to life. Trouble is, they aren't quite the same.Things pretty much go downhill from there. Little tragedies start befalling the Creeds. Things turn black and blacker. And then blacker still.I remember reading the book Pet Semetary. It is effin SCARY. I've read many books by Stephen King but none of them are quite as dark as Pet Semetary. The final line of this book literally paralyzed me with dread. I know Stephen King has a young son and that may be why he went even deeper into darkness with Pet Semetary. Perhaps.The movie is quite good. It goes off the rails a little at the end when it chooses to become less subtle. I think it would have been more effective to play it dark the whole way through. Something about this movie always disturbs me. Horror movies don't scare me, really. But Pet Semetary disturbs me. All the situations are about the horror of bad things happening to people you love. And THAT is disturbing. And feelings of rage and guilt within families. The Zelda character, the way Gage dies. All that stuff is played for impact as emotional horror rather than spooky ghost-story horror.One scene for some reason that I've always really found disturbing is the flashback with the soldier who dies in WWII whose his father brings him back to life. And the son/soldier comes back as a tormented zombie who's more animal than human. I found that very disturbing somehow.Excellent film. Really good adaption. One of the better King adaptations. "},{"Title":"Honestly, the best horror EVER","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Honestly, this is the greatest horror movie ever to be made. I won't say it's the only horror movie that's ever scared me, because I was young once too. But the fact is that this is the only movie that's ever had any lasting effect on me. I'm 18 now, and i still get creeped out watching it, the whole thing just has an incredible creep factor to it. The only thing better than the movie itself is the book, read it. And see this movie, over and over and over again. So many people out there will go on and on about how the whole thing is so unrealistic and could never happen, but that is the whole point of movies, this one is without a doubt one of the best I've ever seen. And I'm sure that it will still find a way to keep creeping me out no matter how old I grow. "},{"Title":"Not really an enjoyable movie to watch......but a very good one!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Semetary is not the kind of movie you should watch with your gal on a first date, not even if you like her to grab your hand. This is not the average Hollywood horror movie, where laughs and scares are usually equally shared. There are very few things to laugh about in Pet Semetary, it's such a DARK movie! But then again, that's what makes it so excellent. From the very beginning - or at least early on in the movie - you sense the gloomy atmosphere and the dreary prospects lurking around the next corner. And as things move on you are not to be disappointed! Together with Misery and the Dark Half, Pet Sematary is one of the few successful King adaptations. I consider myself a hardcore horror fan, but this movie really scared the sh.. out of me from time to time. Afterwards you don't really look forward to watch it again.......cause you know that soon you'll get this feeling of hopelessness surrounding you! But of course you'll watch it again...and again and again. It's addictive and highly recommendable!! "},{"Title":"'Pet Sematary' is one of the scariest movies out there","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie as a child more than ten years ago, and I remember being deathly scared after it. I sat down to watch it again, not expecting it to frighten me as much as it did those many years ago. Much to my surprise, I was scared out of my mind.'Pet Sematary' is plain and simply frightening. The build up to what will ultimately happen takes you along every step. You relate to the characters, and the situations they ultimately end up in are then understandable or at least relatable.The kid in this movie, and the use of sound when he's returned is genius. One of the scariest scenes I've seen in a movie.Fred Gwynne gives a wonderful performance, as can be expected, and Miko Hughes gives an incredibly good performance, especially for how young he is. He is one of the scariest villains I've seen, but you can't help but love him.The movie isn't incredible by every rank, but it does it's job, and it does it very well. "},{"Title":"Creepy but there's something wrong...","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I admit I'm not much of a STEPHEN KING fan, though I find myself seeing his films as soon as they come out, I saw this one when I was fairly young & it creeped me out, today when I watch it, it still does, I haven't a clue why. There's an underlying creepiness flowing through the film that will even give the strongest of wills a jolt, the story has a young doctor moving into a country home with his family, though he's a doctor, he's not very bright at picking out houses for the family to live in, because the highway in front of the house has transport trucks driving by every 30 seconds & when the family cat is run over, LEWIS, wanting to keep this from his young daughter who loves the cat more than life itself, assists the old guy who lives across the road, in burying the cat in a small patch of land called PET SEMATARY, the land is rumored to be cursed & when they bury the cat, it comes back, soon things spin out of control & the family's baby son is killed on the highway, but all is not lost, LEWIS much to the dismay of his neighbor & the ghost of a young man whom he tried to save after the youth was hit by the car, decided to dig him up from his grave & bury him in the cursed ground, despite hearing a rather chilling true story about a guy who did it to his older son when he was killed in the war, but I mean what harm could a resurrected little boy do? especially a little guy who was so sweet? well considering this is a Stephen King horror movie, plenty!. The film makers of this movie actually pulled off a difficult feat, by making this creepy, the story interesting & engaging & the special effects neat (And sometimes disgusting)& choosing great actors to fill in the roles. despite all this, there's something not quiet right with the picture, I can't really put my finger on it, but there's something that does not make it work at times & even after all these years I still can't figure out what it is, oh well maybe some one else can. I urge those who want a really freaky horror movie, to watch this one, if they haven't seen it yet. In my eyes though it wasn't one of Kings better films, but don't let that stop you from seeing this! Followed by PET SEMATARY 2 & a rumored remake...*** stars "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Better But Still Works For Me","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a huge Stephen King fan. I read one book and I was hooked. This story is possibly his scariest. It has been adapted pretty well here, boosted by some very startling scenes and characters and a great performance by Fred Gwynne as Jud, the wise old neighbor. I would recommend this film to any horror fan. It follows the book for the most part, only leaving out Jud's wife and a few other scenes, and packs plenty of scares, but the ending is somewhat depressing just as a head's up. Still, all in all one of the scariest films you may ever see and a good movie that I thought still could have been better had it followed the book a little more. 8/10 "}{"Title":"A Thrill Ride From Beginning To End!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie, is 100% brilliant. There is absolutely NOTHING wrong with this film. Every frame is pure brilliance. Scary makeup effects, brilliants, and a perfect musical score makes PET SEMATARY a must see for anyone that calls themself a 'Horror Fan'The film is about the Creed Family Louis Creed, the father, Rachel Creed, the mother, Ellen Creed, the daughter, and Gage Creed, the infant son. They have just moved to a new town. Soon after they move there, the family cat dies. Louis knows that this is going to kill his daughter. It will be something else on her shoulders on top of having to move. So, Louis' friend, Jud, decides to help him out. He leads him out to an old Indian burial ground, where people back in the old days would bury they're animals in order to bring them back to life. So, the cat comes back to life. Then, soon after, Gage dies. So of course, like any father would, Louis buries his son in the old Indian Burial Ground. What he does not know, is that if you bury a human there, it is an abomination. The body will come back, but the soul is replaced with something else... Something evil.This movie is so frightening. The character of Zelda kept me awake for two days when I first saw it when I was around five, and to this day, she still scares the living hell out of me. Brad Greenquist's makeup will make you cringe every time you see it. But what I was most impressed with, was Miko Huges acting skills. I seriously doubt that any other three year old could have pulled off that roll.A must see for everyone. Especially Stephen King fans. "},{"Title":"Probably one of three best King- films (in my opinion) (minor spoiler)","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King has got a bad reputation...Apparently because the wrong people are working with his books John Carpenter (don't get me wrong, he is great, but Christine was a flop) just to name one of 'em... an endless stream of crappy films has come out since the mid 80's and up to today The Mangler, Maximum Overdrive (yes I know Stephen directed this one himself, shame on you)The Running Man and not to mention Pet Sematary II and more... but sometimes his splendid books get translated into cinematic classics...like this one. I think one of the reasons is that Stephen King himself wrote the script. The movie is definitely very scary... It's about a loving family being destroyed when they move in their new house in Maine, right next to a highway where Orinco trucks go by the whole day and most of the night... The movie is much more darker than the book and is delivered with lots and lots of bloody violence (beautiful...One of the scenes that had the most frightening impact on me was the one where Zelda sits crumbled in the corner rises up and runs towards the camera...I almost crapped... Oh, well 10/10 "},{"Title":"There are far worse Stephen King movies than this one","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Pet Cemetery' may not be one of Steven King's best books, but it is a very entertaining movie.**SPOILERS**A family, Louis, (Dale Midkiff), Rachel, (Denise Crosby) and daughter Ellen (Blaze Berdahl) and son Gage, (Miko Hughes) move into a new house out into the country where Louis is the new town doctor. They meet neighbor Jud Crandell (Fred Gywnne) who warms them of a path near their house that goes into the woods to a local pet cemetery. After getting settled in, Jud takes the family up to the cemetery and his talk of the dead spooks Ellen. While on his assignment, Louis treats a guy who got ran over by a car, but after he dies, he sees the dead kid in a series of visions. It leads Louis back to the cemetery who reveals a cryptic secret about the graveyard. He never remembers the experience, but awakes with his evidence of the journey. He keeps his experience hidden from the family as they leave to go to her father's for Thanksgiving. While they're gone, Ellen's cat dies and Louis decides to bury it, but Jud has a better idea and together raise the cat from the dead in a secret spot beyond the cemetery. When they come back from their trip, the cat is alive and well. After several days being back, Gage dies in a terrible and horrific truck accident. Ellen takes it almost as bad as Rachel, as they were good friends. Jud tells Louis that he better not bury Gage in the special spot, like the cat, but Louis does it anyway and brings Gage back to life. Ellen begins having visions of the guy that Louis first met and says that he was sent to warn him about Louis and Gage. Rachel also begins hearing his visions, and starts to suspect something might be wrong. After being resurrected, Gage begins to terrify Jud and Louis, and he and Rachel have to stop him from murdering their friends.The Good News Not a whole lot to talk about here. The main thing, which I like the movie for, is it is the first movie in a long time to capture an essence about it that perfectly mirrors Hammer films. Instead of delivering shocks and jumps constantly, 'Pet Cemetery' wants you to pay attention to the atmosphere it builds up in the beginning and it concludes in the ending. It relies more on its fine cast more than on gore and shocks. The good news is that there is some gore in here, and it is very well done. The blood isn't really graphic, as in 'Friday the 13th' style, but more necessary to the story. In other words, it wasn't gory for the sake of being gory, but rather to push the storyline along. Along with that, that is pretty much it.The Bad News This takes forever to get started. It lasts about an hour and a half, but the main plot kicks in about fifty minutes into the movie. To me, there's nothing more irritating when a movie offers up a plot then abandons it and starts a new plot. There are a few out there who do that, but this one irritates me more because it happens so late in the movie that I thought the plot up to that point was very interesting. If it would've continued with that plot, I think it would've been a lot better movie.The Final Verdict While they are a lot better Stephen King adaptations, there are also a lot worse ones you could watch than this. It has its moments, but those are pretty rare, if that matters. With this one, I offer caution see it if you love Stephen King and his adoption, but use judgment if you care that the movie you watch is all that interesting.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult Language, and Adult Themes about death  "},{"Title":"Decent adaptation of the book","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Perhaps a few minor spoilers follow...I have always been a big fan of Stephen King, and I don't think anyone has made a truly excellent film based on one of his horror books or stories.  (Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile don't quite fall into the horror category.)  I saw this film in the theater when I was 16, and it absolutely scared the crap out of me.  At times, I could feel my heart beating in my chest, particularly when the spirit of Victor Pascow who died on the operating table showed up right in Louis' face after the teaser in the doorway.  That, and the scenes involving Zelda, which I still have trouble watching.Although the acting was not wonderful, it is good enough to keep you interested in the film. The effects are sometimes a bit over the top, particularly w/ the wife when she comes back to the house.  I truly enjoyed Fred Gwynne's portrayal of Jud.  He had the down home neigbor part down cold.The film had enough of an impact on me that I still cringe when I see a grey cat with yellow/ orange eyes.... CHURCH!  It's certainly worth renting, if you're in the mood for a pretty well done horror film.Rating  7 of 10 "},{"Title":"Good Book/Lame Movie","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Homeowners Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby discover, much to their chagrin, that things buried in an Indian burial ground behind their property will return to life in this exceedingly lame adaptation of perhaps Stephen King's most chilling bestseller.  The strangest thing about this dreadful film is that King, who also wrote the screenplay, considers this the best film version of one of his books.  (Which only goes to prove that novelists don't necessarily make good screenwriters or good critics for that matter!)  I wanted to like this film, I really did, but it beat me down.  The main problem, aside from hack director Mary Lambert, whose idea of creating atmosphere is turning on a fog machine, are the two wooden leads.  I bet they'd float if you threw them in the river.  The only touch of class comes from the miscast Fred Gwynne.I actually prefer the sequel.  It's bad alright, but it is better paced and doesn't take itself as seriously.  Plus, no Midkiff and Crosby. "},{"Title":"Engrossing? No. Just gross!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Every time I chance another Steven King book made into a movie I am heartily  sorry. Why is it so hard to make a good Steven King novel into a great movie? Many have tried but most have failed. This one can get pitched to the dogs right along with the rest. The story dragged, the effects were fake, and the acting was painfully amateur. The only decent performance was put in by the young daughter. Maybe it takes a lot to grip me in my old age but this didn't engross me...it just put me to sleep. There was a glimmer of hope in the scenes about the wife's dead sister. They actually threatened to be heart beating fasty but when it got to the nitty gritty even they were so the already done that Exorcist thing that my excitement just fizzled. Too bad, King's material always has potential but seems to  fall into the wrong hands on a regular basis.. Still like `The Dead Zone' and `The Langoliers' best. "},{"Title":"Good Stephen King Adaptation - SPOILERS WITHIN!","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't read the book that this movie is based on, but I hear it is quite faithful. * BIG SPOILERS*The story surrounds a Family who move from Chicago to the countryside to a big house which is next to a rather busy road which has juggernauts going past day and night, They meet a creepy old man (The late great Fred (Munsters) Gwynne), who shows the family a Pet Cemetary where all the Cats and Dogs who have been run over in the past have been buried. Sadly later in the movie the family's pet cat Churchill (After Winston) gets run over on the busy road, so not to upset the children - Father & Fred go to a Indian Burial ground convienantly just a short walk away from the village, they bury the cat and what a suprise the cat comes back alive - although with a nasty personality. Following this the family take the kids and Fred on a Picnic (close to the main road) the youngest son Gage (Played wonderfully by Miko Hughes who went on to star as an autistic boy in the Underated Bruc Wilis Movie Mercury Rising) walk in the road and gets run over and killed by a juggernaut, The parents are obviously distraght so while the mother and daughter aren in Chicago at her parents the Father (in what can only be discribed as a momment of madness decides to dig up his dead son from the cemetary and decides to bury him in the Indian burial ground, hoping to bring him back alive - BIG MISTAKE!The movie is full of suspense and terror, The acting is very good especially by Miko Hughes who was just 3 years old when he played Gage, The directing by mary Lambert who went to direct the sequel (which I haven't seen yet but is by all accounts terrible) is above parIf your NOT a Horror fan Don't watch (It is a Stephen King Movie After all)My rating- 7/10 (above average Horror/suspense)  "},{"Title":"Extremely Scary Novel, Very Scary Movie","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being a Stephen King fan and a horror film fan, I would like to recommend this film to anyone who genuinely wants to see a scary film. This is a horror movie. It is dark, dismal and shocking. There is no humour and no good vs evil - this is true horror. They actually toned down the horror in the film - the book is much worse and I would recommend any readers out there to read the book for the same reason as I have recommended the film.This film has some truly scary moments (try and look beyond eighties horror look this film has got - this is no slasher flick, It may look cheesy, but it isnt).Im not going to spoil anything, but I will warn you - if you like happy endings, dont watch this one. It leaves you feeling a little strange. "},{"Title":"SCARY!!!","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hell, i´m 17 and thought that no movie could really scare me (maybe 6th sense a bit), but Pet Sematary is a real shocker. Even if there is much blood, the scariest scene is about Zelda, Rachels sister (í'm sure everyone who saw this movie will agree this is one of the scariest things ever made in a movie). There are many positive things about this movie a very good music, a good story, nice effects. Only thing that wasnt realy good was the last 20 minutes, which were a bit less scary, and the other thing was the wooden acting... I give it 8/10 (6th sense 10/10).But anyway, if you want to see a good made horror movie with an interesting (also disturbing) story this is the perfect movie!PS Guess from where M. Night Shyamalan (6th sense) got the inspiration for the kind of scary effects (suddenly someone walks across the screen...) he used? In this movie its twice (at the beginning and towards the end) used in the very same genial way!  "},{"Title":"a scary movie that delivers!","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ever since I was in high school, I have always loved Stephen King. He is a modern day Edgar Allen Poe to me, the master of horror and the ultimate master of suspense who would make Alfred Hitchcock proud! Sadly, there is a tradition in Hollywood of the movie adaptations of his books faring very poorly. Maybe its because there is an intangible spirit in his books that doesn't translate well on the screen. Maybe it is because Stephen King is such a brilliant author with such a wonderfully warped imagination, that no Hollywood script writer or director can do him justice! When King wrote Pet Semetary in 1984, critics trumpted it as his best work ever. They said could the master of horror even scare himself? Was there a tale that he wrote that was so disturbing that for a time he was unable to finish it? Pet Semetary is it! Actually, I want to burst the bubble a bit. The reason that King was reluctant to finish this book was not because of the horror in it, it was because it dealt with the death of a child (the little boy Gage) and it upset his wife. King actually wrote a lot of books that were scarier then this. However, when they made the movie, I have to admit that it was the only horror film that I have seen in my life besides The Exorcist and The Night Of The Living Dead that really scared and disturbed me. I was a student in college and they were showing this one night and it disturbed me so much I had to leave in the middle of it. I saw the whole film later on video and it was no less chilling and disturbing. Dale Midkiff gives a great performance as Louis Creed and Fred Gwynne (our beloved Herman Munster) is great as Jud Crandall. You will cringe at the horrible death poor old Jud suffers. This film will scare the (*&^ out of you! From the scene of Victor Paskow's death, to little Gage's horrible death, to Rachel's telling of her sister's death to the final chilling death of Jud, Rachel and Louis...this is one of the most disturbing films you will ever see. All the horror and evil and the nightmarish quality of Stephen King's book comes thru in this film! All of it and more so! Trust me, you will only want to see this film once. You will be chilled long after the final credits.  "}{"Title":"Quite Good (Spoilers)","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I hadn't heard too many great things about this film. I'd always loved Kings work (books and movies) so I figured I'd check it out.This movie surprised me. It has some very very great atmosphere, the plot was unique and good, and it had it's elements of great horror. Gage's death is, from any parents standpoint, terrifying. Jud Crandall is the nice man with elements of creepiness. And the Indian backround is very eerie. The movies only downfall is the acting. It's overall good but it has its moments of (in search of a better word) badness. It has gore but nothing Evil Dead-ish. If you want a good little horror movie to sit down with some night (and get scared, which frankly I wasn't expecting to happen) then rent or buy this movie. A strong 7.5 to an 8. Great,surprising little horror movie. "},{"Title":"What you own... always comes home to you","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Creed family, complete with handsome doctor husband and pet feline, move into a new house in the country. Too bad their move used up all of their good fortune. Now, they live in constant danger of being exposed to an evil burial ground that resurrects the dead and being killed by one of the many huge trucks that rip down the road, seeming to come out of nowhere. First the family cat is run down. Father decides he'll bury it in the evil indian cemetery, and it comes back from the dead. But, what goes in is not the same as what comes out.Shrill, tactless adaptation of the novel by Stephen King, Pet Sematary (cemetery, how it is correctly spelled) is a poor outing which lacks direction, conviction, and discernment. Actor Dale Midkiff is a real hunk! Can be harshly striking at times, which is a plus. Picks up a little steam in the way of pacing and make-up effects for it's genuinely scary finale. But overall- you can swear you've heard it somewhere before and you've seen it done better elsewhere. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Repulsive!","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was disgusting!I was s*** scared when I watched it!It was scarier when I watched it when I was ten, then I watched it again last year, and then this year, I bought it!This movie has revolting parts like when the cat comes back, and when Louis digs up Gage, and when Rachel came back from the dead with that drippy dead eye OOOOOOOOOH!! I was scared to death and I couldn't sleep that night!The movie ends with the Ramones singing the Pet Sematary song, that song gets stuck in my head so easily, I love it!Want to get frightened and scream, Pet Sematary is something to see!I will give this movie a bonus point 11/10! "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Horror Film.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is nothing mind blowing about this film at all.  It falls way off the mark of the book.  Not that I was expecting it to hit the mark.  Still overall this film turns out to not be half bad.  It does get a little creepy in moments.  Overall, this is a horror film that is just a little above average.Props on the Ramones track.Pet Sematary   5 Crows Dead and burried in the Pet Sematary.  One is till kicking around. "},{"Title":"Classic low budget Horror","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ive read the book and seen the movie and of course the book is better. But the movie is well worth seeing and is genuinely frightening, though rough at the edges - it was no big budget saga, just a good chilling tale.I like this story and to me it seems real and everything in the movie fits. Which makes it very frightening and ultimately a sad story. I think the movie does have enough jumpy nasty bits to keep most people entertained, even if they dont like the story overall - which i do. I watched it when it first came out 14 years ago and to this day i havent forgotten the slasher bits. Main reason I like this story because I figure it could almost be true and its written as such and the movie follows this through.  This kind of movie is a thousand times more scary then a mutant cyborg dude in a suit.Which is just boring, this movie aint. "},{"Title":"Truly chilling- not for the squeamish","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is much better than the average rating it's getting here. After a lifetime of seeing movies, few seem scary. This one goes from creepy to terrifying. Sure, it has a low-budget look at times Fred Gwynne is a great acting talent, but the rest of the cast tend to get upstaged by the kids and the cat. But we don't watch horror films for the acting, and what drives this movie is a really disturbing plot. Don't expect a happy ending; and understand that, particularly at the end, this movie pulls no punches with its violence. It's not gruesome just to be gruesome, but it's very graphic. There are no feel-good Hollywood touches to this movie, which gives it a very honest impact but makes it a bad choice for a party. Rent it for Halloween, turn out the lights, and take your blood pressure medicine. "},{"Title":"Bury this film - just don't bury it in the pet sematary or it will come back","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  POTENTIAL SPOILERSThis is one of thoose bad films that is passably entertaining all the same. However, it sticks to the book very well.The acting in this is absoutly appauling - with the exceptions of 'Gage' - he was cute (even when he was dead), and 'Church' the cat - the other actors could learn a thing or two from him. First time in a while i saw a film with such flat acting.Suffers from the late 80s/early 90s horror film tendancy to have sod-all atmosphere but lots of cheap blood and guts.Read the book, it's better than this!  "},{"Title":"A freak show","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was very sad and scary. It had the most suspence out of almost every movie I've ever seen! When the little boy got hit and the dad brought him back it was sad to see the way it hurt him. Also the wife's sister who had that spine problem was freaky. The only reason I wouldn't give it a 10 is because of the end where Gage killed his Jud. Only killing the mom made sense.   "},{"Title":"How dumb can you get?","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary is about a family who moves into a new house in a new neighborhood.  They meet an elderly neighbor just across the street.  But there are problems lurking--the worst being that there is a sacred indian burial ground where anything that's buried there can come back....for blood.  I thought this one would be a good scary flick.  But unfortunately, after seeing this one a countless number of times on TV, I have bad intentions against this movie.  One scene that disgusted me was when the youngest of the family, Cage, gets ran over and killed by a big red 18 wheeler that runs through the neighborhood nonstop.  This is one of the worst Stephen King films I've had to sit through.  Plus I thought the whole dead-coming-back-to-life idea was pretty dumb.  The ending pretty much makes me ask this one question about this movie--How dumb can you get?  What a disappointing movie this ended up being.  *star.  (Paramount) "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Mary Lambert and everyone who made this knows how to make scary movies.  It was an ok movie but truly a great movie when it comes to terror.  Acting was ok.  The movie was ok.  I would say it was really bad but I don't because the effects were good and it was scary.  Miko Hughes was good as little Gage.  Rated R for gruesome violence and terror.  I would give this movie a 5/10. "}{"Title":"Slightly overrated movie based on a slightly overrated novel by a slightly overrated actor","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a teenager I used to read a lot of novels and short stories by Stephen King. They were good enough for a few chills, but I could never agree with those of my friends who considered (and still consider) him to be the greatest horror writer of all time. I guess we had different views of what defines horror.To sum up the storyline of Pet Sematary I think just one or two sentences will do fine MD Louis Creed moves to an adorable cottage close to an ancient indian burial ground (how original, seems like ancient indian burial ground is the core of most of his novels) in New England with his family, becomes haunted by the ghost of a patient he were never able to save. Then his cat, son and wife gets killed in the order stated here, and he bury them at this indian burial ground, bringing them back to life, or a state of half-life. Then he gets killed by his resurrected wife. End of story.Of course, this is the storyline of the MOVIE, if you would read the novel you would soon find out that it is a lot more to it than this. But I guess this is what happens when you try to compress the plot of a 600-page novel into a movie less than two hours long.The acting is IMO about average, with two exceptions. Dale Midkiff manages to turn the nice MD known from the novel into an almost emotionless robot, while Miko Hughes does an outstanding performance as the son. Considering that he was only three years old, I was amazed by his performance.All in all, I think you should see this movie. But don't expect too much horror, neither the books or movies by Stephen King does a very good job scaring you. Instead there are plenty of cheap tricks used, like excessive use of gore and loud sound effects that will make you jump. Who wouldn't feel nauseated by watching a close-up of a tendon being cut with a scalpel? A ghost with half his brain coming out of a huge hole in the left side of his head? A zombie trying to rip off his own face? Or a young woman with her face cut to shreds and eyes falling out of her sockets? That is, IMHO, simple gore and not actually horror. And that is what Stephen King base most of his works on, to in either visual or written form describe what is happening. In the novel, he did a great job describing what a two year old baby that has been run over by a huge truck looks like. It's not nice to read it, but it's not particulary scary either.But Pet Sematary is a fairly good movie after all. "},{"Title":"Sometimes dead IS better!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not the best horror movie in the world people, but a fun one none the less. I like the biggest part of it. Almost 97% of this classic Stephen King horror film will scare the pants off you!If you enjoy the horror film genre, or you enjoy Stephen King novel movies, you need to see this. I guarantee you it will leave you sleeping with the lights on!9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"One of my favourites in this genre!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of my all time favourite horror movies. I've also read the book and must say that this is maybe the most true to the book movie I have ever seen! Great acting, great filming and very creepy surroundings! VERY creepy!! "},{"Title":"One of horror's best.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one freaky flick. No matter how many horror movies you've seen, this movie proves that you are not immune to scares. I don't recommend seeing this for the first time alone unless you are really into scary movies and think you can handle anything. I was surprised this movie was good because I am not a fan of Stephen King movies.  From the opening credits this movie will send you chills. Whoever did the music in this movie did a wonderful job. And the direction is great, too. As you may know, the movie focuses on the Creed family as they settle into their new home in Maine. The town has a deadly secret hidden in the woods called the Pet Sematary (misspelled by children), which sits on the outskirts of an Indian burial ground. When Gage, the Creeds' toddler son, is killed on the road by a semi, things begin to fall apart and they only get worse. The death of young Gage is pretty shocking. If you read the novel then you know what's coming, but it's still a horrific thing. One thing leads to another and Gage is buried on the Indian burial ground in hopes that its powers will bring him back like it did Church, the family cat. But things never go right in a Stephen King movie, and when Gage rises from the grave he's a little different and a tad bit psychotic. The child who plays Gage is stunning. Resurrected Gage is one of the most terrifying images in horror I've ever seen. Forget Freddy, this kid walks around in funeral clothes toting a scalpel from a medical kit with a sinister grin...it's terrifying. Many critics overlooked this movie and gave it bad reviews and I cannot understand why. It's plenty scary. Sure, it doesn't lift your spirits and isn't what I'd call a fun movie, but it is above all very frightening, so what's the problem? It seems the critics don't know jack about horror. They hate the good efforts, which we fans of the genre can recognize, and they love the duds, like Halloween H20 and Scream 2. This is one of the best horror movies the '80s ever shot out. Remember this was the time of the Nightmare on Elm Street, Halloween, Friday the 13th sequel nightmare. This must have been a breath of fresh air. There are several things wrong with this movie, but it's just about logic and is a little picky. For one, the characters are fine but somewhat idiots. Jud, the neighbor, knows what happens when you bury something in the Pet Sematary, then he goes and tells the father to bury his daughter's cat there. Once he's introduced to the power, he of course buries his son. Then his son comes back a lunatic and he goes and buries his wife there! Did the fact that his son was a maniac killer not tell him that the things buried there don't come back as they were? Plus, young Gage must have extraordinary powers because he somehow manages to get his mom hanging by a rope from the attic and knows how to shut himself in and use the phone by himself. He's a toddler! But all that stuff aside, this movie is the creepiest film in years and if you have any interest in horror you should see it. Don't watch the late '90s crap, this is the real stuff. Just don't blame me for your nightmares. I warned you. "},{"Title":"Psychologically frightening","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Several things about this movie frightened me, more so on a psychological level. The reason being is, if you actually had the opportunity to bring a loved one back from the grave, would you? Or would you let the dead rest in peice? They did a fairly decent job adapting Stephen King's novel into a movie. The acting was okay, there really wasn't alot of gore but when there was, it was pretty cool. I recommend that you read the book before you see the movie.STAY AWAY FROM THE SEQUEL!!!!!! "},{"Title":"My favourite horror film!!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is my best horror movie.  It had a good story and decent acting.  Fred Gwynne was the best actor in this movie! It had some good make-up and good monsters.ACTING6 STORY8 MAKE-UP7 "},{"Title":"Dead guy at your bedside kept me up 3 nights w/ light on","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was drunk and 16 at the dollar theater when I first saw this movie and it scared the crap out of me.  The spinal meningitis scene alone is so creepy! I tried to block some of that stuff from my mind and was reminded of it only years later while discussing scary movies with friends.  The kid the cat and that other dude who keeps coming to the bedside all rotting and EEEWWWW!! I just kept thinking I'd wake up and he'd be there begging me for more screwed up zombie friends from the Indian burial ground!!! I never read the book, and am normally NEVER frightened by Stephen King movies, but this one seemed to have just the right balance to keep me terrified even years later........ "},{"Title":"Greek Tragedy","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   (Possible SPOILERS) This movie is a Classical Greek tragedy in modern horror guise. We have our protagonist, Dr. Creed, who is doomed from the start due to his obsession with reclaiming his loved ones from death- character is fate. His destruction is inexorable. We have Jud Crandall, who is similar to the Chorus in that he comments upon the action and explains some details, and we have Victor Pascow as the Cassandra character, who issues warnings which Will Not Be Believed (thanks to the bull-headedness of Dr. Creed,) and who in the end can only stand by helplessly. The Mic-Mac burial ground is something like the intervention by the gods, to give a man via supernatural activity, what he thinks he most wants.One of the pre-Socratic philosophers once said that it is not good that men should get everything they want. In Creed's case, this is obvious. "},{"Title":"Faithful to the book, but...","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Eminently scary-- especially if you're a parent-- perfect tension, good cinematography, macabre effects, persistent sense of foreboding, quite faithful to the book, highly effective for a low-budget production, yet...It's all spoiled by the wooden acting and dialogue. It almost needs a subtitle Revenge of Pinocchio. Dale Midkiff as the father is dreadfully miscast. Both he and Denise Crosby as the mother are awkward and uncomfortable on the screen, with acting that's little better than a soap opera.That said, it's still eerie and creepy enough to get your heart thumping. Not for the kiddies.  "},{"Title":"The soil of a man's heart is stonier....","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, let's get one thing straight. I'm a King purist. The book that serves as the well for this movie is a masterpiece. We all know that it's pretty tough to make a 100% faithful adaptation of a novel in the standard two-hour film form, if not downright impossible. While this movie leaves out details from the novel and doesn't pack the same punch, this movie is still pretty good. For one, it's definitely creepy. Someone else mentioned the opening credits and they're right. The music alone will give you goose flesh. I think they did the best they could with this movie, honestly speaking. The casting is pretty good, even though Dale Midkiff's performance is a little forced in some parts. Ms. Crosby does what she can with the material presented to her but if it's anybody's show here, it's Fred Gwynne's. That's right, ol' Herman Munster himself. This is a case of perfect casting. If you've read the book, he gets Jud Crandall with a bullseye here. It's the kind of performance that gives you newfound respect for the actor in question. It's too bad he's passed away because after watching this movie, I was dying to see him do something of this caliber again. The makeup work in this movie is very well done. The score by Elliot Goldenthal was good enough for me to use in one of my student films. It's a pretty standard horror movie as far as adaptations go but it has enough in it to make you appreciate it somewhat. Definitely one to watch with someone who's easily spooked. That dang cat gets me almost every time. Parents might find this movie difficult to watch because there's one scene involving the main character's son, and a kite that is definitely upsetting to say the least. Worth your time if you check your expectations at the door. Rating ***1/2 out of *****. "}{"Title":"Horror is in the eye of the beholder","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff), his wife Rachel (Denise Crosby), their two beautiful children Ellie (Blaze Berdahl) and Gage (Miko Hughs), and the family cat Church, have just moved to a quiet little house in Maine after Louis gets a new job as head doctor at the local university.  They aren't there two minutes before young Ellie injures herself while swinging and Gage is nearly hit by one of the large Orinco trucks that constantly pass The Creed's new home. Luckily, new neighbor, Jud Crandall (the late Fred Gwynne), is there to save the tyke from being run down.  Jud and Louis strike up a fast friendship.When Ellie notices a path in her new backyard she wonders where it leads. Jud promises to show the family some day, and he certainly does.  Turns out, it's a Pet Sematary (Misspelled by the children who have beloved pets buried there).  Thus begins the tale...On Creed's first day of work a patient, Victor Pascow, is brought in. Pascow got hit by a car while jogging, and his head is bloody and bashed in. However, that doesn't stop him from warning Creed about the Pet Sematary and it's dangers.  It also doesn't stop him from taking Louis to the Pet Sematary that night and showing him the boundaries of the cemetery.  He warns Creed not to go into the woods because the ramifications could be deadly.  He ain't kidding!Jud calls one day to inform Creed that he's found dead cat in his front year that looks a lot like Church.  Louis fears having to tell his daughter (she's out of town for the Thanksgiving holiday), who already fears Church's death after seeing the Pet Sematary.  Louis goes to collect his cat when Jud tells him he has a special place in mind to bury the corpse.The men go past the Pet Sematary, through the woods, and to an area where an ancient Indian tribe, The Micmacs, buried their dead.  Creed buries the cat. When Church returns home the next day, Louis realizes he did more than just bury his once dead cat... he resurrected it.Unfortunately, this leads to some dire consequences.While there were some truly frightening moments in Pet Sematary, as a whole the movie seemed to be lacking some of the subtleties of the book.  It seemed to simply take the novel and pick out some of the more important scenes, leaving out some less-important, but touching scenes; such as the fatal Halloween when Louis Creed saves the live of Norma Crandall (who is completely missing from the film), and the Christmas scene.  Also missing is the truly frightening character Oz, the Gweat and Tewwible.What the movie does have going for it is it does a nice job at retelling (I think Mary Lambert knew what she was doing when crafting this film) the story with some good actors performing the partsCrosby does a nice job playing frazzled housewife and mother, Rachel. Gwynne, in one of his final performances, shines as Jud; though his New England accent does make it hard to understand what he's saying.   Brad Greenquist as the deceased Pascow is a truly wonderful presence in the movie.  Though he is dead and part of his head is bashed and bloody, he is extremely funny in the role!  Every time he appeared on screen I couldn't help but smile.  And Hughs, just a baby at the time the movie was released, does wonders with the role of ill-fated Gage.  Not to mention he is absolutely adorable!  The cat is very cool too!  I loved his eyes!Unfortunately, Midkiff is the lead in this movie and his performance is very stiff.  He doesn't seem to understand Louis' mind, from mild-mannered doctor to an insane man hell-bent on restoring his family.  I doubt he was having a good time playing the part.Two of the more frightening characters in the book are Rachel's sister Zelda, who died of a fatal spinal disease when Rachel was just a child. Though she won't frighten adult (be prepared to get grossed out when you see her back, though), make sure the children are out of the room during her 3 scenes.  Personally, I found her to be a cross between the Elephant Man, the Wicket Witch of the West, Ally McBeal, and a muppet.  The other is young Timmy, a boy who died in WWII and was resurrected by his father.  In one scene he is shown eating a child's leg!Overall, if you are in the mood for a good scare go on down to you local Blockbuster or Hollywood Video and pick up this film.  Watch it alone in the dark on a Saturday night!  There is mild violence and only a few choice words.15 and older.   "},{"Title":"By far the scariest move ever made","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WARNING!! POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!! Wow. That's all I can say that lives up to the intelligence of this eye-popping,disturbing terror movie. Just the opening  credits, the way the camera films the Pet Sematary(child spelling mistake)made me shiver. The actor's are extremely convincing, able to show the unimaginable terror of the situation. A small family of 4 moves to scenic Maine, a fairly peaceful area except for the trucks that whizz by practically all the time. They get off to a bad start, the young duaghter falls off the tire swing and the infant son almost gets hit by a car. They soon meet their new neighbor Jud, who shows them the pet sematary. Then the horror begins ... I would like to comment on the extremely disturbing, scary and heart pounding scene when the mom has a flashback about her childhood when she was forced to take care of her dying sister Zelda. Zelda's skin hugs her bones and partially reminded me of some stretchy rubber. This scene made me curl up at the back of my couch practically screaming and shivering ( I was 10 when I first saw this). I still scream when she is smiling and croaking her sisters name Rachel...Rachel... i'm gonna break your back so that you can never walk again... and then she starts laughing. Still with all these spoilers i have put in this review the movie is still horrifying and fun to watch. I recommend you get in your car and rent or buy this right now! The best an scariest horror movie I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Scary as hell","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Creed family move out to the forests of Maine, to a nice house in an idyllic setting. The only problem seem to be a dangerous highway nearby the house, on which heavy trucks are driving all day long. The family dad, Louis, soon become friends with their new neighbor and he shows Louis a mysterious pet cemetery. The legend says that if you bury something or someone there, he/she/it will come back alive. But not the same as before. When the family´s cat is killed by a truck, Louis decides to try the cemetery, and buries the dead cat there. Big mistake. And this is only the beginning.Based on the book by Stephen King, Pet Sematary still stands out as one of the spookiest films ever made, in my opinion. It scared the shit out of me a couple of years ago, and now when I´m a big boy, I still found myself covering my eyes several times. Some flashback scenes involving a sick girl are very unpleasant, to say at least.Dale Midkiff is believable as Louis, the man who gradually learns how powerful the ground of the pet cemetery is. But Fred Gwynne is even better, in a terrific performance in one of his last roles, as the neighbor Jud. He is actually one of the most interesting characters Stephen King has ever created. Look out for Mr. King himself, in a brief scene as a priest.The environments are imaginative, the score is impressive and there are lots of scary moments and jumps, as stated above. Even though Pet Sematary is one of the best of King´s adaptations, the book is still better. It develops the characters and events better, which books often do. But if you can handle all the gore and creepiness, this is a rather good horror movie, with an interesting story.One more thing. The film´s theme song, by the incredible band The Ramones, has got to be the best one ever written. The lines in the chorus, I don´t want to be buried in a pet sematary, I don´t want to live my life again, are absolutely fantastic.* * * ½ out of * * * * * "},{"Title":"Good horror movie","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must admit I only wanted to watch this movie because I had read the book. Having said that, this movie is directed in the same spirit as the original Stephen King novel, and most of the plot is included in the film, albeit with a few modifications.In the first half of the film the story is rushed a bit and we are bombarded with a fast developing plot that is a bit too quick when compared to the Stephen King style of writing.There were also a few scenes which could have been developed further.All in all, this movie is a good horror movie and is probably not for the easily spooked and squeamish, in view of the blood and death and all the other themes of the film. Go see it if you like this type of film. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was definitely not as good as the book, but it's worth  seeing. I saw it originally when I was about 8 or 9, so it was creepy as hell back then. The book was definitely a lot better though. I thought Dale Midkiff's performance was pretty good though, and I loved him in Time Trax also. This isn't a bad horror movie and it has some really scary scenes that still stick in my mind. But DEFINITELY just read the book. It captures the true essence of the story a lot better. "},{"Title":"A good example of a film being inferior to a book","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, the movie isn't that bad.  It's just typical Hollywood.  The touching aspects of family and love so prevalent in Stephen King's novel are rushed with the determination of a filmmaker desperate to get them out of the way.  The last half hour of the film focuses on young Gage Creed killing everyone, which was only about the last 20 pages of King's book.  Some people will see a film that has more to it than people's mouths getting cut open.  Read Stephen King's novel and you'll understand. "},{"Title":"A childhood classic...","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, first I have to point the fact that when I first saw this flick I was 9 years old. If I had seen this one two weeks ago for the first time, I´d probably have noted that this is just another cheaply-made-cable-TV horror film with some well-made scenes. But when you´re nine you just don´t care about those facts. This scared the hell out of me back then, especially those aforementioned Zelda- scenes (and they still do). Nowadays I´m kind of hooked to this film. I have to see this maybe once in a month, and on every new year´s eve I watch this with a 12-pack of beer & bunch of friends. It´s like an appetizer for a good party! I kinda agree to those people who said that the acting here is pretty unintense. Midkiff and Crosby do look like I wanted Louis and Rachel look like, but one can´t see very much devotion or feelings on the faces of these two. Hughes and Gwynne pretty much save the scenes which the Creeds underact. What I actually want to say about this is the fact that there really is no other film that has any kind of similarity to Pet Sematary, and I don´t mean the zombie stuff here. THE ATMOSPHERE OF THIS FILM IS CERTAINLY A NOVELTY AND ONE OF A KIND. Honestly, how many times you have seen a film which on superficial level looks like a cable-TV one, but leave you with a chill compared to only the best horror-chillers out there? Alright I busted some of the cast´s balls a minute ago, but I have to say that all pieces in that level too hone the overall acting to perfection. But hey tell me if you really know some film which is similar to Pet Sematary! I really would love to know...And I don´t mean night of the living dead here...this one is way beyond compare in intelligence compared to that stuff.  "},{"Title":"Almost One Of Stephen King's Best","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  PLOT SPOILERS AHEADAmong my favorite horror movies, half of them belong to Stephen King, but Pet Sematary has got to be one of the most illogical. It's not the paranormal aspect that bothers me, but the likelihood that old Jud Crandall would show Louis Creed the old Indian burial ground if it had gone rotten. He even says, I'm being punished for showing it to you. or something to that affect. A far cry from his days on the Munsters, Fred Gwynne and Dale Midkiff ( I loved him on Time Trax) both turn in great performances. Midkiff has a great role as a father who loses his son, but the plot loses all coherence with all these things being buried and coming back. Denise Crosby gives a mostly wooden performance in the few scenes she has; the animatronic cat shows better range. The plot does move smoothly to an anticipated,but anti-climactic end, but I think I prefer the novel better. "},{"Title":"Contains some of the scariest footage I've ever seen","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film, as a whole, borders on campy. That's not to say it's not good, in fact it's very entertaining and one of those films you just like to sit back on the couch and enjoy. And who doesn't love Miko Hughes brandishing a butcher knife and looking like Chucky? I played with Jud Crandell, I played with Mommy, and now I wanna play with YOOOOUUUUU... This is one of those films that will always be in my consciousness from watching it as a child, and being truly scared. Not that many films manage to truly, truly make me chill, but there are a few aspects to this film that manage to achieve that difficult, difficult task, and both of them almost have nothing to do with the general, overall plot. One of them is Jud Crandell's flashbacks to childhood, and showing the maid hanging laundry, when a man they buried only a few days before stumbles into the yard and the maid screams running back in the house. He then prowls around the outside of the house. For some reason, this is scary to me. Much of it is in the way it's shot. Which leads me to the next and scariest aspect of this film. The flashbacks to Zelda, the dying sister of the wife, who is suffering from spinal meningitis or something, and she is shown withering away to bones on the bed, croaking out her sister's name, Racheeeellll... But in the present, when Rachel is looking for her son and she goes to an upstairs bedroom and opens the door, she sees her dead sister Zelda lying away from her on the bed. But suddenly Zelda jolts around and stares right at us-- at Rachel, with eyes that are more frightening than any I've ever seen. Then they cut to her crouching in the corner and cackling across the room at Rachel, saying I'm gonna break your back so you'll never walk again! and she races across the room towards us. Much of the shockingly terrifying impact of these scenes is due to the camera angles. Nothing CGI, but extremely effective. Out of all the millions of CGI-covered 'scary' movies coming out, the footage of Zelda remains some of the most terrifying I've ever seen, even now and I just watched it two days ago. When I first saw it as a child, we had to turn it off because it was scaring my sister and me so bad. While lying in bed that night, I could see out into the hallway, and I was so scared I'd look out and see Zelda ready to charge in at me cackling. So overall, Pet Semetary is good campy fun, but continues to contain some of the scariest footage I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Dead Is Better.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Apart from an outstanding performance from child actor Miko Hughes, there's unfortunately not much here to recommend. I watched the film shortly after I finished Stephen King's brilliant novel, and was shocked at how streamlined the film was, excising most of the intriguing subtext of the novel to concentrate solely on major plot points. The script itself is ok, but many of the actors are unconvincing (especially Denise Crosby and Dale Midkiff, who reminds me of Keanu Reeves) and the film on the whole looks like a cheapo USA Network flick. Only during the admittedly eventful finale did the actors raise their level of emotion enough that I realized what the movie might have been. 5/10 "}{"Title":"One of the better Stephen King adaptations","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So often with Stephen King adaptations, you just get a collection of characters reciting dialogue from the books. This really captures the heart of the book. Maybe because they DON'T use large chunks of text straight from the book, but it's a bit more of an improv of the events in the story. A big part of its success is Miko Hughes as baby Gage. Dale Midkiff and Denise Tasha Yar Crosby really act like his parents. There's a scene where Louis is cuddling Gage, and they are very natural together. Fred Gwynne is WONDERFUL. He nails the Maine accent perfectly without lapsing into parody, and is wise and warm just like Jud should be. (8 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Thank god for Pascow","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary is easily one of most intense, atmospheric horror flicks I've ever seen. Despite a lack of intentional humor (though a cameo by Steven King was pretty funny), and no clear protagonist, the movie has some real scares up it's sleeve. It was so suspenseful that I resorted to closing my eyes through some sequences, something I haven't done since I first saw Flatliners years ago. Which reminds me... Flatliners seems to have borrowed a lot from this film, not only is the theme the same (Pet Sematary-- People and animals die, and come back different, Flatliners-- People die but don't come back alone), but the directing style is similar. If it wasn't for Victor Pascow, a 'friendly' ghost, I probably would've died of the suspense... and he provides the only humorous moments in the film.Much of the acting is superb. Looking through the cast list at IMDb, I didn't recognize a single name except for Miko Hughes (who was great playing Gage, the baby, here. No wonder he went on to an illustrious career after this), but the actors did a terrific job. The script was also right on, and the direction was flawless, aided by a haunting score by Elliot Goldenthal.One thing that surprised me was the ending (spoilers in this paragraph). I think this is the first movie I've ever seen in which none of the central characters survive. It was different, and far removed from what I was expecting. One of the things I kept thinking during the films most intense scenes was it's all going to work out in the end, while it actually didn't. Having just finished watching it minutes ago (It's now about 1 AM), I think I can safely say that I won't be sleeping tonight...Rent it if you haven't seen it already, you won't regret it8.5/10 "},{"Title":"The downward spiraling plot is a real killer","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What I liked most about this film is the downward spiral - there is no hope and nothing positive at any point in the story. Everything goes steadily to hell.This is very refreshing after all the Hollywood happy endings and the typical awakening of main character's survival skills when faced with dangers.Watching this film you cannot even draw on your adrenaline supplies because there is no physical threat to fight against. "},{"Title":"Stupid but scary (maybe some spoilers)","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    This has got to be one of the stupidest movies of the 20th century. However This is the only scary movie to ever scare the living Hell out of me. There are so many creepy elements of the movie such as a sister that is suffering from some god only knows disease and she just lays in a bed moaning and that still scares me to death. Another may be about the story of a guy that comes back from the dead after being killed in a war and than decides to kill his father and keeps body parts in the back yard. Even a so-called friendly ghost still gives me the creeps. This movie is by the stupidest and scariest movies I have ever seen. Those two things don't go well together so avoid this movie if you can help it. "},{"Title":"check it out","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best horror movies ever made. It was really scary. The plot itself was scary. I love to watch this movie. The acting was good, and the plot was good. This is a movie I would want to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Scarier than the Exorcist!","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this fim when i was 10, im now 14 and i watched it again the other day expecting it to have lacked in frights, but it is as scary as it ever was if not more. Admittedly the acting is poor and some of it looks kinda cheap but it has spooky atmosphere about it and it really does have some good shocks.Some parts are resonably disturbing eg When it flashes back to when the woman was a little girl and her deformed sister chokes to death. Even the background music during the opening credits is scary and Stephen Kings plot is brilliant.     "},{"Title":"The only thing scary about the movie is that it was actually released","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I swear, I don't think one of you people who liked this actually saw the same movie I did. Pet Sematary was horrible. Not one ounce of humanity was shown in this film. What made the book so heartrending was the reality of the relationships between the characters. Dale Midkiff (Time Traxx) and Denise Crosby (Star Trek)are TV actors for a reason, and that is what this film feels like a cheaply made TV adaptation of a really great novel. Stephen King is my all-time favorite writer, but this film was a travesty. It's an almost impossible task from the outset; there is no way to transfer the range of emotions going through the head of Louis Creed in the novel to the screen, even with the best actors trying. And the movie actually seems to be AVOIDING any real interaction between the characters. The only scene between Midkiff and Crosby which features any but the most mundane dialogue is the one where she reveals the story of Zelda. The scenes which could have had the most emotional impact, the ones between Louis and Ellie, are ruined by Midkiff's anaesthetized performance, and Blaze Berdahl's habit of screaming every line she has. Not once when she cried did I actually believe she was crying, and she cries alot in the movie. I wanted to like the movie, being a King fan, but the performances were just too underwhelming and the script too clinical. Not once did I believe these characters even cared about each other, which from the start made you stop caring whether they lived or died. Two-year-old Miko Hughes gives the best performance in the film; you know you're in trouble when a baby outacts the grownups. (And as for scares, the scariest scene was the dream sequence in which Rachel sees Zelda sit up in bed and say I finally caught up with you . . . The rest of the scenes with Zelda are marred once you read the closing credits and discover that the character was played by a man. You can't see any of those scenes again without laughing hysterically.)  "},{"Title":"2nd scariest movie EVER made (a CLOSE 2nd to Exorcist)","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Based on Steven King's book, Pet Sematary is the story of Louis Creed, and his family moving in to to a house in Ludlow, Maine. Behind this house, there is a path which leads to the local Pet Sematary, and behind that resides an old Indian burial ground. *******(SPOILER)********* When Louis' cat dies, his neighbor Jud helps bury him in the Indian burial ground, with horrifying results.  But then, Louis begins to wonder, what if you buried a person in the burial ground.....? This movie is, along with The Exorcist, is the SCARIEST movie I have EVER seen.  Zelda of PS and Regan of The Exorcist, the SCARIEST characters to be on film.  The suspense that's built near the end is nerve-racking. Watch this movie with The Exorcist, The Evil Dead, and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and, believe me, you won't sleep real well for a long time. "},{"Title":"Good film, great adaption. King fans shouldn't miss it...","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Probably the most accurate Stephen King adaption yet. Not surprising, since King himself wrote the screenplay. The story follows the Creed family moving into a beautiful Maine house. One of the other residents is Jud, a pleasant old man who knows a few things about the area. One is the highway that runs right through their frontyard. The other is a path leading to the Pet Sematary, where children for decades have buried the animals killed by the highway. Soon enough, Ellie Creed's cat, Church, is found dead. Luckily, this happens while the family, with the exception of Louis(the father), is away for Thanksgiving. Jud takes Louis to another burial ground, beyond the Pet Sematary, where Church is to be buried. Later, Louis is greeted(not so politely) by Church. He's returned, appearing to have chewed his way out of the bag he had been buried in. Maybe he was buried alive. Maybe not. Nothing more I can say without ruining the story.Of all the King adaptions I've seen this would be the most terrifying. The characters are real and the situations are normal. Mary Lambert does a great job directing the proceedings. Suspense is kept fairly high throughout the film, due in part to the plot development. The scene where Gage is killed will stick in your mind forever. Then, of course, we have the conclusion. Easy to determine what's going to happen, but Lambert pulls off some genuinely scary, and sometimes disturbing, moments.Overall, this is a good film and an excellent adaption. If you enjoy being scared and don't mind being haunted by some occasionally disturbing images then Pet Sematary is just what you're looking for. Non Horror fans will want to avoid this. "},{"Title":"cool.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you have read the book you can't really call this movie for being scary. Although it was pretty cool. I liked it, even though the book was way, way, better ( but what's new? ). It was kinda entertaining and a little creepy at the same time. Warning for the sequel '' Pet Sematary II ''. That is one of my top ten hate - movies. I give this a good *** out of ***** "}{"Title":"On my top ten horror list.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why? Because it was the only movie I have ever seen that I had to turn off because I was too scared to keep watching. "},{"Title":"Just freakin' scary","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm going to admit that I didn't sleep very well for about 2 weeks after first watching this movie. I love Stephen King and am used to the macabre, the dark and the disturbing but for some reason this one really got to me. Not for the faint of heart... "},{"Title":"this movie is good!!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is really good AND scary.  Alot of horror movies- if they are scary, the acting isn't all that well, and if they aren't scary, the acting is the best seen in a long time.  This movie has it all.  I remember when I was 9 and I watched it for the first time.  I didn't sleep for 2 days. The part where Victor and the Doc are in the hospital room, and when Gage gets oops, can't say it I thought I would die!!  There were some parts where it was like yeah right like when the baby attacked the Doc towards the end.  He is like, what, 190.  And that boy, dead or alive, is only around 40.  They really did a WONDERFUL make up job on Victor and Rachael.  ABSOLUTLY WONDERFUL.   "},{"Title":"all up in arms","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The biggest flaw of this thriller was its predictability--along the lines of all typical horror flicks, that is.  Our starring father had about as much sense as a can of cranberry.  Once the cat was out of the bag (so to speak) about the burial grounds, the viewers can easily surmise the impending doom the leading male would soon bring upon himself.  No, making the same bloody mistake twice was not enough for him to learn any lessons.  He's foolishly lead to believe that a third tangle with the revival of the dead would be nothing short of charming.  The only comfort of closure this film will bring to its viewers is that the father got exactly what he deserved--death for his own inane actions.  If you want to rent another movie that'll have you screamin' don't do that, stupid!!! at the tube, go ahead and plop down that dollar and get ready to be all up in arms. "},{"Title":"Best Horror Film I've Seen","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is by far the scariest movie I have ever seen.  The atmosphere in the movie is so freaky!  From the opening credits I was scared.  I challenge anyone to watch this movie in the dark, by themselves. "},{"Title":"Unimpressive adaptation of a great book","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I suppose they did what they could as far as bringing a long novel to the screen, but it was still a once-over-lightly effort compared to the depth the characters in the novel had. If they ever remake this, I'd like to see it as a miniseries so they could include more about the characters' motivations and backstories. It's my all-time favorite King book and I so wish they had done a better job conveying the wonderfulness of the book onto film. So much happened inside the characters' heads, though, that I'm sure it would be very difficult to get everything that really matters across to the audience.I like Fred Gwynne, but he's not at all the way I envisioned Judd&#x85; I saw Judd in my mind's eye as a kinda shriveled-up old Maine-ah, not big enough to totally fill a doorway. The other actors were nothing to write home about, and the little girl was plain awful. Both the Pet Sematary and the Micmac burial ground were a lot more elaborate than I had envisioned, but I don't mind that much&#x85; who says that what I envisioned is the right way it should look? Yet I do wish that Church had looked the way he did on the novel's cover, a regular ol' tabby cat (Maine Coon, perhaps?) instead of a Russian Blue. Beautiful cat, but not the Church of the book.I re-watched it recently to remind myself of exactly what I hadn't liked about it, and I have to say that the end was a real let-down. The little boy should have looked a whole lot more damaged and that would have added to the terror. The book mentioned that his head was misshapen&#x85; well, no surprise there; he got hit by an 18-wheeler hard enough to knock him out of his shoes, but aside from being light blue and having one little faint scar on his forehead, he looked fine at the end of the film. I'm sure putting hours of special-effects makeup on a squirming 2- year-old is impossible, so I get the why here, but it still took a lot away from the ending to have a cute light-blue kid toddling around supposedly terrifying everyone. Maybe CGI the dead Gage in a future re- make?Credit where it's due one of the most subtly horrifying scenes in the book made it to the movie version and it was very effective. At Gage's funeral when Louis is fistfighting with Rachel's father and the coffin falls off the bier and hits the floor, bouncing open for just one nanosecond, giving just a momentary peek at Gage's little hand&#x85; wow. Well-done on that shot, Madame Director. It was just enough, not too much, not too little.Otherwise, a run-of-the-mill adaptation of an outstanding horror novel. "},{"Title":"Absolute horror perfection","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary did it all right. It's simply an incredibly chilling, engaging, and SCARY movie. Even King himself admits that the book scared him (although that's probably partly due to the real-life circumstances which inspired him to write it).As of this writing, Pet Sematary is 25 years old, yet it doesn't feel dated by Hollywood standards of horror. Take a film like Psycho. A masterpiece of it's time, yet it simply doesn't scare people anymore. But Pet Sematary? If it doesn't freak you out, YOU might be dead. It can hold a candle to any film released today in regards to overall scariness.I've heard people complain about some of the acting, but I can't even hear those complaints-The rest of the film by far overshadows it. The screenplay was magnificently adapted from the novel, the direction, pacing and cinematography are all outstanding. This film is hard to stop watching because the build-up, execution, and climax are all well-done, and quite scary. It keeps you involved, wondering what comes next, it's not lagged or bogged down. It's not over-the-top or cartoonish, considering the themes.Provided, the source material for the film was excellent. However, we all know all-too-well what can happen when short-sighted directors and sloppy screenwriters get a hold of a good product. As Stephen King wrote the screenplay as well, that fear is eliminated. And Mary Lambert did an outstanding job of putting it all together. You would have to think that King (being greatly connected to the film adaptation) wouldn't allow her to butcher it even if she could have! The film is gory, but not ridiculous oh here we go types of gore. Rather, it's appropriate for it's form, and well-placed when and where it's needed to top off the darkest scenes of the film. This way, it actually COMPLEMENTS the film, instead of dragging it down and making you roll your eyes in disgust.Pet Sematary isn't just about the horrifying supernatural, rather, the darkness of man (a theme in many King works) is ever-present as well. What drives the film in the direction that it goes is how far a man (Louis) would go to cope with his grief, and to spare his family the same. When he oversteps a sacred boundary between life and death, it becomes visible that he's opened Pandora's Box. Yet, his grief STILL drives him back to that same solution.On either side of Louis are the living and the dead trying to influence his decisions. Both with the same message, but one (admittedly, you must be familiar with the book to have picked up on it) seemingly controlled by the evil forces attempting to control Louis in the first place. Like giving a child candy and telling them not to eat it, just so you can punish them once they do.And that leads right in to part of what makes it so horrifying That this movie is also very sad. There's no happy ending, no resolve for the good guys. It's self-destruction at it's finest, leaving no stone unturned. There's no bright spots in this film, because everything came crashing down in the worst way in both the living and the supernatural. It makes it a film which one can find scary for more than one reason.If you want to see a film that will TRULY give you chills, you must watch Pet Sematary. Truth be told, I put it above my beloved slasher flicks. Because I think that while those films have their merits in style and story, Pet Sematary succeeds far more at being a truly terrifying experience. I might sooner let a young child watch Nightmare on Elm Street than Pet Sematary, and that's saying a lot! It's films like this that make me understand that while I'm not in Stephen King's books, I see WHY he is hailed as a horror mastermind. "},{"Title":"This dog needs resurrecting","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" * Warning Major Spoilers ahead* Watching Pet Semetary has made me understand why Hollywood does remakes. While the title has cache as a brand name and clout by association, originating from the pen of one Stephen King, this 1989 creep show is a strong candidate for re-incarnation. Let me just say that I completely understand the rose coloured glasses with which we sometimes remember films first seen in our youth. Even the best examples of horror, (Halloween, A Nightmare On Elm St. and alike) can often look dated, crappy and lame to eyes witnessing them for the first time, many, many years after their release. Sometimes these judgements can be unfair, not considering the time when the film was first relevant. Other times it can give clarity to a film's short coming and missed opportunities. Now, with my self-justifying out of the way, let's turn our attention back to Pet Semetary. Adapted from King's popular novel of the same name, box-office wise this film is probably his most successful page to screen horror adaptation, King even wrote the script. This alone is reason for a remake. It appears as though King may have been too close to the project, as the pace is slow, taking way too much to time to get to the inevitable and the subplots seem pointless. King seemingly didn't have the objectivity to self edit. The Shining and Carrie, while based on King's books were written for the screen by other writers, namely filmmakers, who could cut away the fat and get to the guts of the story all the while keeping a visual language in mind. From the very beginning of Pet Semetary we know the cat will die, the kid will die and everything will go horribly wrong for this generic family. It just takes so long to get there. A remake could pace it up, get to the kid dying quicker, which is the real drama of the story, and maybe spend more time with this evil re-incarnated baby. Another thing a remake could address is the numerous subplots. The whole thing about the wife's complex with death and her strange back story involving a hideously disabled sister can go or be made relevant in some way to the main plot. There's also the seemingly unnecessary feuding between the father and the wife's family which comes to a ridiculously over the top head at the baby's funeral. And what about the freaky house keeper who commits suicide? What was the point of her? Was she some sort of red herring? Perhaps this is all explained and relevant in King's book, but on screen it really doesn't work. I also thought that the resurrecting should have taken place in the actual pet cemetery instead of miles away in the sacred Navajo site. Despite rendering the title pointless, it is hard to believe the father could be convinced to trek all the way to this site not being told where he is going and what will happen there, let alone dragging a body with him. Maybe all this could have been made more palatable had the actors been better. While Fred Gwynne (of The Munsters) is probably the best of a bad bunch, the rest are terrible, especially the mother (Denise Crosby of Star Trek the Next Gen.) and who ever the little girl was who played the whining brat of a daughter, she should have been the one hit by the truck! At the heart of it all I really think there is a good story, creepy, dramatic and full of the kind of conundrums that make an audience think Would I do the same? it just deserves to be presented in a more considered and cinematic way. "},{"Title":"About as average as a movie can get","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The plot of this film by Stephen King was a great one. But the rest of the movie was disappointing. The direction of Mary Lambert was poor, and the acting was bad if not horrible at times. Dale Midkiff was the weak link. He had some very unemotional, and flat out bad dialog such as his, Yuck! You kiss your own cat. Granted it wasn't brilliant writing, but his reading was awful.The story had problems as well. It was predictable in the sense that they had many obvious foreshadows about where the plot would eventually wind up. The character of the ghost who warned the family, was useless. Scenes also relied on stupidity by the cast. An example being the dad turning away from Gage while he crawled onto the road.But Pet Sematary wasn't terrible. Besides the good Stephen King plot, the action sequence at the end was well done. The crew also did a good job in creating Zelda, who's scenes were by far more chilling than the rest.This is an average film that's disappointing due to the huge potential this story has. Instead of remaking already good horror flicks such as A Nightmare on Elm Street or Halloween, I'd much rather see remakes that truly do need/deserve a better angle. "},{"Title":"Certainly No Horror Masterpiece, But Watchable","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An average but entertaining Stephen King film, Mary Lambert's Pet Sematary of 1989 is certainly no horror highlight, but worth watching nevertheless. The film gets rather cheesy occasionally, but it definitely has some very creepy moments and will keep you entertained if you don't expect too much.Chicago doctor Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff) moves to the countryside with his wife (Denise Crosby) and his two kids. Their new house is roomy and beautiful, and their new home would almost be perfect if it wasn't for the trucks which constantly pass their house at high speed and the (misspelled) pet cemetery behind their house. The Creeds' new neighbor Jud Candrall (Fred Gwynne), a likable and friendly elderly man, is not to keen on talking about the mysterious 'pet sematary' and soon after their arrival, Louis Creed is warned about the cemetery in an eerie encounter...Pet Sematary definitely has a few moments which are creepy enough to keep the viewer entertained. Most of the performances are regrettably below average, a fact that wouldn't bug me in a typical B-movie, but since this movie is built up as kind of a Hollywood-style horror flick, the acting could certainly be better. Two exceptions are the performances of Fred Gwynne, who fits perfectly into his role of the elderly neighbor Jud, and Brad Greenquist, who is responsible for some of this movie's most eerie moments. Some nice camera work too, nothing phenomenal, but certainly pretty well photographed.Over all, Pet Sematary is certainly no masterpiece of horror, but nevertheless an enjoyable film and worth watching. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Excellent movie.  Not 100% accurate to the book but good nevertheless.","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Overall this movie was excellent for its time and will be interesting for many more generations to come. Although the plot is not 100% accurate to the book most everything is correct. The movie does skip far ahead and does miss some important parts. I found the book and ready and immediately wished that they had made a movie (because I hadn't found out about the movie yet) but later I found the movie in a bargain bin at Wal-Mart and decided to buy it and see if it was what I had expected. Overall I give this movies a 7 out of 10 for its good parts (relative accuracy and overall making sense) and for its bad parts (large time skips and small but noticeable inaccuracies). "},{"Title":"Some times dead really is better","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Creed family have just moved to a new home beside a busy road. A path leads from their house to a pet cemetery housing all the animals killed under the wheels of the speeding trucks. But just beyond the pet cemetery is an Indian burial ground with the power to raise the dead. Only what you bury isn't always what comes back.......Its not a terrible film, its slightly above average. In fact it starts off great with plenty of suspense provided by the unseen cemetery and what it could possibly do. Unfortunately it starts to roll ever more quickly downhill when you see what actually does come back. Problem is it simply isn't scary. Cats with attitude problems and pale kids just don't do it for me. The wives bizarre sister Zelda was the creepiest thing is this film and should possibly have been used over the little kid or the cat.I agree with whoever said it had a kind of Tales From The Crypt schlocky ending. The potential for a truly horrifying film was sadly missed. "},{"Title":"i think that it was good","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" when i saw the movie at first i thought that it was boring because nothing was happening but when all the scary things started to happen like when church dies and is brought back to life and also gage and his mom die and there idiot dad has to bring them back to life even though he nows the warnings and ignores Jud.this is not Steven kings best work. i thought that his best work was the shining. i don't think that people who see this movie and comment on how awful it was are wrong because all they think is that what were they thinking. as if that person can do a better job in making a horror flick. i mean making the gage evil and how he kills Jud is genius. making the most innocent most unsuspecting character into one of the killers is cool. people who didn't like the movie are dumb because all it is a scary movie and nothing all. don't expect something from a movie that it isn't. it still in a general area wasn't that good. i still recommend people to watch the movie "},{"Title":"Dumb but scary.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The acting sucks, the direction poor, the script ludicrous, and the music overdone, But it scared the hell out of me for some reason.PLOT 4 DIRECTION 3 ACTING 3 SCRIPT 2 FREAKYNESS 8OVERALL 4.5 "},{"Title":"The best horror flick out there","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie probably got a lot of flack for not being a party horror film. On that level, I would have to say it isn't one of those. If you want party horror, get Halloween or Scream or whatever. If you want visceral horror which'll mess your mind up and leave you sleepless, get this one! If you think you've seen it all, and nothing can scare you, try watching this one alone. The opening credits alone will give you the heebie jeebies! An excellent horror flick, one which I compare all others to. Check it out! "},{"Title":"One of Stephen King's Worst","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If this wasn't the worst Stephen King movie I don't know what is. I know it's not all Stephen King's fault, but he did write the novel and the screenplay so he takes the lion share of the blame. This movie was meandering along until one critical moment. There was the OMG moment that made the entire movie bad. I was going to suffice with giving a general review but because of that one moment I now have to mention everything wrong with this movie.What was that moment? When mush-for-brains Dr. Louis Creed allowed his son to wander onto a highway and get hit by a truck. Didn't he nearly get hit when you first moved to the new town? How in the world did you turn your back on your two year old son long enough for him to wander clear onto a highway? Really???? OK, so now I'm going to town with all the stuff I didn't like.1.) The acting. I see that Dale Midkiff went to the same acting school as Keanu Reeves. All of the acting was poor with the exception of Miko Hughes-and I was just impressed he could speak so well for a toddler. I'm used to toddlers babbling even on screen.2.) Jud. Jud introduces Louis to the Indian burial grounds only to reveal to him later that he once used it to bury his dog and his dog was never the same. Well, Judd, if you frikkin knew that why would you have Louis bury the cat there? Oh yeah, you figured that Ellie couldn't handle the loss of her cat. What a flimsy excuse.3.) Rachel and her sister that died from spinal meningitis. What in the universe did that have to do with anything? 4.) Gage. What kind of name is Gage? I thought that his dad had an affinity for shotguns or wire.5.) Postmortem Gage. Boy did he remind me of Chucky. Undead or not, possessed or not; he was still a 25 pound toddler. No 25 pound scalpel wielding toddler can slice and dice people with that efficiency. Furthermore, the scene with Louis fighting his undead son was just laughable. He was literally holding the kid while the kid is hacking him to pieces with a scalpel. Come on man! 6.) Dr. Louis Creed. After your cat was acting creepy. After the warnings from Jud. After your son butchered two people and nearly butchered you. You still go back to the Indian burial ground as though somehow this time things will be different. You are a moron.7.) Dr. Louis Creed again. I still can't get over how you let your son wander onto the highway. That was deplorable.That's it. I've said my piece. I was very disappointed with this movie, it definitely wasn't one of Stephen King's finer moments. But I guess you can't win them all. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the creepiest, scariest and most heartbreaking horror movie EVER! Dr Creed (Louise) and his family moving in to new home with his wife (Rachel), Daughter (Ellie) and little son (Gage) Everything seems normal until Dr Creed loses one his patient who had a terrible head injury,Then he is haunted by the ghost know as Victor takes him to the Pet Sematarty and show him that where the dead come to life.Louis not knowing if that was all dream and is talking to Ellie who worried about her cat that could be killed by lorry and then later on Rachel tells Louis that it really hard for to talk about death because of her sister Zelda who was really sick (As we see in a flashback how sick her sister really was and this is one of the most creepiest scene ever!) The next day Louis gets a call from Jed saying there cat as been killed by lorry and Jed take him to place where Victor the Ghost told him not to go! And bury the Cat, His wife and kids have go to see their Grandparents and Louise is home alone shocked to see the cat is back and now it as evil in it eyes so he goes to see Jed then Jed tell him that he also buried his dog there too (As we seen other flashback).Later on in the movie The Family out having Picnic, Gage is playing with kite and Gage say's I drop it, The wind blow the rod near the road where a lorry coming at fast past, Gage is get closer to road, Louis is rushing to get him, The most HEARTBREAKING scene in any horror movie will leave with your Jaw on floor or Shivers will go down your back when you hear Louis screams, Soon he missing him so much, Louis then buries Gage in same place where is buried the Cat. The scariest thing about this movie is that some scenes in this movie are not too far from really life. This movie is just Amazing and the acting from everyone was great! 10 out 10 "},{"Title":"Successful in two major aspects...","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary succeeds on two major situations. First, it's a scary Horror movie. Those that just aren't produced in these days. Second, it's an emotional, clever movie overall. So if you are looking for chills, scares, creepiness and visually stunning settings, great acting, dialongs, and gruesome effects; this is the movie you are looking for. A classic now and truly a must see for any Horror fan. Probably, the best adaptation to any of King's novels. The events feel a little rushed compared with the novel, but that doesn't means that this underrated movie isn't a complete Horror/Drama accomplishment. Stephen King's novel is widely known for being very emotional and gruesome at the same time. The movie captures the same feeling mainly because there's a great character development and you can feel the loving relationship between it's members. Then, when everything seems to be happiness (technically happy, because the title Pet Sematary does not offers appiness!) a tragic event changes the movie's atmosphere, now it turns very dark. The movie has a sinister feeling since the opening credits, but after Gage is killed the movie becomes sad, gray, creepy. Dealing with the loss of a baby son is something that can ruin a family's entire life, and Pet Sematary proves it dramatically. The legend behind the pet sematary is more than a myth that no one wants to experience, but sadness and desperation lead an emotionally destroyed father to give it a shot. Sadly enough, the legend comes true and baby Gage returns from the dead. The previous encounter with the pet sematary legend turned out to be a tragedy but this time it's something much, much worse. What will happened with the lives of our All American family? Could Pascow prevent this tragedy? What is it with the surreal nightmares? Watch Pet Sematary to witness one of the most touching, emotional Horror movies of recent times. You won't regret. The acting is very good although I didn't dig the actor who portrayed the father. He didn't seem disturbed enough when the situations asked for his desperation. But that's just my opinion. Denise Crosby truly delivered a great performance and worked perfect as the noble, tender mother. Baby Gage was amazing even on his creepy parts. *Shivers*. Overall this is a great classic of all time and a disturbing movie that touches people's deepest fears... the loss of someone you love, the dead returning to life, and a feeling of desperation.Something is for sure... I don't wanna be buried, in a pet sematary!! "},{"Title":"Powerful horror that taps into adult fears","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *****Spoilers herein*****What really scares you?  Killer sharks, or maybe ghosts trying to bring back a message?  Maybe a chainsaw wielding psychopath?Maybe.  But those fears don't even compare to a horror which people dare not even speak of or consider--and that is the death of one's own child.  Pet Sematary taps this base, primal adult fear, and then takes it to places that most could not bear to explore.I've read comments about this film that include poor acting, characters making stupid decisions, etc.  I disagree.  The acting is actually first rate for a film like this.  Maybe it is impossible for many to imagine the desperation resulting from such a scenario.  But the film's events are not only logical, they may be absolutely inevitable if such a scenario were possible.  This is the true horror of Pet Sematary  It isn't that pets and people come back from the dead as evil killers who hunt with knives and scalpels, it is that anyone who has lost a child could become so desperate as to commit the crimes that Louis Creed does.  Despite warning, or even past history.The movie takes those willing to go with it to the depths of a desperate human heart.  The heart of a protector trying to make up for not being able to protect.  And the results are horrifying.  In fact, when the film dives into slasher territory near the end, it's almost a letdown, although I believe it's perfectly logical how it got there.I am a true horror fan, and I contend that this is one of the scariest horror films ever made.  If you don't think so, see it again after you have children. "},{"Title":"Wretched","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The book is a thousand times better.  I think the main problem with this movie was the acting (or lack thereof).  The actors cast as Louis, Rachel, and Ellie in particular are terrible, especially Louis.Also another point where this movie suffers--Louis and Rachel's fight over the Pet Sematary at the beginning of the story was cut from the movie. That was one thing they just couldn't afford to leave out, in my opinion.The screenplay wasn't bad--after all, it was written by King--but the direction and the casting made this an absolute disgrace of a film.2/10 "}{"Title":"bad muvie","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another in a long line of comic book creep shows by Stephen King presents a typical American family (mom, dad, two cute kids) whose new house in rural New England adjoins an Indian burial ground where nothing stays buried. Dogs, cats, and baby boys hit by trucks on the busy nearby two-lane highway all return as flesh-eating zombies, animated corpses with more life than anything in King's (strictly rote) screenplay, adapted from his own bestselling novel. Apparently nobody involved with this (sometimes irresponsible) mess understood that the supernatural can't be effectively suggested without establishing a halfway credible natural world first. The author is by now so successful that he doesn't need to put any effort into his writing, and Mary Lambert's (mis)direction confuses horror with gore. Of course the object here isn't fear; it's nausea, and the only way the film could have been worse would be if King had directed it himself. "},{"Title":"The production values, acting and script are fine....it's the awful story's fault this time.","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King is generally known for the morbid, and that's fine, but this story is too morbid. Some movies, by the end you feel sad for the characters or the situations they were put through...here you just feel depressed. The movie has a nice feel to it (at first), with the family moving to the country, and creepy old Fred Gwyne greeting and warning them of the pet cemetery, but this plot leads nowhere. It starts with so much potential, but by the end, it loses the potential to be a good horror movie, and becomes corny, extremely stupid, and ultimately depressing.Louis (Dale Midkoff), his wife Rachel (Denise Crosby), their kids Ellie and Gage, and their cat move to a new home in Maine. They are warned by the loony farmer neighbor Jud (Fred Gwyne) about the local pet cemetery and how it is cursed. Louis thinks nothing of this and everything's fine until the family cat is killed. He bury's it in the cursed cemetery and it comes back to life, constantly hissing at the family and wanting to be left alone. One day, infant Gage runs out in the road and is run over and killed by a truck, and Louis knows he must bury him in the cemetery. When Gage comes back to life, he is changed and wants to murder.With many of Stephen King's works that don't translate well into films, I blame the directors and screenwriters. In this case, Mr. King was the screenwriter, but I'm going to blame him for his awful story. By the end it's so pointless, and though unfunny, the premise is laughable. A little boy comes back from the dead and manages to kill people with what looks like a tiny scalpel, and not only that, but he manages to lift their bodies and in one case, carry a body from the ground to the attic!(?) I know this isn't set in reality but seriously, how stupid can this get? The scene where Louis injects his deceased, now living again cat to kill it is strangely sad, because the cat did not deserve this. All it did was go around minding it's own business and he killed it. The scene where he injects his own infant son is almost unbearable. Not unbearably sad, but the whole situation is just awful to think of. After being injected Gage staggers drunkenly around before falling down dead....why did they need to make a movie ending with the death of an infant? But...even worse, the actual ending of them film involving Louis burying someone else (Not going to give away who) in the cemetery after Gage kills them....what did he expect? Why did Mr. King write this horrible story and why was it made into a movie? It's depressing and pointless!My rating * out of ****. 90 mins. R for violence. "},{"Title":"An excellent if not entirely faithful adaptation of Stephen King's novel of the macabre.","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff), his wife (Denise Crosby) and two children Ellie and Gage (Blaze Berdhal and Miko Huges) has just moved from Chicago to a quiet little town in Maine. Louis befriends a kind and good old man named Judd Crandall (Fred Gwynne) who gives them a tour of the area especially of the local pet cemetery that has a secret beyond the area, it's an old Indian burial ground that has magical powers to resurrect dead animals and living beings. One day, the cat gets killed by a truck but luckily Louis and Judd resurrect it but it comes back as it seems harmless but somehow changed and even one day a terrible family tragedy has happened as it unleashes something evil that will happen.An excellent and gruesome adaptation of Stephen King's classic novel, this supernatural horror thriller offers good scares, great acting, and shocks abound. Fred Gwynne whom you remember as Herman Munster delightfully plays the Judd character perfectly, it's a gripping tale of the supernatural including the themes of life/death you won't forget. Although it does misses out on the Wendigo creature that soured the ground including the explanation of how the ground went sour because of that creature.Also recommended Cemetery Man, House (1986), Let Sleeping Corpses Lie (a.k.a. Living Dead at The Manchester Morgue), Nightmare (a.k.a. Nightmare in a Damaged Brain), The Shining, Misery, The Ring (Japanese and American versions), Silent Hill, House By The Cemetery, Demons, Stephen King's IT, Burial Ground The Nights of Terror, Re-Animator, Bride of Re-Animator, Beyond Re-Animator, Pumpkinhead, The Pit, Inferno (1980), Suspiria, Tenebre, Hellraiser, Candyman, Versus, Demons 2, Creepshow, Ju-On The Grudge, The Burning, Sleepaway Camp, Evil Dead II, High Tension, Return of the Living Dead, Return of the Living Dead 3, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Cat's Eye, Shaun of the Dead, Dead Alive (a.k.a. Braindead), The Evil Dead, The Children, An American Werewolf in London, The Fog (1980), Prince of Darkness, It's Alive!, From Dusk Till Dawn and Children of the Corn. "},{"Title":"What moron moves into a house by a highway with a toddler?","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm sorry, there have been a lot of stupid characters in the history of books and movies. But this moron has got to take the cake. Listen to my reasoning on this. First, the house. Only an incredible idiot would move into a house by an open highway in front without a fence or guard rail or anything like that. In my book Lou might as well thrown Gage in front of that Semi. Secondly he should have just let go, his son is gone and after the cat came back evil only a complete metal patient would do it again. I mean what the hell was he thinking? Well, the cat came back twisted and evil, but I'm sure it'll work this time. Lastly, when the undead Gage kills his wife Rachel, you can guess what this bonehead does next. Now, let's talk about the title, SEMATARY? That's not how you spell it, I'm sorry Mister King, but you can't re-spell words to suit your story. It doesn't work that way. Plus, I have had the unfortunate luck to run into cats that has been run over by cars and trucks, normally they are flatter then pita bread, even once. Now, the effects and the cast does a great job considering the nonsense given to them and Steven does do a pretty good job. But there are too many blunders to really recommend it. 1 STAR. "},{"Title":"Did Stephen King really write the screenplay?","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How on Earth can you take seriously a film about a doctor deciding to *spoiler alert*spoiler alert*** resurrect his family by putting them in an Indian burial ground? What made the film more ludicrous than anything was the fact that with all the historical knowlegde Jud had, why he didn't just let the family cat be buried in Pet Sematary itself and let it be. The child zombie wasn't frightening and the apparition of Rachel's sister had the resonance of a joke out of the 'Scary Movie' series. Laughable. I watched it alone, in the dark, at night for maximum effect. I slept like Gage would have before he was killed, like a baby. Apart from some impressively sinous and well shadowed nightmare scenes, the quality of the narrative and connections between the characters left me as unsettled as the ghost of Proscow. Do not insult my intelligence by telling me this is for horror fans, because I'm a horror fan myself. You want a good horror from Stephen King, try 'The Dead Zone' or 'The Shining'. Proper unsettling films "},{"Title":"Pure Genius wow...","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie i swear man is so scary. that one horrifying scene with zelda goddamn....enough said that scene can give the most toughest movie watcher nightmares for eternity.I mean judd's words , you know louis sometimes dead is better those words are like very chilling.the whole scene with gage dying was very upsetting yes he has lost someone he truly loves and judd telling him about the burial ground. he lost his mind and had to bring little gage back wow very awesome film sad to hear about Fredd G's Death he was an awesome actor and yes HE PLAYED THE PART VERY GOOD IN THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Try watching this one in the dark!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   WARNING! CONTAINS SPOILERS! I saw this a couple of times on TV. I wasn't too excited. But then I rented it and watched it...in the dark and alone. Even the opening scene was freaky. A local family moves into a house where a very busy road resides. Everything is great. The main guy Louis is a docter, and he has a beautiful wife, and two children. They even have a cat. Pet Sematary (child's misspelling) is a place where broken hearted children bury dead pets. But beyond the creepy little graveyard is an Indian Burial ground. Whatever is buried there is brought back to life. But it isn't that same person. After the cat is killed by in the busy road, Louis buries him up at the Micmac Burial ground. The baby boy Gage is killed in the road also, and is buried up there too. They both come back stinking to high Heaven. This has got to be one of the best horror movies I have ever seen. Not to mention the scariest. It's packed with every kind of horror we all love. A warning to the characters not to do something which will cause trouble later, flash backs explaining why characters cry, even some drama. There is actually only one thing that scares me about the movie. Everytime I see the movie on TV, or on the shelves of Blockbuster, It sends a chill down my spine. The thing is Louis's wife, Rachel, had a sister with a very freaky body. Zelda (Rachel's sister) is the thing that scared the Hell out of me. Bad thing is, you see her in three different scenes! One was enough! Still it was a very very good movie. I loved it. I hope you do too.   "},{"Title":"Scary? As if&#133;","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Without being overly prolegomenous, I must state that I am not a Stephen King basher. Some folks lump on King because he's too successful, too prolific, too corny, too whatever. I'm not one of them. But it must be acknowledged from the onset of this informal review that Stephen King is certainly one of the most hit and miss writers out there. When he's in top form he really shines, but when he's having an off period, well, he writes screenplays like Pet Sematary. Maybe the novel was better.In this flick we are introduced to Louis and Rachel Creed (Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby), the east coast's, maybe even the world's stupidest, most irresponsible and neglectful parents/pet owners. Upon their arrival to rural Maine the Creed clan, not two minutes out of the station wagon, lose track of their somewhat creepy baby, Gage (Miko Hughes), who wanders off towards the world's busiest road. This road is constantly occupied by roaring 18-wheelers. Constantly. Just as baby Gage is about to get himself pancaked by one of these big rigs, overly helpful neighbor Jud (Fred Gwynne, brandishing a monstrously heavy Maine accent that would cause even Titus, the Pepperidge Farm spokesman, to balk) sidles over and prevents the little nipper from getting himself splattered. Or should I say postpones.Anyway, long story short, after their daughter Ellie's pet cat Church gets run over by truck, helpful Jud tells Louis (in confidence) to accompany him to the conveniently located local Indian burial ground (hey, didn't the idiots in `Poltergeist' have one of these literally damned things underfoot also?). Jud tells Louis to bury the cat there. Presto-chango, kitty is back, only now he's all evil and smelly. Really smelly.Fast forward a little more and before you can say, `whoops, there goes that stupid baby,' bango! There goes that stupid baby (the phrase `go fly a  kite' takes on added significance in this sequence). Gage gets clobbered by one of them thar speeding trucks while mom and pop are yet again distracted by something trivial. These two are the most A.D.D.-addled parents ever to traipse across the screen. Well, dopey dad, against Jud's sagacious advice, scurries back over to the burial ground and alakazam! Junior is back. Only he's evil, too. Really evil (his smelliness factor is never gotten into). I won't spoil the rest of the fun (?), but suffice it to say these Indian burial grounds are a real pain in the ass for the unlucky schmucks who mess with them.All this, plus a flashback or two featuring Rachel's Amanda Plummer-like dead sister Zelda (played by a guy) who croaked of spinal meningitis, some visits to Louis by this Casper the friendly, recently departed college kid ghost and you've got what is at best an unintentionally funny comedy film. It is entertaining in a kind of, `how stupid are you people?' slap-your-head-in-disbelief kind of way. Scary? No. Oddly watchable, yes.Oh, and there are some Ramones songs, the one that runs during the end credits co-written by Dee-Dee. Now he's scary. "},{"Title":"Intense enough...but overrated","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT !!!! It's true what they say  Pet Sematary really gets to you and touches you deep. It grabs your attention right away and it doesn't let go until the ending credits role. It's pretty easy to explain why, though. The film handles about two very sensible topics. Namely, the death of poor innocent animals and...Child death! I'm pretty sure almost everybody lost a beloved pet when they were young so this story gets to you more than the average fight between aliens for example. In this horror movie, you're a lot more involved...That's the power it has. And of course, a child's death is always touching. You know from the beginning that the poor boy will die and yet, you're still very shocked when it actually happens. Out of the whole ouvre of Stephen King's writings turned into film, Pet Sematary belongs to the better ones. He obviously thinks so himself, because he clearly had fun in his small role of the priest.  Although I would say the suspense of this movie is a bit overrated. In fact, it's pretty predictable if you ask me. But, it's got good acting, good directing by Mary Lambert ( lucky shot, though. She completely screwed up the sequel) and it's good emotional moments...A lot of them!. Pet Sematary also has originality, wich is the most important thing about the finished product, in my opinion.  The image of Victor Pascow scared the hell out of me when I was young. I first saw this movie at the age of 8 and the ghost of his used to make me crawl behind the couch. Too bad I grew up.... "},{"Title":"Puts the horror in horror film.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of Stephen King's greatest films.  So disturbing, I was upset for three days after viewing it.  It should be ranked among his greatest movies Delores Claiborne and Shawshank Redemption.  A must see! "}{"Title":"Astoundingly frightening.","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Written by Stephen King himself, based on his novel by the same name Pet Sematary is truly a disturbing and frightening movie.The Creed family moves to a rural town in Maine, in a house that is constructed next to the highway where trucks run all day and all night. Behind the house there's a narrow pathway that leads to a pet cemetery, but beyond that there's an ancient and sacred burial ground where the dead come back to life. When tragedy strikes the head of the household, Louis will have to make tough and irrational choices out of fear.The script was wonderful but the movie in itself is a horror masterpiece, it doesn't have major jump scares but the premise and the execution is incredibly profound and disturbing.The characters are well played, the movie is very well made, it hits some nerves and so sensibilities since it deals with the loss of loved ones and the downward spiral that such traumatic events can create.As clichéd as it may sound, this movie is not recommended for people that get disturbed easily, but it is a must to horror fans enthusiasts and I can guarantee that its frightening subject matter and well executed premise will remain with you long after the movie ends.By all accounts, one of the best and most frightening scary movies ever made! "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Scary,Frightening And Terrfiying Horror Film. Stephen King At His Best.","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary is an excellent,scary and terrifying Horror film that combines fantastic direction,a great cast and a terrific score and theme song. All of those elements make Pet Sematary one of the best Horror films of the 1980s and one of the finest Stephen King adaptations.Based on Stephen King's novel of the same name,Pet Sematary tells the story of Louis Creed(Dale Midkiff)a doctor who along with his wife Rachel Creed(Denise Crosby)and their children Cage Creed(Miko Hughes)and Ellie Creed(Blaze and Beau Berdahl)have moved from Chicago to Maine with their house right across the street from their new neighbor Jud Crandell(Fred Gwynne). The Creed's new home is also located next to a Pet Sematary and Indian burial ground two places that will have disturbing,frightening and tragic consequences on Louis and his family.Pet Sematary is one of Stephen King's scariest,terrifying and powerful books so powerful that King himself felt he went too far with the writing and put the story away in his drawer but then took the book out and had it published and the novel became another bestseller for Stephen King which led to this film adaptation which was a success at the Box Office and is regarded as one of the best Stephen King adaptations. Pet Sematary is an outstanding and scary Horror film that right from the very start pulls into a nightmare and doesn't let go until the very end it's a movie that is very grim and downbeat with with a tragic and dark overtone with no sense of hope or optimism. What really makes the film Pet Semetary so powerful and great is that it deals with themes such as death,tragedy,loss of a love one,sadness and what happens between life and the afterlife and how a person deals with life and death. If you lost a person you loved you will relate to the themes in this film. The film and King's novel asks the questionif you lost a person whether it's a family member,friend or a lover what would you do to have that person back? The movie a asks and answers that question in a haunting and eerie way especially with the main characters Louis Creed and Jud Crandell who have discussions about life and death which add to the intense and chilling tone of the film because with Louis and Jud these two characters represent the audience and when we watch the movie we are going through what they are going when things start to go bad cause when the Horror starts it never stops and both characters are sympathetic and well-developed. The scares in Pet Sematary are truly frightening and very unsettling with scenes and imagery that is haunting,eerie and will disturb you to the core and stay with you after the movie is over. The violence and gore in Pet Sematary is vicious,mean and is not for the weak at heart with nothing being toned down for viewers because when the violence and gore comes you will cringe. Pet Sematary also works because of the atmosphere and tone throughout the film. The Maine locations in the movie add to atmosphere and make the movie cold and surreal with fog,smoke and harsh lighting that is murky and dreary to the point you are scared before anything really happens. If there is a flaw with the movie Pet Sematary is that while the film is a great adaptation of the novel the movie is not as good as the book. Stephen King's screenplay while good and faithful to the book it lacks the novel's power because with the screenplay it seemed like King was trying put some of the subplots that were in the novel in the film but the subplots while still good feel rushed in the movie and worked better in the book because after all it's really tough to adapt a 500 page novel with a 1 hour and 43 minute running time. At the same time a powerful film and story such as Pet Semetary seemed like it should been 15-20 minutes longer because while the main characters are interesting and fascinating and there is enough depth in the film I would have loved to have seen more because the movie Pet Semetary deserved to be longer. The ending in Pet Sematary in powerful,bleak,creepy and sad while staying true to the ending in King's novel while expanding the ending that will shock you while making you think. An amazing ending.The cast is wonderful. Dale Midkiff is terrific as Louis Creed with Midkiff bringing the right emotion and depth to the role. Fred Gwynne is brilliant as Jud Crandell,Louis next door neighbor and does a great job with the Maine accent. Denise Crosby is wonderful as Rachel Creed,Louis' wife with Crosby bringing dimension to the role. Miko Hughes is good and cute as Gage Creed,Louis and Rachel's son. Blaze and Beau Berdahl do fine jobs as Ellie Creed,Louis and Rachel's daughter. Brad Greenquist is great and scary as Victor Pascow,a ghost that's haunting the Creeds. Andrew Hubstek is memorable and creepy as Zelda,Rachel's sister. Also,lookout for a cameo by Stephen King himself as a Reverend.The direction by Mary Lambert is fantastic and stylish with Lambert always moving the camera with overhead shots,close-ups with low and high angles giving the movie a great pace and atmosphere. Amazing direction,Lambert.The score by Eliot Goldenthal is sensational,creepy as well as sad,suspenseful,haunting and tragic and matches the tone of the movie perfectly. Terrific score,Goldenthal. There is also the great title song Pet Sematary by The Ramones as well as The Ramones classic Sheena Is A Punk Rocker.In final word,if you love Horror Films or Stephen King,I highly suggest you see Pet Sematary,an excellent,scary and frightening Horror Film that you will never forget and is Stephen King at his best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Great King Adaption","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary is arguably the best of the Stephen King adaptations. It captures the creepy atmosphere of King's novels with good direction supported by a largely competent cast. The film also embodies the feel of a Stephen King novel, with relatively few deviations from the book's plot and an adherence to King's use of dialogue. The film follows the travails of a family which moves to rural Maine, unwittingly locating near an Indian burial ground with the power to resurrect the dead. Things go very wrong.Pet Sematary's main strength is its use of atmosphere, which captures the eerie feel of a King novel. This atmosphere starts from the opening credits, which features an extended shot of the pet cemetery as children's voices read out the epitaphs of beloved dogs and cats. This atmosphere develops as the film goes on, with the sequences in the Maine woods particularly evocative. The darkness and shadows of the forest are used to unsettling effect, with kudos going to the cinematographer's lighting. However, the most disturbing scenes involve the mother's flashbacks to her sister suffering from spinal meningitis. The makeup on the actor portraying the sister is gruesome and deeply unsettling.The film also benefits from a good cast. Fred Gwynne is excellent in a supporting role as the neighbor who tells the family about the pet cemetery, while Denise Crosby does well in her role as the mother of the family. However, the casting of Dale Midkiff as the lead proves a weak point. He does not give a convincing performance, failing to really sell his character's terror and slowly building insanity. The flashback to the first time someone used the cemetery to resurrect a human also suffers from weak acting, descending into outright narmishness with the resurrected man stalking around like a child imitating a zombie.Nevertheless, as Stephen King himself has pointed out, his works are all too often packaged like lunch meat in their cinematic adaptations. Pet Sematary escapes that trend, still holding up twenty-five years after it was made. "},{"Title":"Shredded Flesh Fetish Film is Mostly Just Offensive","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gruesome Gore Fest takes a while to get going but the Third Act is worth the wait for Horror Fans and Slasher Movie Sickos. It is Really an Exercise in Shredded Flesh Fetishes and has a Very Downbeat Tone that Permeates this Putrefied Picture.The Acting is Bland, especially the Lead Male that was a Blip on the Hunk for Hire Radar and is Thankfully doing something else by now. But the Rest of the Cast isn't much Better. Mabey Fred Gwynne is OK but even He wears out His Welcome Quickly.The Beginning and the Middle are Slow and Ponder About Burial Grounds and Mysticism and is just Boring. The Ending with its Slicing and Dicing is the Highlight of the Movie and tells You Much about the Film's Shortcomings.Overall, Worth a Watch for Stephen King Completest, and Horror Movie Fanatics, but Others may find this Oddly Offensive with its Use of Animals and Kids as Deformed and Bloodied Ghosts and Zombies. Note...The Ramones Sheena is a Punk Rocker is a Classic, but the titled Song is a contrivance not worthy of the their poetic-prolific three-chord Pop. "},{"Title":"One of the Scariest and Underrated Horror Films of all time...","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When people are asked what they think the scariest movies are they generally say Halloween or The Exorcist, or one of many classic titles as the one that made them cover they're eyes or look away. Don't get me wrong I love those movies and have watched them countless times over the years, but Stephen king's Pet Semetary is the one film that to this day sends chills down my spine. I watch the film once every couple of years and it still has the same effect. The themes of death, loss, and grief, really hit a nerve on top of some very creepy characters and locations. Let's put it another way... my father took me to see the film at a drive-in theater back in 1989 when I was kid. I remember when we got to a certain creepy scene with a character named Zelda I was scared out of my wits, started crying and we left! I saw the whole movie later on video. Although I didn't cry, I still covered my eyes during the Zelda scenes! I'm a life long movie/horror movie fanatic and this film is still to this day the only film that has ever TRULY scared me, which is why I highly regard it as true horror film. Check it Out! "},{"Title":"In my top 10 horror movies","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is in my top 10 best horror movies. This is one of my favourite Stephen king movies the storyline is good it can be creepy at times and a few friends and family said it was quite disturbing. I find that for some people the first time they watch it they cant quite follow the storyline very well and they get confused but I didn't have any trouble following it. I am quite a fan of Stephen king movies and this one was definitely good I recommend it to any horror or Stephen king fan. As I have already said this is an excellent movie and a must see. I would personally rate this movie a nine out of ten and a lot of my friends and family have rated this movie a 8 or more as they enjoyed it too. "},{"Title":"Cuts out a lot from the book","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not a bad movie, in fact, it's one of King's best movies, but it is completely warped from the book. Jud Crandall's supposed wife doesn't exist in the movie, but the book has her. Zelda in this is way too exaggerated, with her face that looks like Voldemort from Harry Potter. And the resurrected baby in this was killed by an oil truck, but miraculously coming back with no indication of that. It was a good movie; I loved the soundtrack, the acting was good and the cemetery was very realistic, but it wasn't the best. That happened with a lot of Stephen King movies.The Shining, IT and Cujo were all missing essential events as well, but the movies aren't bad, they just aren't as good as the books. "},{"Title":"bleh","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Perfect example of doing a Steven King story wrong. Have you read the book? It's schlock pulp horror, but great pulp horror, y'know, that's it's strength. The book delivers a good scare, mixing family horror with the sordid sour history of the land behind the Creed's home, y'know, there are metaphors and images that linger with the reader, great horror stuff, but the movie doesn't capture it. This mishandling of the story comes down to the film-makers being lazy and obvious. They were asking themselves  How do we make this a horror movie? when they should have been asking themselves  How would the Cohen bros do this movie, how would Kubrick do it how would Friedkin do it? This movie can be re-done and done very well make it simple, do it strait forward, don't shoot jump scenes don't try to surprise the viewer, just show the story, let the viewer see what happens and let them decide for themselves if it's scary, don't focus on the scare focus solely on the story. "},{"Title":"SCARY!!!  A legit 9.5.  Can't comprehend the low scores","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ill be quite brief. I have noticed the low score, this must be because a lot of viewers saw the movie after they read the book. The movie does not follow the book completely because it is very condensed(time would have been an issue). This is easily the best book-to-film adaption I have ever seen (not just King novels)! The movie itself might not be a masterpiece BUT that is not the reason most people watch this movie. We want to watch a Horror movie to get creeped out and terrified, well this movie does just that. I have seen most all of the Horror movies from the top scary movie list and this one is by FAR the scariest. This made The Shining seem mildly scary. The character of Jud played by Fred Gwynne might be my favorite character of all time! He nailed the part....nobody else could have played Jud and given you the same chill. The Semataries were both genius. Awesome Film! Please see it.Overall 9.5 Acting 8.5 (Without Gwynne it would only be a 6.5) Story/Plot/Idea 10 Visual(location, lighting, camera etc) 9 Horror/Terror 10 Mood 9 Special Effects/Make-up 8.5 (Make-up was very good and s.e. were not bad for the budget and year of the film) Nightmares 10 "},{"Title":"Good Horror Film!","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dale Midkiff, Fred Gwynne, Denise Crosby, Brad Greenquist, Miko Hughes and Blaze Berdahl star in this 1989 horror film based on Stephen King's novel. This story takes place in Maine where we meet Dr. Louis Creed (Midkiff), his wife, Rachel (Crosby), son, Gage (Hughes) and daughter, Ellie (Berdahl) who have just moved into town. They meet their neighbor, Jud Crandall (Gwynne) who lives across the road and soon shows them a place where the dead speak, Pet Sematary. Greenquist plays Victor Pascow, a young man who dies in an accident, but comes back as a spirit to warn Louis and his family about the evil that lies beyond the Pet Sematary. Soon, Louis discovers the Indian burial ground Jud shows him and becomes drawn to it. This is a good horror film with a great cast, Elliot Goldenthal's score is excellent as usual and King also makes a cameo as a priest. I recommend this. "}{"Title":"I don't wanna be buried in a pet sematary.","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What you buy is what you own, and what you own always comes home to you. Jud Crandall (an excellent Fred Gwynne) says this to Louis Creed, and its an apt summation of what makes this film so scary. It's a faithful adaptation of Stephen King's novel of the same name, about an earnest doctor (Dale Midkiff as Creed) who moves his young family to a house right next to a two lane road frequented by 18 wheelers. His wife Rachel (Denise Crosby) has misgivings about the road, but the family meets friendly neighbor Jud and visits the charming pet cemetery on the other side of the property, and are won over. She should have been a lot more worried about that pet cemetery. As Jud starts spinning tales on his front porch, it comes out that it's right over the crest from an ancient burial ground with terrible powers. Dr. Creed starts falling down that slippery slope after his daughter's cat dies, and what results is a fascinating study in self-justifications from all of the adult characters. It's also spooky as hell. Just wait 'til you get a load of Zelda. The only spot that mars the perfect terror of this movie is (SPOILERS AHOY) that it's nearly impossible to be afraid of the kid. In places it's downright comical. Luckily the movie redeems itself with an awesome shocker of an ending. "},{"Title":"Ice in your spine. Someone stands there in the night looking at you.","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Strange that this movie got so low grades. This is no kid-movie!Have in mind which year it was made, the effects that they had at that time. The story sets a good mood for the whole horror-feeling. This one really puts terror in your soul. It makes you think if there is such an evil person in the world and if it could happen to you. They might be out there right now in the night, doing it to someone - slicing their jugular.This is filmed in a perfect way. It didn't hold back anything. A pure Psycho movie!Be afraid.... Be VERY afraid! "},{"Title":"Redrum","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's striking how much like The Shining this is family relocates to remote area, the old mentor across the street, the ghostly apparitions, the telepathic child, the (contrived) Indian burial ground. Eventually the race to prevent disaster from a possessed loved one. It is rather effective on its own, effective but disposable. That is because Stephen King had stumbled across a few bankable devices that directly exploited emotion and was content to rehash them from one project to the next.Watching this makes even more striking what Kubrick achieved. It's a very revealing comparison of cinematic structure as a matter of deeply-centered vision. You can learn a lot.The parts are largely the same, described above. The spectra are all aftereffects in both films, done by Kubrick with more competence, but that's not strictly the point either. The narrative center is that there is a somewhat secluded place, and that place has energy and volition of its own that affects and reshapes vision. That registers as madness but, in the abstract sense, is not dissimilar to the creative endeavor, which is dislocation into extraordinary sense. In The Shining, the protagonist was a writer. Among the illusions this f(r)iction creates, is that the place is causing evil. Kubrick transferred the emanation to the typewriter, to the sounds of a ball reverberating off the cavernous walls (the burial ground was largely irrelevant). His film was a great symphonic work individual motifs answered by lush flows and counter-flows which, timed together, gave rise to visions.This is a hodge podge of visions and flashbacks, with everything clearly mapped. The 'portal' is signified by the gleam of blue lights, a lame effect. A ghost actually guides. The result is that you are never really taken aback that the thing has independent , unfathomable motion. You know that, more reasonably, the father has done something he feels horrible for, and that begins to tear holes in the fabric of his world. But you always have much more control as a viewer than anyone else has, including the 'inexplicable' force.Early Tobe Hooper is my preferred master of this filmmaking mode there is only atonal buzz in the planets (not music), and disharmony somehow erupts down here. You have to wonder about deserted orchestras, tuneless instruments playing themselves. "},{"Title":"Condescending, useless adaptation of Stephen King novel","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It sounded like a great idea on paper. Stephen King adapting his own novel on screen? Since most of the film adaptations of his novels have been criticized for deviating from the source, it would seem like he would be the perfect one to get his own vast, peculiar imagination displayed best on screen. True, Pet Semetary is probably one of the more faithful movies based on a King novel, following the narrative flow much more closely than other adaptations have. Unfortunately, something sounding great on the page doesn't mean it looks good on the screen. And Pet Semetary, for all it's fidelity to the Pet Semetary book, is a truly Awful movie.Indeed, after reading Pet Semetary, many of its ideas certainly we're great to toy around with inside the head. The book certainly highlighted a fascinating, universal idea (the ability to control death) and managed to make it truly terrifying, knowing the reader's own imagination would be the greatest catalyst for the book's greatest shocks, with King managing to effectively convey his musings on morality while allowing the reader to do their own coloring of much of the film's narrative action.That in turns makes the whole movie seem pointless and, in the details, rather silly on the big screen, where all the imagining is already done for us. In fact, this adaptation is just downright ludicrous. Some of King's more mercurial creations (the ghost of a dead student the film's doctor protagonist couldn't save, a skeletal-looking mentally ill sister of the doctor's wife, and don't forget a demonic toddler!) just look ridiculous on the big screen. Indeed we're not sure if the director is meaning to be Ironic, but as on-screen bogeymen there just goofy and absurd, and not in a good way. This film shows far too much, becoming far too explicit and ends up just being extremely condescending to the audience, for whom nothing but silent or uttered laughter seems to be the only appropriate response. And while King certainly knows how to write a novel, writing a screenplay is a different monster, and there are some awkward scene transitions and lapses in thematic explanations that make certain plot points that we're clear on page seem rather preposterous on screen.All in all, stick with the book. As condescending at that sounds, the silly film you're about to watch is going to do nothing but simply snigger at you while you do nothing but snigger back. "},{"Title":"King at His Best!","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Most likely one of the best adaptations of a Stephen King novel, if not the best of all! The film is creepy and gory beyond belief and a masterful suspense all the way through! Like Hitchcock's films of the past, Pet Sematary is among the elite in horror! No Stephen King film from this time forward has been ever as suspenseful. However, the sequel is a shameful attempt to be another Pet Sematary, but otherwise was a failure, and this film will be remembered for that. As Jud Crandall (Gwynne's character) says during the film, A man's heart is stonier, Louis and your heart must be stony to watch this film (possibly with the lights on!!), I give the film 10/10. "},{"Title":"Cheap, Tacky, A lot of bad acting.............. But quite effective","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i borrowed this film of a friend because i wanted to give it a try. i'm a little touchy when it comes to Stephan King as his film adaptations can be amazing or terrible. this one was kinda average. the advantages are the very shocking violent scenes and superb acting from Fred Gwynne. i actually think he should of been nominated for an Oscar.......... or maybe it was due to the other actors not showing any charisma in there roles. the disadvantages to this is the acting besides Fred Gwynne, the story was very predictable and the film looks pretty cheap.the film is about a new family that move into a house in the middle of nowhere but another house across the road from them. they soon realise from there neighbour (Gwynne) that behind there house is a pet cemetery. beyond the cemetery is an Indian burial ground that wants to give this new family hell, figuratively speaking.i do like this film. it has some very shocking scenes that played on my senses a little. just too bad the acting wasn't good and the story was too predictable. its worth the watch though............ 5.5/10...........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"one of the best stephen king adaptations ever","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary tells the story of a family, The Creeds, who move to a new house in Maine. The house lies on a busy industrial road where massive trucks pass by the minute. Because of this, the road has taken the lives of many pets in the area, and the kids of the town bury their beloved pets in a small area of woodland which they affectionately call the Pet Sematary. The Pet Sematary lies down a small laneway at the back of the Creeds home, and it is their new neighbour Jud Crandall who introduces the family to the area. But, as in all of Stephen King's books/movies, there's more going on here than meets the eye...Watching Pet Semetary was one of the rare cases that I had read the book before watching the movie, and it really added to it. With The Shining, a lot of people, including myself, had seen the movie before reading the book and then when I did read the book, I just couldn't imagine anyone else playing Jack Torrance other than Jack Nicholson.This is one of the reasons I enjoyed Pet Semetary so much. I had an image of all the characters in my head after reading the book and was really pleased with the casting of the movie. All of the parts are played excellently, but it is the wonderful Fred Gwynne who steals the show here, playing Jud Crandall. Special mention to the makeup crew for recreating the disgusting head injury that poor old Victor Pascow had to go through. Possibly one of the most disgusting make-up effects ever made.Great pacing, great acting, great screenplay (by Stephen King himself, oh and look out for his cameo!), this is easily one of the more successful adaptations of a Stephen King novel. Also, The Ramones songs Sheena Is A punk Rocker and Pet Sematary are incredible! And remember, the soil of a man's heart is stonier... "},{"Title":"I've got something for you, mommy","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary has one thing many of King's better works don't have a great ending. A really great ending. A great final act, which is where a lot of other King novels fall apart a bit, but this really comes together. It's a damned good story too- a really disturbing one too, and one of the saddest examinations of a family falling apart, a theme King is extremely fond of, especially because unlike something like The Shining there was no strain on the familial relationships to begin with. Still, it's not one of King's better novels because there's some notably bad prose ('time was slipping through his hands like something that had been greased' is a particularly egregious example of this), but for the most part it's really very good, and it's a great example of how you can write a horror story which doesn't even really become one until nearly halfway through.Pet Sematary, the film, is around as good, and is definitely one of the better King adaptations. The screenplay, written by King himself, is terrific, with all the additions and subtractions from the source material making total sense, and no dialogue that stood out as particularly bad to me. Even more pleasingly, most of the psychology at play in the book is present in the filmic version, and I'm becoming increasingly confident that King is the best person to bring his own work to life on the screen as a screenwriter. Even The Stand, a miniseries I thought dreadfully poor as far as the direction and the general production went, was generally pretty well-written.The film's major flaw is the acting, with the only really good performance coming from Fred Gwynne, who played Judd. King is a master of atmosphere, and very rarely do the settings his stories play out in come to life well on screen. As many problems as I (controversially) had with The Shining, Kubrick's Overlook was every bit as good as King's overlook. Likewise, Mary Lambert and the cinematographer do a great job making this film as effectively creepy as it is, and the pet cemetery and burial ground are tremendously well-realized. Also, the climactic stages of the film could not have possibly been done better. The whole last half hour is absolutely one of the creepiest bits of film ever made.Had the film featured a better overall cast and had a better-realized Zelda, it really could have been one of the best horror movies ever made, but I found it immensely satisfying in its own right, and Gage Creed makes every other creepy child in cinema history look cute and cuddly in comparison. I've got something for you, mommy. That little bastard. *shudder* "},{"Title":"One of the Best (and scariest) movies ever made.","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Probably the most disturbing thing about this movie is the fact that the child is trying to kill people. The end is a sort of a good ending with the stabbing covered up by the credits. Another thing which really bothered me was the sister with meningitis. The idea of a grave which could bring a being back to life is incredible and could have only be created by the warped mind of Stephen King. Such as how the cat gets run over by a truck and is buried in the Indian Burial ground and then reappears the next day but evil is an excellent idea that really makes you think, but when a person is put in the Indian Burial ground, now that's a whole different story and there is no end of what evil can be caused. "},{"Title":"A nightmare of slasher proportions","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What was obviously a chilling, haunting premise (and probably a riveting novel) was poorly adapted from his own work by horror author Stephen King, and became a real schlocker.Rather than go for the subtlety and slight of hand that would have made Pet Sematary a real treat, King and director Mary Lambert have foolishly opted for a gruesome, shocker style show that turns this potentially ghostly pic into a nightmare of slasher proportions.Pet Sematary ends up too much like the Halloween and Friday the 13th films that go for maximum gore and adrenalin shock to cover for zero story. But King's novel certainly wasn't lacking in plot substance, yet has not been utilised.Plenty of over the top make-up effects have oozed their way on to the screen, to the delight I'm sure of hard core horror fans, but to the complete disgust of the rest of us. Elliot Goldenthal provides some suitably chilling music though.The cast meanwhile are simply a non-plus. What a shame the likable Fred Gwynne (one Herman Munster of T.V. fame) has wasted his talents in this big screen effort. Wasted also is King's big chance to prove himself a formidable screenwriter. Never mind Stephen, you'd better stick to literary creations.Sunday, June 9, 1996 - Video "}{"Title":"Happy 60th, Stephen!","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Since today is Stephen King's 60th birthday, I wanted to talk about a movie adapted from one of his stories. Pet Sematary brings to mind Frankenstein, partially because of Herman Munster portrayer Fred Gwynne but also the idea that when things die it's best to leave them dead. But when the boy comes back to life, the movie really gets neat. Some of his faces remind me of Danny in The Shining (but this is no Shining by any stretch). Speaking of which, both stories involve things returning from the dead in different forms. Can we never see the past without something disastrous happening?! So, this is far from the best adaptation of a Stephen King story - parts of it were kind of silly - but good enough for a fun time. Watch for King as the minister.Tom Savini and George Romero were both offered the chance to direct, Bruce Campbell was offered the role of the father. I just wonder what would have happened had Savini or Romero directed the guy who said boom-stick. "},{"Title":"excellent horror film - i still cant watch it after 9pm","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember when this came out on video and my dad rented it. I had to stay away from the TV as it scared the *(*& out of me. Actually it still does at the age of 31.It is a great story. Forget the gore as that is horror, you cant have horror without the gore. If you don't know the story, here it is. The Creed family move to Maine hoping for a safe environment for their young children. Only thing is they move to the busiest highway in the North East USA. Nearly losing their son on day one, things aren't starting well. Then the cat meets its maker on the road and the son. Im not saying anymore; please watch the movie and prepared to be scared. Sometimes dead is better, but ask yourself; what would you?I read on here there is a remake. Now I do hope this has more parts from the book. Normally a remake, like Posiedon for example, cuts bits of the original out. Hopefully, they will put in one bit from the book where Louis Creed comes home to a surprise from his wife. Read the book or listen to the full cast play to find out what I mean. "},{"Title":"a gruesome mess","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Appalling horror film&#x97;from a screenplay by Stephen King, based on his novel&#x97;about a family that relocates to a small town in the rural country. Unbeknownst to them, the town has an unpleasant history centering around an ancient Indian burial ground-turned-pet graveyard where legend has it that pets&#x97;and sometimes even people&#x97;come back from the dead and commit malicious acts against those foolish enough to bury them there. You know just by hearing the film's deliberate setup that unfortunate things are sure to happen, but there are no scares, putrid violence and gore, and an overall air of dread. Slasher fans may take a liking to it, others likely won't care for the nonexistent style or craft. * "},{"Title":"Creepy but disappointing","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Semetary is a very creepy and scary movie. A lot of scenes are bloody and the movie is quite thrilling. The actors play well, Denise Crosby also known from Star Trek-The next Generation plays her role well. But the plot leaves much to be desired. Most of the plot is illogical and far-fetched. I did not read Stephen King's book so I can't say if the plot of his book is also illogical. Especially the characters act very illogical. For example 1) Why does Mr. Goldman lead Mr.Creed to the graveyard at all when he knows what horrible things happened in the past? 2) Why does Mr.Creed bring his wive to the graveyard too(after her death) although he knows what horrible things happened to his son and the cat? I know that horror movies are not logical very often and that horror is the most important element. But this movie exaggerates a bit which its horror and so also with its illogicalness. "},{"Title":"A very great movie!!","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well i think i have seen this 100 times or something, and i gladly recommend this to everyone out there. It's really worth 10 as a vote. The movie is very frightening but it's not so scary . It's a very good horror movie for the whole family i think. In this film there is a family which precisely have moved in to a new town, and there is this neighboor called Jud who is warning the family about the Pet Sematary. The Pet Sematary is a Graveyard for animals, which people have buried their dead animals in. If you are about to watch this movie i think, you should have someone with you like a girlfriend or something. So go now and watch this movie. I'll promise you it will be a surprise. Almost all of my friends have seen this film, and they think it's the best movie they have ever seen too. "},{"Title":"very creepy people come back from the dead tale","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" the movie Pet Semetary is a pleasant surprise.it is much better than i had hoped for.after all,Stepthen King adaptations seem to be hit and miss.the story is quite a creepy concept,though it is not so much about the pet semetary,but an ancient MicMac burial ground which is said to bring back from the dead those who are buried there.problem is,they don't come back quite the same.of course you just know that someone will bury a loved one there,which is when things start to get creepier.Fred Gwynne is very well cast as the slightly odd(elderly) neighbor of the Creed family,who have just moved in next door.the one slight problem i found was that Denise Crosby was almost a bit of a weak link in this story.She seemed out of her depth.otherwise,a very entertaining,creepy tale,to say the least.certainly worth watching. 6* out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pet Sematary","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film was as true to the book as could be. Apart from the goofs...which I watched the film again for to see them. The story was well represented. This was one of my favourite books and has become one of my favourite films. The acting was good enough for the time...classed with nowadays it might be classed as a bit cardboard but with the exclusions of special effects it was great. It is truly an icon of horror films. Sheer brilliance. Mary Lambert does a very good job in the directing of this film, the cast is superb and Gage is great. I would rate this film in my top 10 being high. I urge anyone who has not seen it to buy it, rather than rent, once you have seen it you'll want to keep it. "},{"Title":"The Best Stephen King Adaption.  **** out ****","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a grim and mean spirited movie!!! A horror movie with nothing good to come of it are usually my favorite types, when the harm that is caused is more or less from the characters own doings (Another flick that does this expertly is Requiem for a Dream),that the characters refuse to accept what their reality is and only make things worse by doing so. Requiem for a Dream had Drug Addiction over Delusion and here we have Grief over Resurrection.At first George A . Romero was suppose to direct but backed out, which wasn't necessarily a bad thing and MAry Lambert took over. Many seem to dislike Mary Lambert's direction for the story, but I think the fact she directed Siesta(1987) in which a female dare devil had to accept reality before she could go on, was a given that Ms. Lambert had experience at working with the necessity for accepting change as she puts it.The plot is genius from the get go. The Creed Family move into their perfect country home in Ludlow, Maine accept for two flaws,1) the huge Semis that storm by day and night (perhaps hinting at Symbolism that death and destruction are always near by and can strike at any moment) and 2) a Spooky Pet sematary with a secret (resurrection of loved ones, but there's a brutal price to pay). These two flaws make them selves known to the family, and the plot unfolds these secrets until the films brutal climax.The acting is a bit off at times sure, and the pace is a little rushed towards the end, but I was too engaged to let those things really bother me. What the movie was asking and saying outweighed those flaws. Death is something EVERYONE has to relate too, and it's something that probably millions fear, but as the movie states Sometimes DEad is better which is quite obvious, you have to accept whats what, it's something you have to face and accept no matter how cray or sad it may seem, otherwise it will make things worse. Dale Midkiff was the perfect Louis Creed, and Fred Gymne was the best performance in the whole movie, make Jud Crandall one likable character. Denise Crosby did what she had to do quite well, even though she appeared one dimensional at times. Miko Hughes is my favorite child actor.This is Mary Lambert's greatest achievement so far. She gives the film a very spooky absorbing look, stylish but not too over the top (she waited till PS2 but it actually worked to help its offbeat screenplay). I mean, she was responsible for Madonna Music videos. She smartly pays more attention to the story though and handles everything quite well. The use of the semi trucks and some scenes with them were genius. The Suspense was high and she gave the film the mean streak that stayed true to the book.The biggest fault though is by King himself (Go figure). His Screenpaly was quite rushed, as if he feared the audience wouldn't like a layered movie. At times he skips all times for character development in favor of all the spooky happenings. The slow but well made evolution to the resurrection in the book is lacking in the movie. One minute its the funeral and then its up to the burial ground. More grief and sorrow would have upped the stakes. The walk up to the pet sematary was expertly done with the cat's resurrection (all about that freaky noise) but the second time it was so rushed, in the book it was one of the most terrifying things, but in the movie it happens too quickly.The music by Elliot Goldenthal is freaky and sad at the same time and suits the movie perfectly. I especially liked the opening credit theme.The movie is very mean spirited and gory. Very much so. It doesn't apologize for the gruesome sights it shows and maybe why a dimwitted hack named Leonard Maltin gave it a BOMB rating. What a moron. The movie has much to serve in the gore department. Thank you MAry Lambert. We have a dude with a smashed in head and you can see his brains, a frozen dead cat, mutilated rats, a kids chewed off leg in a flashback, a resurrected dog with that was killed by rusty barb wire,a sick and ugly deformed bed ridden sister in flashback, semi running over a kid (though just the thought is enough and we don't see the aftermath), but once a scalpel is brought out it got INTENSE, swipings, eyes gouged out, Achilles tendons cut, mouth slashed, half eaten faces, the grisly works that makes 3 Friday the 13ths gore to shame.Overall a rare horror treat, one that is somewhat of a classic to some, and an awful movie to others (but you can probably imagine why) **** out **** PS. I actually dig the sequel which if in the wrong hands it could have been as bad as people say, but it's Mary Lambert in the directing chair again and she makes it work. "},{"Title":"Excellent book, but butchered by the movie.","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now, I do know how impossible it must be to include all of the thoughts of the characters...the very things that make up Ttephen king's stories; that make those stories what they are. But in this movie, I was disgusted to find that not only were the thoughts of the characters omitted, but so were some of the characters as well!! This movie did not clearly represent how much death had taken place before Louis Creed went off of the deep end so to speak. I'm sure, for those of you that have read the book, will see what I am talking about. I suppose the cinema did not want a movie in theaters that was so long, with so many pointless details. Which is understandable. But. There were some things that were completely relevant and needed to create such a horror in cinemas. I think that the director realized this, so he included sickening images of the diseased sister, Zelda. But again, with the poor exclusions of characters, and nothing used to make up for the exclusion, this movie deserves poor rating. Hence, I give it a three. "},{"Title":"The heart of this movie is scarier","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is scary and very sad at the same time. It's about the Creed family who move into a house next to an Indian burial ground. When the wife goes away and leaves the husband, Louis, at home alone the cat dies and Jud tells him where to bury the cat. Louis gets the surprise of his life the next morning.Louis goes a little burial happy after that. I could see why he ended up that way. It's probably because he was so grief stricken that he really was losing his mind. It's really depressing watching him having to go through losing his whole family.The two scariest things in this movie are the cat and the sister in the back bedroom. The eyes on the cat gives me the chills and the sister in the back bedroom gives me nightmares.Push play for this movie because it will want to play for you.The one thing that I didn't like about this movie was the daughter. I thought that she was annoying. Other than that, this was a scary movie and better than most. "}{"Title":"Sometimes, Pet Semetery is betta' then the best","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sometimes, Dead is Betta'. Wise words from the beer drinking old man across the street. Mr. King's best film adaptation - hands down, and one hell of a creepy movie. I have always loved King's books, but somehow his films fall flat, or at least they start out good and then have an alien turtle at the end. Not the case here, Louis Creed and his family move to a small New England town on one of the deadliest trucking routes around (thing's tend to go splat - a lot)and Louis learns about a place that has the power to bring (dead) things back to life. The acting is outstanding Dale Midkiff as Louis Creed and Fred (Munster) Gwynne as Jud Crandall are so believable that you forget you're watching a movie, and every good horror flick needs a creepy kid - we got that covered too. Mary Lambert directs and I find it hard to believe that all her other films completely blow, but they do... For good creepy fun I highly recommend this film, and hope Lambert can find her way back to another one like it. "},{"Title":"No sense - no horror","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have not seen them all, but this is the worst King-based movie I have seen. It is sometimes gruesome, sometimes disgusting, but never scary and is precipitated by a totally illogical act. How are we to believe that Jud would encourage the cat to be buried when nothing that had come back was right. This sets off an increasingly insupportable chain of events. The accident which kills Gage does not wash with this parent. After the opening sequence with Gage wandering into the road, are we supposed to believe a loving parent would let a child get so far away from them, in the direction of the road, and turn his back on him? No way. Children of that age can get away quicker than you would think. That is why you watch them. Once this sequence of events is set in motion, the action is very predictable. The acting is pedestrian, except for Fred Gwynne who delivers, as always. The resurrected Gage violates all of my own personal guidelines for horror films regarding the treatment of children. I am not easily offended and I like horror movies, even bad ones (which this is), but that whole sequence is way over the top (when it is not making me think of Chucky). This is a must miss. "},{"Title":"SCary, sad, disturbing, jolting, gruesome and shocking all in one.","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I always read books before i see the movie. And with Stephen King books, it sets high standards. I was disappointed with It and Cujo but i heard that Pet Sematary was great and very scary. So i rented it expecting the best and i got what i expected. The movie was very scary (Zelda), gruesome (near the end with Gage and Jud), and disturbing (the idea of a twisted up girl and a satanic killer baby). It was also sad (Gage and the truck), jolting (whenever the cat jumps out), and shocking (with Louis and Rachel at the very end). There are changes from the book to the movie (having the laundry women die instead of Jud's wife who's not even in the movie), whether for better or for worse. OVERALL The movie was very scary, very sad and very depressing. But don't be surprised if you keep imagining a hunched over Zelda whenever you enter a room. "},{"Title":"Sometimes they come back.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Herman Munster spills the beans on an ancient Indian burial ground and opens up the gates for dead and rotting loved ones to come back from the dead. This is a fairly simple film, so I'll keep the review that way. Like most cheap horror films, many of the important aspects to make a good film are overlooked and rushed to get to the money shots as soon as possible. This is all too apparent here in Pet Semetary. While it does have some decent spooks and scares, the bad acting and complete implausibility of certain actions and situations take away from the good parts. However, some of the good scares are decent enough to give the film a reputation, particularly the sick woman scene. Everyone has at least heard of the disgusting woman in PS, which says something; the scares here can be pretty decent. I particularly enjoyed watching a young Miko Hughes. He's a very good actor for being so young. Too bad a toddler can act better than the rest of the cast, otherwise we might have something really good here. It's not that the film is bad, it's just average. While it won't change your life or how you view movies, PS will provide at some good entertainment for a short period in your life...and possibly a few laughs. "},{"Title":"very very horrible","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is very horrible and interesting. I found American Indian's are very mystic. I think their cemetery concept is interesting. However Stephen King is very important author. I love his novels. But ý don't like his films. For example Cursed Antiques. Hardly this film is very nice. I afraid from Gage. I'm serious. Now second film will shoot. I wonder it. I hope it can be horrible than this. Besides life after from die concept is very interesting.For example Gage. But sometimes die is good. Also Stephen King is director of this film. He is successful direct to film. Specially Gage is a very successful and horrible character. Generally children and babies are innocent on films.But baby is a killer and horrible on this film. So this film is different.  "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh, if you enjoy really bad acting","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is atrocious. I *have* read the book, which was pretty good, but the film is let down by godawful acting from most of the characters, especially the Creeds. Mind you, the dialogue didn't help, or the really cheesy repeated scenes with Dale Creed screaming NO! in slow motion. And I couldn't believe he actually bit his sleeve in horror when he found Jud's body. It was more a comedy than a horror to me.I did quite like Fred Gwynne in it, as despite the terrible dialogue, he was the only one who was a reasonably good actor. Although the scene where Gage Creed killed was actually quite amusing to watch, mainly because Gage wasn't that scary. The little Creed girl was *extremely* annoying, and I kept wishing she would shut the hell up. The ghost Pascow was just laughable - not creepy at all as in the book. His makeup was pretty bad, and so was his acting.The ending was pretty good, but maybe I was just glad that it was over.As a whole, it was another one of Stephen King's good novels gone sour when made into a film. Perhaps he buried it in the Pet Sematary?  "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dale Midkiff buries his son in a cursed cematary after he discovers it brings back to life whomever is buried in it against the warnings of his neighbor (Fred Gwynne). Turns out in addition to bringing them back to life, the cematary also turns the person into emotionless killers. Cold empty film with a few scares and some style. Fred Gwynne is wasted in one of his final roles. Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Fairly Scary","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found it really hard to come up with a mark out of 10 for Pat Sematary because there arent many bad things you can say about it yet there are many good things you can say. With Stephen Kings Screenplays there are either Brilliant (Green Mile,Misery) or they are apalling (Quicksilver highway,Sleepwalker). This is not in either bracket. I have read the book and it the film is fairly true to it. Pet Sematary is  scary and does keep you on the edge of the seat but it is also fairy predictable. The acting is ok and the special affects are alright too but nothing to get too excited about. One question that i have to ask of the story is, why did the couple buy the house so near to a busy road when they have two young kids? 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"greatest and most thought provoking horror thriller out there","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet sematary is not only great for it's effects and it's visual effects, but is one of the most well told and frightening stories ever told throughout of our time. It begins with Louis Creed and family and their move to Ludlow, a quiet rural area where the only loud thing is the trucks that come storming by often. Every thing starts out as a happy life as they meet their friendly neighbour Jud Crandall. As days progress, the daughters cat dies and Jud leads Louis to a burial ground behind the pet sematary. When the cat comes back to life, strange events begin to occur.   "},{"Title":"Stephen King chiller. The dead don't always stay dead.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Stephen King screenplay is based on his own bestseller novel. This is not a full blown horror film, but will give you chills and an overall creepy feeling. A young college MD(Dale Midkiff)brings his young family to a small town in Maine. The family cat is killed and buried in a special burial ground that folklore claims has the power to revive the dead. Strangely enough the cat returns fit as a fiddle. The doctor's young son is accidentally killed and next comes the thoughts of burying the child in the pet cemetery.Also starring are Denise Crosby, Mara Clark, Fred Gwynne and Miko Hughes. There is a cameo for King as a minister. Timeless jitters to be had by all. "}{"Title":"Flimsy adaptation of underrated King novel","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThis was a sloppily conveyed adaptation of the underrated Stephen King novel.The main problem might have been that it was made so stunningly soon after the publication of the novel,only a year apart in fact.Whatever made the filmmakers want to adapt one of King's lesser successful novels into a film that quickly after it's publication did'nt pay off for them at all.No matter how soon any of his books are adapted,however,the same principle does ultimately remain thoughwhy bother wasting your time watching the film,when in the time you're spending doing that,you could be reading the book again instead?** "},{"Title":"The only adaptation scarier than the book","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  May contain one small spoilerI love Stephen King novels.  IT is my favourite book of all time and The Shining scared me so much that it even did so when I used to work at a convenience store during the day.  His work is so vivid and has a style of his own, and that is perhaps why many people have a hard time taking his written word and put moving images to what we already have in our heads. To this day I have not seen IT because I didn't want to picture John Boy as Stuttering Bill or see Jack Tripper as Ben Hanscomb.  But Pet Sematary is unique.  As much as I have enjoyed many of King's adaptations ( Misery, Shawshank, Stand By Me, The Langoliers, The Shining ) I hadn't seen a film that I actually liked more than his book.  But this film takes that honour. Perhaps to have such wonderful actors and a perfect setting is what made this film as great as it is.King's ideas have always been borderline psychotic.  And many people have said that King was probably a violent kid and that is how he gets some of his ideas.  But I read an interview with him once and he said that he was far from that, he just had an overactive imagination and that is how he gets some of his ideas.  I personally think he takes a bit of acid when he sits down to write because I don't think anyone can write as well as he does when they are sober, but that is a different story.One of the elements of this story that makes it so good is Fred Gwynne. You couldn't have cast a better actor to play Judd Crandle.  His drawl and his long, exaggerated face are almost exactly how I pictured him in the book and this was a casting triumph.The idea of this story is what makes it scary.  If you knew that you could perhaps bring back to life someone that you loved, but you knew there could be dire consequences, what would you do?  Tough question, and in King's world people will always do the silly thing, if they didn't there would be no story.  But here it works well.  We can feel the guys pain when he loses someone that he loves and inspite of Judd's objections, he goes ahead and does it anyway.  And that is when things get freaky.  As long as I live I will remember Gage and his maliciously creepy voice.  When he comes back, well, really sometimes dead is better.This is a good horror film and if you do like to be freaked a bit and feel that chill as it runs through your veins, this is the perfect film for you. The one King movie that is scarier than the book, and that is not easy to do.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes unreleased is better....","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The best Stephen King-based horror movie ever is The Shining.You'll find Pet Sematary at the exact opposite end of the scale.This movie is so unbelievably bad, so redundant in spots and unrelentingly idiotic that if you do have the misfortune to watch this as I did, you'll no doubt wander around in a stupor about why you did such a stupid thing.Because, like me, you were suckered in by the promise of another Shining or Carrie.  Heck, I would have settled for another Firestarter!Half a star.  Let this one rest in peace. "},{"Title":"That was a disappointment","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was really looking forward to seeing this one but unfortunately it didn't live up to it's hype. Maybe it's just because it's a bit old and stale. Not sure. The acting was bad. Very wooden and uninteresting except for the wonderful Gwynne who was delightfully hammy. The little girl and her mother were really weird - something really off about their acting that made them both irritating & unlikable. The father was bland as can be as well as completely stupid. The story itself was mostly boring - except Zelda, who was pretty neat. The few jump-scares you could see coming a mile off and there wasn't much to be genuinely scared about anyway. The gory bits were.... well.... gory enough I guess (I've seen worse and done better). The zombie kid and the friendly ghost were amusing. The cat was a pain in the a$$. I wished for more back-story on the burial ground and less about the boring self-involved family. A bit more about the town and how they'd dealt with the burial ground, more about Zelda - that sort of thing. And the Indian burial ground & semetary just weren't anywhere near spooky enough. So much more could have been done with that. Also I wish they'd done a lot more with Jud. Made Jud sinister instead of guilt-ridden & weak perhaps. There was one moment when he grinned in an evil way at the idiot father & I thought for a second he was going to be an interesting twist in the story, but alas it was not to be. I would have liked a story-line where he was somehow involved in the nastiness and survived triumphant at the end. Or where he saved the day. Or where he just did nothing but calmly watch it all unfold and then sat on his porch watching THEIR house burn saying heyup! Sometimes dead is better to no-one in particular and grinning maniacally. Oh well. I have my dreams.I liked that the kid was cute - made it more creepy. We just really didn't get enough of that creepy stuff. Too much time is spent on family dramas and their annoying possessed cat who does nothing interesting except hiss a lot & look grumpy. Rather like my cat. She also drops dead rats in my bed occasionally. She's not scary either, just annoying and disgusting. All in all I found it a bit of a snooze fest with the occasional giggle and one or at most, two moments where I had to peek through my fingers coz it was nasty. I honestly don't know whether to recommend it or not. I guess it's worth looking at but don't expect too much and view it as a bit of a send-up or parody rather than a serious horror movie and you might get enjoyment from it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie!","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a brilliant adaptation of the famous Stephen King novel. It has a very eerie feeling towards it and it also keeps the story alive, brilliant acting from Dale Midkiff & Denise Crosby. The role of Jud Crandall is played so well by Fred Gwynne, he is very twisted character in 'Pet Sematary' which makes this movie even better to watch. watching this film just gives me the creeps even now and the movie itself was released in 1989, personally speaking this movie is better than some of the horror movies being produced today.All you get is the same story line of some high school kids being killed by some crazed serial killer and all zombie movies today are the same as well. This movie is a great deal better than any of today's rubbish, it keeps you on the edge of your seat and also has some very jumpy parts. 'Pet Sematary' is a must watch when you're on your own in the dark for even more chills! "},{"Title":"A Good Story But Needed a Different Director","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary (1989) ** (out of 4) Fairly ugly story from Stephen King about a family moving to a small town with an overly used pet cemetery, which behind it has an Indian burial ground that is rumored to bring the dead back to life. After the tragic death of his young son, a father decides to bury him there and sure enough evil follows. PET SEMATARY became a huge hit for the studio and it's easy to see why some people really love the movie. I've seen it a few times over the years and while there are things I like about it, it's still just too uneven for its own good and I'd say the story itself is just a bit too ugly to be really enjoyed. I think director Mary Lambert does a decent job with the material but I think it really needed someone a bit more talented to pull everything off. It's been rumored that George A. Romero was going to do the picture but walked and I can't help but wonder what someone like him would have done with it. I think the biggest problem with the film is that the pacing is really off at times and I also think that the psychological horror didn't work. Not too much happens in the film for the first 55-minutes, which I'm okay with because they're really building up the characters. There's nothing wrong with this except for the poor pacing. The film really comes to life once the dead things start to come back. This here leads to some pretty graphic violence and an incredibly ugly ending but I give the filmmakers credit for the ending, which I won't spoil here. The performances are another major plus with Dale Midkiff doing a nice job as the dad but it's Fred Gwynne who really steals the picture. King wrote the screenplay from his novel and for the most part it's good but I'd say the dead guy giving advice could have been cut as could all the stuff with the sister, which just seems like a bad take on the kid in THE SHINING. Still, the film has enough effective moments to make it worth sitting through but I think the film really screams for a remake. "},{"Title":"I'd Be Content If They Buried This Movie So That It Never Came Back!","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really liked Fred Gwynne. With his size and his deep voice (and, of course, his background as Herman Munster!) he is a perfect choice to have a role in this kind of movie. Just by his presence (even though he's playing a nice guy) he brings a sense of ominousness to the story. Unfortunately, Fred Gwynne was about the only thing I found here that I did like about this movie. I've watched a lot of the adaptations of Stephen King stories over the years, and most of them I've quite liked. This would have to rank as the weakest I've seen. Aside from Gwynne, the cast (mostly headed by Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby as Louis and Rachel Creed along with Gwynne as Judd, their new neighbour) didn't grab me.As the movie begins the Creeds have just moved to a new home, which is located right beside a road filled with speeding trucks all day and night. Judd is their neighbour across the road. Judd shows them around, pointing out a path that leads to a pet cemetery where animals killed by the trucks have been buried. When the Creeds' cat is killed, Judd takes Louis beyond the pet cemetery to an old Micmac burial ground, where those who are buried come back to life - but not quite as they were. Church the cat comes back to life, but as a meaner, more vicious cat. Tragedy then strikes, when the Creeds' young son Gage is killed by a truck, and Dale comes up with the idea of burying Gage's body in the Micmac ground, in spite of a warning from Judd about what could happen. Gage comes back to life too - but not as the sweet, lovable little boy the Creeds knew.The story moved slowly, with really very little of sustained interest or excitement. The main problem is that the basic story was clearly given away by Judd as he told Louis stories about what had happened in the past when animals or people had been buried in the hallowed Micmac ground. What was the point of the flashbacks? I mean, once you know that it has happened, you're pretty sure that it's going to happen again. Perhaps 5 minutes of flashbacks served as a spoiler to the entire movie. Yes, there are a few standard thrills and chills here and there, but nothing really frightening. I wasn't really clear what the point of Rachel's childhood memories of her sick sister was, or why it was necessary for Louis to have such a horrible relationship with Rachel's parents. The kid who keeps coming back from the dead (as a ghost?) to speak to Rachel or her daughter Ellie also struck me as unnecessary. In fact, most of this movie actually struck me as unimportant filler, leading up to an ending that was really quite silly. (2/10) "},{"Title":"Just above average.","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is basically you're typical Stephen King adaptation, with some pretty average production values (has a made for TV type of look over it) and just acceptable acting performances. Most Stephen King adaptations are like this, with of course the exception of the obvious movie titles. Still the movie is slightly better than the average one, mostly due to the movie its second halve.To be honest, the movie was not like I expected at first. Perhaps the movie its title is a bit misleading. It suggest that the movie is about a bunch of death animals coming alive and causing some mayhem. This is only part of the movie its story though, that in its second halve takes a more interesting approach with its concept.The movie begins quite annoying actually, with its family that is being portrayed like a perfect and happy bunch, including some annoying nagging kids, who really don't talk and act like real normal children. Why do movies keep doing this? There also isn't an awful lot of horror to enjoy at that point but the movie gets more bold toward its ending and that is mostly what saves the movie and still makes this a horror movie that is worth watching, despite not being anything too spectacular, shocking or memorable.The movie has a bunch of subplots which however never get used and developed properly. This is what happens when you use a novel as main source for your movie. What often works out in a novel simply doesn't work out for a movie its flow. It was the first Stephen King adaptation for which he self write the screenplay as well. King perhaps demanded a bit too much power over this movie because he was too afraid they would turn the movie into something completely else from his novel. Movie-wise this wasn't the best move. Guess he also learned from this though, since ever since he never wrote a screenplay again for any full length movie.Well worth watching, though certainly not the best or most exciting the genre has to offer.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Awesomely Frightening!","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Personally, I absolutely love this movie and novel(I read the book first and decided to see the movie). First of all the plot is truly original and one of a kind. The acting is also great and i love the cast. Judd Crandall (plays Fred Gwynne) fits his role perfectly and really sells it to you. There are also a few corny lines thrown in there (Idk if they were meant to be corny), but they really will lighten up the mood and provide a good laugh. The Maine atmosphere is really a perfect spot to film this movie and it kind of draws you in throughout the movie. Not only will you love it but you'll want to see it again and again, I recommend this 100% to any horror fan!! "},{"Title":"At least it was free from the Library","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At least it had a good amount Fred Gwynne in it.Dramatic irony and foreshadowing are a classic plot elements, but this film takes the cake. For example, That there road is a bit too close to these houses. Which road? That road? That one. That one? Yes that one. So? Pets, even kids been run plum over. Really? Really. Really? Yes really. That road? That road. In front of my house? In front of your house. Really? Really. Huh? I suppose if you want to see a fairy tale where the sweet toddler prince turned zombie killer gets the girl in the end, well then you should probably just skip this one and have yourself committed.If you want to catch Fred Gwynne in one of his last roles, and 'My Cousin Vinny' is checked out, well, I guess you might settle for this. Just keep the fast forward button within reach. "}{"Title":"Forget this garbage. Read the book!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King's Pet Sematary is not only a masterpiece of horror-literature but a masterpiece of literature itself. Not only scary, but deep, thought-provoking, touching and even very funny sometimes with pitch black humor (where you can see where movies like Ravenous (1999) have gotten their inspiration). If you're about to read one Kings book, be so sure it'll be this one. Everyone should read this wonderful book, even people who would't normally read horror.And this movie is one joke.It loses its point completely when leaving nearly all characterisation of Louis which was soul of the book. This movie is simply relying on all kinds of cheap scares with hollow characters. Zelda was a pretty nasty character and I was really scared when saw this film back in '80 as a kid, and still looking that thing makes me feel uneasy. That's about all good this film has to offer.Didn't like the ending either. Open ending of the book was much better. And the music was horrible (in wrong way).Sucks.3/10 "},{"Title":"Made-for-TV Quality","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fot the most part, this movie feels like a made-for-TV effort. The direction is ham-fisted, the acting (with the exception of Fred Gwynne) is overwrought and soapy. Denise Crosby, particularly, delivers her lines like she's cold reading them off a cue card. Only one thing makes this film worth watching, and that is once Gage comes back from the Semetary. There is something disturbing about watching a small child murder someone, and this movie might be more than some can handle just for that reason. It is absolutely bone-chilling. This film only does one thing right, but it knocks that one thing right out of the park. Worth seeing just for the last 10 minutes or so. "},{"Title":"Three words  Indian Burial Ground","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Indian burial ground If those three words appear anywhere in a real-estate listing, look for a different neighborhood. A young couple with a young daughter and a toddler-age son move into a Maine house adjacent to a pet cemetery--and, after a l-o-o-o-ng hike, an ancient Indian burial ground. Seems the Indian ground can bring Fido or Fluffy back from the dead--if you don't mind having a raving hell beast for a pet. It can do the same for dead people--if you don't mind having a homicidal zombie around the house.Throw in a busy two-lane blacktop, speeding big rigs, a well-meaning (if somewhat dim) old neighbor, and one kid who really doesn't get enough supervision, and I think you can figure out what happens from there--an over-the-top, illogical mess, which, in all fairness, does offer up a few scares.Well, there are worse Stephen King adaptations (such as Maximum Overdrive, which King also directed). But there are far better ones, too (such as Salem's Lot, The Dead Zone, and both versions of The Shining). "},{"Title":"Pretty creepy horror film i loved it!","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pretty creepy horror film i loved it!. The story was especially creepy, and the makeup was awesome!, and how about that creepy kid Cage, that was an incredible performance since he was only 2 years old!(more on that later). The characters were all great and plus the kids were not annoying!. This is one of the best Stephen King adaptations out there (in my opinion). It's extremely creepy and it will make you cringe at times (especially Rachel's deformed sister (that was just plain CREEPY!). There is plenty of blood and gore. A guy gets hit by a truck (off screen and we see the huge bloody wound on the side of the forehead throughout the film. , a nasty looking dead rat, nasty wounds on a cat, a woman hangs herself (very disturbing), a hideous deformed chick,LOTS of nasty bloody scalpel stabbings,slicing and dicing, ripped off throat (very bloody) and more!. The acting is very good!. Dale Midkiff is awesome as the main lead and had great chemistry with Denise Crosby, and was pretty likable. Fred Gynne was excellent as the neighbor although it was hard to understand what he was saying at times he did his job extremely well!. Denise Crosby was awesome here and had great chemistry with Dale Midkiff and did what she had to do well. Miko Hughes was amazing here and did an incredible job for a 2 year old and he was creepy!. Brad Greenquist is fine here and did what he had to do. Blaze and Beau Berhdal were both great and were very likable (surprisingly for children. Andrew Hubatsek was JUST SCARY!!!!!!. Overall a must see for horror fans (like me)!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Scary for 10 year olds","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie wasn't scary to me when I was little and it's not scary now. This is one of those Stephen Kings stories that you wonder why it was made into a major motion picture. There are much better stories of his that could have made better films. The acting in the film is good (aside from the wife character - she's doesn't fit her role very well) and the direction is excellent. My main dislike for the film is the drawn out story line. This might have worked as a book, but not as a movie.  "},{"Title":"The Best Horror Film","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary is the best horror film I have ever seen. It's terrific. The first time I saw it I was only 9 years old, and I couldn't finished seeing it, because of the fear. But some years later I saw it complete and it's excellent. In my opinion Stephen King is the master of horror, so now I'm reading the book, which is excellent too.Pet Sematary is my favourite film. On the other hand, have you seen Pet Sematary II? It's really bad, and that's because the story hasn't been written by Stephen King. "},{"Title":"A jewel amongst horror films","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The final spoken word which brings this film to a powerful close is unforgettable.  If you have young children you may lose a few nights of sleep, especially if you're around country roads and milk trucks.  I found this film to be well done and suspenseful; who could forget the scene with Fred Gwynne kneeling down and what happened to him in the bedroom?  Miko Hughes does an excellent job as the deceased with his No Fair!  No Fair! And the wonderful Maine scenery reminds me of such films as The Trouble With Harry by Hitchcock.  A solid stand-alone film by Mary Lambert. "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"        Wow. This movie was sooooooooo scary. I can barely explain it at all. It was full of blood and gore, had plenty of jump scenes, and was just plain terrifying. Stephen King has a wild mind, I mean he can come up with the scariest stuff, and all of it is brilliant. I'm not familiar with the cast here, but they were all great. This movie was greatly scary and kept me on the edge of my seat. If you want to be really scared, wait no, scared isn't the word, If you want to be shocked and terrified rent this movie. I give Pet Sematary a 10 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"The only horror in this movie are the production values...","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sloppy casting, shoddy directing, and a pathetic score.I'm not sure why this woman was chosen to direct it, but it wasn't a particularly good choice.  She takes an austere, uninspired approach to direction.  She dutifully films every sequence, but without any art or craft.And they should know by now that King can't write screenplays worth a darn, neither.  I love the man's earlier books ('Salems Lot is still my favorite) but his screenplays usually aren't very good (Creepshow being the only notable exception).If I were to re-make this movie, I'd have David Fincher or Bryan Singer (or possibly Stuart Gordon) direct and have either Jery Goldsmith or Danny Elfman compose the score.  Pet Semetary doesn't work as a straight-out slasher film, but rather as a brooding, inevitable descent into madness and horror. "},{"Title":"Compulsory viewing for ANY serious & devoted horror fan!!!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Please note! This review may contain some SPOILERS!!!!!)This 1989 horror film directed by Mary Lambert is probably one of the best Stephen King adaptations so far (next to The shining). The film makers have fully succeeded in bringing the literary work to life on screen, a task where many before them have failed. They have managed to capture the essence of the novel and translate it into images, every single one filled with emotional complexity. The result is a powerful, intense & highly atmospheric thrill-ride, a film that is both visually and emotionally perfect, a film that will leave no-one untouched. The credit for this must first and foremost go to director Mary Lambert, who handles the subject matter with steady and skillful hands. But, like with so many things in life, this is also a team-effort, and it is the combination of different elements, of different skilled individuals, that makes the film work as a whole. This is a prime example of a horror film where everything is perfectly timed; All the different elements, the well-written script by Stephen King, the stylish cinematography/camera work, the creepy music, the excellent special effects, the convincing direction, and the great performances, are perfectly balanced and strung together, and the result stands heads and shoulders above any of the pseudo wanna-be horror film c*** to have come out of Hollywood lately (yes, I´m talking about Scream and it´s numerous sequels and imitations, if you were wondering!).(Spoilers!) The film´s plot focuses on a family of four, the Creeds, who have just moved to a new house out in the seemingly idyllic countryside. The head of the family, Louis Creed, is a young doctor, probably in his early thirties, who is just about to start work as an M.D. in the local community (the family´s reason for moving I guess). The rest of the family consists of Louis´ wife Rachel, a woman haunted by memories from her childhood, and their two children Ellie and Gage. Unfortunately things start out real bad for the newcomers Upon arriving at the house the young daughter falls from a swing and hurts herself and the young couple´s 3-4 year old son is almost run over by a truck. Later, one the first day of work, Louis is confronted with the casualty of a dreadful accident; A young man with his skull smashed in. The young man dies on the operating table but returns to haunt Louis in his dreams, warning him against some unknown threat (and thus foreshadowing events to come). Everything is somehow connected to a place out in the woods. You see, behind the Creed house there is a path leading do an old animal cemetery (hence the title), a place of sorrow and shattered childhood illusions....and, according to one of the characters in the film, ...a place where the dead speak. After the family´s cat, Church, has been run over by a car, Louis and the aging Judd Crandall, the neighbour, take it to an ancient Indian burial ground beyond the pet sematary, a place rumoured to have supernatural powers. Of course, the dead cat returns from the grave, wrecking havoc. Everything goes straight to hell from here, and the rest of the film is a downwards spiral rarely seen even in a horror film. While the family are out on a picnic a moment of negligence results in the death of their son; He stumbles out onto the highly trafficked road that runs passed their house and is hit by a truck. Consumed with grief and guilt, Louis decides to bring his son back to life and he takes him to the ancient Indian graveyard for resurrection. But something has changed, and when the dead boy returns Louis suddenly realizes what the old man (Judd Crandall) meant when he said Sometimes dead is better.This interesting, though admittedly not exceptionally original concept, serves as a framework for a number of religious and philosophical questions (which are raised more than once during the course of the film), among others What lies beyond death?, Why do terrible things happen to seemingly innocent people? and Is there a God?. The whole film is an illustration of our own mortality, or more correctly our reluctance & unwillingness to accept this mortality, and how everything in life is perishable. A film that intelligently and profoundly, not shallowly or superficially, explores & examines death and our understanding of it, our longing for immortality, and how death can strike suddenly and without warning, leaving a trail of destruction and personal holocaust in its wake. The overshadowing theme is doubtless the fear of death and the distance we create to it; Our refusal to accept death as an inescapable destiny, our refusal to accept and overcome the death of loved ones. But there are other important themes as well; The questioning and undermining of one´s personal faith (brought forth but the death of someone close to you and the hatred towards God for this act of cruelty inflicted upon the innocent), children as being more open to the supernatural than grown-ups, and children as evil (after all, they have not yet developed an understanding of life and death, nor a set of morals). In addition the film examines to what extent we live in & are ruled by the past, haunted by memories, consumed with grief over loved ones we have once lost, unable to carry on.All in all this is a personal favourite that rates way up there (on my top 10 list that is), second only to Romero´s Day of the dead. A film that is both emotionally and intellectually challenging, a film that will keep you on the edge of the seat and leave you fully drained after it´s over, wishing the illusion would never end. A film that is nothing short of a horror classic. The performances, especially that of Miko Hughes as Gage, are incredible, and it´s amazing how realistically this child actor interacts with the adult actors. Even more amazing though is how the film makers have succeeded in taking a 4 year old kid, turning him into one of the most menacing and frightening figures in horror film history.To sum it all up Pet sematary is a dark, pessimistic & frightening tale filled with splattery F/X, claustrophobic atmosphere and doomed protagonist. It is also one of the few films that really makes my skin crawl, and if you´re a horror fan, seeking it out is obligatory.9 1/2 out of 10 stars!!! "}{"Title":"This was awful","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A poorly acted, sloppily directed, simple-minded horror. This whole return from the dead plot has been done to death (pun intended) and if it's going to be explored, a bit more originality has to be included.  Let's see, you bury a body in this particular sematary (sic) and they come back to life in a more malevolent form.  Gee.  Plan Nine from Outer Space was more riveting along these lines .  In my opinion, Thomas Tryon is a far better writer of horror (of anything for that matter) and more of his novels should be made into movies.  "},{"Title":"talk about upsetting","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of the most upsetting movies on earth. same with the sequel. A kid getting nailed by a huge semi? OUCH!! Oh well, it's rated R for a reason. This pet semataty brings the dead animals back to life, except they are a bit meaner than the were before. The thing that wasn't that great about the movie was that they concentrated more on bringing humans back to life than the pets.....so why didn't they just call it Human Sematary.....confusing..but its a cool movies.  the ending will make you mad.**1/2 out of****Rated R for overall content.J*o*n*a*t*h*a*n   y*a*t*e*s      the horror master "},{"Title":"Most memorable horror movie ever!!!!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was one of the scariest movies I have seen. One of the most spooky characters was Zelda. She gave me the creeps. I was about 14 when the movie came out, and I went to the movies 3 times to see it. This movie is a classic and still gives me the creeps today, I highly recommend this movie. Word of advice, don't bury your dead animals on an indian burial ground. "},{"Title":"this is a COPY from Italian movie ZEDER","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary , though a nice 80's Horror movie, with a nice Director and atmosphere, IS a copy of the Italian movie ZEDER by Pupi Avati. It's clear that Stephen King has copied almost all the ideas from this director (the movie Zeder was made before King wrote the book)The cat, the ground, everything was copied, this is a case of plagiary , but, being Stephen Kind a famous American writer , it's totally normal that he can get away with this , it's obviously due to the huge difference between this kind of Italians movies with no -budget (and in part, it's crap itself ... ) but the original idea, I repeat it, it's Italian director AvatiLet the world know "},{"Title":"Not as good as hoped.","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary is a disappointing film. From the premise and the fact that the author, Stephen King, was working on the screenplay, this reviewer expected something a little better than the average horror film. Unfortunately, it is just barely an average horror flick. There will not be any comparisons to the novel, because this reviewer has yet to read it. However, judging from the results of the film, this reviewer is not excited to read it.Pet Sematary is based on the novel written by Stephen King. The Creeds have just moved to a new house in the countryside. Their house is perfect, except for two things the semi-trailers that roar past on the narrow road, and the mysterious cemetery, which is misspelled to spell sematary, in the woods behind the house. The Creed's neighbors are reluctant to talk about the cemetery. Is there really something wrong with the cemetery or is the neighborhood extremely crazy?There is no question that this movie could have been a lot better. The movie was not exactly horrible. There were some good little creepy moments throughout. Unfortunately, the tension was never consistent until the very end. Sadly, that sequence towards the end felt like the typical 1980's slasher. Not only that, but the film score, which usually is key in this type of movie, is essentially nonexistent.The acting was very mediocre. Luckily, for this type of movie, the acting is never a necessity. Dale Midkiff played the father, Lois Creed. Fred Gwynne was really the best part of the film, as the neighbor, Jud Crandall. Denise Crosby was Lois' wife, Rachel Creed. Brad Greenquist, along with Fred Gwynee, was the best part as a guardian angel, Victor Pascow. Child star, Miko Hughes, played the youngest son, Gage Creed. Blaze Berdahl played the daughter, Ellie Creed.Overall, even though this reviewer pointed out some flaws, Pet Sematary is still a recommended one-time viewing. Some people loved it, so maybe you might be one of them. Some people consider this underrated and a classic, but this reviewer feels it is not even close. Maybe the 2008 remake will be better. Go rent this flick, see it, and then quickly forget about most of it the next day. "},{"Title":"This movie will be back to haunt you","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you liked the novel you will hate the film. And if you did not like or do not know the novel I wish you the best of luck. You will need it when you try to figure out why anybody would put money into a project like this one.One of Stephen King's best books has been turned into one of the three worst adaptations of all times. King himself is responsible for the script and has a cameo but it is beyond my comprehension why he would want anything to do with this production.The acting does not help anything. It is embarrassing and the characters seem to be made of card board. And worst of all, this is a horror movie without a single scare.This movie is yet another proof that movie makers do not need to do good in order to make a box office hit.  "},{"Title":"Man What did I just watch?","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!! OK now I am not a fan of some of Stephen King's books turned into movies. The first thing that got me interested in the movie was that I saw it's directed by Mary Lambert the same girl who directed Urban Legends bloody mary. I thought that it was a cheap movie but actually did have it's creepy and classic moments. So I gave this movie a chance. I happened to see this on TV as well as Graveyard Shift about 7 years ago and I just loved seeing Herman Munster in a horror movie. His face when he's scared is just hilarious, it reminds me of my grandfather and I honestly liked his character. I mean the book made him seem like an evil human being. I always wondered why he decided to show the family the cemetery anyway I mean it's like he wanted them to see it in case anything happened. A majority of the movie is boring until about 75 percent of the way through. I'm shocked the movie actually showed a kid killing people like seriously, the book was scarier than the actual movie. Overall I give it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"read the book, then watch the film","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" after reading the book for the first time and being amazed by the descriptive nature and being captured by the horror and insanity of some of the characters, i was more than disappointed with the film. they changed a lot of things and missed out bits that i felt made no sense without them. however this wasn't a bad film over all, it was good acting especially from Miko Hughes and Fred Gywnne and still was roughly based on the story, it was entertaining and enjoyable and some bits were scary but whoever said this one of the scariest movies, cut the bullshit the book is much scarier. so in my opinion read the book first "},{"Title":"Pet Sematary","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on a book by writer Stephen King (Carrie, Misery, The Shawshank Redemption) this is quite an interesting idea, a haunted Sematary for pets and the mystery of them coming back to life. Basically a small family live in a small town and they decide to explore it more than they have. They meet an old member of the village who becomes their friend. During their tour they go to the Pet Sematary. One day, the family pet starts to act really weird with fierce coloured eyes and scratching everyone, he obviously dies and came back from the Pet Sematary. Anyway, the real shock of the this is when the child dies and the husband digs him up and reburies him in the Pet Sematary. The kid comes back to life, but tries to kill him. The ending is the same as well, the wife dies and kills him to end the film. Creepy, but I don't think I'd see it again. It was nominated the Razzie for Worst Original Song for (I Don't Wanna Be Buried in A) Pet Sematary. Adequate! "},{"Title":"After I saw it I left the light on for a week","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary disturbs me ,in the scene where Gage is killed i have to look away, even after the tenth or so time of seeing it i still can't watch, and when Jud is looking for Gage, I look away and at the end when Louis' wife kills him, i'm not watching, I actually haven't seen most of this movie I only know its Pet Sematary when i look at the advert for it at the break.I still think its a pretty good film though, the actors are good, not great but those kids are so annoying, when Ellie keeps going on about Church, she should really understand hes going to die,your in a Stephen King film for crying out loud,I think this is a good film it sticks mostly to the book, it's no Carrie, but what is. "}{"Title":"Oh, that whiny daughter! (minor spoilers)","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Semetary is one of the few Stephen King-based movies that I can actually tolerate, and I still think that, save for the constant interruptions of bad acting from little Ellie Creed, the whiny daughter, this is one of my favorite horror movies because it uses most of the elements of a good horror movie (at least in 80s terms).Creed, party of four, moves into the empty house in a rural farm town when Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff) fills the vacancy as the town's doctor. But, the storybook life is shattered when the well-meaning neighbor, Judd Crandall (Fred Gwynn, playing the token cautionary figure and serving as much of the back story for this tale, but giving his finest thick Maine drawl in the meantime), takes the family to the path beyond the house to the 'Pet Semetary.' But where this innocent cemetery is where the dead speak (through their markers, as Judd explains), beyond the cemetery are the sour burial grounds where the dead will walk. And though Judd warns that things don't return as you remember them, he still encourages Louis to bury his daughter's dead cat there. And that is just the first thing that is buried there...I think this is indeed one of the Stephen Kings better movies based on his novels. It is not quite as long-winded or slow-moving as, say, Salem's Lot. Though it is sporadically marred by some bad acting (but not from Fred Gwynn), and though the story is forced on the viewer too simply (most of the conflict is explained by Judd or the Pascow, the ghost that attempts to guide the Creeds) and with some plot holes (Judd never says why, after his experiences with the burial grounds, he takes Louis up there simply to bury a dead cat), the movie contains the perfect number of elements for a good horror movie; spooky music (especially towards the end), imagery (especially the wife's disgusting sister, Zelda and the shape of Judd's house at the end), and story (despite several flaws). Best of all, they did not acquiesce to the happy-ending (though King does this in several films).They made a sequel several years later, which has barely survived obscurity, save a few airings on television every now and again. And, though I might recommend it to see Jared Rushton before he bowed out of making films, I would consider the first the only of any merit. "},{"Title":"Some things that weren't quite right","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I guess this may have  spoilers? As I guess computer people call it?But I can't figure out why Missy Dandridge if she was the housekeeper or she just did the laundry, she had to take it home and bring it back- that being such a big house. I am quite sure in that basement where she did herself in-there was a washer and dryer?Also- when Gage went toward the road- what kinda parent would turn their back on their kid and let him walk to the road, knowing the trucks came by so fast all the time? And if you look, Dale Midkiff had plenty of time to run and grab him before he went into the road-maybe he was just a slow runner is all. He is a good actor, not to mention gorgeous. He is the highlight of the film. I like it when he goes to hunt Gage and he finds his wife's shoe and the house is all dead like a Cemetery. And he walks up to the shoe and touches it and everything goes back to normal. Quite cool. Very neat.Plus- I have a bit of a problem with the fact that he needed a pic and shovel to bury Elly's cat, and took his kid and wife and used nothing at all when he climbed the hill? Did he just put rocks on top and not bury them or what? A lot of screwups in this movie. I liked the ghost, Victor. I think it was neat. However-having been a psychic for almost 30 years I can tell you that ghosts or spirits do not come back and chat with you- as well as come back like they died. They are whole and not injured. I know, I have seen several spirits. But I continue to rent the movie, not just to look only at Dale Midkiff, hoping to see something extra in that bathtub scene. The rat, I could have done without. But cats, will be cats. I think it is a cute movie. A helluva a lot better than Pet Semetary II. That was just silly. Most sequels are. Except for the Godfather ones.I think they should have just made one Pet Semetary. And why the hell did Stephen King call it Semetary- I thought maybe it was like Septic? I don't know. I would be scared to talk to him if I saw him, since he bought a home down here in Florida- not 40 or 50 miles from our town. I guess now he will probably start writing about people getting killed or dying in Florida (other than the old people I mean).I like Pet Semetary. C...........................  "},{"Title":"I Expected Better From a King Book","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I own the book Pet Semetary, and while I haven't read it yet, I saw this film on TV one night. It wasn't that good at all. I wasn't scared, wasn't entertained, and didn't really care about what was going on. I was interested at the beginning, when things looked promising, but after Lewis Creed proved to be an idiot over and over I just stopped caring. This idiot after bringing back his dead son, after seeing the results on his cat, then brings back his dead wife, and tries to make out with her ! This guy was just a total moron. I cannot say anything much good about this film. I don't recommend it, I really thought it would be good since Stephan King wrote it, but sadly it is a piece of crap.I give this 5/10. Avoid it.  "},{"Title":"So Many Pet Peeves When It Comes to Horror Films.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the better Stephen King novel-based screen adaptations (mainly because King did the screenplay himself). Pet Sematary is another horror flick that ultimately come a dime a dozen when all is done. It is modern-day Maine and a young doctor (Dale Midkiff) has just moved his wife (Denise Crosby) and their two young children so he can take a job at a local college. Immediately there are ominous tones as a crazed highway that has constant 18-wheeler truck traffic is introduced along with an old beaten path that leads to the titled place. Elderly neighbor Fred Gwynne also presents himself and his tone foreshadows dark forces coming into play later on. Gwynne goes on to explain (to Midkiff only) about an ancient burial ground built on old Indian land which has the ability to revive the dead, but naturally the dead come back much more dangerous than they were originally. Pet Sematary has an intensely interesting concept that eventually fails due to typical horror film cliches that make the production feel like a rip-off by its unsatisfying conclusion. There are a few things to like here (the ghostly performance of deceased student Brad Greenquist in particular), but also several things to dislike (Gwynne's spooky old man bit wears itself out and the young daughter's soothsaying also becomes very ho-hum as well). Watch for Stephen King in a cameo as a minister performing a funeral. 2.5 out of 5 stars.     "},{"Title":"Follows the book pretty good.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the few King movie adaptations that follows the book pretty good.  Only Jud's wife seems to be missing from the movie, but you can't have everything that was in the book.  The story revolves around an old Indian burial ground that can apparently bring the dead back to life.  The book was written in 84 I think and there is actually an Italian movie called Zeder put out in 83 that is very similar in some areas to this.  I don't think King was inspired by it cause I doubt he could have seen it, but there are similarities.  One part from the book I wish they had left in the movie though is the path to the Indian burial grounds.  The creepiest part of the book is all the strange things they saw on their way from the pet cemetery to the burial ground.  In the movie it doesn't look as if there is a whole lot they have to go through to get there.  For the most part a rather somber movie that could use a few more scares...all in all though it is a pretty good King movie. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but not totally awful","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary was a great novel. It would have made an excellent TV mini-series. But instead, they made it into a an hour and a half long movie. Bad decision. You can't fit a 600 page book into 90 minutes. Nice try, though. One of the major problems is that the acting is terrible. Fred Gwynne was too fake as Jud Crandall, I think James Cromwell or Ray Walston would have fit the part better. Dale Midkiff and Denise Crosby try hard, but aren't believable. But Miko Hughes was perfect as Gage Creed. And everything is so cheesy! Stephen didn't do a great job at the screenplay. Another major problem is that King cut out or changed too much from the novel. Where's Norma Crandall? Or Steve Masterson? The movie's not all bad though. The scenes with Zelda are really creepy. And the last few scenes get really suspenseful, even if they are too graphic. I would have enjoyed the movie more if I hadn't read the novel. If you've read the novel, stay clear. If you haven't, go ahead, watch it. You might like it. "},{"Title":"A Horrific film that Could Have Been More","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Last weekend while I was my grandparents in Virginia, I came across this movie on the Sci-Fi Channel.  I remembered as a kid how the box used to terrify me at the local Blockbuster and I decided to check it out.  For the first hour and a half, I stayed at the edge of my daybed as I thought to myself that this must have been The Sixth Sense of the 80's.  What makes the first hour and a half of this film so scary is that most of it could, and actually does happen.  Well, not the whole reincarnation thing, but the actual death of loved ones has destroyed much happiness in the world.  My mother whose brother got killed by a drunken trucker when he was three, had always talked about what it would be like to have him alive today.  This movie started as a philosophical example of that natural human impulse. Sadly, Mr. King wrote himself into a corner.  In the last half hour, the movie turns into a graphic piece of  slasher trash all to common in the 80's.  If only Mr. King had taken the high road like he did in Carrie and Shawshank Redemption, this film could have been remembered as the the masterpiece that turned horror around ten years before it actually evolved into art with a little kid who saw dead people and Bruce Willis. "},{"Title":"You could've avoided the whole thing by building a fence!","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary had a lot of potential, but despite what you might remember, it just doesn't live up to what it could have been. Based on the Stephen King book, it's about a family that moves into a new home. Louis (Dale Midkiff) is the new doctor at the university, Rachel (Denise Crosby) is his wife. Across the street is a friendly old man named Jud (Fred Gwynne), who warns them about the road nearby. As he explains it, the road has taken many lives, mostly pets. When Louis comes face-to-face with tragedy, he learns of a mysterious place beyond the pet cemetery, an old Mic Mac burial ground that holds mysterious powers.The biggest problem is easy to pinpoint Screenplay by Stephen King. Having read the novel, I can tell you that the man hasn't cut a thing from the tome so plot points are quickly introduced and poorly developed because there's a new one right around the corner. The multitude of ideas here really needed a significant amount of buildup and development to be effective and as is, they just aren't and sometimes come off as 100% nonsense. Take for example, the Mic Mac burial ground. It's not a spoiler that this burial ground is not going to lead to anything good. In fact, we learn from Jud that it has a reputation for being an evil place. Why then, does he tell Louis about it, knowing that he will travel there? There are hints that the place has a mind of its own and is able to influence events and people, but there is so little time dedicated to this idea that actually, you are more prone to believing that Jud is simply an evil old man looking to screw around with his neighbor. It's one of the most frightening ideas in this story and it takes a backseat to countless other plot points that don't really go anywhere.There's so much going on it will make you want to run in front of a semi truck. We have the Creed daughter experiencing psychic visions (it wouldn't be a bad Stephen King movie without those), a friendly ghost that tries to influence Louis, back story between Louis and Rachel's father, Rachel's tragic past and family drama time. Each of these plot points end up hindering the story because they take valuable moments away from what would have been character development. There is a character introduced at the beginning of the film. She has a couple of scenes, dies and turns out to be completely pointless in the end. It's easy to see why she was included her death is meant to begin a string of events that make Louis' actions during the climax of the film understandable. That sounds like a good idea, but when you don't care about the characters, it's impossible for the film to be effective.I really wanted to give this movie a shot, but I found so many things that bothered me about it. For example, Louis is a doctor so his wife nicknames him Doc. In fact she almost always calls him Doc. It's like the woman doesn't even know the name of her family members when you hear her say Doc come get your son and other similar phrases. She and her husband do not feel like a couple at all, not only because she nags him all the time, but because it feels like they have never spent any time alone together.Ironically, the film is simultaneously too empty and too full. It is full of useless plot developments that an unbiased screenwriter, one that understands that books and movies are like apple pies and orange marmalade would have cut. Books and movies are very different and can't be written the same way. In a book, having something like hallucinations, visions or ordinary objects turn against their masters can work because you're already visualizing the story in your head. Your mind is doing a lot of the work and when you've been sitting in bed reading for 3 chapters straight, not only does it naturally suck you in because you've been with the characters a long time, but you've gotten to be in their heads and you can actually imagine what is being described to you in a way that works. Movies only usually last 90 to 120 minutes; they're leaner and show you everything without having easy access to characters' thoughts. Stephen King is simply not able to understand this, which is why his screenplays do not work. It also doesn't help that there's some pretty wooden acting throughout. Maybe that was intentional. Bad acting for flat characters? It's a match made in movie hell.I will give credit to the special effects and makeup in the film, which are quite good. Also, for better or worse, Fred Gwynne gives a memorable performance. He comes off as a cooky old man more often than not, but there's something about him that grabs your attention. The rest of the film though, it's a really big disappointment. Compare this film to another one of King's novels turned into a movie, Christine. Both have a pretty far-out premise, but Christine, directed by John Carpenter works because the story is boiled down to its essentials. Pet Sematary is not; overall it's a big mess and you might remember it being scary and disturbing but that's only because you're remembering a few key scary scenes, which come at the very end of the movie and are actually better taken out of context. (On DVD, June 6, 2014) "},{"Title":"Sometimes Dead Is Better (in the case of Ellie Creed, that is) ***spoiler***","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After watching the movie, I got the distinct impression that if Ellie Creed had been the one mowed down in the road, there'd have been no story. She would have been buried, and Louis would never have entertained thoughts of the MicMac Burying Ground, not for that annoying little bugger.Sometimes, after all, dead is better!The casting of Jud Crandall is right on - if we could bring the body of Fred Gwyenne to the Pet Sematary and bring him back to life in time for the remake of this movie, then it would be worth the trouble.I really didn't have a problem with Dale as Louis Creed - I did have a problem with the many reappearances of Victor Pascow. In the novel, he made one physical appearance, and that was it. This movie should have billed Victor as top star above Denise Crosby because he's just all over the place in this.Gage is Gage, and I'm happy for it. When I first saw this movie, I thought that little kid was making his own horrible expressions, but now I know that movie magic saw to it that Gage gave off those nasty snarls. No Fair! The ending...well, this film could do with a new ending, to be sure. In the novel, we are left to wonder the fate of the Creed family. In the movie, there's no question of their fate, and that ain't the way its supposed to happen. As Gage Creed said, No Fair! "},{"Title":"This movie sucks","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a lover of horror movies I watch them all the time whether they are old or new. But this movie is one of the worst movies I have EVER seen. Scratch that this is the worst movie I have ever seen in my whole life. The story is stupid, the acting sucks, And there is nothing and I mean NOTHING scary about this sad excuse for a movie. At the end of the movie the only thing that was horrific was that I lost 103 minutes of my life on this train wreck. Do not waste your time on this, you will be nothing but disappointed. Beating a dead horse with a stick would be a better use of your time than sitting through one minute of this awful movie. Every copy of this should be destroyed so no one ever has to watch it again. "}{"Title":"Idiocy","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" *Contains Spoilers* I read and enjoyed the novel on which this movie is based, but the movie itself had so many you-gotta-be-kidding-me moments in the beginning that it lost all credibility. In fact, the opening scenes have become one of my shticks about bad scripts.Family moves into new house. They are not poor - husband is a doctor, and his being a physician is essential to the plot. They have a small boy. For some reason known only to the scriptwriter, they choose a house by a hill with a two lane road where these gigantic trucks come whizzing down the slope all the time!!! And the front yard isn't even fenced!!! The movie opens with the audience thinking the child has been squashed by one such truck, but it turns out good ol' Fred Gwynne has saved him.ARE YOU KIDDING ME? No family with young children in its right mind would live in such a residence. Wives divorce husbands over that kind of home choice. Even if they couldn't find the 'right' house, they'd rent somewhere where it's safe. Yet Mom and Dad - affluent young yuppies - seem to accept those trucks as just one of those things. Forget the child endangerment - who could sleep with those monsters barreling down the highway at all hours?You just have to laugh - and it's tough on any horror movie when its set up is comic. "},{"Title":"OK horror film.","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary starts as Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff) his wife Rachel (Denise Crosby) young daughter Ellie (Blaze Berdahl) & baby son Gage (Miko Hughes) arrive at their new home in rural Maine after having moved there from Chicago in order for Louis to set up a practition on the local University campus. Their new home is on a busy road that huge trucks use & a friendly neighbour Judd Crendall (Fred Gwynne) warns them about it's dangers, however despite this the Creed's cat Church is ran over & killed which will upset young Ellie so Judd takes Louis to an ancient Indian burial ground to bury Church which they do & the next morning Church is alive & running around but something is different about him somehow. Then tragedy strikes as little Gage is ran over & killed too, in desperation Louis steals his son's body & buries it at the Indian burial ground & waits for Gage to return from the dead, he does but it's not the same Gage as before...The second feature film directorial outing by one time Madonna music video director (Like a Prayer, Borderline, Material Girl, Like a Virgin) Mary Lambert the screenplay was written by Stephen King himself based on his novel of the same name from 1983 & is a perfectly watchable horror film but isn't anything amazing. One thing that has always annoyed me about Pet Sematary is the incorrect way the title is spelled, of course it should be spelled Pet Cemetery & the reason why it isn't is because a real pet cemetery near King's home was similarly misspelled by whoever wrote the bloody sign & certain events from the film are apparently inspired by events in King's life including his own daughter's cat getting run over. The film takes itself extremely seriously & has a sedate pace that isn't exactly brimming with action or incident, in fact it takes quite a while to get going & even then it just seems to repeat itself as during the first half Louis buries the dead cat Church who was run over & comes back & then during the second half he buries his dead son Gage who also was run over & who also comes back to life in an ending which is both silly & fairly creepy as the at times angelic looking three year old kid starts stalking his family with a scalpel. The character's are a bit poor, Rachel in particular is very one dimensional & other character's like Missy the maid who commits suicide seem like an afterthought or like they belong in a different film. There are a few flashbacks which slow things down further & while there are some good moments & the story is fairly original & sound the film has it's flaws the biggest of which i thought was if Judd knew that using the Indian burial site was wrong & the dead came back evil why did he let Louis bury Church there? Why tell Louis? There are strong supernatural elements here with a ghost who tries to warn the Creed's & the whole ancient Indian legend stuff & coming back from the dead which work well enough.The film obviously had a bit spent on it & it looks very good with nice production values although the cast is bland. There's not a whole lot of gore here, there's a bit of blood & a gruesome killing by scalpel at the end but little else. Apparently George A. Romero was set to direct this but when filming was delayed he moved on, special make-up effects man Tom Savini was offered but turned down the chance to direct, Stephen King himself has a small cameo as a minister conducting the funeral of Missy while genre favourite Bruce Campbell was first choice for Louis Creed & I'm sure he would have had more screen presence than Midkiff. At one point actor Fred Gwynne says his character used to have a pet named Spot which was actually the name of the family pet in The Munsters (1964 - 1966) in which he starred.With a supposed budget of about $11,500,000 this was shot just twenty minutes from Stephen King's home in Maine. The acting is surprisingly poor here with a really bland & faceless cast who don't inspire any sort of sympathy.Pet Sematary is a decent Stephen King adaptation although generally speaking his novels & stories just don't make great films for whatever reason, I've seen worse for sure but I've seen better too. Followed by a sequel Pet Sematary II (1992) which I know I have seen but can't remember anything about other than it's got John Conor from Terminator 2 Judgment Day (1991) in it. "},{"Title":"Nice little horror flick","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Once upon a time, a very irritating man met an annoying woman and they had two irritating/annoying kids together. Some time later, they moved to a house in the countryside, which coincidently was located nearby a strange type of cemetery that harboured people's pets and a funny old man that may be wiser than he looks, and all kinds of havoc ensued! So goes the story of Pet Semetary, then, which despite being no classic; is certainly worth seeing. Stephen King's books have been translated to the screen with mixed results, and although this isn't one of the best results that the great author has had; it certainly isn't one of the worst. The plot moves slowly, but it utilises this to best effect, as in spite of the lack of action, Pet Semetary never manages to become boring and, in fact, the movie is better for it's slow plotting as it allows the film to develop a rhythm for the characters to wallow in, and once you get into the movie; it is this that ensures it stays interesting throughout.Typically for an 80's horror movie, the production values and acting aren't exactly brilliant, and for some this will bring the rating down. Really though, you shouldn't tune into this sort of movie if you don't like bad production values as 80's horror films are known for it, and on a personal note; I quite like the atmosphere that cheapness bring to a movie. Speaking of atmosphere, this movie has plenty. The central location of the movie breathes a fantastic horror movie sensuality, which the common image of the cemetery, along with the foreboding dread that the idea of death brings, help to instil a creepy feeling in the viewers mind. Like many horror films that star kids, this one suffers from having annoying kids in it. Although they're not astutely terrible like the kids in some horror movies are, they do still manage to spoil the movie somewhat. However, there is enough horror here to keep genre fans happy, and the way that the story climaxes, along with the central themes of death, ensure that the film is satisfying at it's climax. Still no classic though. "},{"Title":"Buried under several feet of preposterousness.","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Young doctor Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff), wife Rachel (Denise Crosby), daughter Ellie (Blaze Berdahl), and toddler Gage (Miko Hughes) move into a new home situated dangerously close to a main road (or should that be Maine road?) regularly used by speeding petrol tankers, and adjacent to a creepy cemetery for dead animals who have failed to master the Green Cross Code (hey, it was either this house, or the property between the explosives factory and the home for the criminally insane).After Ellie's beloved cat Church is inevitably flattened, Louis follows elderly neighbour Herman Munster (Herman Munster) beyond the cemetery boundary (despite warnings from the ghost of a deceased teenager) to an ancient Indian burial ground where the soil has the ability to bring the dead back to life. And sure enough, the cat comes back, only much meaner than before.So when little Gage also disappears under the wheels of a semi (seems like putting up a fence wasn't very high on the Creeds' 'to-do' list), Louis decides to repeat the process; the only problem is, the reanimated toddler turns out to be far more deadly than the cat...Mary Lambert's adaptation of Stephen King's novel is well directed, offers some genuinely chilling moments (Gage's death is extremely disturbing, particularly if you have children of your own), and a decent smattering of gore, but loses a lot of credibility thanks to some very daft flaws in the plot, a wooden performance from leading man Midkiff, and an over-reliance on cat based jump scares to shock the audience (I counted three; it may have been more).Given its history, the very idea of the ancient Micmac burial ground remaining undisturbed is quite frankly ludicrous at the very least, the site would be of interest to historians and scientists, but such a magical place would most likely be requisitioned by the government for 'testing' (imagine the possibilities for the military). It's also asking a lot of the audience to believe that a small child could go head-to-head with an 18 wheeler and not be reduced to pate, that a child (however supernaturally strong) would be able to hoist an adult's body through a loft hatch, or that someone would ever consider bringing back a loved one when fully aware of the consequences.All of these ridiculous conceits (plus a few others that I can't be bothered to recall) seriously undermine Pet Sematary's overall effectiveness, meaning that I cannot bring myself to rate the film any higher than a distinctly average 5/10. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Another pathetic Stephen King adaptation, this one about a guy who moves to a remote town in the middle of nowhere. His daughter's cat gets run over by a car so a town local (Fred Gwynne in one of his last roles) buries the cat in an Indian burial ground. The next day the cat comes back to life and returns home.So after the new neighbor's son dies he decides to try burying him in the sematary, much to the disdain and cautious warnings of Gwynne. Animals aren't like people!Well, his son comes back to life alright, but not at all the same. It's like The Omen meets Cat People.This is a totally awful film complete with stupid scares and chills, cheap shlock exploitation. Typical overdone cheesy '80s horror flick -- coming from the guy who tends to love these sort of guilty pleasures, I hated this one wtih a vengeance. You have been warned! "}]