[{"Title":"Truly A Work of Art...","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From its inception, the cinema has always attempted to identify itself as a form of art.  While there can be little doubt that many movies over the years have indeed earned this claim, most films released in recent years would cause the viewer to wonder whether the images on the screen were indeed the work of an artistic director and cast, or simply bombardments of entertaining images aimed at mindless audiences eating stale popcorn.  For those seeking to renew a confidence in the fading notion of the artistic motion picture, `Some Girls' (1988) is a must-see masterpiece.`Some Girls' is the bizarre yet thoughtful comedy which centers in on the experiences of a young and naïve character named Michael, one of Patrick Dempsey's first roles.  Michael is thrust into a whirlwind of confusion and emotion from the minute he arrives in Quebec to visit his girlfriend, Gabriella D'Arc, played by Jennifer Connelly, during Christmas break.  He is immediately confronted with a dizzying array of bizarre events, beginning with an abrupt statement by Gabriella informing him that she is no longer in love with him, but nevertheless wishes for him to stay at the at the D'Arc's home (a chateau which is an architectural delight).At dinner the first night, Michael is introduced to the rest of the D'Arc family, one of the most unusual and dysfunctional and families one could ever dream up.  Michael's eyebrows are first raised when he meets Mr. D'Arc, a hilarious part played by Andre Gregory, Gabriella's perpetually naked father, who is an eccentric philosopher obsessed with the works of Pascal. He also meets Gabriella's strict Catholic mother, the family's priest, and Gabriella's two sisters, Simone and Irenka, played by Ashley Greenfield and Sheila Kelley, respectively.The comedy develops as the sexually frustrated Michael continues to pursue Gabriella in a desperate attempt to regain her love, while unsuccessfully trying to fend off the constant advances of her two sisters seem to be more than willing to engage his appetite.  More often than not, Michael finds himself in compromising (yet unfulfilled) situations with one or more of the three sisters, only to be caught, usually in the nude, by Mr. Or Mrs. D'Arc (or even worse, the dog, Beowulf).  The story sharpens with an unexpected twist as Gabriella's maternal grandmother, played brilliantly by Lila Kedrova, is introduced.  Granny, mentally and physically decrepit, escapes from her hospital into the wintry wilderness north of Montreal, which leads to an all out search and rescue operation undertaken by the family, with Michael tagging along for the ride.In the end, it is Michael who finds Granny (or rather, Granny finds Michael), who confuses him with her late husband.  In a series of scenes that are uncomfortable and yet compelling, Michael gains a new perspective on both nudity and love.  Even though Granny seems confused about who Michael is, there is no mistaking the both the depth and simplicity of her words.  While Michael's romantic mishaps and the D'Arc family's antics are enough to make the movie funny, the scenes with Granny are the ones that dominate the film and give it meaning.Directed by Michael Hoffman, Mark Bentley, and Robert Redford, `Some Girls' is filled with more symbolism than any other movie in recent memory.  The rich and profound imagery is a currency which is well spent throughout the entire film, all the way from the names in the film, (Beowulf, Lumiere, etc.) to the displays of classic works of art such as Unicorn tapestries. The most dominant symbol in the movie is Botticelli's `Three Graces,' a painting which graces the cover of the movie.  The symbol is fully revealed in the last scene of the movie, where the camera pans up to the painting, which has served as the backdrop in the airport as Michael says goodbye. In that instant, the three D'Arc sisters are enveloped in the lore of the Three Graces of mythology, innocent goddesses of revelry and love; the personifications of feminine charm and beauty.  Greek mythology ascribed to the Three Graces (or Charities) the creative power to inspire works of poetry and art.  How fitting for a movie which is truly a work of art in and of itself.`Some Girls' is not only rich in character and symbolism, however.  It is also the canvas for a brilliantly woven set of themes, including love, sex, nudity, life, and death.  Each of these themes, most notably nudity, is explored in great detail during the course of the film.  Michael's quest for love brings him to a new understanding of the fine line between lust and true love, as is evidenced in the awkward scenes with Granny.  Similarly, the prolific amount of scenes suggesting nudity address the many forms of nudity, from the intellectual and natural nudity of Mr. D'Arc, to the innocent yet meaningful undressing of Granny, to the hot and steamy revelations of each of the D'Arc sisters.  One of the most powerful themes, however, is that of life and death, which is expressed in one of the most moving and unique death scenes ever filmed.  As Granny closes the curtains, Michael, and the audience, learn what life, death, and love are truly all about.  Similarly, Sanna Vraa gives a short but stunning performance as the young Granny, in a mysterious return at the grave which solidifies the story's lessons on life, death, and love.As wonderfully compelling as this movie is, it should be viewed with a great deal of discretion.  Young viewers, especially young teenagers, should be discouraged from seeing `Some Girls.'  Also, those viewers whose standards are offended by constant references to sexuality and nudity would be wise to refrain from seeing `Some Girls.' The movie is rated `R' for a reason; the sexual content and themes are very provocative.It is precisely because of this provocation that the movie is so worth seeing for the intended audience, mature viewers who have an appreciation for art, in all its forms, as well as an awareness and understanding of human nudity and sexuality.  For those viewers, `Some Girls' is bound to not only be a delightful experience, but also one which is both challenging and rewarding.  To them, a screening of `Some Girls' will seem like more of an evening spent in a truly artistic setting, such as a museum or opera, than just a crowded movie theater full of mindless spectators chomping away at that stale popcorn.  "},{"Title":"One of the sexiest and smartest American sex comedies of recent years.","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  American college student Patrick Dempsey travels to beautiful Quebec City to spend Christmas with girlfriend Jennifer Connelly, who informs him upon arrival that she's no longer in love with him.  Spending the vacation with her eccentric family -- including nudist/Pascal expert Andre Gregory, staunch Catholic Florinda Balkan and the luscious Sheila Kelley -- teach him a thing or two about the mysteries of life, love and women.Cleverly written and gorgeously mounted -- wait til you see that house -- Some Girls is the kind of offbeat and eccentric comedy that the French often do so well but Americans rarely attempt.  Little-seen upon its initial release, the film has developed a well-deserved cult following. "},{"Title":"The film is fiction, the family is real!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The family in Some Girls are the Taylors of Montreal...the  screenwriter actually dated one of the Taylor sisters and fictionalized them into this movie...The father is actually world-famous philosopher and McGill U. professor Charles Taylor. Their late mother *was* very Catholic...and the legendary house is real- an old wooden Metcalfe Avenue mansion, in Westmount-  since sold, but still there. Of course, this film annoys them to no end - so don't mention it if you're invited to  "},{"Title":"Not what you'd expect.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Connelly + Teen Comedy = loads of T&A, right? No. This movie is about a thousand times smarter and more reflective than that. This movie made me more interested in seeing her movies for her acting and not just the yards of sweaty flesh. She's made some crapola since then; Inventing the Abbotts was a gigantic waste of everyone involved, Mulholland Falls made me genuinely wonder if she was about to pull a Bridget Fonda but then Requiem for a Dream and A Beautiful Mind set the world to right. This is a preview of the kind of career choices she was going to start making, with occasional forays into titillation-land to cover the rent.It's just a movie, it's not going to reach out and change you or make you see God or anything. You will have to do that yourself. But it does draw you in anticipating a standard farce and instead getting a reflection on desire, wishes and the true definition of a life well lived.There's plenty of teeny skin-and-blood (both original and new Irony-flavored) flicks out there, rent those if you want to be cool like everyone else. If you want to spend some time musing about a movie after you see it, rent this. "},{"Title":"An overlooked gem of a romantic comedy","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  France is famed for its romantics, but Quebec?  In the winter?  Well, perhaps it should be.  A love-struck college student named Michael (Dempsey) has too many naive theories about women.  Then he is invited, by his mysterious girlfriend Gabbie (Connelly) to visit her family over Christmas, in Quebec.  Ah ha, he thinks; major progress.  The first thing Gabbie tells Michael in Quebec, however, is that she no longer loves him.  Yet, she wants him to stay for the holidays.  The bewildered Michael is then introduced to Gabbie's truly bizarre family, including Gabbie's father (Gregory), a writer who can work effectively only in the nude; a priest (Milette) who is hopelessly in love with Gabbie's over-protective mother (Balkan); Gabbie's sensual sister Irenka (Kelley) and her boorish boyfriend (Edwards); and a clock-stealing sheepdog, among others.Poor Michael continues to try to woo Gabbie, and almost succeeds, but is mightily distracted by Irenka and her younger sister, Simone (Greenfield). Then he meets Granny (Kedrova), the crazed and dying matriarch, who mistakes Michael for her long-dead husband of the same name.  The film shifts tone as Michael discovers that love and sex need not be the same thing.  The final lines of the movie sum it up well, as Michael muses that all his theories about women are bulls**t.The few professional critics who saw this film gave it very low marks, and certainly there were things to criticize.  The lead actors (Demsey, Connelly) were sometimes unconvincing, and the plot was erratic and almost non-existent.  These were minor flaws, however, in an otherwise fascinating film.  For the most part, the acting was enjoyable, the character development was fascinating, and the film filled with unexpected humor.  The sexual tension was kept high, with very little actual sex, and the ending was satisfying. "},{"Title":"Teen sex comedy with a touch of magical realism","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film goes beyond the usual boundaries of its genre insurprising and sensitive ways.  While always amusing, it is alsogenuinely intelligent and genuinely emotional without ever beingpreachy or maudlin, thus placing itself far above 98% of the filmsout there.  Jennifer Connelly gives a luminous performance andPatrick Dempsey infuses his character with a flawless  combination of frustration, joy and wonder.  The story itself isgrounded in the coming of age sex comedies of the 70's and80's, just long enough to set things in motion.  Once the film reallyhas its own legs, however, it delves more deeply into thecomplicated and strange family relations that drive the themes andpropel the plot toward a beautiful and somewhat unexpectedconclusion.Some Girls has easily been among my favorite films since thefirst time I viewed it as a rental I had not previously heard of.  Theonly tip-off that it might be something extraordinary was the superbsupporting cast, and I have rarely been so delighted at havingpicked a winner. "},{"Title":"Amazing love story with subtle beauty as we as the in your face kind!","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite films. It was too subtle and philosophical to make it in the mainstream. The various 'love' themes between sisters, mothers and daughters, husband and wife are all beautiful. But the love between the boy and old woman - a love that spans lives and time - goes beyond touching; it's eternal and amazing. Other than the Granny's accent being Russian and not French, I found the movie flawless! Wish it came in DVD!  "},{"Title":"Twice by Accident","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I actually watched this movie twice.  It wasn't on purpose I just forgot what I was watching until about 20 minutes in and then I didn't mind watching it again.  The film isn't great but was a good movie.  The plot was kind of out there and you kept wanting more of the sex but that is not what this film was actually about.  This is more of a drama and the end is kind of sweet really.  The acting is not bad either.  Most of the actors are not well known but I knew two of them.  If you have some time check this film out but don't expect a comdey. "},{"Title":"Why watch it?","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love is in the air. Be it true love or merely puppy love, it is ever-present throughout the film, Some Girls. Starring both Patrick Dempsey, as Michael, and Jennifer Connelly, as Gaby, this movie contains something for everyone, depending on how insightful the viewer chooses to be. It can be taken as simply a hilarious comedy or a genuinely profound portrayal of love and human nature; the viewer is given this choice.As a comedy, Some Girls plays on Dempsey's vulnerabilities, or in other words, the fact that he is a teenage male that has yet to figure out women. Michael, continually rejected by his quondam love, Gaby, is repeatedly taken advantage of by Connelly's on-screen sisters, Irenka and Simone, and he inadvertently falls in love with Granny. Dempsey's naivety gets him into a countless number of awkward situations with the women of the D'Arc family, such as winding up in bed with them and getting caught in the nude, which adds to the humor of the movie.The love that Michael and Granny feel for each other is a transition between the comical and the symbolic sides of this film. In the wonderfully set-up scene where Michael undresses Granny, the viewers start to feel uncomfortable when they realize that Granny isn't going to be innocently nude. She enjoys the attention, and because this type of sexual encounter is not socially accepted, it causes unease. Due to the discomfort that this scene causes in the viewer, it becomes humorous that this teenage boy is undressing this old woman who is quickly falling for him. However, it is not humor alone that is at work here. This scene sets up the rest of the movie and allows for true love to blossom.Although Michael went to Quebec to see his love, Gaby, he fell in love with the last person that he expected, or even desired to fall in love with Granny. The two of them became unbelievably close during the film and developed a love deeper than the one that he had only imagined forming between him and Gaby. There love was true love, despite the fact that Dempsey tried to push it aside at the very beginning. However, Michael let up his guard, letting himself fall madly and deeply in love with Granny, the woman he could never have due to both society and mortality.For the movie aficionado who loves symbolism, Some Girls is a wonderful choice of movies. It is a film that can be watched over and over again and something new will occur to the viewer each and every time that it is watched. The viewer may discover what Botticelli's Three Graces, who appear several times during the film, have to do with the three D'Arc sisters or maybe why Beowulf jumped out of the window with the clock in his mouth. He or she may realize why the unicorn tapestry covers Gaby's bedroom door or why the girls' father feels that he must write in the nude. The viewer may realize that the film both begins and ends with water and why that fact is so important. In order to appreciate these things, however, the movie must be watched and it must be watched more than once.Some Girls is truly a structural masterpiece. It appears as if in every scene, there is some hidden symbol, or underlying idea, that makes the film multifaceted instead of just straightforward and simple to understand. The details make the film an extraordinary one instead of just an ordinary one. The flashback scene exemplifies the structural merit better than any other scene. It is perfectly choreographed, with the time being split between the car scene and the window-closing scene well enough to keep the viewer on the edge of his or her seat. The flashback went from the peacefulness of the window closing to the frenzied ride to the hospital without falter. Another wonderful scene that demonstrates the film's magnificent structure is the scene in which Michael and Granny are alone in the old abandoned house. Nothing whatsoever prepares the viewer for what is about to come, and it is better left that way. It merely shows love in its purest form.In the same way that Michael receives something that he didn't expect from going to Quebec, the viewer receives something that he or she probably doesn't expect from the movie. Michael learns what love is all about and the viewer learns what great films are made of. By the end of the movie, Michael has changed for the better. He has matured, learned a little about women, fallen in love, and maybe even gained some religion from his experiences. He left the three women of the D'Arc family, and moved on to the woman of the Lumiere family. By doing this, he moved from the darkness to the light, as their surnames symbolically imply. Hopefully, the viewer can do the same if they take the time to watch this exquisite film. "},{"Title":"A fine comedy about a duck out of water with an eccentric family.","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gabriella invites Michael to spend Christmas with the family in Quebec City. This includes the mother and father, plus sisters Simone and Irenka, and Irenka's boyfriend Nick.Michael runs afoul of just about everything. Gabriella tells him she is no longer in love with him. Gabriella's mother is a fairly strict Catholic who believes in avoiding sex before marriage. The family dog does not seem to like him.In a sub-thread, the grandmother is ill, and periodically escapes from the hospital to be with her dead husband at their previous home. While looking for Granny, Michael falls down a shaft. Granny discovers him, and they go back to where Granny lived with her husband, also named Michael.Michael gets a second round of this when the others go skiing, Nick goes for petrol, and Michael thinks he's alone with her. Michael finds Granny's long missing 'summer shoes.' When he tries to present her with them, he finds that Granny has gone to yet another house.On the way back to the hospital, Granny's health plummets. Nick and Michael don't quite get her back in time. The funeral was held before Christmas. Nick leaves after the viewing. At Christmas, things are a bit somber. Michael meets (yes, mysterious) Young Granny at the family tomb.Michael has farewell discussions before he goes home.-----Scores-----Cinematography 10/10 Professional presentation, start to finish.Sound 9/10 The actors were properly miked, and most of the incidental music was well-chosen.Acting 8/10 Patrick Dempsey was brilliant, as were Lila Kedrova, Andre Gregory, Florinda Bolkan, and Sanna Vraa. Jennifer Connelly was hard to recognise, and was more irritating than anything else.Screenplay 8/10 Clever and mature. "}{"Title":"A surprisingly touching comedy with unexpected twists","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just when you think you know where this movie is headed, it goes off in an unexpected direction.  Michael, played by Patrick Dempsey, visits his former college girlfriend over Christmas in Quebec  and quickly becomes entwined in her family's eccentric ways.  Michael's quest to rekindle his romance with Gaby pushes him to the limits of  total frustration and leads to several hilarious situations involving Gaby, her sisters, her perpetually naked father, and the family dog!This plot would normally be enough for most movies, but the whole tone of the film changes when Gaby's grandmother is introduced.  Granny confuses Michael with her long dead husband and the sheer strength of her performance leads the movie into a whole new and unexpectedly spiritual direction. The scenes between Michael and the Grandmother are touching and make an ordinary movie into a truly special one. "},{"Title":"And so friendzone was invented","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Want to see Patrick Dempsey naked?...uhhh..Some Girls... Not now, back then. Back in 1988, when 20 years old Patrick Dempsey and 18 years old, Jennifer Connelly played together in Some Girls a different teen movie. Well, for the boys which are keen on seeing a sexy 18 years old Jennifer Connelly chased around by the cute doctor from Grey's Anatomy, in a mahogany castle with very little clothes on, then this is it.Well get your girl, wife etc.. and turn in for a good movie to remember how it was. Not now, back then.Although it hadn't score big on IMDb for a movie from 1988, when IMDb was not around to keep score, the movie is not what you'd expect. Not some soapy soap opera or a teen comedy that you'll easily predict, this is painted in tones of brown and whites with a sparkle of green.Patrick Dempsey, which in my opinion I wouldn't call exactly beautiful, (not now, back then) is the main actor and plays a troubled young men who gets the *friendzone of the mothers of friendzones.*(for the uninitiated, friendzone = you get this from the girl that you love desperately and all she wants from you is to be just friends)Looking back at his career it's like he chooses these type of guys who eventually get out of the zone. As if he wants us to know that yes, it's possible. (Can't buy me love / Made of Honor / Enchanted etc )Jennifer Connelly is exactly as i thought, because this is the first movie that you should see with her the angel with cold ice heart that every teen boy had a crush on, sometime in his growing up years. She was 18, i don't know if i mentioned that. For a more mature representation in the same era, I strongly suggest this movie The Hot spot.The directing is beautiful because of the tones he chooses. The shots are naturally and flow easily with in the story which looks like it's pulled out from a book or maybe they have done such a good job that you think this was from a book.Other works from MR. Hoffman will let you find that he does have a different eye on these kind of movies.Nevertheless, eye candy is there for boys and girls as well, but the film does know when to turn serious and when to play with your smile.IMDb was not around back then so, some of the good movies are getting sided because of this. I know life it's happening and stuff, but some of them deserve just a little more than a 6 mark.PS HUGE ONE!Mr. Dempsey who played the most romantic movies of the 90's and 00's earns my appreciation for the way he does that and how easily he can make it seem, but also for... and I do mean i look up at him for this... for some years now, he is racing. Yes, he has a team and the works.Imagine, just imagine if all the other actors will not pussy out and start participating in sports like him.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"An OnDemand Gem","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Perusing the free movie section, I came across this movie and was amazed that I'd never heard of it. One of those types that keeps you constantly saying to yourself WTF? and intriguing you throughout, this movie is brilliant IMHO. The quirkiness at the beginning made me wonder how good the movie was going to be. In the end, it was a great surprise.I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes odd movies alike The Royal Tenenbaums. That about sums it up.10 stars.Cheers "},{"Title":"sweet memories","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i saw this film on mgm...17 years after it was made (when i was 17)...it brought a few memories back of 1988 when i was probably the age of the protagonists which is maybe why it struck a key and brought back the urge to visit French speaking canada....its quite a deep film for a cast of young actors...some moving scenes..the grandmother s performance almost brought a tear to my eyes which is quite something . Jennifer Connolly shows why today she is such a great actress...she s been doing it well for years and I have always found in Patrick Dempsey a character to sympathise with...if in Loverboy or Crime and Punishment.. the sisters are so damn sexy...the father weird and the mother so passionate .this family is one i would love to stay a week with!! "},{"Title":"A quirky but very endearing film.","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best movies I've watched in a long time, Some Girls is spellbinding in many ways. The viewer cannot help empathizing with the young protagonist who seems to run into one problem after another during his holiday. Funny in very subtle ways and even though I didn't have any gut-busting belly laughs I did find myself chuckling at frequent intervals throughout. The scenery evoked a cold landscape in posh surroundings and everyone in the film was delightfully eccentric. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a ponderous plot full of character studies. It was mildly reminiscent of two other films I've enjoyed, specifically, Being There, and Harold and Maude. No outlandish special effects, very little sex or violence, so the average viewer might hate it, but if you are above average, I'm sure you will enjoy this. "},{"Title":"A Fairytale Of A Movie","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rather unsuspecting I started watching a movie on television, co-starring young actress Jennifer Connelly whom I knew from the Jim Henson movie 'Labyrinth'. It started playful and lighthearted, but slowly grabbed me along its weird and wonderful storytelling path. This is a film to have and to hold, it grows on you. And Jennifer and her weird sisters are spellbinding and to watch out for! "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hired it originally on VHS when it was called Sisters cos there was nothing else. I loved it and it is still one of my most favourite movies of all time. Because it is totally different from most predictable movies, this is so unpredictable and that is its charm. I even bought the ex rental video when the video shop closed. Its funny, romantic and a tear jerker all rolled into one, the granny scene made me cry every time I watched it.. The family in the film are so bizarre that you could happily feel better in the knowledge that your life is so less complicated, I so recommend it if you want a funny and touching movie.. but I would certainly have some hankies nearby, believe me you would need them. "},{"Title":"Classy 80s romance","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a perfect world Patrick Dempsey would lead a career similar of that of John Cusack's. He is a better actor, maybe not as handsome but more talented and more inspiring.'Some Girls' is a great movie and Patrick Dempsey really helps to make it the way it is. Jennifer Connelly is as beautiful as she can be and the story is a beautiful 80s romantic tale.Unfortunately this undiscovered gem never got the recognition it deserved, so it won't even be released on DVD. Shame...10/10 "},{"Title":"Had Potential to Make a Statement","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I would have done some things differently I would have given Michael a more dynamic character. He seems flagellated and neutralized by the social forces around him, never coming to a dynamic stance.I would have made the relationship between Michael and Granny the prime and motivating focus for the second half of the film. What should have happened was that Michael falls head-over-heels in love with Granny, in a way that obliterates any desire he had for Gabby and her two sisters. At the end of the movie, Michael comments that his theories about women had all been bunk (I cleaned up the language). This was not convincingly demonstrated in the movie, even with his sparse, though sometimes intense interaction with Granny.Together, they could have inhabited a world of both fantasy and true caring. Their secret world would have proved a vital contrast to the frenetic eccentricism around them.The relationship between Michael and Granny should have remained a secret between the two, as Michael is forced to pretend that everything is normal and that he still cares about schizophrenic Gabby. In the end, Michael and Granny (does she have a name?) should have left, together. She should not have died, and the inclusion of her being committed to a (psychiatric?) hospital was in bad taste.If I were her, I would have escaped multiple times and risked freezing to death in the woods, too There are different ways to freeze to death. One way is to continue associating with a family (or friends) who do not care about you, nor respect your dreams and fantasies.Michael is so clueless and impotent throughout most of the movie, however, that his feelings of love for Granny fall short of the transformation that could have been displayed. Dempsey's character actually reminded me, somewhat, of Shemp Howard.Michael's passive character and the missed opportunity to focus on his and Granny's relationship meant the difference, for me, between issuing this film a 7 score, rather than an 8 or 9. "},{"Title":"# 58  Canada dry (web)","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My first reaction from this movie was accurate  the teen was indeed a much younger Dempsey who shows that he could be fun. Next, it was cool to discover that the movies happens in Quebec because it's an exotic change of place. After those twenty first minutes, my pleasure just get gone as the movie becomes a real pain  it uses the already seen cliché of the eccentric family and this one is really boring. As Dempsey says it himself, he is the lone intruder in their family territory and it's an situation that I depicts to have live personally this nightmare. As the characters rarely get out of this mansion, the feeling you got is just to be bottled up ! For those expecting that young Jenny would be there to bring warmness and sweetness, the story unbelievably prefers Dempsey to fall in love with the grandmother ! At the end, this movie is a total disappointment and belongs to the stinkers of Jenny's career ! "}{"Title":"This one stays with you...","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was on MGM's channel one Saturday morning a couple weeks ago and I saw Jennifer Connelly was in it and so I thought I'd give it a watch. A very insightful look into the subculture that develops within families that are steeped in a heavily ethno-centric background like French Catholic Quebec, which is the setting for this film. Having been raised part of my early childhood in the United States and then spending nearly all of my teen years in Northern Alberta Canada in a culture that was primarily French and Ukrainian, I can relate on many levels to what Patrick Dempsey's character went through in the film. I'm guessing any young high school or college age male (who was or is horny) could relate to the endless array of confusing messages and signals being sent from the object of your affection. Even as I write this, I feel I can't fully articulate into words the strange codependency that develops and exists with women portrayed in this family. Family is used as a weapon many times to block sexual advances by Dempsey's character. What I think he learns in a strange way, that it took me many more years to find out (including being married) is that women can turn it on and off like a faucet while men are resigned to the idea of walking around much of the time like living volcanoes ready to explode. I do have to say, Dempsey's internal dialogue is quite good at times and really adds to what the viewer feels as well as he or she watches the film.I apologize for this review not getting into particular plot points or other helpful criticisms, but I think other reviewers have covered that well. The only reason I gave this 8 stars instead of something higher was that half the actors didn't attempt a French accent and that was a bit jarring. That seemed like a large oversight for something that should have been easily fixed, but it is possible Jennifer Connelly and others tried the accents and they just didn't work. If that was the case, the kudos to the director for not forcing that into the film. "},{"Title":"Pretty light story.","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's difficult to define Some Girls genre because it's a mix of romance, drama and comedy. The story may seem dull in the beginning, but it gets interesting and beautiful as the scenes go by. Patrick Dempsey, who could be working more nowadays, plays Michael, a young boy who travels to Europe to see his girlfriend Gab (Jennifer Connelly). Once he's there, he meets her eccentric father, weird mother and her two beautiful and sexy sisters Irenka (Sheila Kelley) and Simone (Ashley Greenfield). Though Gab is the girlfriend, she's always away, what leaves the way clean for Simone and Irenka to seduce Michael. Everything is told in a light way, but sexuality and seduction are always present in this movie. My Rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"If you liked American Beauty, see this one.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The American Beauty in Some GirlsSam Mendes's re-release of American Beauty has driven audiences to relive a captivating tale of suburban America dysfunction. Its masterful fusion of separate plots into a believable, complete story is amazing. As popular as this summer blockbuster has become at the box office, many elements of it existed eleven years ago in a strikingly similar film Robert Redford's 1989 Some Girls. First, it must be understood that the two are of completely different settings and budgets. Some Girls was little seen when it was first released. It has developed an increasing audience over the years, and deservedly so. In addition, the story takes place in 1980's Quebec, rather than present-day American suburbia. Overall, American Beauty is a longer, much more involved work. Its characters are portrayed brilliantly; from the floundering marriage of Lester and Carol Burnham (Kevin Spacey and Annette Bening) to the stern, ex-Army officer Colonel Frank Fitts (Chris Cooper). In both films, nudity, sex, doomed relationships, infidelity, inadequacy, and self-discovery are key. Both draw excellent, well-defined plots from such differing ideas. Don't be fooled by its lack of attention; Some Girls is an exceptional work. Patrick Dempsey's role as the confused adolescent Michael is commendable. As the movie begins, he travels from the United States to Quebec to visit Gabriella D'Arc, an old girlfriend. Upon arrival, he finds out that she doesn't love him. Her two seductive sisters try painstakingly to tempt him, he ends up saving and then undressing the family grandmother, attends Gabby's unexpected birthday party naked, and sees the girls' father nude on many occasions. Notice a prevailing theme? Interestingly, each type of nudity used in Some Girls is different in meaning and value. At the most basic level, the nudity of Mr. D'Arc is a portrayal of self-expression and shamelessness. His character is further developed as his practice of atheism and rather obsessive study of Pascal is revealed. He gets naked in front of everyone, and likes it that way. His brash demeanor is further emphasized when he bluntly asks Michael, How many of my daughters have you slept with? Meanwhile, Michael never had any of them, although he tried (and came close). The D'Arc sisters were ideals of beauty. Unfortunately, they were mentally lacking. Gabriella was naked in several scenes, but never had sex with Michael. Redford played the sexual tension element intensely here. Among the sisters, there was an eerie quality of togetherness. At times, it appeared pretty close to incestuous lesbianism. The real shocker is Michael's experience with Granny (Lila Kedrova). After rescuing her when she left her hospital room for a home to rural Quebec, he removes her wet clothes. Meanwhile, the dying Granny believes that Michael is her dead husband. The scene is intense, as the expectation for sexual confrontation lies unwillingly in the audience's mind. After her death, Michael undergoes a transformation that helps him cope with the absence of love from Gabriella. Suddenly, sex with her is not as important. Apart from nudity, Rupert Walters threw in the mother lode of symbolism when he penned Some Girls. For example, Granny's last name is Lumiere, compared to her granddaughters, Gabby, Irenka, and Simone D'Arc. This is possibly symbolic of the negative effects of the girls versus the positive of Granny upon Michael. In addition, a painting of the Three Graces appears periodically throughout the film. Historically, the original 1534 painting by Pillion was believed to be of the three daughters of Zeus and symbolize women as Bloom, Myrth, and Joy. The twentieth century rendition by Sossong, however, depicts them as Purity, Fidelity, and Maturity. In a sense, each of these is descriptive of the D'Arc sisters, as none of them actually submitted to Michael. Not to mention the family dog named Beowulf, who persisted in annoying Michael by clutching his alarm clock mid-ring and then jumping out a bedroom window, only to symbolize Michael's recurring failure with Gabby and her sisters. This movie is about as offensive as an Al Gore speech while many may not appreciate its contents, not one group will be intentionally slighted. Obviously, the themes inherent in the film are adult oriented, and are intended for such an audience. The movie is an excellent piece. Sex and symbol are entwined as almost unseen in other films. My major complaint about the movie is its lack of depth in character, as provided by American Beauty. In that film, you become one of the characters. From the beginning scene to the final gunshot, you feel as if Kevin Spacey is talking to you as a friend. Additionally, the sound and lighting could have been better in Some Girls. Blame it on 1989 cinema technology. Some Girls is a successful example of what many filmmakers fail at. Namely, it combines typically unrelated elements into a coherent, believable, and entertaining story. Fans of American Beauty would be impressed. It is interesting how two movies with similar plots achieve such in two entirely different approaches. It is also understandable why the film has earned a respectable reputation in the eleven years since its release. A film of this form factor is rare. It's an interesting flick, and definitely worth its 90-minute viewing time. "},{"Title":"Complete review of Some Girls.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the movie Some Girls starring Patrick Dempsey we get a taste of everything.  The bizarre, the romantic, the sad, and the funny all hold a place in the travels of Michael, Dempsey's character.  Writer, Rupert Walters, takes Dempsey's character, a college student in love with being in love, to Quebec where the object of his affection remains for Christmas. Jennifer Connelly plays Michael's girlfriend Gabriella, Gaby for short. Gaby drops out of school and returns home to Canada when her grandmother, played by Lila Kedrova, becomes ill.  This vacation to bring Michael and Gaby back together turns out to be an exploration in to love and sex starting when Gaby tells Michael that she is no longer in love with him. Michael's confusion about his situation begins to worsen when Gaby's odd sisters begin to interact with the sexually tense Michael.  The grandmother, or Granny, is afflicted with some sort of Alzheimer's disease.  Granny, at times, mistakes Michael for her late husband also named Michael, which fuels a relationship that requires and teaches love.The spitfire Gaby and her two sisters confuse and toy with both Michael and the audience.  The seemingly promiscuous sisters taunt Michael by jumping in and out of his bed and even kissing him.   Michael's loyalty to Gaby is almost non-existent as evident in his deeds and dialogue with her sisters. These three temptresses remain static throughout the movie while Michael develops his knowledge of adaptability and reason.  Granny eases Michael in to the thought of love and not just sex, however, I found the scenes between the two characters abrupt and not as significant or impacting to the movie as they should have been, as they came and passed quickly.As the movie progresses Michael learns from and interacts with the family and he seems to grow more distant from the emotional aspects of his relationship with Gaby while being pulled in different directions.  While Gaby and her sisters, on the other hand, are doing the pulling they do not show any signs of logic or reasoning in their actions, which Michael caters to.  By the end of the film we see the three sisters acting as if they had learned something from Michael when it was really the other way around. This development seemed more like a transparent farce than an answer to a complicated question.  Gaby's father is another question mark to this movie. He remains nude through the most of the film, yet he seems very stern about any physical contact between Michael and his daughters.  The idea behind the nude conversations, containing reference to Mr. D'Arc's work, is lost in the tension between the two.  Without this theme the audience is left simply gawking at the naked father and seeing Michael as a typical appeasing suitor for Gaby.  However, the theme of nudity for this film can not be suppressed. Nudity causes and alleviates Michael's problem.  Drawn to sex by the injection of nudity in to the already tense plot his chase is only overruled by love that he sees with more nudity, strangely involving the grandmother.The family's dog, Beowulf, plays only a minor role in the story.  However, his name and an alarm clock smack of symbolism.  The alarm clock shared in bed between Michael and one of Gaby's sisters embodies the pursuit of sex that is ripped away when Beowulf clutches it in his mouth when it goes off the next morning to wake Michael.  Michael ends up throwing the alarm clock out the window and Beowulf jumps out after it.  In the story of Beowulf our hero jumps in to waters of great depths chasing after Grendel, a man-eating monster.  However, the display of our hero, Beowulf, chasing the all consuming monster of sex and the comparison to the original monster is an intricate theme and difficult to recognize.  Although if Michael rids himself of the alarm clock by throwing it out the window and the clock is really a symbol of sexuality this could foreshadow a moral behind the story.This film is a combination of comedy and tragedy like no other film I have seen before.  The bizarre sexual comedy can actually be likened to that of another film starring Patrick Dempsey, Loverboy.  In this film Dempsey plays a pizza delivery boy who makes extra money by serving as a gigolo for female customers ordering pizza with extra anchovies.  The element of tragedy for this film is very short and supposed to tie the movie together, however, I feel it is drowned out by the comedy and nudity relating to the sex.  For instance, the inevitable death of the grandmother is bypassed for a sexual encounter and then later revisited for questions and impact to the plot.This film is suitable for really any audience with the possible exception of young children due to nudity and sex.  The concepts and themes are universal to all and can be understood or at least listened to by any class, race, or group of people.  However, those offended by nudity or displays of sexuality should refrain from viewing, but the screenplay is tastefully written. For those viewers willing to ponder the themes, characters, and other elements a good deal the movie is worth while.  Although, the fast-paced plot really suggests a second viewing for those interested in a more educational experience.  Dempsey plays young, confused, and in love Michael very well. The father, Mr. D'Arc, was very convincing even if he was a minor character. The rest of the cast seemed a little amateur, but overall the thought process revealed in this film makes it worth seeing even if it does lack in other areas.  "},{"Title":"What i'd like to think the director was thinking","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hey, let's make a teen sex comedy, it'll be great. But you know what? Let's add a kooky slightly incestuous family. Wow this is gonna be killer stuff. But lets replace those raunchy bits normally found in most teen sex comedies and we'll replace it with...oh, i don't know, how bout pretentious pap. Hmmm, still missing something, what is it... OH!! I got it!! Let's put Jennifer Connelly in it to fool this guy named, Kev, into watching it.Where I saw it FLIX My Grade D- "}]