[{"Title":"i love the power glove. it's my mommie.","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"63 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Somewhere along the line, someone realized that it's nigh impossible to   make a good movie based on a video game. So instead, they made a movie   about the entire Nintendo Entertainment System, thereby capturing all the   feel-good nostalgia associated with its hundreds of titles, but without crippling handicaps such as an unfeasible plot or Jean-Claude VanDamme as Colonel William F. Guile. Thus was born The Wizard...a shameless consumerist repackaging of The Who's Tommy, adjusted for a new audience and coming at you in full-on buddy film fashion.    Fred Savage explodes onto the screen as a curly-haired dork with highly  articulate eyebrows. He's caught between his divorced parents in a   custody battle over his autistic, obsessive-compulsive, equinophobic, dyslexic, colorblind kid brother Jimmy. Realizing that being in the custody of one or more of his parents will most certainly kill Jimmy (and that Jimmy has the superhuman ability to reach level 3 on Double Dragon),   Fred Savage does the right thing and whisks his kid brother off to   exploit his virtuosic video game playing ability for cash and prizes   worth well over $130.    Along the way they meet Haley, who's totally hot if you're 12. Haley   misleads Fred and Jimmy on many occasions, notably one scene where   renegade truckers steal their entire video game pilgrimage budget and   presumably, molest them. Still, they stick to their guns (or should I say, their Nintendo LIGHT GUNS, for use with Duck Hunt), even managing to outsmart the enigmatic Lucas, a rebellious young boy who apparently lives alone in the desert like Mohammed. Only this messiah has a Nintendo POWER GLOVE,  buy yours today!    Lucas complicates the story, creating a sordid love triangle between   himself, Fred Savage and Haley. He taunts Jimmy ruthlessly (We   wouldn't want you to...WHIZ on yourself.) and, despite having devoted his life to Nintendo games and thus presumably having no friends, a crowd of   prepubescent disciples follow him at all times. His secret to success is the Nintendo Power Glove, which is, in Lucas's own words, so bad. But as most of us know, the truth is that the Nintendo Power Glove was totally gay. It only did what you wanted it to do when you were punching your friend in the face with it to vent your frustration about its lack of response.    The protagonists' path is beset by peril on all sides. There are   teenage white trash hoodlums who exist solely for the purpose of   stealing Jimmy's hat and saying lines like What is this kid, some sort of cyborg? There are fat salesmen who talk like Foghorn Leghorn, unable to believe that a scrawny kid is better than they are at Contra.    And don't get me started on the creepy bald guy hired by Fred's mom to   bring the kids back home, dead or alive. His name is Putnam and repeatedly   touches Haley's breasts. Meanwhile, Beau Bridges plays Nintendo like my   dad, yanking the controller this way and that. Every time Beau Bridges   and Christian Slater run into Putnam, a redneck banjo riff kicks in and   the whole movie starts to sound like a Menard's commercial while the adversaries engage in automobile/ gardening tool combat.    Saved from certain molestation by a grotesque man-child named Spanky,   their adventure climaxes when they play Ninja Gaiden with a scary   gravel-voiced MC (who also seems to be a child molester) and nearly get eaten by a fake King Kong at UNIVERSAL STUDIOS THEMEPARK, now open! By the way, Jimmy knows the exact location of the Warp Whistle in Super Mario Bros. 3 prior to the game's release because he reads Nintendo Power Magazine. Jimmy gets the warp whistle and uses it to reach World 4 (yes, Giant World) and Lucas looks on helplessly as his empire of Power Gloves comes crashing down around him.    Spackled with golden dialogue, this movie is a subculture in its own   right. But while many people quote Lucas's it's so bad, or Haley's   he touched my breast, for me it doesn't get any better than when Christian Slater says,    Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. "},{"Title":"A Sentimental Favorite","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"44 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE WIZARD is a sentimental favorite for anyone who raced home after school to turn on their gray and black Nintendo Entertainment Systems. For this set, born in the late '70s and early '80s, the excitement in the air was palpable when previews for the film appeared on TV. It not only combined our two favorite entertainment vehicles -- Nintendo and movies -- but also provided a thrilling sneak preview of the year's most anticipated game, Super Mario Bros. 3. NES geeks (of course they weren't geeks back then... Nintendo was cool) thought they'd died and gone to eight-bit heaven.When we finally got mom and dad to take us to the theater or pick up the video, THE WIZARD was every bit as good as we'd hoped. Critics almost universally panned it as a 90-minute Nintendo commercial, but young viewers were enthralled. (Besides... a 90-minute Nintendo commercial wasn't exactly an awful thing!). The film combined very human storytelling with hardy laughs and wide-eyed exhilaration. It gave us playground catchphrases (Lucas with I love the Power Glove. It's so bad and Jimmy with Calli-forn-ya... Calli-forn-ya!) Sure the highlight was all the cool video game-related stuff, but video games were a big part of our lives, one that our parents just didn't understand. The people who made this movie, whatever their intentions, did.Most eight- or nine- or ten-year-olds who caught THE WIZARD upon release would give it two big thumbs up, if not the Oscar for Best Picture of All-Time. Of course we're not eight or nine or ten anymore, and THE WIZARD, in hindsight, is not actually a cinematic masterpiece. But nor is it the sort of mindless junk that stuffy critics would have us believe. The film is actually a sweet, harmless cross-country adventure. It has laughs (who could forget Haley's scream of He touched my breast! to ward off the hapless Putnam?) and emotion (Jimmy's reflections of his late sister are undeniably heartbreaking). And the video game competition finale holds up surprisingly well even with the novelty of the Super Mario Bros. 3 footage long worn off.Beyond that, THE WIZARD carries deeper meanings that children can pick up on. Jimmy, the autistic video game prodigy, demonstrates that all of us, regardless of our limitations, possess marvelous gifts. Putnam, the cold-hearted family services worker trying to take Jimmy away, helps illustrate that families are what matter. And the villainous Lucas is an example of how we should treat our enemies with dignity and by letting our actions speak louder than our words, as Jimmy does. Okay, it's not exactly Nietzsche, but it's not total fluff, either.THE WIZARD is not the greatest movie of all-time. It's probably not even a great movie. But it is a special period piece, a reminder of a simpler time when our only worry in the world was passing math and knocking off goombas. It will forever hold a special place in the hearts of many. "},{"Title":"You got 50,000 on Double Dragon?!?","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you were born between the years 1974 and 1984 and were as obsessed as most of us were about Nintendo games, you will enjoy this movie.  Yes, the plot is predictable and cheesy and the writing leaves a lot to be desired, but I guarantee if you fall into the above group, you will enjoy regressing back to 1989 where having all 97 games, and the power glove (it's so bad...) were major status symbols.  If you don't fall into this group, or couldn't really care less about old video games, then you should probably pass on this film.  But for the rest of us, (I used to watch the commercial for this film just to get a glimpse at Super Mario Bros. 3) watch it and enjoy it time after time. "},{"Title":"Lucas Barton, American Anti-Hero","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie explores the depths of human emotions. It incorporates dramatic struggles ranging from a family being ripped apart because of a divorce (all too common in this work-a-day society), and a complex friendship being stretched to the limit because of the legendary California Videogame Championship. Corey and Jimmy are half-brothers. Jimmy has a dead twin sister. Mom has a new boyfriend. Dad owns a landscaping business. Throw in Christian Slater as a bad-ass older brother, a love triangle with three 13 year olds, the power-glove, and the song Send Me and Angel by Real Life and you have 1 intense peice of cinema. Watch out for cameos by the black dude from Batteries Not Included*, a guy with the same voice as Dicky Barrett, and Las Vegas. I've seen this movie over 3 times, and I still get chills when Corey and Jimmy have to sleep in Goblin Valley. Damn.  "},{"Title":"Love Nintendo, and (sorry) love this movie","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The fond memories I had of this flick from my youth were not disappointed when I finally caught up with it again recently.Its simply a great kids adventure. Many claimed at the time that it was little more than a rather enormous advert for Nintendo, and it is. But they bothered to make a decent movie out of it as well. I remember how excited I was at the prospect of Super Mario Bros 3, and this movie plays up to those expectations very entertainingly.If you love videogames, the film is a fascinating cultural artifact. If you are a youngster, you should thoroughly enjoy a very well maintained adventure, with surprisingly few flaws.It may sound pretentious, but for what it is, it is near flawless. Go figure! "},{"Title":"A Commercial Classic","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A touching drama about a young boy's quest to help his autistic younger brother and a troubled young girl they meet along the way running from her own demons.....Okay, so it's mostly just a 90 minute commercial for Super Mario Brothers 3, but it's also a great road movie with plenty of classic 80's quotable material (I love the Power Glove. It's so bad.). It has a good soundtrack as well.I think if a person sees the film for the first time nowadays they might not enjoy it as much as those who saw the film growing up and enjoy that oh so good feeling of nostalgia. "},{"Title":"What can I say? This was My Childhood","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, not really. My life story doesn't resemble that of the characters in any way except for our collective love of video games. That saidI watched this movie so many damn times as a kid it'll make your head spin. What can I say about this movie that you don't already know yourself? Fred Savage. Beau Bridges. Christian Slater. The chick from Rilo Kiley. Spanky.And then Jimmy brings it all home.First of all, I want to say that whatever pills the video game contest host was on, I want me some of that. Two, they should bring back the Powerglove. And three, road trip movies will never, ever die.From Double Dragon to Ninja Gaiden or the nostalgic dinosaur park in the middle of no where, this movie will always remain a classic for me.Gimme, gimme, gimme...Jimmy...Woods!!! "},{"Title":"That deaf dumb and blind kid sure plays a mean Mario3","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's Tommy, but in non musical sense. The story follows a little boy who, like Tommy, is non associative to sound or picture and can beat the toughest arcade games of his day without batting an eyelash.Depression brought on by the tragic loss of his twin sister, Jennifer, and his family's refusal to discuss the situation leads seven-year-old Jimmy Woods to hide deeper and deeper inside himself. Searching for answers he concludes that if he can only return to the place on Earth where he was happiest, where the best time in his life occurred, he will be able to truly be happy again. Lunch pail in hand and nothing but his own intuition to guide him the young boy sets off on a trip to California. We can only imagine the horrors that have filled Jimmy's life with his preadolescent confusion and dis-understanding of the reality of things around him. His wanting to just hear the words that it's all right. Jimmy is fascinated with patterns and observing the narrowing toward the peak of a pyramid watching a pattern shorten, in essence move faster. Similar, in an analog sense, to the ascending difficulty in repeating patterns of the motions of video game characters on a television screen.Corey Woods, Jimmy's older half brother, through their father, loves his brother. He wants no harm or fear to ever enter Jimmy's life and wants only for his sibling to live happily in the company of family and friends. Corey, coincidentally, decides to run away to California with Jimmy to keep him out of a home for the mentally disabled.Haley is the know it all, all grown up kid who tries her damnedest to hold the world together. Wants to prove to her father that she's got it together. Her mother, who got lost in an addiction to gambling and unspecified drugs, left her father. Haley wants to prove to herself as much as to her father that she's got it together. So much so that she can travel cross country alone at twelve, so much so that she can gamble against nothing and come out on the very top.Sam Woods fills in most of the comic relief as he and his eldest son, Nick, spend the movie in a race and chase against the children's bounty hunter, a snyde ass-bag of a fellow, real easy character to hate, called Putnam. Putnam was hired by Sam's ex-wife and Jimmy's mother, Christine, and her new husband, Mr. Bateman, to track down the runaway children. He sees Jimmy and Corey as a meal ticket and he refuses to let anything get between him and his money. He has several encounters with Sam and Nick on his hunt and tries to stop them every step of the way with as many underhanded schemes as he can come up with from slashing Sam's tires to selling Sam's truck to a chop-shop. He is representation of all seven mortal sins and, while Sam is nowhere near a perfect person, it is easy to cheer him on every time he gets a step ahead of, or attacks, Mister Putnam. Through the film, Sam and Nick get to play several video games and come to a sort of understanding of one another that they hadn't had since Jennifer was alive, a sort of comradery that ought to exist between every son and father but is so rare.Lucas is the reigning video game champion and has a thug crew who hang onto him because he is as close as they will ever get to anything worthwhile as Lucas hangs onto the video games in the same manner. Lucas is not necessarily an evil character and at the end there is a sense of humbling within him as he does come to realize slightly that winning isn't everything and losing won't kill you.Along their journey, the kids are helped by various people in parts of society that most would try to shy away from, truckers and gamblers and lesbian bikers, to be specific. The story also shows that even if you think you know who you are getting a ride from, you should beware because greed can make even the seemingly nicest person into a monster.The story is simple, yet worthwhile three kids go across the country to do something that they had never thought to do before, it recommends that real adventure should coexist with electronic diversion if you're going to have electronic diversion; and it also shows us that there is a time and a place for everything. It shows kids that if they are ever in trouble with a stranger, it is always a good idea to scream. In the end, Jimmy is more social but still has a long way to go before anyone might consider him normal; but it shows definite progress in his character.Even though the situation is ridiculous in parts, it is still touching and fun. This is a great family film, which can make the family video game machine be more than just a toy.I highly recommend it regardless of your age or family status. "},{"Title":"Video Game Groms!","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Wizard is one of the best 80s movies for kids or teens. It's got it all--an excellent and hilarious story, great music, excellent actors, and above all--that little 80s console of long hours of entertainment known as The Nintendo. The Wizard was made to feul sales for Nintendo in promoting it's newest video game, Super Mario Brothers 3, which I understand to be the company's best selling game of all time (and with good reason). The story involves three kids, struggling for independence from their messed up family life. Fred Savage plays Cory, who's father and brother tend to change the subject of the uncomfortable fact that his half-brother Jimmy is going to be put in a foster home. Not if Cory can help it. He and Jimmy go Shanghai for California, the land of possibility. Along the way, they meet Haley, a hot shot young girl who's father is a truck driver and mother is a gambling addict. On her way to Reno, she discovers that Jimmy is a video game wizard (like the Pinball Wizard). With the Video Game Armaggeddon just weeks away, Haley comes up with the idea that the three kids should pool their resources, go to California, compete, and split the cash.It may seem like an easy goal--heading from Utah to California on a skateboard and a couple of bucks, hustling video game hacks along the way. But meanwhile, a crazy bounty hunter kind of guy has been hired to bring Jimmy (and only Jimmy) back home. He's similarly in a competition--against Corey's father, who needs to get to the kids first before the crazy bounty hunter does. This movie has it all. You get to see some the greatest Nintendo games (Double Dragon, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) The Adventures of Zelda, Excite Bike, and Rad Racer) in addition to other Nintendo accessories such as The Power Glove (I love the Power Glove, it's so bad.) It's so effective in selling Nintendo nostalgia (though it wasn't quite nostalgia when the movie was made), that it will make you want to pull out the old console--or emulator--and have a crack or two at some games again.Additionally, you have an excellent cast of actors involved in a hilarious cat-and-mouse chase, with the most laughs coming from the traveling dispute of the bounty hunter and Corey's dad (Beau Bridges). Plus, how can you go wrong with an early Fred Savage, Jennifer Rilo Kiley Lewis, and Christian Slater movie? You can't. It's packed to the brim with excellent features that if you're in love with the 80s, you're sure to enjoy.   "},{"Title":"LOVED this as a kid","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Being 6 when this movie came out, ALREADY obsessed with Nintendo, I wanted to see this movie so bad when it came out.  Unfortunately, I didn't get to see it in the theater.  But I saw it on video and checked it out like 20 times seriously.  Watching it today it seems a little hokey, but still it brings me back to the days when video games were user friendly and fun. "}{"Title":"Great Movie, Better Cast","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie first aired in 1989, when Fred Savage was boy wonder and on top of the world and when Jenny Lewis was every young girl's dream. A lot of people say this movie was a commercial for Nintendo but really it wasn't........it was a movie for everyone that has a lost a loved one, for people who have been traumatized, and for people all around the world. The movie shows us that anyone can achieve their goal if they only believe. "},{"Title":"A great movie to remind you of being a kid.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I grew up with this movie, and i never get tired of it, even now.Watching it reminds me of the good ol' days as a kid growing up in the 80's. The plot seems a little out of left field but under the right circumstances could probably happen.Great performances are given by Fred Savage as Corey, Christian Slater as Nick the typical teenage older brother and Beau Bridges as Sam the good hearted father(reminds me alot of my father).When it gets down to it The Wizard is a great movie for all ages to enjoy.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I wish people would stop dissing this movie!","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It doesn't matter whether or not a movie appeals to everyone, just the intended audience.And let me tell you, as an original member of the intended audience, I loved The Wizard.  I even got one of those little Pocket Power promotional giveaways, and I treasure it still.The movie IS, however, enjoyable for anyone.  10 or so years later, the Video Armageddon scene still glues me to my chair.  This probably has to do with me being a Nintendo fan, but who cares?And there are true, emotional scenes in there.  Especially the REAL climax, that occurs after Video Armageddon, when The Wizard gets to California.Watch...and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Great Kid Movie","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time a few years ago and I have loved it ever since! I like the message you can do whatever you aspire to even if you have a disability like Jimmy's. It was nice seeing the Super Mario Brothers III game, even though it's ancient now, but back then I bet it was like Halo 2 today. My favorite character was Haley because she represented what I would like to be tough, smart, and sophisticated. My favorite part is, of course, the video game competition. The way they treated it in the movie was like it was the Academy Awards! I know I'll never be that good at video games. My only question is if that video games is seemingly Jimmy's only talent, then what is he going to do when he grows up? You can't exactly be a professional video game player! Oh well, it's still a perfect 10 in my eyes! "},{"Title":"this was a good movie!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i first saw the wizard back in 1990. i still like it today. to go with the video game plot there is a plot that's bigger than that in this movie.about a kid that almost never talks,and tries to leave on the road a lot.his half brother cares about him more than anybody else does. they both go on a road trip by walking,and sometimes hitching to cali.along the way they pick-up a young teenage girl.that gives them the idea that the kid is good at playing video games,and that they should go to los angeles to enter him in a video game contest if he wins they would'en wanna keep him in a home.the family of the kids brother is after him riding in a truck.also a private investagater hired by the kids mom is also going after him. it is an entertaining movie,and sometimes funny.all in all it's a really fun movie.i give it *** out of **** "},{"Title":"I'm not kissing any boy!  A girl maybe?","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah, The Wizard. A bit of a cult classic highly regarded by video gamers (wheather they've ever actually seen the film or not) if only for one line I love the PowerGlove; its so bad! Lucas's immortal words proved to be more truthful than intended when the PowerGlove was released (after the movie was released) with a high price tag and lackluster abilities. Not only did the 'Glove turn out to be so bad, but it couldn't actually be used with the game it was in the movie. Essentially, this film is one long commercial for a product that didn't work as advertised. And now with its long-awaited DVD release, Wizard (like Wonka before it) has long outlasted the product it was created to shill.That being said, I personally don't think this picture is a bad film. Not by any means. The story is compelling, the acting (particularly the traumatized boy) is above par, the drama is well-executed and not overdone, lending to some very humorous (and intentional) moments, and the message is timeless. In fact, the climax (with just a little suspension of disbelief) will have you eagerly awaiting the outcome whilst all the while rooting for the film's hero to emerge just that.Don't go in with the highest expectations, but surely don't go in expecting a bad 90-minute commercial. "},{"Title":"Fred Savage... playing with power!","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It seems that whenever I think of Nintendo and their plethora of cool but utterly useless line of accessories over the years (super scope, power pad, and of course the power glove), I think of The Wizard.This movie had it all, including a never before seen preview of Super Mario Bros 3. While kids these days would either roll around laughing, or scratch their heads in confusion at this film, anyone who grew up during the 80's, and more importantly, played video games during the 80's will, and probably have, enjoyed it.Now keep in mind I haven't watched the movie in about 5 years (WHERE'S THE DVD??), but I remember it like I watched it yesterday. You can't help but love the kid with the Power Glove sucking hard at Rad Racer while trying to show off. Fred Savage, SOMEHOW knowing where all the warp zones were in Super Mario Bros 3 before even seeing the game, and many other wonderfully cheesy, yet exhilarating moments.If you haven't seen it and are a so called, game fanatic, you owe yourself to watch it. If you have watched it, good for you. You will always remember it. "},{"Title":"Fun Little Flick From My Youth","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Geez what a goofy but fun movie. As you may know this is the story of a young kid named Jimmy and his brother Corey trying to get to California. They meet up with Haley and she's comes up with the idea of putting Jimmy in the Nintendo Tournament. So it's basically a road flick for kids. You get to see a lot of the video games you grew up with. But that's not all. There are plenty of funny moments. Beau Bridges going nuts with the shovel on Putnam's car is awesome. Well, pretty much ever scene with Beau, Christain Slater or the guy who plays Putnam are worth watching the movie for. With lines like,Jimmy watch the mushroom! and,AAHH he touched my breast! I dare you not to chuckle. I mean honestly, how can you hate a movie where you get to see Fred Savage punched-out by a girl? "},{"Title":"i Love this movie","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1st of all i know all you asses out there want to be cool, so in essence you want to crap on a fairly OK movie and thats fine.....but i know that in order for you all the crap on this movie, you'd have to have seen it numerous times, and you can tell me that you would sit through a completely terrible movie if some part of you didn't like it, bottom line i love this movie now even to this day, not that it was the greatest movie ever made, but it was the greatest movie ever made when i saw it for the first time and thats what counts! Not the fact that if someone knew you like this movie you would lose cool points. damn that. you can keep it this to me will always be one of my favorite movies of all time cause it just that when i saw it the first time in the theaters in 1989. You can say what you want........but you took the time to rate and review....so think about that before you continue to bash. "},{"Title":"This Movie is A Cult Classic.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This Movie is a Cult Classic because it introduced video game junkies to one of the greatest games ever made Super Mario 3. It also showed the world how much Nintendo would do to edge the competition on the video game market. By exploting ever game they made, introducing us to the POWER GLOVE(piece of Junk), NINTENDO Game Hotline(Thank God for the Internet) and Super Mario 3. I love this movie and so does ever video game lovin geek with a computer I know.  "}{"Title":"All-time favorite","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was released in theaters and absolutely loved it. I bought the movie and for a certain amount of time I couldn't stop watching it. I memorized the entire script. This movie has a great storyline that is enjoyable to watch over and over again. The characters are very well developed. The Wizard is unique from any other movie and I highly recommend that any video game fans watch this movie. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies.","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't remember the first time I saw this movie... but I have now seen it about 5 times, all though the last time had to be about 5 years ago.This is one of my favorite movies. I remember just sitting there when I was younger, and my attention was never lost in it. Thinking back on it now, I realize that the whole movie was just a 2 hour commercial to promote the soon-to-be released Super Nintendo... but I don't care!It was a great story, and I wouldn't mind seeing it again. "},{"Title":"The Wizard on DVD is Over Due!","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Why has Universal not released The Wizard on DVD yet? Is it because its a Video Game movie? Is it because Nintendo is no longer in the video game movie making business and is on bad terms with Universal? The Wizard features the early days of Universal Hollywood and all the things that made the theme park popular! The Wizard starred Beau Bridges,Frank McRae,Christian Slater and Fred Savage which are A & B list actors at that time! The Movie was made and released at that time as a promotional engine for a very popular new video game franchise title,that was released soon after 'Super Mario Bros. 3'! I believe this movie helped Mario become an Iconic video game character it also boosted Nintendo to new heights as well as the games displayed on the movie! The Wizard Fans should band together and start a petition on this this movie for a DVD release as a Universal Classic! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie. A classic nerd / gamer movie, and a must see for everyone who considers themselves a video game fan.I'm not even going to get into the Is it a real movie? Is it just a big commercial?Who CARES?! It's a movie about kids playing video games. TMNT? The Power Glove? SMB3? Rad Racer? Come on!Thus, it is awesome, and a classic.If you love the NES, you will probably love it. If you love videogames in general, you will probably at least like it. If you hate videogames, well then you probably won't fully understand how great this is. If only you could.  "},{"Title":"There is a God and his name is Fred and his brothers name is Ben from that show about the boy who meets a world.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was beyond all expectations one can have for a movie.  When one hears about a movie that not only is starring the greatest actor of our generation, but is also of the most serious and awesome subject if video game playing, one knows they are in for a treat.  But not in my wildest dreams did I think that it was going to be this good.The story is  a follows.  Fred Savage is in a split up family that has many problems.  He runs away to the national Nintendo championships with his little brother has emotional problems.  What really adds the spice to this already tasty plot is the love interest he meets in the diner.  I still cry every time that they have their first kiss on top of the mobile home.  One small kiss for Fred, one giant smooch for movie-kind.So not only are we drawn into the exciting plot of video game tournaments and Fred's love life, but we get a special surprise at the ending.  A new game is introduced.  I am not going to say the name of it because I don't want to spoil it for those who haven't seen it yet, but it is golden.Not only was Fred Savage ignored at the Oscars for best actor(he didn't even get nominated), the movie itself also got ripped off(didn't get nominated for best picture).  Aside from these historical crimes of the Academy, the movie was well recepted.Watch and Enjoy! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you can remember back to 1989, you know that everyone was a Nintendo Freak.  And most of us still are!  I know I am, not for the newer systems, but for the good 'ol NES.  So this is a movie that will bring out some good memories.  I was only 2 in 1989 so I couldn't see it in the theatre, but I did buy it as fast as I could.  I still love it.  I lot of people will say this movie is garbage.  They are so wrong.  Well, maybe to the people who WEREN'T NES Freaks.  This movie has many classic scenes, I love the power glove, it's so bad.  And I think it's halarious how in true life not ONE of the kids can play a video game!  For instance, when Jimmy is playing Double Dragon, he is pressing buttons at the introduction scene.  And you are just hearing the ounches and the hits as if he were REALLY playing.  And they claim he made 50, 000 points on it, when it just made the noise that he finished level one!  And in Rad Racer, the dude is just starting level 1 with his power glove and everyone is just like, OH MY GOD!! I CAN'T BELEVE HE GOT SO FAR!  There are many other video game related mistaked but I just wanted to point out some.  Anyway, this is a really cool and entertaining movie.     "},{"Title":"You're a Wizard, Jimmy","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw The Wizard somewhere over Greenland in July 1990. After a long US holiday it was nice seeing a road movie to pass the long hours stuck on the plane. The movie is an utterly shameless 100-minute commercial for Nintendo products, the then imminent release of Super Mario Bros. 3 (even though 2 was never released in the US) and Universal's own Los Angeles theme park, but at the time I was just interested because of all the video games on show, though it does not speak well of youth that even in 1989 video games were still the number 1 sport.The actual plot woven into the commercial is truly heartbreaking though. Young, possibly autistic, catatonic Jimmy Woods (James Woods?) keeps wandering away from home, desperate to get to California. Half-brother Cory (Fred Savage) goes after him, attempting to pacify his desire to get to the west coast state. Cory thinks that Jimmy wants to enter a video game competition at Universal Studios but really he just wants to visit the Cabazon Dinosaurs - the last place of happy memories before the death of his twin sister, and he just wants to let her go.Really heavy-going stuff, and not a film I can enjoy watching as an adult in that regard. The film is poorly directed and features innumerable errors regarding the Nintendo products that they are promoting. How can the kids shout out the secrets of a video game that they have never played and that has only just been announced? For a commercial they sure didn't research their material very well. But it does win back some points for effective use of the original Send me an Angel by Real Life.Christian Slater and Beau Bridges pursue the boys as the older brother and dad, while a feisty teenage girl called Hayley helps them get to their destination on time. The travel montages and locations are all memorable and turn the journey into a nice rites-of-passage.It's become a cult classic in recent years, and will provoke even more nostalgia another 24 years down the line, but the heavy subject matter beneath the Nintendo-plugging means I can't go back again. "},{"Title":"Playing with Power","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've been a gamer ever since I was six, got my first video game console when I was 8, this console was of course the Nintendo. This film was almost a dream come true to me because it was one based on the world of gaming. This is an underrated gem (in my book anyway)that I really like and still do to this day. It's also one of the only sports films I really like/love (I personally am not a fan of the sub genre)and there aren't many like it.There is just a lot I really like about the film, watching it again now is more interesting because now it's sort of a time capsule of the 89-90's era. The fashions, video games at the time, the Universial Studio locale when it was young, music you name it. Speaking of the music, I feel this film has one of the best soundtracks which no doubt brew 90's, my favorite is the end credit theme song which is one of my personal favorites called I Found My Way, it's just a beautiful and inspiring song in my book anyway.The highlight no doubt in the visual aspect was the Video Armegenon contest, just the amount of energy and showmanship it had, really makes me which most other video game/PC game tournaments today had that again. But of course it was when the new game at the time was revealed Super Mario Bros 3 I remember seeing that in the film and thought OMG, I never even knew the franchise was even developing a third volume so you can imagine how much it blew my mind. Some would say that the film is a bit dated, personally I think that's an unfair argument to make, if it was some other video game in a film say Halo 7 same thing would happen. You have to understand in 89-90 the video game counterculture was on the rise, not just was it becoming more popular and accessible but also video game technology itself was rapidly developing. However I don't just like this film because it has video games/gaming, but I honestly felt the film has a bit of a heart as well. Like any sports film I really like the characters and there motives.The antagonist that stands out for me despite not being in the film that long is Lucas, he's a villain you love to dislike because we've all seen people like that, whom think their hot stuff, egocentric, have more things than you and like to show off.However the best characters were the three protagonists whom I thought were the best dynamic of the bunch. All three acted and felt like real kids, they weren't stereotypical all smiles annoying kids. Each of these protagonists I thought were sympathetic have suffered loss in a sense and all three wanted some sort of change, I wouldn't say just change in their life but just something good again in their lives, which is something they've never had in a long time. Fred Savage was great as Cory Woods (on a side note, yes I remember the TV show The Wonder Years thats one of my favorite shows). He's a typical adolescent a little rebellious, a gamer he does know his games, he's not too smooth he has a sort of dry witticism to him. But most importantly he does care about his young brother Jimmy Woods (Luke Edwards) whom is the video game wizard. Cory's motive is he simply wants both he and his brother to be a family again and going on this journey with him is the only way to do it.Jenny Lewis I thought was great as Haley, it's a shame this actress didn't have more because I thought she was a capable actress. She sort of reminds me, heck even physically looks a bit like actress Emma Watson. Anyway her character is my favorite, she's fiery, feisty, smart, she has some of the best moments and lines to say. But what I really like is that she has warmth even though she doesn't also show it, she does care about Jimmy and has a bit of a crush on Cory. But there is a bit of sadness to her character, because her character is alone in a way. Doesn't really have many close friends, so Cory is probably the only one she's ever been closest to.The chemistry between both Cory and Haley to me is the other highlight of the movie. Both have just a great back and forth, where at times both give each other intentional or unintentional grief. And yet their relationship develops both care and bond with each other more as the film goes on.But it's true this film isn't perfect I have at least a couple of glitches. I wished in the Video Armeganon elimination sequence it was a montage, where I would of liked to of seen Jimmy play different Nintendo games and knocking down numerous competitors, the fact this didn't happen I thought was a lost opportunity. Certain hiccups in the script, for example 50,000 in Double Dragon which in reality isn't possible (I played and own the game so I know) though I don't feel that was so much a case of bad writing just bad research. Overall I think this is a fun and surprisingly touching sports movie and personally I like to see more sports movies based on the video game subculture. For me it's a fun nolstagia trip I like to take every once in a while, for new viewers it could be a fun history lesson but most importantly a fun movie. The Wizard scores.Rating 3 and a half stars. "},{"Title":"Mario 3 the hidden agenda","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" So back in the 80's there was this clever little gadget known as the Nintendo entertainment system, which brought all of us young and old alike together for some head smashin, hockey playing, mushroom eating good times...There were several things attached to NES back then that would transform a bystander into a hard core fan. One of those things which held much importance at the time was the magazine Nintendo Power. I have seen everything from early Atari with my grandad to Ps3, but never was there anything like NES. For what seems like ten years it had the market cornered and somewhere in that time the execs at NES decided, smartly i might add, to make a film with the best child star actor of all time, Fred Savage! At some point during this time there was a Major rumbling about this movie in Nintendo Power. This is pre-internet here, we had to get together and pass the magazine around to read about this movie, and the kicker was the secret game to be introduced during the climax of the movie. All i can say is this was a total watershed moment in NES history, peoples heads nearly exploded seeing Super Mario 3 on the big screen at the end. It's a movie packed to the brim with one liners and heart. And what i mean by heart is they didn't have to make a movie so utterly depressing about video games. Fred Savage's brother has lost his twin sister who DROWN, and he just wants to go to cccalifornia to put her things back inside a dinosaur. Well this movie confronts all kinds of issues, its a time-capsule and like i said its got a deeper plot then you could imagine for a movie about Italion plumbers. But they did it. And thank god for that! Ten thumbs up. "},{"Title":"the power glove","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie rocks. hands down best video game movie to date. Not only is Fred savage a true savage but hes also the best actor of our or any generation. everything else about it is absolutely flawless. What better way to display the ultimate 80s movie than to have the ultimate 80s invention. Nintendo. Plus, with world class supporting actors such as beau bridges and Christian slater a.k.a. the SLADE, this movie is not to be missed. There's drama that will leave you in tears ( Scoring 50000 in double dragon), as well as high octane action (when Lucas beats rad racer with the power glove) THE POWER GLOVE...ITS SO BAD, not to mention a climax that will take your breath away Welcome to MARIO 3!!!!!. I consider myself to be a film BUFF and this movie rounds out the top movie of all time....along with the monster squad, Howard the duck, and killer klowns from outer space. >shes a comin and shes a blown "}{"Title":"Just because a movie doesn't win an Oscar...","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...doesn't mean it's not worth the watch! I remember the summer of 1989 like it was yesterday. We were on break from living in Canada (which to this day I have never been told why) and mom took me and my sister to see it at a movie theater in Duncanville Texas that now is long since deserted with no plans to A) restore it or B) tear it down and build something else. Anyways...Fred Savage gets his half-brother out of the home and together they hit the road to win the L.A. Video Game Championship and the cool quarter-mill that goes along with it. I love that kid Jimmy they meet along the way with his Power Glove and his bad acting/dialogue. They also meet Haley, a chick who lives alone in Vegas where there are no schools/stores/what have you. They make it out to L.A. and...well, ya gotta watch it to find out how it ends. Definitely watch it if they ever have it on Lazy Weekend Theater. "},{"Title":"wizard soundtrack & super mario 4","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Is The Wizard Soundtrack available? Also, has anyone ever owned the NES game Super Mario Bros. 4? I rented it once as a kid, but you needed to put some weird converter thread in the NES (apparently because this was a Japanese Famicom converter). Is The Wizard Soundtrack available? Also, has anyone ever owned the NES game Super Mario Bros. 4? I rented it once as a kid, but you needed to put some weird converter thread in the NES (apparently because this was a Japanese Famicom converter). Is The Wizard Soundtrack available? Also, has anyone ever owned the NES game Super Mario Bros. 4? I rented it once as a kid, but you needed to put some weird converter thread in the NES (apparently because this was a Japanese Famicom converter). "},{"Title":"Great Memories from the 80's","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie from the end of the 80's. It has Fred Savage(Wonder Years, Little Monsters) and the premiere of Super Mario Bros. 3 and video games in general. I recommend this movie for fond memories and just a cool and fun movie to watch. Don't expect a drama or anything, expect just to enjoy yourself. You will especially enjoy this if you were born in the 80's or late 70's and only fondly remember this movie for the Nintendo vibes. Also, someone commented about them traveling a billion miles on their trip....more like 1000+ miles, From Earth - a billion miles x 8 puts you a couple million miles past Pluto. Probably right next to Sedna - soon to be the 10th planet in our Solar System...fun facts in Movie Reviews ) Enjoy the movie, don't waste your time criticizing it for not looking like every movie made today. Respect the movie because it looks different. "},{"Title":"The first time i fell in love with Jenny Lewis","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i loved this film as a kid.  haven't seen it in a while.  you know the story already.  i love nintendo, still do... it's my youth.  anyway, fred savage was good in this.  super mario 3 was huge at the time, so to see that on the screen was uber-cool.jenny lewis was so cute back then.  i absolutely loved her... in fact, i saw her a few nights ago, when the band Rilo Kiley played.  she's older now, still the cutest thing alive.  great voice.  pinsky from salute your shorts (blake sennet/soper) played guitar, and he's a pretty cool guy too.  yeah, go Rilo Kiley. "},{"Title":"Great flick from my youth, but..","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** Let me just say, Fred Savage was my child actor hero when I was younger. This movie embraces the crazy excitement of the NES and all it had to offer over the years. But one thing still irritates me after seeing it again after a few years...HOW DOES HE KNOW ABOUT THE WARP WHISTLE IN THE CASTLE!!! AHHHHHHH! This bugs me so much. Its a very NON-OBVIOUS SECRET. I think people only would've found the whistle by watching this movie or knowing someone who watched it. Alright, sorry. That is my biggest pet peeve about this movie.Otherwise, the chick was hot back in the day. Fingers crossed for The Wizard 2! Maybe a little Gamecube action mixed with the revival of Fred Savage's career. *warp pipe noise* "},{"Title":"Cool Movie","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I personally thought that the wizard was a movie that portrayed the life of a grief stricken boy who has a unique gift at video games.The only downside was having a Mean Child Tracker on your tail and a Father and a Son chasing also sought have brought them down just a little bit. Todd Holland Cheers! "},{"Title":"Probably my favorite movie ever","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie that epitomized my youth most of all. I was a Nintendo freak. It mattered more to me than most anything else. So this was the perfect movie.It's really dated now, but it still seems like yesterday that people like Lucas were bragging about their new Nintendo gear. This movie is a modern David and Goliath tale. It shows you that, yes, even the little autistic kid can rise up and defeat the older punk with all 88 games. Sometimes you have to run away from your family and hitchhike to California to get closer to your family, and to hustle strangers for cash. I can live vicariously through Jimmy and pretend I scored 50,000 points in Double Dragon too. You will come out of this movie with good feelings. There are so many classic scenes in this movie that bring me straight back to that mack year of 1989 I can't count them all.Go Jimmy. "},{"Title":"The Wizard is, bar none, the greatest movie ever made about Nintendo and Nintendo competitions ever.","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie, I believe, is the greatest movie ever made.  The Wizard combines comedy, drama, and Nintendo by the truckload to form a unique and genuinly moving character study of crazy kids who like Nintendo.The movie concerns the journey to California of Fred Savage, and his brother Jimmy(played with powerful solemnity by some kid), a Nintendo Wizard, as it were.  The goal is to reach a Nintendo Competition, where Jimmy will eventually face Super Mario Brothers 3, a game never seen until the competition.  Along the way, the kids gamble on Jimmy's Nintendo skill, and undergo various non-Nintendo-related adventures.  Various villains include a guy who has to track Jimmy down, and Lucas, the Nintendo rival. Lucas delivers a powerful scene in which he makes mince meat of Rad Racer using the almighty Power Glove (which he keeps in a large protective case).The movie really is carried by the performances of the actors.  The ensemble also includes Christian Slater as the third brother, Beau Bridges as the father, and some girl as the companion to the kids, who comes up with the idea of using Jimmy's Nintendo skill to gamble.  In one classic scene, Christian Slater is berated by the father for his Nintendo playing, and then Slater wakes up in the motel to find Beau playing Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles(a lackluster title, but compelling none the less).The movie would certainly appeal to the Nintendo enthusiasts, but will also appeal to anyone looking for a movie which tackles the serious issue of death, and healing the pain of that loss with Nintendo.  The movie was released in 1989, and Super Mario Bros. 3 was not yet released.  When viewed today, the ending is slightly anti-climactic, but still the emotion of the moment is still present.  As far as problems go, this movie has a few.  The most glaring is the slight error in Nintendo representation.  For example, Jimmy plays Double Dragon on an arcade machine, yet he is clearly playing the Nintendo version of the game, when a different version would be played in an arcade.  Also, as Roger Ebert pointed out in his review, Beau Bridges exclaims that he has reached level 3 in TMNT, yet the screen clearly shows he is on level 1.  This is a minor flaw, but kudos to Ebert for spotting that one. In no way should these flaws dissuade anyone from viewing The Wizard. There are a lot of movies today about Nintendo competitions, but for look at the predecessor, rent The Wizard. Truly a film classic. "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was overall, a nice movie. I have seen it twice, the first time, it was when I was younger and all I cared about was the video games in it. After about 7 years later, I watched it again, and to my surprise, it was much more than just video games. It was about love and the importance of family and being together. "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be very enjoyable, it was never boring and the story is kind of cool. But do not rent this movie if you are expecting a great film, because you will be very disappointed. There are some good performances by a young Christian Slater and others. But all in all this movie is just fun and very cool. "}{"Title":"good show","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i don't even like video games all that much but i still liked the movie.  it was really cute and christian slater was just great in it!  if you haven't seen it, rent it.  it's clean and a good show for all ages.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this film is an awesome slice of late 80's pop culture, with the intent on corrupting the minds of the kids who begged their parents to rent this video from the store. It has that amazing nintendo product placement everywhere, one could say that this movie is an advert and for a trained eye spot all the Vision Skateboard products. Its not a bad movie and its no master-piece, we should look at this for all that it shows, a piece of history that when i watch it gives me memories of me and my older brother playing nintendo for hours on end. This movie is a road-movie for kids, its corny, its dated, but its great to watch. Seen as you dont get these sort of movies for kids anymore, movies about being young, being free, never wanting to grow old and that everlasting summer vacation. All kids movies are about now is looking good, wearing make-up and acting like an adult. This is an awesome film.  "},{"Title":"GREATEST MOVIE EVER","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  by far the best video game movie of all time.... even better than Mario Brothers..... thats right people.... everyone who hates it is denying their love for it...  Who can't help but get goosebumps when Mario 3 is introduced.... GIMME GIMME GIMME JIMMY JIMMY JIMMY WOOOOODS!!!  Lets Video Armagetton Begin!!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The basic plot of this movie involves video games, and a video competition, but unlike other viewers, I don't think that's what this movie is about.This movie starts with a disturbed 10 year, old (Jimmy)running away from home, intent on walking to California. He is put into a place for troubled children, and his older half brother (Fred Savage) helps him sneak out and wants to help him get to California. He's angry at his dad for allowing them to put Jimmy away, and angry at his older brother, Christian Slater, who he blames for his half sister's death (Jimmy's twin sister died on a family vacation when CS was supposed to be watching her, and Jimmy has been troubled ever since). The only reason they even play video games along the way is that they need money to fund their trip, and are using Jimmy's talent to hustle for money, and want to win the competition to get money.This movie is truly more centered on why Jimmy is so traumatized, and what exactly is in California that he so desperately wants. It turns out he only wants to return to the place him and Jennifer (his sister) had last been together, and  honor her memory. It makes me teary just thinking about it.The movie itself is entertaining as well as sad, and I would recommend it to anyone. They do spend a lot of the movie discussing video games, which would be boring to anyone not into them, but that's not what the movie is about. It's about the complications of a mixed family, losing a loved one, and finding yourself and your peace with others. "},{"Title":"Awesome! Great fun for all kids that love video games.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Awesome Movie! It brings me right back to my childhood. Kids + video games > Great Fun! I don't know how many times I have seen this movie but I just can't get enough of it. Even though I am now grown up this will forever be one of my all time favorites. The other great thing is the sound track, I love that song! "},{"Title":"This movie rocks","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie, I really, really love this movie. It's not that it's a great Hollywood film, It's just that it lets you take a stroll down memory lane. This really did make me appreciate the original 8-bit Nintendo, you don't really appreciate things until they are no longer here. This Movie really is fun to watch, also it is a great family film, It is suitable for children and parents would remember if they have older children the old 8-bit Nintendo and having they're kids and they're friends coming over after school and playing Pro Wrestling until their arms fell off. So at least give it a shot, you really can't go wrong, unless you hate video games. If you like, at least like, video games, not even love games, then you'll get a kick out of this. So, give it a shot, I mean you should use your best judgement on this, but I would really like for more people to watch this, not from a Hollywood perspective, but a people perspective. Please do watch it, if you really don't like it, you can blame me. "},{"Title":"Good Movie;Many mistakes","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For all you Nintendo lovers out there, you'll like this movie.  I own the movie and still watch it but I'm kind of disappointed of all the game mistakes.  Also because they think they are all good yet in most games they play they're in level1 the whole time.  Overall a good movie but I think I would have made a better Wizard since I'm good myself at Nintendo.  Kids will like it because of the Nintendo Games, and Parents will love it because of it's family hearted Genre. "},{"Title":"*****perfect 5 stars,an extremely underrated,charming,delightful,& just plain fascinating & cute movie.","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is NOT the kind of film you should listen to the Prof. film critics reviews(mainly because most of them wouldn't even touch a game let  alone play one),sure I too thought that if you're a PSX or sega fan or non-VG or anti-VG somebody you might not like this film actually the Commercialism as so many critic's & people in the aforementioned categories above said is actually an interesting way to bring appeal to small-to-teenish children,& besides it has a charming story behind it (Fred Savage) is commonly funny & Hailey is interestingly sassy & the Traumatized boy Jimmy (Luke Edwards) is funny & rather cute,& the villains the hired tracker & Lucas & the Later-teenaged-yeared thugs who attack the trio are those you can really boo & throw a bunch of things at,the soundtrack my biggest cheer is Send me an Angel from Real Life which it's arrival is one of the best part's of the movie,the biggest jeer placing a New kids on the block(I despise N.K.O.T.B) but the film tried to keep the fans happy so I won't mind too much. "},{"Title":"Is Fred Savage the man or what?","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, not really in this movie, he's actually a little boy.  But that's not important, he is still AWESOME in this movie!  I even liked Little Monsters. I think all kids of all ages will like this movie, all that I know have. As a fan of Nintendo, Fred Savage, and 80's comedies in general, I love this movie.  Oh yeah, Christian Slater is in it too, for die hard fans of his. Awesome stuff.   "},{"Title":"Not Mr. Wizard","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a review of The Wizard, not to be confused with The Wiz, or Mr. Wizard. The Wizard is a late-eighties film about a seriously silent boy's ability to play video games and walk during the entire opening credits. The Wiz is an unnecessary update of The Wizard of Oz, and Mr. Wizard is that guy that attached 100 straws together and had some kid drink tang out of it.Now that we've gotten all that out of the way, let me say this there's really no reason to see this movie. It's simply a 100 minute Nintendo commercial designed to capitalize on the Powerglove, the Legend of Zelda and Super Mario Brothers 3. I use the word designed in the loosest sense possible, because it seems like this movie was written over a weekend by a crack team of people who had never played Nintendo, and directed by a man with less sense of style than my grandmother. Maybe if the writer and director sat down and actually played some games together, they'd realize that they were about to film total rubbish and instead go to vocational school to learn how to install car stereos.I hope that this has been an enlightening experience for you. It sure hasn't been for me. In fact, I think I might have lost a few braincells in the act of watching this movie and writing about it. Next time you're at the video store and you see the The Wiz, The Wizard and The Wizard of Oz all sitting there on the shelf in a pretty little row, give them all a miss and play Duck Hunt instead. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite movies when I was younger","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll admit that THE WIZARD is not the best movie ever made, but when I was younger, I was convinced it was. To me, it was the coolest movie in the world. However, watching it recently, it doesn't hold up as well. It's still a good movie, but now I wouldn't exactly describe it as the coolest movie in the world. It still remains a fairly decent family movie though. There some memorable lines and decent performances from the child actors. Overall, I'd give it three stars, but six years ago I would have given it four stars. "},{"Title":"Good really Good","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was great.  Luke Edwards was outstanding. Fred Savage and Jenny Lewis were great as well.  The whole movie was an amazing look at the mind of a child through video games.  It was excellent. "},{"Title":"Think of it as a history lesson in gaming","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Alright, this movie isn't a good movie. In fact, I DVRed it thinking it was the movie Warlock. But this is the Wizard, the infamous movie about Nintendo games and such.. only if. The movie is really about a couple of kids traveling cross country to play in a Nintendo tournament. Honestly, the game play in this movie is fun and entertaining, but the rest of the film is mainly cheese. However the movie can be useful if you think of it as window into gaming culture back in those days. And you'll even learn a thing or two. Apparently the infamous Power Glove had gyroscopic technology! Why didn't Nintendo make that more well known? Or include that technology in the Super Nintendo or something? Basically Nintendo didn't do anything with it until the Wii. But the Wii did kind of save Nintendo's but so who am I to judge? Another thing I learn is that there was a 1-800 number for gamers to call for game advice! I guess some gamers needed something like that back before the internet was around. Anyway, the movie is fun when they're actually playing games which is about 5 to 10 percent of the movie. So yeah. "},{"Title":"I don't like The Wizard... it's so bad","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As others have pointed out, this is basically a very long commercial for Nintendo. The difference between a very long commercial and this film is that this film's creators decided to surround the commercial with an uninteresting story about a troubled boy who wants to go to California.Because the movie has to juggle the need to promote Nintendo with the need to have a story that went beyond promote Nintendo, the result is a story that feels forced and insincere with its emotional moments coupled with game scenes that never really take off because you don't really care about the characters involved in them. It's easy when you're a kid, especially back in 1989, to overlook the obvious flaws, but they're otherwise unavoidable.Almost none of the actors stood out to me with the exception of Will Seltzer, playing a villain who tries capturing Jimmy in order to bring him back to the institution from whence he came. His was the only character whose antics I was amused by. "},{"Title":"This from a 27 year old man","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is like a Kids version of Rat RaceFred Savage takes his brother to California but along the way finds out his brother is super skilled at arcade games. They also meet Haley who is the typical Not a love interest but one of the boys types you occasionally see in pre-teen movies and TV Shows.One thing that I heard about it was that this was just a big commercial for Super Mario Bros. 3, And while it is in a way, There is still a story that for the most part has nothing to do with Super Mario. It's less obvious than Man Of Steel or Transformers 4 for example.Christian Slater and Beau Bridges are the Father & Son who try to get Fred Savage and his brother since they ran away.There are also several Villains that are pretty funny and have their spotlight.The only thing I did not like in the movie was that there was a lot of profanity for a PG Movie. If this movie was released today, It would probably be PG-13 and it isn't really needed.Also the movie ends on a sincere note. "},{"Title":"good kids adventure despite the danger and Nintendo commercial","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jimmy Woods (Luke Edwards) suffers from unspecified mental handicap and often wanders off to go to California. He lives with his mother Christine Bateman and stepfather. The stepfather institutionalizes him in a home. Corey (Fred Savage) and Nick (Christian Slater) live with their father Sam Woods (Beau Bridges). There is little that Sam can do without custody. Corey takes his half-brother Jimmy away from the home on a trip to California. Bateman hires Putnam (Will Seltzer) to track down Jimmy while Sam and Nick follow the boys on their own. While at a bus station, they meet Haley Brooks (Jenny Lewis) and discover that Jimmy is a real wizard at video games. Haley suggests entering him in a big video game contest in L.A.This is a fun little adventure for kids. Of course, it's insanely dangerous to promote hitchhiking for little kids and it's a thinly disguised commercial for Nintendo. Nevertheless, Lewis and Savage are cute together. The power glove sounded awesome. The B story has some fun comedy. Beau Bridges getting hooked on video games is funny. If not for 3 little kids hitchhiking around in what essentially is a commercial, I would be more fully behind this movie. "},{"Title":"Are you a (Power Glove) Wizard Harry?","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A good way of telling if you will like this film is to watch the power glove scene. It shows exactly the nature of this film, and you wouldn't have it any other way. If you like cheesy films, you will probably like this.It is rather hard to vote a film such as this. On one hand, there is such blatant advertising for the SNES/Nintendo in general (as well as a certain amusement park) that it should almost be down-voted to a 1 or 2. It is also incredibly cheesy, even as 80 kids films go.But then on the other hand, this film has an odd goofy nature that really shows when it was from. It also contains some interesting and funny lines and memorable scenes, many which are spoken to or referenced today, for better or for worse.If you did not know, this film in general concerns a young group of kids trying to go to a video game championship themselves. There is an underlying plot, but why spoil anything else here? This film is bad but in a good way. It has just enough charm to prevent it from being bad. There is a whole lot of advertisement but it somehow does not feel as in the face as lets' say Mac and Me. Though it can't exactly be said that this film is good.7.3 Nintendiums out of 10 "},{"Title":"It's Actually Good!","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when it first was released back in 1990 or so and I was just a very young kid. I remember I did not really want to see it and my sister dragged me in to see it promising I would get to pick the next movie (which of course never happened). Anyway my parents made me go to it with her and her friend and I had no idea what the movie was about but I ended up liking it a lot. It's a pretty simple story about this boy who is really good at playing and beating video games. The boy is played by Fred Savage who did The Wonder Years and was The Mole in Austin Powers years later. He goes to a tournament for a new Nintendo game to try to beat everyone and become the ultimate video game champion. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic or Nostalgia Trip","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's a lot of things this movie is and isn't. It is a great trip down memory lane, a blast from the past, a reminder of all things late 80s and early 90s, and a shameless Nintendo promo. It isn't a work of art, a plausible scenario, or even a decent movie by its own standards.If you were born before 1994, this movie is pretty much a love letter to ye olden days when Nintendo was king of the living room and emotional strife was brewing in 9/10 American families. This has all the components of a story that could draw in kids at the time. Our story features Corey (Fred Savage) who steals away with his younger and emotionally disturbed brother Jimmy (Luke Edwards) to escape the mounting tension of their family that is falling apart around them. Along the way they encounter a feisty red-headed girl named Haley (Jenny Lewis) and discover that Jimmy has a natural talent for playing video games and beating anyone that he faces. Soon they devise a plan to escape to L.A. to compete in a video game contest for $50,000 and in doing so prove that Jimmmy isn't a lost cause and possibly saving their family in the process. However, they have to dodge the boys' father and older brother (played by Beau Bridges and Christan Slater), a kid bounty hunter, and beat the competition.Yeah, the plot is seemingly ridiculous, and it really is. At one point the kids resort to hustling money in arcades to pay for their cross country trip. Then they encounter the a 13 year old boy who lives by himself and only plays video games for sustenance (with the aid of the Power Glove) who plays the evil foil for the main characters. And finally, they go into a casino complete with preteen girls in full showgirl uniform selling concessions.As mentioned before, this is for people who were kids and remember the Nintendo Era in all its splendor. If you missed this gem growing up or don't care at all, you won't change your mind and should avoid this corny rose-tinted film at all costs. But if you want to inject some nostalgia into your eyes or haven't seen this since you were a kid, rent it off Amazon or track down a copy and have a laugh. We were dumb kids. "},{"Title":"awesome movies","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" it is a cool movie. there was the part that i like the most was that dude got punched because the girl screamed he touched my breast. it is a very funny movie cool gangster need more movies like this best movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. coolest movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!gangster shot!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!coolest! funny! 108kg 6ft tall cool the best movie BoDeans &#x96; You Don't Get MuchPatsy Cline &#x96; Leavin' on Your MindBoDeans &#x96; Red RiverNew Kids on the Block &#x96; You Got It (The Right Stuff)Real Life &#x96; Send Me an Angel '89New Kids on the Block &#x96; Hangin' ToughMartha & The Vandellas &#x96; Nowhere to Run byPaul Carrack &#x96; I Live by the GrooveBobby Brown &#x96; Don't Be CruelPaul Anka &#x96; My WaySally Dworsky &#x96; I Found My Way "}{"Title":"I Have Friends!!","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was at truck stop shop in northeast Ohio getting a brake chamber replaced. Swapping stories with the other truckers. One was telling us about being around Reno. He heard Spanky over the c.b. Haley says a grown man touched her in an inappropriate manner. Im gonna find this creep and kick his ass! Who's with me!!. About a dozen replied and said they were in,to include the gear jammer talking to us now. F.Y.I. ,the red Autocar Frank McRae drives is the same Autocar that Stallone drives in Over The Top.Frank McRae drives the Autocar big rig.Frank McRae is a permanent A list actor!!Wendy Phillips is hot!!---One Truck Drivers' Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"One man's nostalgia is another man's neglect","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The problem with watching The Wizard now is the fact that it is so dated, and is no longer relevant to anybody, other than people amused by the classics, such as myself. Today's kids aren't going to want to watch this film simply because it's old. Even I, a retro-Nintendo fan, was bored throughout most of this film.Reason being why this film was so big at the time was because kids everywhere were in love with the Nintendo Entertainment System, and wanted to see and play anything to do with it. Plus, not only was it a movie with some games referenced in it, it also had the sneak peek of Super Mario Bros. 3. I can't imagine the looks on a child's face as they saw some early footage of one of the greatest games in video game history. It's things like that juice-up the nostalgia meter, but don't do much to juice-up the likability of the film.The story is about two boys, Corey (Savage) and his brother Jimmy (Edwards), who run away from their parents after a family fights consume the house. Jimmy suffers from a serious mental condition, and remains silent for most of the film. Corey realizes that Jimmy is a wizard at video games. He seems pretty calm about his skills as well, and they soon meet up with Haley (Lewis), another runaway who tells them about Video Armageddon, a big video game event that showcasing player's skill. Suddenly, they are en route to it.The Wizard's main problem is it is overly written and completely unrealistic, but I think that is what most kids will like about it. Home Alone was very over-the-top, but kids like it because the unlikely happened. Same thing happens with The Wizard. Though too many times these kids are put into serious danger, that no kid would escape. I find it incredibly hard to believe young kids aren't victim to trouble or abduction when they wander the streets aimlessly as runaways escaping kidnappers like they do it all the time.Every kid who saw this film came for the video game footage. Not the actual storyline. There are parts in the film where games are shown, saying they are on level three or something, when really, it's plain obvious to the character when they are on level. Any kid who was a huge fan of these games was most likely yelling in the theater hey, he's not on level three, and frankly, if I was eight in 1989 I probably would've too.The film focuses too much on a senseless, congested storyline when it could be focusing on trying to construct more video game footage for the kids. If you told a child, around eight or nine years old, that this film as going to show five seconds of Super Mario Bros., they wouldn't bite. If you market the film like it centers around that game, then kids would bite. Nintendo could've banked from this a lot more had they simply gave kids what they wanted. It disappoints all around.Watching the end scene in 2011 doesn't really mean much now, because Super Mario Bros. 3 can now be bought for a few dollars off of Amazon, or at any retro-game used store. All I could think was how many kids screamed at the screen when they saw this come up so abruptly. That's all The Wizard is good for now. Memories, imagining, and nostalgia. Those three things only make for a paper-thin film.Starring Fred Savage, Luke Edwards, Jenny Lewis, and Christian Slater. Directed by Todd Holland. "},{"Title":"I love The Wizard. It's so bad.","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes, this is the infamous 100 minute long Nintendo commercial, climaxing with the reveal of Super Mario Bros. 3, which was released a couple of months afterward. It also has time to fit in commercials for Hostess deserts and Universal Studios theme park. Yet, for a commercial, it's not half bad. I admit, I like it 99% based on misplaced nostalgia (I was 10 when the movie was released). Not only was it about Nintendo, it starred Fred Savage! I seriously didn't even remember Christian Slater was in it, nor Beau Bridges (who is terrible pretending he knows how to play Nintendo, flailing at the buttons as he does). And the girl who co-stars is Jenny Lewis, now one of today's greatest musicians, heading the band Rilo Kiley as well as having a fantastic solo career. I would never have recognized her. The story's not that bad. As far as feature length commercials go, it's quite a bit better than Mac & Me. youtube.com/watch?v=Ya0F83Bmbl4. "},{"Title":"Savage-ness","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is just deserts for Fred Savage that his character's name is Corey in this movie. In his most infamous role, he plays Cory in Boy Meets World. Coincidence or not, its just funny he continues to be called Corey, whether he likes it or not.As for the movie itself, it isn't bad. Corey and his half brother, Jimmy, run away and play Nintendo games on the original NES system. Corey wants to go to California to hide Jimmy from the institution, so he uses Jimmy to help them get there.Along with some racketing to people that can't play games, they get there. They meet a girl, whom shows some interest in Fred/Corey. It ends, of course, on a happy note in California.The one funny thing about the movie is the crash scenes. The Dad competes with the Mom and her new hubby on getting to the boys first. She hires a P.I., whom fights with the ex-hubby via crashing into him and vice versa.Overall, its alright. Sort of funny at times and amusing to me with all the old games seen as 'exciting' in the film. Corey/Cory/Corry isn't bad. C+ "},{"Title":"A good movie...","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As I child, I thought The Wizard was the greatest movie ever. I greatly liked the fact that it showed a lot of games that I liked and played at the time. It's pretty funny that I recently found this movie on DVD at my local Walmart. Remembering my childhood experience with the movie, I went ahead and purchased it. As I watched it at home, I laughed a lot about how I thought the movie was. The one part about the Power Glove made me laugh it up as I remembered I had the power glove and I thought it was so cool at the time. Now I realize that it is silly, but it's nice to remember something from my childhood.Also, looking at this movie grown up I can see that the movie is beyond games. When I was younger I didn't understand the movie, but when I seen it grown up, I realize that the movie is very heartwarming and nice to see a good family movie. I recommend this movie for anyone who either wishes to bring back childhood memories or just want a good movie for the entire family. "},{"Title":"The Wizard took a wicked wiz. Its smells, but it's nostalgic as hell. Now you're playing with power","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Welcome to a bad example of Nintendo Propaganda! 8-Bit Nintendo. 2 Bit Script. The Wizard is a lousy movie, but it's a guilty pleasure of mine. Directed by Todd Holland, the movie reminds me of Wonder Years meets 'Rain Man' with Nintendo. The Wizard also known as Joy Stick Heroes, Sweet Road, The Video Game Genius, Game Over and Gameboy in other countries is an adventure comedy-drama film about three children who decide to runaway to California after the death of a family member. The weak main plot is undermined, by the superior sub-plot of one of the children, Jimmy Woods (Luke Edwards), while being emotionally withdrawn, has a useful skill in video games. He's so good, that he's allow to take part of a video game tournament. This 20% part of the film, brings most of the entertaining value; while the other 80% is under par. The whole emotional depth of Jimmy trying to overcome his grief for his sister, is truly not develop, right. That plot is not emotion enough, to care about, and nearly forgotten over the superior entertaining video game sub-plot. The jokes with Jimmy's father, Sam (Beau Bridges) & older brother, Nick (Christian Slater) trying to reach the children, first, between Putnam (Will Seltzer), a greedy and sleazy runaway-child bounty hunter does, is pretty awful and unfunny. Why are both groups sabotaging each other's efforts? Isn't the child well-being more important than this childish badgering? Why is the adults in this film, acting like children, while the children is acting more like adults? Most of the humor are really bad in this film. A young girl loudly accusing the man of molesting her is supposed to be funny? Not funny. Not funny at all. Lots of unrealistic kid movie moments that kinda hurt the film, a bit. How could a 9-year-old boy walk miles along a desert highway without being noticed? I doubt the kids would find enough old rich people playing video games to gambling against. It's not like today, where video games have more appeal to an older generation that lived through video games eras like Atari. Games were pretty mediocre, in graphics and story back then. I doubt many adults played video games at the time. The Wizard is famous for its numerous references to video games and accessories for the Nintendo Entertainment System. The Power Glove is one of those scenes that make the product look amazing; while in truth, the power glove is indeed truly bad. It doesn't even work, most of the time with it hard to control difficulty. Playing the game, Rad Racer on it, isn't easy at all! The film was also well known for the debut of Super Mario Bros. 3. The whole game tournament was indeed tense. Still, it was a bit odd for Jimmy to find a cheap code on a yet to debut game. Honestly, how did he know where to find the warp levels? There were a lot of Inaccuracies BS moments throughout this film. A good example is when Jimmy plays Double Dragon at the bus stop, Corey remarks that Jimmy scored 50,000 points. Jimmy achieved this in less than two minutes of play when in reality it would take playing through nearly the entire game to do so, which would take much more time. Nearly every video game that's played for any length of time in this movie is depicted incorrectly. And this as Product Placement paid for by Nintendo. It is things like this; that would turn off viewers. Still, a lot of old school gamers, would love to revisit this film as it show cast gameplay from Nintendo hits like Castlevania II Simon's Quest, Contra, Double Dragon, Mega Man 2, Metroid, Ninja Gaiden. It was a bit odd for Nintendo to showcase, some of their really crappy games as well like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles & Zelda II the Adventure of Link. As much, as it's nice to see somebody else, play the games well. It's well better to play it yourself. The movie is full of product placement, examples ranges from the family passes by the Cabazon Dinosaurs, a highway tourist attractions to the last part of the film taking place at Universal Studios in California. Large amounts of the time toward the end is use just to showcase extended advertisement for the studio tour. I think that one of the reasons, this movie fails. It felt like a feature length commercial than a movie. The supporting acting in the film was pretty alright at the time. Fred Savage as Jimmy's brother, Corey and Jenny Lewis as Haley were pretty good in their roles. The music by J. Peter Robinson is alright. Overall This PG-rated 97 minutes, commercial movie has maintains a cult following within the video game culture for good reasons. It's clearly not for the story, but the nostalgia factor of the games that were represented here. So check it out if you want to. Other than that. This movie is game over. "},{"Title":"The Wizard","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I actually have this on VHS. I also saw it in the theater when it came out way back when. This movie to me is one of my favorites. Luke Edwards was very good. I like the whole movie. I can't say anything bad about this movie, because it tugged at my heart strings a lot. It made me laugh (giggle) and it made me almost cry in parts. This movie will always be a favorite. Right now I'm watching LITTLE MONSTERS and wish it was being released on DVD. I would love to get THE WIZARD on DVD. I would also love to get LITTLE MONSTERS on DVD, just cause I love the movie. LOL. I think I'll always love this movie, because it was well done and just seems to me that the whole movie worked well. I don't care about mistakes or anything. I just think that the movie offers an insight of a child's point of view. "},{"Title":"Nintendo!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you were a child of the video game explosion that mostly became widely purported by the Nintendo gaming system, then this movie is the flashback that you've been needing. It will cover all the lame stuff that you would look back on and laugh at these days. This movie doesn't really cross over into today's culture, so younger generation beware of this movie. The only reason to find this movie is purely for a time warp. If you can imagine that this movie came out before Super Mario 3, then you can go back in your backlog of memories past and dig up where you were around this period. To me this movie is more of a time capsule. It's got Rad Racer... It's got the Power Glove... What more do you need?The plot and the acting is lame enough for even the most die hard person to want to lay on the 'fast forward' button on their VCR (since I doubt this will even come on DVD).Okay, now for a quick outline of the plot.... An autistic kid with amazing gaming skills (for the time) piques the interest of his older brother and a hard luck case girl. Together they plan a cross-country trip that will take them to Universal Studios for the all around best gamers competition.80's at it's best if you ask me, and a 7 for pure nostalgia! "},{"Title":"The greatest infomercial ever made! (minor spoilers) I love The Wizard... it's so bad...","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow. Product placement, baby.This movie must hold some kind of all-time record for most instances of product placement in a movie. If you like Nintendo, you'll be in awe here. Mattel's Power Glove, the Nintendo hints hotline, and dozens upon dozens of late 80's NES games on the screen - Double Dragon, Metroid, Mega Man 2, Super Mario Bros. 2, etc.The crown jewel was Super Mario Bros. 3 (quite possibly the best 2D platform game ever made).The dialogue is often horrifically, unintentionally funny.Calee-fornee-uh!You got 50,000 on Double Dragon?I love the Power Glove...it's so bad.AHHHH! He touched my breast!When Jimmy beats Lucas, he finds a warp whistle in an area that you couldn't POSSIBLY know about without reading a guide/talking to someone who's played it (the first Bam-Bam fortress), leading me to believe the way to win in life is to cheat -0. The eventual reasoning for going to California is logical.That all said, the movie has A LOT of nostalgic charm, decent acting (they're all child actors, so cut them some slack!), and a breezy story. Sure we never really know WHY three kids can hitch-hike for two weeks across the Utah desert without getting murdered or raped, but hey, it's just a movie after all. I've seen movies that are boring, I've seen commercials that are entertaining, but somehow, this commercial/movie is intriguing.4 to 10 out of 10, depending on how much you like the NES. "},{"Title":"Nintendo forever.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Where do I start? Again this is another film that will never go away from my memory, I like many kids at the time were obsessed by the NES and remember the happy times we had with it, I really like the story and actually bought this movie and watch it every so often. Fred Savage was one of the best kid actors of all time, Luke Edwards even though he isn't as famous still was a pretty decent kid actor, I also enjoyed Little Big League my favorite baseball movie. Beau Bridges and Christian Slater also played their roles well, The bad guy Lucas Barton, I don't know his real name, but never seen him ever again really wasn't great. The announcer with the crazy suit at the end was cool I wonder where he went? The Wizard wasn't anything significant, but was probably the best video game film there has been even 14 years later. I could go on and on about this film and how much the old video gamers love it but I won't. "}{"Title":"Being a kid when this came out is the only way to enjoy this film","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now ill be the first to say that this film is not the best, but when i was young and had bugged my parent to get me a Nintendo i thought it was just great, the Nintendo by todays standards is awful its slow graphics are terrible and the games are dated but god damn it i would love to go back to that time and play them all again i played them so much i could finish most of the games i had all except snake rattle and roll i could never do that last level. But back to the point when the wizard came out i couldn't wait to watch it and to be fair it was what it seemed to be a 90 min advertisement for Nintendo with the story if your good at video games people wont think your slow, well it had me convinced and so fred savage and co went on there little journey and played video games along the way they meet the little git who is the nemesis with his gay ass power glove i never had one but i heard from a reliable resource that they were pants what was good however was the joystick they used in the final game which was the game that we all wanted to play super mario 3 which at the time was the most amazing game around on an 8 bit systemand to make it even more fun they pointed out little tricks you could do in the game before it even came out the magic flute they got in the castle, interesting though that no one had played this game but they knew what everything did but it was a kids film and i was a kid who was captivated by this,but looking back the film was awful but i can still sit through it and i just cant bear to get rid of it its still got a hold on me in a weird nostalgic way i guess we cant let go of some parts of our childhood "},{"Title":"Indescribably Bad.","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Was there a single positive to this film? Critics who knew nothing of video games could spot the gaming errors made. No damage taken with damage clearly visible towards the beginning being a primary example.And I may have missed something, but wasn't Super Mario Bros. 3 suppose to be a game that had never played before? Well if that IS the case, and I did not miss anything... how did Fred Savage's character, and even the girl, know so much about the game already? We're talking things that some people don't know about by their second or third play-through.Beyond the factual and gaming errors there is the general low quality of the film itself. Nothing here is honestly very memorable. The kid wasn't even that good at playing video games in the footage they showed. A lot of kids I knew way back in those days were significantly more experienced. On top of all this the acting and storyline are just mediocre at their strongest points. The characters are bland and completely uninteresting, the 'Wizard' (the youngest child) is a very silent, completely dry child clich of a little kid who almost never talks because of a trauma. It isn't that this is unrealistic, it's the fact that it had to be thrown into the movie to actually even begin to form a plot that would exceed even 30 minutes.Honestly, the only value that is to be found here is that of a nostalgic nature. If you grew up with this movie you're going to like it whether it was good or not. It was about kids playing video games, and at the time you saw it you likely had an obsession with the NES as well. But unless you loved it as a kid there just isn't anything that's going to keep you interested, and very little that will prevent you from turning it off.No sir, I didn't like it. "},{"Title":"Touching story buried beneath some hot video games","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I imagine that if I'd had a stronger childhood connection to The Wizard, then I'd be better able to appreciate it as an adult. I did see this movie in the theater - I was 9, so naturally I gravitated toward the Nintendo aspect - but no further rewatches until many years later. But it feels like a movie at odds with itself. You've got the competing interests of a family drama (and there's some fairly serious stuff going on here) with a branded product designed to sell NES games and a trip to Universal Studios. They don't gel. There's a Karate Kid feel with our contender training and strolling into the tournament, but once he's won (because he's supposed to), then we've got that whole family subplot we still have to sort out in the closing moments. Almost as an afterthought.I know this is a kids' movie and I have no problem with that. But the toy commercial cheapens the serious stuff. Although I do think it's very funny that Lucas Barton has attained his own Internet fame.5/10 "},{"Title":"DEFINITELY 'of it's time'...","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oh, I miss those days when video games were limited to 64 colours, controllers only had two buttons and the latest titles were sixty quid a pop. Wait a minute... no I don't.Regardless, here we have a movie where three runaways including Wonder Years (never watched it) star Fred Savage, his dysfunctional little brother and some tagalong chick hotfoot it to California so the youngest of their number to compete in a Nintendo tournament. On the way, they play plenty of arcade games for 'practice' (e.g Product Placement) while dodging the unwelcome attentions of a hired private eye on route.Cue parents and kids bonding over Ninja Turtles, minors hitchhiking across the USA without barely ANYTHING GOING WRONG and false claims of sexual assault against a pre-teen girl somehow being justified so she and her friends can make a quick getaway from their pursuer... HE TOUCHED MY BREAST indeed. It's as thin as rice paper, as cheesy as a Camembert festival and as haphazardly put together as my failed Scalextric projects.Despite all this, I have a soft spot in my scaly old heart for road movies, and seeing all those ancient Nintendo games brings with it something of a warm nostalgic glow (Which is a bit odd, considering I was a Sega dude). Plus, the final Super Mario Bros 3 showdown at the contest is genuinely thrilling... even IF we all know who the victor will be (CLUE Not the blonde jerk or the girl geek).One final question... What DID happen to the Power Glove? 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not exactly great, but really good entertainment due to it's nostalgia value","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've watched this on Comcast on demand three years ago hoping that it would caught my interest. Apparently, my expectations were pretty low when I watched the whole film and was disappointed, but I don't think it's as bad as the critics and others say it is. It reminded me of the Nintendo Games (just Mario, apparently) that I used to play as a child back at the 90s even though this mediocre film was released in the late 80s.First, there are pros that literally saved this movie. Some of the child actors did fine with their performances and suited well for the clichd main characters especially Fred Savage even though the kid saying, California seemed kind of shy and awkward to me. It has some nice references to some of the games (Double Dragon, and everything else along with Super Mario Brothers 3 during a contest in Universal Florida which was awesome in my opinion) and the music is pretty good too.Then, there are the cons that completely ruined the film for me. the adult actors are OK, but to me, they felt like they got bored with their roles and the villain didn't interest me at all. The worst con throughout this film is the story and boy was it boring. You know how it goes A kid got traumatized because of the death of his sister and his family is now lost after his father got divorced. However, a kid has the ability to play games and is really good at it. So, he and two other kids (his brother, played by Fred Savage) journey to other places until finally they reached Universal Florida. The beginning just showed a freaking kid walking in a valley (seriously, what kind of kind can walk in that place where his foster parents are looking for him?) and the ending was completely lame (They just traveled through different countries, entered a video game tournament in Universal Florida, just to enter another theme park where the California saying kid sees a dinosaur and puts a picture of his family on it? Come on! How extremely boring can this ending get?).Overall, The Wizard is a strictly mediocre family film. It shows great nostalgic value that reminded the audience of how much they played the Nintendo games when they were kids or teenagers which shows some great entertainment, but with a much better story, this would've been so much better. "},{"Title":"Universal Presents Nintendo 1989 The Movie","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" by Dane Youssef THE WIZARD isn't any new moniker or fun new twist on the classic story of a little girl from Kansas who gets caught in a tornado and finds herself not only over the rainbow, but in a wonderland of Technicolor and strange characters. Well, at least not exactly. This Wizard dealt with kids in peril, feeling trapped where they were. Video games were their outlet. One boy so disturbed, he became mute and later committed after witnessing the death of his sister. The older brothers living with the father after the divorce. When a child is lost, a family is too. The Wizard open with a small, determined soul walking along a long stretch of road in the pursuit of something. Some goal, some destination. Some form of escape. There's something... he's looking for. He's on his way... somewhere. Somewhere special, somewhere important. Somewhere he needs to be. It fades in like a sunrise... where is he going? We don't know. This boy's name is Jimmy. And he has a goal. He tells us, California... Jimmy, in a major institution, yet breaking loose again and again like the family cat. One day during a visit, big brother Corey takes little Jimmy and the two break loose--together. At an arcade, Corey first-hand witnesses Jimmy is Bobby Fisher's predecessor at Nintendo. They use his skills to play for money. And because it's a road trip movie, they have to pick up a woman along the way. It's a PG flick for little kids (once again, Nintendo fans), so it has to a preteen like them--and they have to be just friend. Her name is Haley, an adolescent drifter. She claims to know the score... and she can raise the money to get them where they need to go. And Halley is one sizzling hustler. Wait 'til she's old enough to develop sex appeal to add to the mix. It was my mother who recalled that old song from the He's A Pinball Wizard by The Who and suggested maybe that's where the movie got its namesake. The little ditty of some soul who was a wonder at that one arcade game. It was his world. Whoever he was. Well, if anyone could relate to that... 'Would've liked to hear that on the soundtrack at maybe some point. A lot of the world said that the Wizard is stuffed to the gills with commercials. But no, they were wrong. The Wizard WAS a commercial. For Nintendo and Universal. If we'd gotten scenes where we see Jimmy's connection to these games, how he becomes Zen, there might have actually been some real significance. We're just watching video games being played. And... that's all we as kids wanted from The Wizard. No really powerful piece of cinema, but to just see kids like us running loose without parental supervision and Nintendo being our source of rebellion. Children as resourceful as can be doing incredible things with the toys we played with and loved. Screenwriter/producer David Chisholm seems to have cobbled this together out of spare plot threads and gimmicks. Usually filmmakers do this when they're just doing the obligated rush hatchet job and don't have their heart in the project they're working on. And you can tell--Chisholm doesn't love this screenplay of his. This is no personal project for him. This is just a Hollywood crowd-pleaser designed to feed the cult masses. The choir (us) loves video games, lives for them, thrives on them. But the makers of this movie don't. They don't care about any of this except--Here, buy this. Spend your money on... For all of those who belonged to the mass cult of Nintendo, this was the third coming. Seeing it again now with older, more experienced eyes... like an old man going back into his childhood home, the bedroom we once lived in, the bed once ours, looking over our own toys and photos... and, and... what the hell was I thinking? Was that even me? Who was that?What is Wizard? A film of our adoration for Nintendo from our childhood, which weaved together our love of movies featuring us kids as the heroes and our undying love of the video games. ... Jesus, what were we thinking? Fred Savage stands as one of the finest child actors there ever was. The Savage was just that--even better. And Luke Edwards is all right for what this role calls for--acting terminally shy at all times. For a movie about the kids and their toys, The Wizard holds some surprisingly good adult performances. Steven Grives as the electrified Video Armageddon Announcer who's like a British Christopher Lloyd as the charged-up Master of Ceremonies. And Will Seltzer as one scummy bounty hunter who tracks down runaways. Beau Bridges, commendable. Christian Slater himself, a fine actor, very fine. Like fine china. And he's given virtually nothing to do in his eldest brother role. Hey, the kids don't care about Bridges or Christian Slater--they care about Nintendo. Well, there's not much Nintendo either. For some reason, after seeing The Wizard again with older eyes, I just somehow didn't feel like video games for the time being. I wanted to get out and physically do something. Take some real action with my life. It was a few days before I picked up a Game Boy. As I was playing my usual Tetris round and trying to break my old record, I was singing quietly to myself, He's A Nintendo Wizard...--Still A Game Boy, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"A fun slice of nostalgia","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Once in a while an adult is reminded of the great times from their childhood. This can happen when they watch their own children play sports just like they did, or when they take them trick-or-treating, or by seeing a movie about childhood. If you were born in the 1970s or 80s then most likely you played a lot of Nintendo games, which is something that to this day makes people nostalgic, including me. In 1989 came a film that featured some favorites of gamers and also revealed what would become one of the most popular games ever made. Watching it today sure it feels pretty dated, but that doesn't change the fact that it's a fun and pleasant viewing experience.Pros Cast is game. Nice score and soundtrack. Beautiful scenery. Well-paced. Silly, but fun concept. Provides a few chuckles. Has some camp value.Cons Quite dated. Predictable. Implausibility level is on high. Ultimately made to promote Super Mario Bros. 3 and Universal Studios.Final thoughts Look this is not an example of great cinema or even one of the best kids movies ever made. It is however sweet and harmless fun that reminds one of a simpler time. You can't tell me you don't still get giddy at the big finish.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"I know this movie is bad, but I actually liked it","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" So the other day I was watching HBO, just surfing and saw that The Wizard was playing, my sister had mentioned how her friends were just talking about this movie. My sister and I were both born in the 1980's and both had a Nintendo system of course. So I decided to go ahead and check out this movie, it seemed sort of like a nostalgic movie that represented out simple time of Super Mario Brothers. Not knowing what this film was about, just that it had a lot of Nintendo games in it, I wasn't sure what to expect. But I'm sure that maybe when the film came out, it had a lot of high expectations, but it was a let down as this story is a bit odd. I don't know who wrote the script, but these kids that star in the movie don't talk or act like kids at all, at least that I could remember I never talked like that with my friends. Then the adults act like a bunch of immature kids, the way some of these people behave, you're surprised they're not in a mental institution. But somehow, I don't know why, I liked this movie. It's one of those movies that I can't explain why, I just enjoyed the film.Jimmy is a young boy who has been in a silent mode since his twin sister drowned in a river. He doesn't interact with anyone, spending most of his time building things out of blocks or boxes, and he always carries his lunch pail with him. He's determined go to California.Jimmy's condition has broken up his family he lives with his mother and stepfather, while his half-brothers Corey and Nick live with their father Sam. When Jimmy is put into an institution, Corey breaks him out and runs away with him to California. Jimmy's mother and stepfather hire Putnam, runaway child hunter, who competes with Corey's father and older brother to find the boys and sabotage each other's efforts. Along the way, they meet a girl named Haley, who is on her way home to Reno. Discovering that Jimmy has an innate skill at playing video games, Haley tells them about Video Armageddon, a video game tournament with a cash prize of $50,000. She then agrees to help the two reach Los Angeles. By doing so, they hope to prove that Jimmy doesn't need to live in an institution.The story is a bit tedious at times, our little weirdo kid Jimmy doesn't exactly have the charm to win over the audience's heart as he's a bit too strange with his deliverance of the line Califooooneeea, heck, even Arnold Schwartzenegger says California more believable than Jimmy. Also, I know the child hunter Puntman is a sleaze bag, but why is he a villain? The dad and brother are constantly getting into unrealistic fights with him that are almost deadly, they slash each other's car tires, they crash into each other's cars, they try to shatter each other's windows, it's a bit too disturbing what they go through just so they could say who got to the kids first. The Wizard was just a big Nintendo promotion to buy all the newest video games, including their newest at the time Super Mario Brothers 3(one of the most awesome video games of all time I have to say), also a promotion of Universal Studios that wasn't too subtle. But still, again, through all that's bad, I think this film has a good time and had good intentions over all. It's nothing too memorable, but if you are a kid of the 80's/90's I think you'll get a kick out of this movie.6/10 "},{"Title":"Memories","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was a little flat for me, but watchable. It reminded me of the games I played when I was younger. Why do we need more graphics to have fun? Anyways, the acting was mediocre, the drama wasn't dramatic and here's a question, 'Why could they tell just by looking at him that he wasn't normal?' I wouldn't have been able to. Strange.Also, the 'villain' was confusing. I wasn't sure how 'evil' he was supposed to be. He seemed to shift quite dramatically in his character in a way that left me completely unsatisfied.Good for a little trip down memory lane (for those who played Nintendo, or just a lot of video games). Otherwise, you may want to leave this one on the shelf. Not bad, but not good either. "},{"Title":"Just a big Nintendo infomercial, with a boring storyline","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" i just rented this about 4 hours ago and watched it as soon as i got home. i expected this movie to be horrible like a pile of dog dung. i was partially right. it does suck, but it doesn't totally suck. a Nintendo tournament is a cool idea.Jimmy is 9 years old and autistic. he also has a great talent very few other kids have...he's a wizard at video games. however, due to his autism, it makes him shy, and he rarely speaks words. and he has a goal in mind...to go to California. why? no one knows.Meanwhile, Corey, jimmy's 13 year old brother is having a hard time accepting the huge changes to his family. in frustration, he runs to where his autistic brother has been institutionalized by his new step-dad, and breaks him out to bring him to California. Wait, doesn't that sound a little like the movie Rain man?This movie certainly was better than some of the horse manure i've glued my eyes to the screen for. like The dukes of hazzard, home alone 4, the great panda adventure, and grizzly mountain. and 3 out of 4 of those movies are considered family movies. and that means family entertainment. however, the only entertaining thing about this movie was the fact i could brag about how much i knew about the pre-90's video games the characters were playing. another thing that twisted me was the evil bounty hunter. Screwattack should've ranked him somewhere in their list of D-bags in video games.overall, it's not extremely bad, but it's not good either. "}{"Title":"For gamers!","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fans of video games, this movie is real gemstone. If you remember Jeff Bridges in TRON, Beau Bridges plays the father in this movie, The Wizard. Here you have a family torn apart by tragedy The youngest brother Jimmy(Luke Edwards) lost his sister in a drowning, the parents are divorced Both Corey(Fred Savage) and his brother Nick(Christian Slater) resents their mom and her new boyfriend(Sam MacMurray). They want Jimmy institutionalized, simply because he won't talk. So what does Corey do, run away with Jimmy, and meet up a young girl to head to a video game competition in Las Vegas. They have to overcome some obstacles a rival player, and a runaway getter sent by Corey's mother and boyfriend. They get the upper hand when she makes an accusation that gets him in trouble with the guards, and some truckers she made friends with earlier. I liked the part where the four truckers heard the report on what he did, and took turns on giving him that shiner. The Super Mario Bros. 3 game was awesome, even though it wasn't out at the time, the commercial shout it out months later. The movie is very heart-warming and very well advertised. It was great for all the Nintendo fans out there, including me! 2.5 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Don't get me wrong, the movie is cool if u grew up in the late 70s/ early 80s...","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" But lets be honest.... this movie was blatant propaganda made for the sole purpose of getting kids excited about Nintendo and making them beg their pushover parents to buy them all those games. You think its cool at the time, but as an adult, you look back and go wow, i can't believe i was conned into buying so much crap. Sure Nintendo was cool back then, but you were always frustrated with the damn thing. Most of the time, it was more trouble than fun. It's a classic case of bandwagon marketing. They make this movie to show how cool Nintendo is, show a movie portraying Nintendo to be this revolutionary thing that ALL the cool kids are playing, everyone just HAD to have it. It worked too. Unfortunately, after a while u realize just how crappy it was, unless you were one of the lucky ones who had only occasional problems with it. "},{"Title":"Game Boy Or Rain Boy?","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Remember the 1980s? It was a glorious time when you could use the cinema as the ultimate marketing tool. The Wizard is a wondrously outstanding commercial for Nintendo's release of the video game Super Mario Bros. 3, but as a motion picture it has lots of static. A young boy (Luke Edwards) is literally taken out of a mental institution by his older brother (Fred Savage) with no one knowing until it is too late. Edwards is very distant and seems to have autistic tendencies. They decide to go to California to get Edwards in a national Nintendo tournament. Along the way they meet up with youngster Jenny Lewis and together the trio slowly advances to their destination. Soon Beau Bridges (the boys' father) and Christian Slater (their older brother) set out to find them. Of course they are in a race against time with Bridges' ex-wife (Wendy Phillips) and her husband (Sam McMurray) and also with super-slimy private investigator Will Seltzer. The big conflict for Savage and company is a brash video-gamer (Jackey Vinson) and his group of adolescent cronies (which includes Tobey Maguire if you look real hard) who are trying to keep our heroes out of the video game competition. Silly It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World-styled hybrid with everyone trying to get to that darn video game contest. The kids are all annoying and the adults are not much better. Uninspired direction and down-right poor writing doom The Wizard. Even those dying to see a preview of Super Mario Bros. 3 in 1989 stayed away as information and footage of the game leaked out before this got a suitable release. Wiz-less. 2 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Video Game Movie-Commercial","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one big long movie about Nintendo and a kid who wins big bucks off a game  contest...(and it seems also I was watching a commercial throughout this movie)....I really dont watch this movie--it doesnt hold my interest--I love playing Nintendo, but I guess the movie is just too long for me---Great kids movie, but when i think of renting this my mind says boring.....TMNT was played by Christian Slater in the movie-- I just solved this a few weeks ago thanks to Jnes(a nintendo emulator) and a TMNT rom...and the game I used to have , but lost it...does that make it still legal???!! "},{"Title":"Nostalgia","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seeing as though I grew up with this movie as a kid, it is so hard for me to not be biased in a nostalgic way now. There are plenty of faults to point out in this movie. For instance, how could three teens hitch hike and skateboard halfway across the country without some kind of responsible adult taking notice?Starring a young Fred Savage, Beau Bridges, and Christian Slater (in a completely forgotten role for him), The Wizard proves to be nothing more than an advertisement for the 8-bit Nintendo system these days. However, for kids, this is a solid adventure story, if not a little depressing in spots.At the age of 12, this movie ruled. Today, at age 20, it seems a bit cheesy. And it defines the term product placement. But I will still watch this movie any day, gaping plot holes and all.As mindless entertainment and very 80's, The Wizard is an entertaining hour and a half. If you are looking for a solid script and acting, this is not the ticket. But for my generation, there is a lot of nostalgia in this forgotten film.Grade B "},{"Title":"The Greatest Commercial for Nintendo!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie when I was a kid, but come on face it, this was 80's product placement at it's truest form. Advertising all sorts of Nintendo's than state of the art toys. This movie is great for any child of the 80's looking for a nostalgia trip. It's seriously a fun trip sometimes. "},{"Title":"Me (circa '92) 4 stars. Me (now) Uhh....","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let me just first say that there are way too many people hailing this movie as their all-time favorite... Unless all the reviewers are sarcastic as the Number One Fred Savage Fan...Anyway, I first saw this when I was 8. Back when the NES was still a huge system. As a kid I loved this movie! But now I probably wouldn't even admit to watching it.Yes, I was little, but I must say, it must've been hell for parents to sit through this movie with their kids... The acting's not bad, but the dialogue is rather odd. I mean, do people normally work The Legend of Zelda and Ninja Gaiden into their everyday conversations?Anyway, good for kids (Maybe not now, now that the NES is but a memory to some), but rather tedious for people above the age of 13... "},{"Title":"Oh. My. God.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Caught this sucker on the local UHF station at like 430 AM Sunday Morning, and it just boggles my mind that people actually made this movie.  I'm not saying that to exaggerate my point.  I mean, people wrote the script for this movie. Real people! Someone actually pitched this idea to the powers-that-be. Someone actually approved it. People actually willingly acted in it (the Christian Slater *I'll* always remember).  I mean, think about it, really.I really felt bad for Beau Bridges, watching him cheer on his tard kid, getting excited over the kid getting Super Mario's magic flower or some crap. Pathetic. "},{"Title":"Decent Kid's Flick","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There really isn't anything too bad about the movie. However, it isn't really mapped out to appeal to adults beyond those that are letting their kids watch it. The whole video game savant embodied by Luke Edwards in the role of Jimmy is fine, but they could have dropped that gimmick and made this into a straight drama and I would've liked it better. The main problem I had with the movie is yet another kid's movie cartoonish bad guy. This time it is the investigator trying to find both Savage's and Edwards's characters. Christian Slater and Beau Bridges are the older brother and father to them, and Jenny Lewis gives a good performance as the loney teen girl who teams up with the runaways for a road adventure to Los Angeles. "},{"Title":"It's a 90 minute commercial that still manages to entertain.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time back when it first came out and Nintendo was the undisputed king of videogames.  Things have changed over the years, but the movie still works in it's own way.  The plot is pretty much nonexistent and is only there as an excuse to show kids playing what were then the newest and coolest videogames.  I have no idea what Christian Slater was doing in this thing.  He must have lost a bet.  Fred Savage and Beau Bridges are both pretty good, but the movie definitely belongs to Lucas.  His one line (and you'll know it when you hear it) is worth the price of the rental.  Intrigued?  Check it out.  "}{"Title":"Takes Us Back to A More Innocent Time","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" While fans today may complain over the company's change of focus to casual games, it's hard to forget the known fact that in the late 80's, Nintendo was godly. The NES was a major success, kids everywhere were filled with joy playing such greats such as the Legend of Zelda and Super Mario Bros, and Nintendo was raking in the cash. While the Super Mario Bros Movie is the prime example of Nintendo butchering video game franchises in order to bring them to the big screen, one movie in 1989 was unlike all the others The Wizard.The film begins with a mentally-unstable 6 year old boy named Jimmy. It soon becomes apparent that Jimmy wants to go to California (VERY APPARENT), so his 13 year old half-brother Corey (Fred Savage) steals him from the mental institution, and they're on their way. As an interesting side note, Ben Savage plays a character named Corey on Boy Meets World while Fred Savage plays a different Corey in The Wizard. Confusing. Anyway, Corey's dad (Beau Bridges) and brother (Christian Slater) start on a mission to find the children while competing with a children-finder, who is not nearly as pant-wetting freaky as the child catcher in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, to get them first. It may seem simple on the exterior, but the plot starts to not make much sense when trying to figure out the family connections between all the characters since Jimmy is the product of one marriage and Corey and&#x85;..screw it. Along the way, the duo meets up with Hailey, who convinces them into competing in Video Armageddon, a video game tournament in none other than California.Now, in any great movie there is a great adversary, right? Well of course, and The Wizard is no exception. So, who will be standing in Jimmy's path to video game domination? Lucas Barton, the greatest video gamer in all the land. I really don't know what the creators were thinking when they created this laughable excuse for a villain, but for some odd reason, it actually works. It gives the film a unique sort of feel, and even though it's dated and immature, it's a load of fun.Besides confusing the crap out of an 8 year old with the attention span of a rodent, what other problems does the film have? Got 3 hours to spare? First of all, the morals are all screwed up. The film essentially preaches that hitchhiking is the best plan for 6 and 13 year olds, gambling is great for all ages, screaming about being raped in public to get someone is arrested is fine even if you're just messing around, never reprimand your kids for running away, charge as much money to a hotel room you can't pay for as possible, eat food that isn't yours, sell your parent's bus ticket for some video games&#x85;&#x85;I think the point has been made. I am not even going to discuss the I'm sleeping with my father in a dump on the highway or the 80-year old man in a thong ordering liquor. Seriously, what the hell were they thinking? Thankfully, the soundtrack to The Wizard is about as 80's as possible, and for a fan of music from that decade, it's a true joy to listen to. While all the bands that performed songs for the film have ling been forgotten, rocking tunes such as Send Me an Angel are featured in some great montage sequences that add a unique style to the overall experience. Perhaps my favorite aspect of the movie is the actual filming locations in the movie. The vast majority of the flick showcases Jimmy and Corey hitchhiking from Utah to California, so seeing all the beautiful scenery and open areas is a real treat.There are great movies, there are terrible movies, and then there is The Wizard. I truly don't know how to even classify it since, yes, it is a plot disaster, yet it's enormously entertaining and interesting. I have seen this flick more times over the years than I can even count, and watching it today still gives me a sense of satisfaction and joy. Considering Nintendo's other film outings have been terrible at best, The Wizard is a refreshing movie that is definitely worth a watch if under the right mindset. "},{"Title":"If you like to watch commercials","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a child who grew up watching television and playing video games, I was absolutely obsessed with this movie. With a bit of time, I slowly realized that the whole entire purpose of the movie was to promote a new NES video game and attachments (the NES Power Glove). So, as long as you don't mind having advertising shoved down your throat in massive unadulterated quantities, enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Scroll Weapon.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This particular film helped me through high school.  it enabled me to become a better person.  Today, everytime i have a bad day at work, i automatically go home and pop in The Wizard. I study Jimmy and his video game tactics, and I take notes.  When i return to work the next day, i think back to the night before and i use my powerful Jimmy moves on the mean people.  So, in a nutshell, they should put it back onto the big screen and make action figures.   "},{"Title":"Pretty lame feature-length commercial for Nintendo... but I still bought the tape.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let's make no bones about this.  Nintendo sure didn't.  The Wizard was made as a feature-length commercial to promote the NES' Super Mario Bros. 3.  The movie was not a success by Hollywood standards, but the film helped push SMB3's popularity over the edge into a full-on mania.  The film was also an advertisement for the Nintendo World Championships that was to tour the country around the same time.  (Yes, I went- made it to the semi-finals at least.)  In response to a reviewer who thought it was dumb that the movie showed people traveling across country to play video games... umm- it happened.  I was beat, in Indianapolis, by a guy from New York (and he lost to Thor Aackerlund, another traveller, at the end of the tournament.)  When talking to the kid who beat me, I found out that he had participated in every NWC that had taken place so far.  The movie, as a movie, sucks.  There is no other proper description.  It's a trite kid's movie, and is as bad as Mac and Me or Slappy and the Stinkers.  The actors are all way out of place- anyone could have filled their roles, and the same effect would have been achieved.  The only reason to see this theatrically was to see SMB3 in action, and to get the promotional special-edition digest-sized Nintendo Power that theaters gave to patrons.  (Similar to the special edition given away at the NWCs... hmm, I sense a pattern.)So- I trashed the movie.  Why do I own it? It's a video game movie, and one of the only ones from the late 80's.  When I say video game movie, I don't mean a movie based on a specific game (like Mortal Kombat or Double Dragon), but one of the small group of films that is based around the drama and/or excitement of playing video games in general. Tron, The Last Starfighter, Cloak & Dagger, Tilt (okay- it's pinball), Joysticks, Arcade... this type of movie has been supplanted by movies based around people getting sucked into virtual reality games (just how many people even PLAY vr games?).  The Wizard is one of this genre of film that will probably never really come back... I'm an old-school gamer, and own everything from a Pong to a PSX, plus arcade games and PCs galore.  The Wizard may not be very good, but it is one of the few documents of the late 80's video game scene- and for that, it's priceless. "},{"Title":"i love the power glove.... It's so bad...","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" a wholesome movie, about a family that comes together. A son who heals and a father who connects with his children.........yeah...So it's basically a shameless plug for Nintendo, but who cares? I for one can remember that after seeing this film, I treated every video game I played for a number of years later as an epic experience.Coming up to a machine, putting my quarters in, and staring at the glass with the intensity of a hawk. I was the man. I was the Wizard...Sadly though, if you weren't alive in a time when The N.E.S. was king, then this movie probably wont mean that much for you. Now it is a stroll down memory lane. A simpler time of 8 bit graphics, and the premier of the greatest Super Mario game ever.Don't go into this looking for a life changing experience. For all intent and purposes it's not really that great of a film. To a 7 year old who lived it however, it was the end all be all to films.I can't really go much into this film cause as I said, it was something that was for it's time. Today with Halo III a month away from release, and a world of Wii's, 360's, and PS3, the charm that this movie once had has long since faded into a pile of ash.The life that this film had has gone beyond the wall-mart bargain bin, and will forever live in the hearts and minds of 2nd Gen gamers (I say 2nd gen cause technically the Nintendo/Sega years were a resurgence from the Commodore/Atari years).I would say that if you have never seen this movie and you are under the age of say 24, then please be kind. Remember that this movie was not for you. It was for us. Us gamers who thought that 16 colors was a artisans palette. Us who remember the joy's of opening Mario Brother III and feeling the excitement of a Mario that could fly, and knowing that the reign of the N.E.S. was about to give way to the new kid on the block, the S.N.E.S. Us who remember what a real console war was.Nothing personal to anyone, but it is certainly the truth... "},{"Title":"A simple film with alot of good memories","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film in the theater when I was 12 years old, and I must say that back then it was a hell of a film. I had a Nintendo, and loved the fact that we were going to get a look at Super Mario 3.For a twelve year old the action was awesome, the romance between Fred Savage and Jenny Lewis was jaw dropping, plus the gambling in Reno and the final tournament.Now I see it was just a glorified commercial for Universal Studios and Nintendo, even though it had Christian Slater in it. I still love the film for the nostalgia, like the power glove and the games like Ninja Gaiden, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, and especially Super Mario Bros. 3. If you are around my age rent it for your kids, and you will probably find yourself watching it as well.  "},{"Title":"A disturbing average film","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"         This is a decent video games meets the movie 'Rainman' flick. Fred Savage runs away with his autistic like brother off to California to play in a video game tournament. If you want to remember how cool it was to play Nintendo, watch this movie.         The fun parts of this movie was watching how dysfunctional the single father was. After witnessing this film I would never allow kids to return to a father like that. Another fun bit with this movie was with Fred's love interest. During the movie she accuses a character of being a child molestor to escape from her capture. That's some pretty odd slap stick.  "},{"Title":"You either love it or hate it...","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you either love or hate.  I guess it all depends on the age you were when it came out, and whether you had or played the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES).I was 11 when the movie was released, and my 7 year old brother and I dragged our mother to the theatre to let us see it.  I could relate to all the games they were playing, and of course, got my first glimpse at Super Mario Brothers 3, probably the best game ever for the NES.The story was simple enough to follow at that age, and provided plenty of action and drama for us.  Yes, the plot and acting are not oscar-calibre, but it never tried to be.  And of course this movie is filled with shameless product placement, but who cares when you're 11?Looking back now, I would probably find the movie too dated, lightweight, and commercial, but I am 13 years older.  The only people who would appreciate this movie would today be around 19-29.  If you tried to show it to anyone else, including kids of today, they wouldn't like it at all. Like I said, you either love it or hate it. "},{"Title":"Bad puns + bad concept = Bad movie","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I sat down and watched this 2 hour long commercial for the first time in 1990, and it was hideous even then. The high point of the movie would have to be just before the worst movie line ever. just keep your Power Gloves off her, pal. Once uttered, this phrase caused the movie to plummet into a downward spiral, eventually coming to rest in the so bad it's funny category alongside other titles such as Santa with Muscles or Deathsport. "},{"Title":"An 80's flick-in every possible way.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was about 5 or six when I first saw this movie. I didn't own a NES at the time, but all my friends did, and I was miserable. (Eventually, I did get a NES. Then I got a SNES, then a computer, the Internet and my brain rotted.) Anyway, I rented this film and I actually liked it a lot, when I was five. Then I saw it again recently. My feelings have changed a lot since then.This movie is about a kid (Fred Savage) who accompanies his retarded cousin (or brother... I forget) to California to participate in a Nintendo competition. A girl also follows them around. The whole plot is sappy, but it's in an OK road-movie format. A lot of the dialogue went right over my head (you know, the Street Fighter stuff...) as well as the overall cheesiness of this film. What mostly appealed to me (as a five year old) was the fact that everyone was playing Nintendo. But now, in the era of kids with cellphones and multimedia, this may be lost. I don't think anyone except those under 7 (right now) or who was a Nintendo freak during that time will enjoy this movie. 5/10 (for kids and Nintendo freaks) 3/10 for the rest.  "}{"Title":"Nintendo put a commercial in theaters and called it a movie.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the late 80s, Nintendo were the kings of gaming, with their NES being the hottest console on the market, and they were out to capitalize any way they could. Hence, a movie. This film, and I use the term loosely, is a re-hash of The Who's Tommy, minus the interesting characters, trippy visuals, and mind-bending music. This is the type of movie that defined the Saturday Morning Cartoon generation of the 1980s, with its blatant commercialism and poor production. So we have classicly horrid dialogue like, The Power Glove(tm). It's so bad..., kids fawning over some (now) classic video games, and some *really* inept adults, as were found in most eighties movies, especially the John Hughes Brat Pack flicks. "},{"Title":"Run, don't walk, AWAY from this movie","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Do yourself a favor and avoid this movie.  I remember seeing it many years ago and I just caught the end of it on TV tonight.  I was reminded of how truly terrible this film is.The sappy family togetherness scenes inserted to balance the film from its (flawed) video game action come off as just that, sappy.  For some reason they get on my nerves and as such I can't particularly feel anything for the lead protagonist, the ever bothersome Jimmy.Be afraid.  Very afraid. "},{"Title":"I can't believe what I'm hearing","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the worst film out there, why there's so many great comments for this movie. This film is so bad. Who want to go over 1 billion miles to go on some dumb video game contest. That's so dumb and why are bad guys chasing after them?Avoid all the good comments about this movie. Believe me this film is a piece of crap. UGH!!!!! I still can't get those awful memories of this movie out of my head.1/2* "}]