[{"Title":"Great, funny cop thriller. Goodman-Pacino pairing is gold!","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"56 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Men who've answered personal ads in the lonely hearts column featuring poetry are being found naked, face down on their beds. There are cigarette butts with lipstick on them in their ashtrays. Detective Frank Keller (Al Pacino), along with his sidekick Sherman (John Goodman), decide to enter their own ad in the lonely hearts column, and try to match the killer's fingerprints.A great premise that definitely justifies making yet another police procedural, this Al Pacino vehicle won this reviewer over, which is hard to do these days with cop thrillers - once you see enough they all start to look the same.But here we've got a great script, with some terrific wisecracking cop lines, great actors, especially Pacino, Goodman and sexy Ellen Barkin - which make for a very enjoyable ride. Sure the score is a little 80's, and Ellen Barkin may look back and regret that hair-do, but otherwise this is a very successful piece of film.This is largely due to the terrific screen presence of Al Pacino - he's such a firecracker! And the hugely enjoyable chemistry between partners Pacino and John Goodman. They play off each other so well. The dating scenes are particularly fun - personal highlights for me. And, of course, Ellen Barkin exudes sensuality. Its incredible.The title may sound pulpy and cheap - but its for good cause. We find out in the first few minutes that its the name of the song the killer was playing when the first murder of the film occured. Its also ironic - the crime-ridden world of this film is anything but a sea of love.7/10. Must-see for Pacino fans and fans of cop thrillers. For everyone else, not essential, but great saturday night fair. "},{"Title":"Do you remember the sea of love? I hope so because it's one of the best and most underrated thrillers ever made!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"56 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I remember seeing Sea of Love at the theater in 1989 and left saying to myself I had just seen one of the best thrillers made. Sea of Love is just one of those movies that kept me in great suspense and excitement I really felt surprised in the end when the killer was revealed. Since then I have caught Sea of Love about a dozen times on cable and still to this day enjoy the thrilling drama. The story is just great with the legend Al Pacino as Detective Frank Keller who tries to catch and bait a lonely hearts killer. Pacino is helped in his search by Detective Sherman played great by the very funny John Goodman this was one of the better performances from Goodman. Then the search takes a good but yet a bad turn when Pacino (Detective Frank Keller) finds an interesting friend a very sexy and erotic type looking female played marvelously by the attractive Ellen Barkin. I must say that with the stunning performance Ellen gave with this role she should have gotten any work she wanted to in films. I will not say nothing to any of you who haven't seen the film I will let you enjoy the surprise like I did the first time I saw Sea of Love. Sea of Love doesn't get the respect it deserves still it airs on cable but watch this on a dark and rainy night alone or day for that matter and feel the thrills and suspense of this steaming thriller you would see it's one of the best films around I don't see who would or could dislike this so take a swim in the sea of love! "},{"Title":"Edgy, smart thriller","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"44 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great screenplay, acting and settings combine to make a dynamite film. The constant tension between the police investigation and Pacino's love interest keep the suspense going strong, and the chemistry between Barkin and Pacino is fabulous.  John Goodman is excellent as always, the sex/death themes add to the tension, and the ending will throw most for a loop... this film delivers.  Try it, you'll like it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Lonely Nights","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Al Pacino is excellent as the lonely and alcoholic Frank Keller, a veteran New York City cop, hot on the trail of a serial killer. In addition to Keller, and his tough-minded romantic interest, Helen, played well by Ellen Barkin, a third major character is the city wherein the story takes place. Ronnie Taylor's noirish cinematography and Trevor Jones' appropriately downbeat score paint rather a lonely picture of nighttime Manhattan, with all that colorful and flashy neon and the dreary rain. The overall effect is a sense of psychological isolation, alienation, and ... danger.It's a perfect setting for a story about a series of murders, seemingly tied together by oldies-but-goodies songs. Keller searches for a killer who seems normal, but on the inside is a smoldering volcano. As a murder mystery, Sea Of Love works, because of its focus, and because of its restrictive narration. The viewer knows what Frank Keller knows, but nothing more. Clues are very subtle, and lie more in what is not said, than what is said. The ending was a surprise to me. I did not see it coming.I have a couple of problems with the film, neither of which is serious. First, there are several plot segments that seem unnecessary, and could have been edited out. Second, certain scenes involving the victims are confusing.Sea Of Love is a mystery/thriller that I recommend highly. It is psychologically intense, and it has an atmosphere that is suitably sinister. The acting, the music, the cinematography, the script, and the production design are all credible. And I could listen all day to that oldies-but-goodies song by Phil Phillips, from 1959. "},{"Title":"A fine thriller, and a great movie with great acting.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one great movie, not only a thriller which it is also. Sometimes a movie will come out so that watching it will be like reading a good book. This is one of few. Excellent script, great acting and directing and photo &#150; and the additional point in introducing Barkin's character far into the film makes for a much more convincing narrative. Both Pacina and Barkin have always been great actors, and here they are at their best, perhaps because of a certain tension between them &#150; one cannot decide if they are friends personally or hate each other, or perhaps they create the ambivalence just because they are superb actors. Anyway, I don't know if this one got any major awards, but it sure should have. Besides Barkin is one hell of a woman, and I supposed that Pacino is one hell of a man. "},{"Title":"An intense film noir with so many different shades&#133;","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Within a kind of light and shadow there's almost a trademark photography for a film noir movie, and Sea of Love is a film that takes place in the shadows&#133; Al Pacino plays Frank Teller, a self-conscious detective&#151;in search of a serial killer&#151;drawn into a torrid sexual relationship with an attractive young woman he met in a super market when all the good citizens of the city are asleep and the people who are walking around are the ones who are leading the most solitary lives&#133; Helen Barkin is just so right for the part&#133; You can believe her when you see her dressed in her red leather jacket and tight jeans&#133; She's a lady of the night, sexy as hell, and a woman who can take care of herself&#133; Between her and Pacino, there were enough attraction that's deep but also there were feelings of vulnerability and suspicion&#133; "},{"Title":"I Remember Sea of Love -","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've watched it many times and never get tired of it. Sea of Love is one of few films where Al Pacino is very sexy, and it is adds to the film's many pleasures. The rest of them are - well constructed story of a New York Homicide cop (Pacino) attracted to a mysterious blond woman with a charming crooked grin (Ellen Barkin - talented, sexy and underrated actress) who may or may not be a serial killer. The chemistry between Pacino and Barkin is powerful and undeniable and the love scenes between them are among the best and most memorable ever filmed. John Goodman is very good as Pacino's partner and friend and yes I love the soundtrack and the title song. "},{"Title":"One of the Best and Most Underrated Thrillers Ever","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In Manhattan, Detective Frank Keller (Al Pacino) is an efficient and veteran cop with twenty years on the force, who is lonely and misses his ex-wife Denise. She left him to live with his colleague from the same precinct Gruber (Richard Jenkins). When a killer kills his victim with a shot on the neck and leaves a single playing Sea of Love, Frank is in charge of the investigation. Detective Sherman, from a district outside Manhattan, joins Frank when a second victim is killed in the same MO. They find that both victims have written poetry in the lonely hearts column of the single magazine New York Weekly. When there is a third case, Frank convinces his chief to write for the magazine and work undercover investigating the women that reply the advertisement. Frank fall in love for the prime suspect, the manager of a shoe store Helen Cruger (Ellen Barkin), jeopardizing his investigation.Sea of Love is one of the best and most underrated thrillers ever. I do not know how many times I have seen this movie since the release in the movie theaters, then on VHS and now on DVD. The classy story is a film-noir perfectly developed, and shows one of the most erotic love scenes of the cinema history. Al Pacino is simply perfect, showing a perfect chemistry with the sexy Ellen Barkin, who is in the top of her career, and also with John Goodman. The soundtrack is also one of the most beautiful of the cinema, and the CD with eleven songs is fantastic. Samuel L Jackson, in the beginning of career, plays a criminal in the story with a minor participation. My vote is nine.Title(Brazil) Vítimas de uma Paixão (Victims of a Passion) "},{"Title":"The perfect movie for that 'first time-break the ice' date that men can enjoy too.","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin sizzle in this murder-mystery/love-story. For all those guys out there that are forced to watch 'chick flicks' and for the ladies that sit through over violent action thrillers, here is a movie both will enjoy. Pacino has made a career at attracting both men and women in his movies and you will be hard pressed to find a more beautiful woman than Barkin in this movie. John Goodman is a Detective and Pacino's partner reminiscent of another very good Ellen Barkin Love-Thriller 'The Big Easy' with Dennis Quaid. In 'Sea Of Love' the passionate love making combined with several possible endings in classic 'who-done-it?' style, will keep your attention and mood in check. Light candles and break out the wine you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"I Liked It Better Than My Friends Did","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some of my friends thought this is one of those films that is great the first time you see it, but diminishes after that because the heavy suspense questions have been answered. However, Al Pacino, Ellen Barkin and John Goodman are all so entertaining to watch that I've always enjoyed this film no matter how many times I've seen it.The suspense is what this film is all about, but I am fascinated with these actors, including supporting performances by Michael Rooker and William Hickey. Although her looks are a little hard and her mouth way too profane for my tastes, Barkin never looked better and sexier. That Pacino's character, Detective Frank Keller would fall for her is understandable, especially know what part of his anatomy is doing the talking. However, adultery, once again is excused in this film along with other not-so-moral acts so this isn't a film you want to show to your church group. All three of the leads are very weak, ethically-speaking.The fact that this film can go on for almost two hours with very little action and still keep you riveted to your seat speaks highly of its entertainment value. Why critics knocked it so much, I don't know. Hey, it's good entertainment. What more do you want? "}{"Title":"Slick genre piece","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Pacino looks a little beat here. He's not the brooding young kingpin of The Godfather Part II or the idealistic officer of Serpico. But it's perfectly okay because his age and somewhat reduced physical presence fit the role. He's a disillusioned, divorced, lonely cop who gets bagged up and calls people at three in the morning. He gets involved more or less by accident with Ellen Barkin, who may or may not be a serial killer and a nutcase. Barken is well cast too. There's something vaguely predatory about her slitted eyes and lips, and there's an animal quality to her first sexual encounter with Pacino. She smooches him up voraciously in his darkened apartment then tears herself away to stalk back and forth in her tiny skirt muttering hoarse ululations before jumping his bones and almost killing him.The support is equally good John Goodman is the soul of cheerful, friendly understanding, just as he was before revealing his slightly berserk side in Barton Fink. His smile, his hand gestures, are so practiced and effective. (Alas he's required to do one of those stupid male strip-tease dances like Gene Hackman's in Scarecrow and Michael Ontkean's in Slap Shot. Are they supposed to be entertaining? Amusing? What.) I always enjoy Bill Hickey too, here as Pacino's father. There was just something about Hickey that made his every performance memorable. Too bad he didn't spend more time on screen during his career. Rooker, as the murderer, is typecast but gets the job done.The direction is competent, but the writing, by Richard Price, is more than that. It's really pretty good. Not just in the dramatic scenes but in the interpolated comic interludes as well. Pacino is pitching woo to a beautiful woman who apologizes for being older than he is. Pacino's reply Are you kidding? You're twice as good looking as three quarters of the women I know who are half your age.... Did that come out right? What's also admirable about the script is that it focuses about equally on this developing but disturbing romance and the crime plot. Many of the scenes are shot at night and they don't make easy use of New York locations. Pacino and Barkin don't throw themselves into an embrace in front of the fountain at Lincoln Center.Nobody drives across the Brooklyn Bridge. In fact, nobody drives, so there are no car chases ending in collosal crashes on the FDR, which is fine with me. It's still a genre movie, not very demanding of the audience, but it's quite well done. I'm not fond of Sea of Love the song, or any of 50s rock, but Pacino and the others would be. There's nothing much else in the way of a score, but I must mention the scene in which Pacino takes Barkin to a fancy restaurant to propose to her. The waiter takes forever to bring a menu. Meanwhile Pacino is nervously belting down drinks (the payoff comes later) and the most hideous strolling violinist in the world keep playing absolutely lousy renditions of Strangers in the Night and something that Bach might have written during a hallucination. Just terrible. My twelve-year-old kid would have been more often on key. This guy is lost on the Kreisler Highway. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I swear on the eyes of my children.","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea of Love is directed by Harold Becker and written by Richard Price. It stars Al Pacino, Ellen Barkin, John Goodman, Michael Rooker and William Hickey. Music is by Trevor Jones and Ronnie Taylor is the cinematographer. Plot has Pacino as New York Police Detective Frank Keller, a borderline alcoholic and lonely after his wife left him for one of his colleagues. Tracking a serial killer of men, an investigation set-up leads him to date a number of women with the idea of obtaining forensic evidence off of the wine glasses. One of these women is sultry blonde, Helen Cruger (Barkin), who Frank starts to have a passionate relationship with&#x85;.. The erotic thriller is a tough premise to get right on film, so many elements have to fall in to place for the film to win over critics and film goers alike. Chemistry of lead cast members, a gripping plot, plausible outcome, and so on. Too many over the years have failed miserably at it, resorting to either gratuitous tactics or simple star casting to entice the paying public in to the theatre. Sea of Love is not a complete success, but it's certainly one of the best of its type. Were it not for a weak murder motive that's not fully explored, resulting in something of an unsatisfying finale, we would probably be talking about Sea of Love being the template movie for the erotic thriller. All else that leads up to the last 15 minutes is sizzling, Barkin and Pacino spark in every scene they share, where even with the sex scenes, the fact that Barkin towers over Pacino doesn't detract from the sexual chemistry, it adds to it. It's smart, too, that we don't see Barkin for the first third of the movie, the anticipation builds up and thankfully upon arriving into the picture she doesn't disappoint. Goodman is ebullient and makes a good foil for Pacino's haggard life sucks act, his Sherman an easy to get on side with character. The guessing game at the heart of the plot is well handled by the makers, there's no stupid giveaways or overkill of red herrings, while the edgy lonely hearts basis for both the killings and the investigative trap is nicely written by Richard Price. Fusing both loneliness and sexual needs together as one, Becker is able to get much emotional mileage out of the story. If only the ending could have made good on the promise shown. Come the last 15 minutes the is she or isn't she the killer? factor has run out of steam, with what follows inducing cries of oh, is that it?- instead of- oh my god!. Damn shame that. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"routine psychodrama with a few bright spots","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Without Al Pacino to lend it credibility this dangerous (and all-too familiar) romance between the cop and the beautiful murder suspect might have been just another modern thriller, complete with routine doses of obsessive foreplay and glossy film noir visuals. But with the right actor in the right role and with some clever dialogue the film is able (at times) to rise above the curious banality of its title (and title song), and the sexism of its scenario. Ellen Barkin plays every frustrated cop's dream assignment a nymphomaniac single mother, suspected of stalking lonely men through personal ads and leaving them dead (presumably) at the moment of sexual climax. Pacino is too good an actor for such a disposable, transparently male fantasy, but he's in good company with John Goodman, who gets plenty of mileage out of his standard jolly fat buddy role. But the throwaway revelation of the killer's true identity is anticlimactic, and the violent surprise ending is almost ruined by a totally bogus, happily-ever-after epilogue. "},{"Title":"Not bad but full of holes, and not the kind from bullets","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin do a good job, John Goodmam steals the show as the cop from Queens who wants to make it into the big time of Manhattan.My biggest problem with this movie is the abundance of plot holes that never get filled. What does the song Sea of Love have anything to do with anything? Why does the killer leave it playing on the victim's turntable instead of taking it with him? Why don't the cops go to record stores to ask who has been buying this same old 45 once a week? Why do the cops continue with their lonely hearts baiting scheme if there aren't any more killings once Pacino meets Barkin? Why did the killer wait so long to attack Pacino when it was obvious he killed the other men immediately after his ex-wife's first encounter with them? What cop doesn't have photographs of other cops hanging all over the walls in his apartment so that anyone who walks in can tell right off the bat that he's a cop? What man who gets sloppy drunk every night keeps such a neat apartment in the first place? What man considers asking a woman to move in with him when he hasn't even met the woman's child and doesn't even know the kid's name? Why did Barkin's character stay with Pacino's character after she found out what an annoying lush he was? And most importantly, what woman would allow her husband to invite a complete stranger to her daughter's wedding at the very last minute, and then let them discuss police work? It wasn't a completely bad movie, and there were some good parts, but overall it left me wondering about too many things. "},{"Title":"Tense thriller which starts as an out-and-out murder mystery, but becomes more like a romantic film noir as it progresses.","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Al Pacino returns to the big screen after a four year hiatus in Sea Of Love. His last film prior to this was the ill-fated American War Of Independence disaster Revolution, but in this one he's back in more familiar territory as a troubled New York cop working on a triple homicide case. The break seems to have done Pacino good &#150; he is absolutely riveting in this film, oozing charisma on the one hand, while sharing a very real sexual chemistry with his co-star Ellen Barkin on the other.A naked corpse with a bullet in the head turns up in a New York apartment. The victim James Mackay, a middle-aged guy who had spent his last living months looking for love in the lonely hearts column of a magazine. Two more men are soon found dead, both naked, both shot in the head, and both lonely hearts advertisers. Divorced, hard-drinking New York cop Frank Keller (Al Pacino) investigates the killings along with colleague Sherman Touhey (John Goodman). They figure out pretty quickly that all the victims' lonely hearts ads were presented in poem form; they also believe the clues point to a female killer. The two cops hit upon the idea of placing their own poetic ad in the lonely hearts section of the magazine. Then, they wine and dine the women who respond, hoping that eventually one of them will turn out to be the killer. Things start to get complicated when Keller meets beautiful shoe-store worker Helen (Ellen Barkin). She responds to his ad and, after an initial rebuff, an increasing attraction between them begins to take shape. In next to no time, Keller is in too deep &#150; he finds himself falling in love with a suspect, playing a dangerous game with his own life, so obsessed with the thought that he may have found love after his marital failure that he cannot face the possibility his new lover might be the very murderer he is out to catch&#133;.Sea Of Love is quite cleverly written, with scripter Richard Price keeping his cards very close to his chest throughout regarding the killer's identity. This adds genuine tension to the film's sex scenes &#150; as Frank and Helen get all hot and steamy, we in the audience are drawn to the edge of our seat in anticipation. Are we watching a passionate couple falling in love? Or are we watching a foolish cop play straight into the hands of a cunning killer? Pacino registers brilliantly as the tormented hero, while Barkin is thoroughly convincing as the sexpot whose beauty and allure are enough to make a man risk his life for them. Harold Becker directs the film smartly, keeping all the elements moving smoothly and creating a moody urban style which harks back to the film noir heyday of the '40s and '50s. If there is a weakness with Sea Of Love, it is the way that the romantic/erotic aspects begin to take precedence about halfway through. The first hour shapes up like a mystery thriller &#150; a 'whodunit', for want of a better expression &#150; but the second hour focuses more on the sexual paranoia between Pacino and Barkin. While both halves are undeniably absorbing, the sharp contrast between them results in inevitable unevenness for the film as a whole. Also the score by Trevor Jones sounds like it's come from the straight-to-video-erotic-thriller stable, and fails in my opinion to create the intended noirish feel. On the whole, though, Sea Of Love is a solid and admirably crafted film, well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Some films don't get the credit they deserve. Sea of Love is one of those films.","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sea of Love is very good film. It works both as a very well crafted thriller about a murder investigation and also as a sensitive study about human loneliness. The cast is top notch. Ellen Barkin is adequate and sexy as Detective Frank Keller's (Pacino's character) love interest and John Goodman does an excellent supporting job as Detective Sherman. Al Pacino is very well known for his legendary roles in The Godfather trilogy, Serpico, Scarface, or Scent of a Woman, but in my humble opinion as Detective Frank Keller in Harold Becker's Sea of Love he delivers one of his finest and most underrated performances.If you think Basic Instinct (a much better known film) is a good thriller please check out Sea of love and you'll realize that Paul Verhoeven's movie is not a big deal.  "},{"Title":"The maturing of Al Pacino.. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In London last week, the Evening Standard made a comment in one of it's supplements on how hip and cool it is now to be single. Being one of the thousands of singletons still searching for Miss Right, it is a feeling that can make you feel left out even if there is more to do in the town, which I do make a point of taking advantage of.SEA OF LOVE (1989), directed by Harold Becker and starring Al Pacino, Ellen Barkin and John Goodman, is a movie which at first glance looks like 'DIRTY HARRY meets FATAL ATTRACTION', but is done with refreshing humour and a genuine joy of acting at the heart. It is also a neat little cautionary tale for people like myself.New York Detective Frank Keller (Pacino) is fifty and looking forward to the remaining years of his life with little optimism. His partner is dating his ex-wife and the years seem to be drifting away. Things don't seem to be looking up when his current investigation brings a perverted series of murders in which the victims are male, laying face down on the bed with a bullet in the back of the head, with the classic song SEA OF LOVE playing on a turntable. Pacino then meets a fellow detective from a different precinct who has made a similar discovery and the two decide to pool resources to track the killer. They then learn that the victims all put singles ads in the personals of a local paper and decide to use the same thing to try and trap the offender....SEA OF LOVE also ushered in a new intelligence and philosophical approach to the crime thriller, which paid dividends when it was released in the autumn of 1989. Pacino is terrific and seems to embrace this part with the wit and enthusiasm of a teenager. John Goodman is also excellent and provides a suitable balance of performance to offset Pacino's evident star quality, which marked a return to form after the debacle of REVOLUTION four years earlier.  "},{"Title":"Welcome back Al, in not the best, in a sea of good thrillers","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea Of Love marks Al's big return to the screen, in probably not the best pic, after that dud, Revolution. He plays a cop who's working a serial killer case where supposedly a female killer out there is killing guys, who have answered to these lonely hearts ads. Each victim is found, bare naked on their stomach, with the song Sea Of Love, playing on an L P, nearby. He falls in love with a suspect, Ellen Barkin, who's never looked hotter. By having her as a living on the edge, dangerous, and private character, who like she says Does things on impulse, we are frequently suppose to believe it's her. May'be it really is. While Sea Of Love manages to be very entertaining, with Al in an interesting comeback of character I like, there are much better thrillers out there, where as a thriller this wasn't special, but the fun of the movie is seeing if Pacino is walking into his own coffin. To make it us throw more suspicion on Barkin', two many coincidences and actions are thrown in, a stray gun, and throwing Pacino up against a wall, for starters, etc. The movie though is an old and one of those entertaining watches, and Barkin's character, if not believable the character, itself, is one of a kind. "},{"Title":"Sea of Love soars on Ellen Barkin's sexiness.","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When it was first released, Sea of Love was widely hailed--and in many places still is--as being Al Pacino's magnificent return to his cinematic heights. And, yes, he does indeed give a marvelously taut and tough performance, reminding us again of the fire and the electricity he's capable of summoning as an actor. John Goodman, for his part, contributes ingratiating support and ingratiating manliness as Pacino's brother investigating police officer. Director Harold Becker stylishly creates an air of urban disarray and edging-ever-closer suspense. Yet for all this, for all these positive contributions, Sea of Love finally succeeds because of one factor above all else Ellen Barkin. Her lush--and entirely individualistic--beauty, her tigerish sexiness, and her coltish energy saturate the film from her very first scene and make her not only a worthy adversary for Pacino but a frequently overwhelming force. Sea of Love may be, as many critics claimed--and still claim-- Al Pacino's triumphant comeback, but it's Ellen Barkin, from her very first appearance, who really and truly gives it its drive, its passion, its sex appeal. "},{"Title":"Murder, Speed Dating, Loneliness & Suspicion","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea Of Love is an enthralling murder mystery which contains an entertaining blend of suspense, humour and romance and also some moments of pathos. It's essentially a tale about a search for a serial killer but also it's about a passionate affair involving two people who are both lonely and reluctant to trust each other. Richard Price's screenplay (adapted from his own book Ladies Man) is sharp and convincing throughout but it's especially strong during the exchanges between the police officers.Police Detective Frank Keller (Al Pacino) is assigned to investigate a murder in Manhattan in which a man was shot dead whilst lying face down and naked on his bed. At the crime scene, the song Sea Of Love is being played on a nearby turntable and the items of evidence found include a cigarette end with lipstick on it, a set of fingerprints and a newspaper cutting which includes a lonely hearts advert placed by the deceased. The evidence suggests that the killer was probably an embittered woman who'd replied to the victim's ad.When Keller meets Detective Sherman Touhey (John Goodman) who's investigating a murder which was carried out in identical circumstances in Queens, the two men decide to join forces in their search for what appears to be a serial killer. After a third man is murdered in the same way, the two detectives embark on a scheme to identify the culprit. As all three victims had placed rhyming ads, the detectives place their own rhyming entry in the personal column and then invite the respondents to a date at a local restaurant. There Keller acts as the guy who'd placed the ad and Touhey acts as a waiter who collects the women's wine glasses and places them in evidence bags so that the fingerprints can be checked against those found at the murder scenes.One of the women who meets Keller is Helen Kruger (Ellen Barkin). She very quickly seems to become uncomfortable with him and leaves without having touched her glass. A chance meeting with her some time later provides Keller with an opportunity to get her fingerprints but things get more complicated and his priorities change when he becomes infatuated with her and they get involved in a very passionate affair.Al Pacino, in one of his best ever screen performances, is totally believable as the lonely, jaded cop who has completed 20 years in the job and experiences a feeling of dread when the subject of retirement is mentioned as he has nothing in life but his job. His wife left him for one of his colleagues, he drinks too much and he's more then a little bitter. Pacino's deportment exudes all these characteristics in spades and it's quite credible that the despair of someone in his circumstances could lead them into a reckless affair with an attractive murder suspect.Ellen Barkin is brilliant as the inscrutable Helen who, importantly in the context of the plot, shows all the attributes of a femme fatale. She gives out contradictory signals, can be alternately aggressive and vulnerable and seems to have a low opinion of men although she's obviously powerfully attracted to them.John Goodman is also great as Keller's good natured, extrovert partner and his sense of fun illuminates a number of scenes.The deep rooted sense of sadness and loneliness which is a significant feature of the characters played by Pacino and Barkin is also reflected in the melancholic quality of Trevor Jones' superb score, the song Sea Of Love and the exceptional shadow laden cinematography by Ronnie Taylor. "}{"Title":"Top-notch escapism in an erotic thriller","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sea of Love isn't going to be written up in anyone's Master's Thesis on the Meaning of Cinema. It won't last decades in the canon of great film. It's just a steamy murder mystery that happens to be very well played indeed. There are few plot holes -- none that are really big or infuriating, and the murder investigation plays out well.Pacino is a cop with a mid-life crisis and drinking problem. He meets John Goodman, who has discovered they're both investigating very similar murders with a sexual angle. Ellen Barkin may or may not be the killer, but Pacino's attraction to her is too great to resist, even knowing the risks.Barkin doesn't have much to do beside emanate steam, but she does that quite well. Pacino is understated, with an edge of desperation. The mystery will keep you going, in that kind of Basic Instinct way of not knowing if any given sexual encounter will end in murder. Characters have a realistic and gritty feel to them, although Barkin is far too beautiful and sophisticated to be a down-on-her-luck single mother. Recommended. "},{"Title":"You know I'm drunk on love,Drunk on love,Nothing can sober me up,Its all that I need.","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With having heard in several documentaries for a few years about Al Pacino's long time collaboration with producer Martin Bregman,I was happily caught by surprise,when a very kind IMDb'er gave me a chance to see Pacino and Bregman's Neo-Noir sea of love&#x85;The plotCelebrating 20 years of being on the force, Det.Frank Keller finds any party plans of his being stopped in their tracks,thanks to the discovery of a man who has died from a bullet shot in the back of his head.Attempting to find any leads which could get him on the track to finding the killer,Frank runs into Det.Sherman,who tells Keller that he has come to pay a visit,due to a recent murder taking place in his area,which matches the one that Frank's currently investigating.Deciding to team up on the case,Frank and Sherman uncover the fact that each of the murder victims had placed rhyming lonely hearts ads in a magazine.Realizing that the murderer is killing anyone who places a rhyming ad in the magazine,Keller and Sherman decide to go undercover by placing a rhyming lonely hearts ad which will get the killer out of the shadows.As they start to check up on the replies to the ad,Frank and Sherman begin to fear that their case is going to be broken by a deadly lonely heart.View on the filmCruising&#x85;back into the film world after leaving it behind in 1985,Al Pacino gives an excellent performance which reveals that the passing years had not made Pacino lose his grove.Displaying all the wear & tear that Keller has seen over the last 20 years across his face,Pacino brilliantly shows Keller to be a booze-soaked detective,whose drinking habits our only matched by his thrust to walk down the city's darken streets.As the movie begins to steam up,Pacino allows nervousness to enter his performance,as Keller starts to suspect that he may be getting much closer to the lonely heart killer than he had originally expected.Joining Pacino,John Goodman gives a great jet black performance as Sherman,with Goodman shining up a number of the titles darkly comedic moments.Creating an extremely sensual atmosphere as Frank's temptation,Ellen Barkin gives a brilliant performance as Helen Cruger,with Barkin, (who along with appearing naked in the movie,also reunited with Pacino in 2007 for Ocean's 13) perfectly balancing the mysterious sexual side of this femme fatale, that might make her the lonely heart killer,with a subtle tension based around Cruger, (who unlike most female characters in this sub-genre,is a single mum) allowing Keller to enter her dating life.Building a tantalising tower by combining the Erotic Thriller sub- genre with a bubbling Neo-Noir intensity and a sharp serial Killer bite,the screenplay by Richard Price makes sure that the films steamiest moments are tightly threaded to a Neo-Noir atmosphere which gives the movie a raw feel,thanks to Price showing that Keller's down on his luck heart,might lead to him becoming another victim of the lonely heart killer.After building up a wonderful tense atmosphere,with director Harold Becker, (who along with later doing another Erotic Thriller Neo- Noir called Malice,reunited with Pacino in 1996 for City Hall)using coiled tracking shots to show the breaking streets that Keller walks down,Price goes for a left-field ending,which sadly deflates some of the unease in Helen and Keller's relationship,and also rubs off some of the ink from this Neo-Nor's lonely hearts ad. "},{"Title":"excellent mystery","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a great mystery/thriller from Al Pacino,, and btw John Goodman wow he's totally awesome.. Ellen Barkin sexy as ever,, the sex scenes just rocked. There's a lonely hearts killer in the city and it's up to a pair of cops, one from the Bronx, the other from Manhattan to catch up to a grizzly killer who answer's single's ad's but only ones that rhyme,, so the pair of detectives decide that the best way to catch our killer is to set themselves up on dates, and get the fingerprints off of the glass. easier said than done.. there's this one girl who refuses the drink, so no fingerprints,, he runs into her at the supermarket later, finally ends up with her prints,, but he doesn't bag the glass, because he has now fallen in love with her.. wonderful thriller with great acting ,, must see. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie...","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A classic 80's suspense thriller with an awesome cast. You've got Al Pacino who's 'always' awesome; John Goodman playing one of his best sarcastically humorous, dark roles; and Ellen Barkin is as sexy as EVER... and trust me, that's all this dark thriller needs. Although the storyline is somewhat common comparing it to today's thrillers, don't let it fool you. This movie is played out PERFECTLY. Sea of Love will keep you on the edge of your seat and has a very unpredictable, 'thrown-out there' ending. Even though it's still not be my favorite Al Pacino movie, to date it's definitely one of the best. It's one of those movies I'm sure I'll watch over & over again throughout the years... I already have... lol I definitely agree with the first reviewer... watch it on a dark, rainy night either alone or with a date. "},{"Title":"Old movie, New outlook","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am a huge fan of suspense thrillers. They are easy to come by these days, so I get bored very quickly. My cousin has Sea of Love ordered from Netflicks on his counter at home and I just popped it in. For the next couple of hours, nobody said a word. It was such a powerful suspense thriller and we both admit that we are still thinking about the movie. The sad thing is we watch it like 3 night ago. Anyways, it was a fantastic movie. I love Al Pacino. I am 23 years old and I am still hooked on his movies. I like movies, but I am going to start looking into the older ones and not so the modern ones.Thanks, Natalie "},{"Title":"slightly above average but has a tendency to drag a bit.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin were both pretty good in this crime drama about a detective tracking a serial killer. There's some good drama in this movie, coupled with excellent chemistry between Pacino and Barkin. There's some particularly slow moving parts to the movie, other parts that are so so but through it all the story is involving as is the enfolding relationship between Pacino and Barkin so for the most part it keeps you wanting to know what happens next. The main problem is when Pacino and Barken are not on screen together, the movie can get a bit dull.This is not a great movie or a remarkable movie but a solid crime drama that's good to view once if not already seen.I'd say 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dead Poets Society","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** With the music of a dinky 50's rock & Roll 45 record Sea of Love playing on the turntable the police find the body of James Mackey, Brian Paul, laying face down and naked, on his bed with a bullet in the back of his head. Checking out the clues in Mackey's Manhattan apartment Det. Frank Keller, Al Pacino, finds a number of cigarette butts in the ashtray with lipstick on them deducing that the murderer may well have been the woman that Mackey was with that night. A few days later Det. Keller is contacted by a Det.Sherman, John Goodman, From the 112th police precinct in Richmond Hills Queens of a murder in that area that is very similar to the one he's investigating; A man shot dead with a bullet in the back of his head as he lay naked in bed, even the same song Sea of Love was still playing on his record player. It becomes obvious to the police that there's a serial murderer on the lose in New York City and he or she is targeting male swingers. Det. Keller finds a clue when he notices that both of the murder victims had placed ads in a local paper's personal section looking for romance and action with the opposite sex. Keller also notices that of the almost 100 personal ads only three were with rhymes or poems on them and two of those men who put poems on their ads were the two men who were found murdered. Det. Keller & Sherman check out the third person Raymond Brown, Michael O'Neill, who placed a poem in the paper looking for both love and companionship and their told by Raymond that he never followed up on the responses that he got from the women who got in touch with him. Which was a bit strange to both Det. Keller & Sherman since he spent $300.00 placing the ad, a beautiful poem that he took a lot of time and effort to write, in the paper and even had a secret apartment in the city that he was paying $500.00 a month for? Raymond who was happily married with children told the two detectives that he Swears on his Children Eyes that he never had an affair with any of the women who contacted him over the ad that he put in the paper. Later Raymond is found dead, naked with a bullet in the back of his head, in his secret Manhattan apartment, just like the other two murder victims. So much for Raymond's honesty. Well paced and stylish murder mystery drama with Al Pacino giving one of his best performances as Det. Keller, a deeply depressed and fatalistic man, who's only reason for living is his job as a policeman. Losing his wife to his partner Det. Gruber, Richard Jenkins, whom she married, and feeling alone and spiritless over it he feels that if he retires from the police department the emptiness that would envelope him will also drive him over the edge. You constantly see Pacino trying to keep himself together despite the pressure brewing inside of him that threatens to tear him apart. Very good supporting cast with Ellen Barkin, Helen, and John Goodman, Det. Sherman, among others with the movies very fine unsuspected and surprise ending which was very effective because the clues were always there for us to see but were so well hidden that we didn't notice them until the very end. Good inter-acting with Al Pacino and John Goodman as his new partner from Queens in cracking the case and especially with Ellen Barkin who was the link to the persons murdered in the movie without knowing it as well as her filling the void in Det. Keller's life that was driving him to a mental and emotional breakdown after his wife left him. "},{"Title":"Night sea swimmer in search","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A man who is starting to feel the pangs of lonely life, late at night he can't stop himself from phoning to an ex-wife that walked out on him. A series of crimes around the city where men turn up dead, lonely men seeking women late at night. He investigates, by posing as one of them, until he meets her.The middle portion revolves around these two selves in him trying to decide on the narrative; the lonely guy who's finally found her versus the cop whose job is to suspect her, even if that means she's the killer that he has to bring in. He settles for the latter, until a horrible version of himself is spat out by the story in the end, a man broken after his wife walked out on him. He gets to wrestle this uglier side of himself and come out on the other end for her purged of demons.That's all fine but it labors itself by trying to be one of those character studies that Methodist actors seem to gravitate to, Pacino here. A lot of them were being made in the 70s but they carried on, minus the young passion. So a lot of protracted scenes between characters, the thought is that just by seeing them together in scenes, we get life. We don't of course, we get scenes. It's all a bit like Pacino's acting; aimless lumbering with the occasional bug-eyed frisson, but never amounts to more than pacing through motions. There are a few moments that suggest deeper undercurrents - the slumped look on the middle-aged blonde's face as she walks out the restaurant with a defeated soul - how Elen eerily manifests out of a dark hallway - and my favorite moment, the poem his father recites about someone who is living alone in the woods. It's so good, the poem and timing of delivery, it surpasses the whole film.Noir Meter 1/4 "},{"Title":"should have been incredible","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Manhattan police Det. Frank Keller (Al Pacino) is a 20 year veteran. He's not happy that his partner Gruber (Richard Jenkins) is married to his ex-wife. They investigate the murder of a ladies man. There is a record of Sea of Love playing in the room. Terry (Michael Rooker) is a cable guy who was at the building. Det. Sherman (John Goodman) from Queens is investigating a similar murder. The victims placed singles ads and Frank suggests catching the assumed female killer with an ad of their own. Helen Cruger (Ellen Barkin) is one of the woman who answers the ad but Frank is unable to get her fingerprint.I never bought into Frank's theory on the crime. Therefore, I never really considered Helen as a suspect. It makes the whole dance less compelling. Pacino is doing some broad acting. A pairing of Pacino and Barkin should be something incredible but this feels very artificial. "},{"Title":"Sea of Loneliness...","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a great little comeback for Pacino. He had not done a movie in four years! (1985's Revolution)I had seen that Revolution and it was bad beyond belief. But here in this one, Al finds redemption.His character doesn't really evoke a hero, because he is a cop who drinks and just goes thru the motions since he is on a 20 years on the force and planning to retire. He is somewhat of a washed-up drunk and you really can't feel sorry for him and no wonder his wife (a deleted Lorraine Bracco) left him for a more stable man(Richard Jenkins) a fellow cop that works at the same station Pacino does. But there in lies the magnificent performance of this fine actor of Pacino as he is. He makes you despise the guy but at the same time root for him to catch the killer.Ellen Barkin just oozes sexiness like never before seen in her performances. She stole the movie for me. She was just that great and real. She and Pacino had great chemistry. To bad they didn't work together more. It would be close to 20 years when they would work together again in the same film.John Goodman as a fellow cop and sidekick of Pacino was just excellent. They both had a real chemistry. Too bad they didn't do way more work together.Michael Rooker as always plays a very good mean, racist and not to friendly guy. They cast him because of his performance in Henrythe Portrait of a Serial Killer William Hickey had a great cameo as Al's dad. He has a great line in which he recites a poem his wife, Al's mom, wrote for him. Al uses that same poem and it attracts the woman on the dating service.John Spencer had but a small role and all he did was basically smile at Al's requests and small talk. Christine Estabrook had a nice small role as a innocent girl looking for love on the dating site and being used in more ways than one. Still looking beautiful at her age and at the time, Patricia Barry had a also a small but sad part as a older woman still looking for love. Luis Antonio Ramos, Samuel L. Jackson and Damien Leake all had bit small parts and were memorable in a scene where they are being busted at a sting operation. Leake was spared because Pacino let him go when Leake brought his little son and Pacino didn't have in his heart to bust him at the moment but will later. Tom Wagner has a nice little bit as ,once again, a bartender. And Angel Ramirez has a uncredited bit part but it wasted in the scene.All in all a nice little sexy thriller but very predictable film. But still worth watching for the nice cast involved. "}{"Title":"See For Yourself Sea of Love","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When the ducks all line up and they start the quacking, it is worthy to take note of the event. That is this movie. Good acting, filming, directing and scenes plus a decent story take us on a nice entertainment tour of quality viewing. Pacino plays a good cop role, making us believe he is a cop but then again, he enjoys his work. His job is to convince you of everything that is happening is real and he does that quite well. So does his co-star too. Interesting to be in on a police sting operation and watch how anyone can be set-up, recorded and if guilty, get themselves in hot water too. Of course today, people are recording and filming everyone everywhere and without their knowledge. This is a movie that you will watch again so invest in it to own. Recommend a tasty snack and drink and pay attention because it is worth it. No cell phones, texting or bathroom runs. Sit still and watch "},{"Title":"A Serviceable But Forgettable Erotic Thriller","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Any movie that opens with a murder ensnared in the throes of sexual passion is immediately intriguing. Not intriguing in a wet dream kind of way; intriguing like what kind of monster could commit such a crime? Basic Instinct, an underrated neo-noir, contrasted the silkiness of a Hermes scarf and a femme fatale's voluptuous body with the sudden stab of an ice pick. Sea of Love, on the other hand, doesn't distract with full-on sexuality; it instead chooses to obscure the body of the supposed woman committing the dirty work. When the quick gunshot to the head of her partner arrives, we find ourselves so shocked that we figure we may as well keep watching the movie to figure out who did it.Things get even saucier when murders continue in the exact same fashion. The killer, thought to be a woman, answers Lonely Heart ads and shoots her dates during intercourse. Assigned to the case is Detective Frank Keller (Al Pacino), suffering from a recent divorce and sometimes crippling alcoholism. The police department is dumbfounded. Eventually, and desperately, they decide the best way to nab the culprit is by placing Frank himself in an ad. After dinner, they swipe the fingerprints of the women. Most don't make an impression. But when Helen Cruger (Ellen Barkin), a sexy single mother, shows up, complications arise. There is much evidence to suggest that she is, in fact, responsible for the crimes, and Frank, against all odds, finds himself seriously attracted to her. So the two embark on a twisted, dangerous affair, with Frank never completely sure if this woman will be the one who kills him.Sea of Love is a convincing thriller, making use of its naturalistic dialogue instead of only focusing on its more erotic moments. And the film is superiorly erotic; it just doesn't dwell on it so much that it obscures the material. Pacino is effective as a man so much a hazard to himself that partaking in a possibly lethal affair doesn't seem all too surprising; Barkin is tough and likable as a woman who very well could be in possession of secrets that could spell death to her male counterparts.Sea of Love's issues don't arrive with Pacino and Barkin; they come with doubt, doubt so strong that the entire premise slowly but surely caves in on itself. Only for a little while does it seem possible that Helen is the killer. As it becomes clear that she isn't quite Catherine Tramell, that the film is too smart to announce her as the bad guy, the relentless menace dwindles until everything crashes into a highly unsatisfying ending. Sea of Love was most likely doomed from the start; of course Helen isn't the murderer, but the film spends so much time trying to trick us into thinking that she is that any conclusion that doesn't find her guilty won't be rewarding. But Sea of Love, for the most part, is smart entertainment with a shaky basis. It's entertaining, all right, but it doesn't offer much that we haven't already seen. "},{"Title":"Very Sympathetic Thriller","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember watching this on TV back in the early 90s. It was the first film I saw starring Al Pacino, and I must say I found him likable here.Anyhow, the plot is real good with the exception that the killer - who isn't revealed until the end - didn't have to appear at all earlier in the story, but does, in a minor role.Supporting cast very well chosen.Good directing, even interesting music, for being made in the 80s.There's one thing that bothers me, and this isn't on the account of Sea of Love, but rather another movie Burn After Reading. I believe that the Coen bros did borrow quite a bit from this picture. Not only Richard Jenkins, who plays the Hardbodies Manager in BAR, but also the dating feature, which is rather crucial to the BAR story, and the peculiar sequence when Pacino discovers Barkin's gun in her bag. He kind of freaks out and starts jumping about, very neurotically. Clooney almost copied this sequence in BAR after realizing that he has shot a guy (Pitt). "},{"Title":"Sea of fun, sea of perfection","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Al Pacino plays a police getting a case of serial killer. She is a woman killing guys from the newspapers' date-searching pages, but only the poem writers. He gets an idea of solving it by the funniest way a serial killer case can be solved putting a poem to newspaper and going on dates with women, collecting their fingerprints. He and his partner (John Goodman) play the roles of waiter and the date guy. This leads to humorous occasions and gives this film more comedic style, even though it's a good thriller also. Nothing very frightening, but the idea of Frank Keller's new girlfriend (Ellen Barkin) maybe actually being the serial killer is exciting.This movie is a joy for your ears and eyes, the aesthetics of eighties, the music catchy and vital... Pure perfection, also on acting. This is an enjoyable movie that gets you into its world. "},{"Title":"Sea of Love is a great erotic thriller that will keep you guessing.","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A detective investigating a series of murders becomes involved with a woman who may be the culprit. Frank Keller is a New York detective investigating a case of a serial killer who finds the victims through the lonely hearts column in newspapers. Keller falls in love with Helen, the main suspect in the case. Roger Ebert wrote Movies like this need to work on two levels. The human elements should feel right, and the initial complications of the plot should not be shortchanged at the end. I think the ending of Sea of Love cheats by bringing in a character from left field at the last moment. Part of the fun in a movie like this is guessing the identity of the killer, and part of the problem with Sea of Love is that the audience is not fairly treated. Technically, I suppose, the plot can be justified. But I felt cheated. I had good feelings for the characters and their relationships, but I walked out feeling the plot played fast and loose with the rules of whodunits. The deep rooted sense of sadness and loneliness which is a significant feature of the characters played by Pacino and Barkin is also reflected in the melancholic quality of Trevor Jones' superb score, the song Sea Of Love and the exceptional shadow laden cinematography by Ronnie Taylor. "},{"Title":"Phil Phillips' 1959 Hit Song Underscores This Sexy Thriller","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" New York City police set up a fake Meet the Yankees breakfast with invitations to entrap hard-to-catch criminals. Frank Keller (Al Pacino) rises to the stage and tells the bad news that instead of the Yankees showing up, there will be plenty of cops and arrests. Apprehended is Samuel L. Jackson, one of the bad guys. We do not see him any more as this is early in his career. So begins Sea of Love.Three men are individually shot to death after being forced to lay face down solo in bed butt-naked while listening to the 1959 oldie Sea of Love. As the clues include lipstick-smeared cigarettes and classified newspaper ads for companionship, police suspicions fall onto a female character. The police have noted that all three of the deceased men have answered the only three rhythmic newspaper dating ads. Middle-aged, depressed, and hard-drinking detective Frank Keller, a veteran NYC cop of twenty years, is divorced and lonely. His ex-wife has left him for a fellow policeman. Keller teams up with Detective Sherman (John Goodman) from Queens to track down the serial killer. The colleagues convince their superior (John Spencer), a lieutenant, of their plan to go undercover and place a lonely-hearts want ad that rhymes in the local newspaper. The arrangement is to meet the women in a busy restaurant and take finger prints from their drinking glasses. They take turns posing as waiters. Over time, Keller falls hard for tight-skirted suspect Helen Cruger (Ellen Barkin) and they develop a serious relationship against Frank's better sense of judgment. Frank is relieved when he later discovers that Helen has no prior record. But the relationship turns tempestuous after Keller admits that he is a cop.One night at Helen's apartment Frank spots newspaper clippings on the refrigerator with the personal ads of the three dead men circled. Now Frank feels that Helen may be the murderess after all. During the next tryst at Frank's apartment, Helen plays her 45-record Sea of Love. Frank of course freaks out (hilariously), and after a confrontation with Helen she storms out. At the denouement a different character enters the scenario, one whom we met very briefly early on. So the ending does come as a surprise albeit there were a couple of isolated clues along the way. Sea of Love features enchanting character development, atmosphere, and story-line, although New York City locations are not used to good advantage. The morals of the movie are dubious at best. Nevertheless Al Pacino is almost always great, and one wonders how he had never won an Academy Award for Best Actor until 1993 (for 1992's Scent of a Woman). His performances in such films as The Godfather (1972), Serpico (1973), and Dog Day Afternoon (1975) were nothing short of dazzling. In Sea of Love John Goodman and Ellen Barkin act well too. Pacino's chemistry with Barkin is fantastic, and askance-looking Barkin simply exudes raw sexuality that lights up the silver screen in probably her best role. Did she really need to comb the personals? Hey, we're talking Hollywood, so what did you expect? "},{"Title":"Lonely Hearts Killer","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harold Becker directed this police thriller that stars Al Pacino as New York City detective Frank Keller, who joins forces with fellow detective Sherman Touhey(played by John Goodman) to go undercover in the singles scene to uncover the serial killer of lonely hearts that are from the newspaper columns. One such woman, Helen Cruger(played by Ellen Barkin) seems like a suspect, but Frank finds himself falling for her, and since he had to give her a false identity of himself, is worried about how that can impact a future relationship...and there is still the killer to find! Potentially routine plot is well-handled here, with fine direction and performances, and solid suspense. "},{"Title":"Keeps your attention throughout","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I wouldn't rank this among Pacino's best, nor will I remember it for years to come, like I would other Pacino movies, but for a sexy thriller it does the job. This movie does a good job at keeping you out of the loop, when it comes to the culprit. You're never fully sure what is behind Ellen Barkin's mysterious character, but you can't help but keep watching. Al Pacino plays somewhat of an alcoholic who becomes more and more infatuated with Ellen Barkin as the movie goes along. Let's face it. Pacino can play cards for an hour, and he'll grab your attention. Thankfully, he doesn't phone it in here, and goes full in. I especially liked the scene where he is undercover, interviewing woman at a restaurant to try and find the killer. He was fantastic here, but that shouldn't be any surprise. His chemistry with Barkin was pretty good as well. I touched on Ellen Barkin briefly at the beginning of the review, but I can't understate her great performance, or her enormous sex appeal. Some of her steamy scenes with Al Pacino had me in awe. It was pretty hot stuff. John Goodman is quite good as Pacino's friend, whilst Michael Rooker makes a memorable appearance at the end. I did think the ending was a bit subdued, and it does tend to drag at places in the middle, but overall, I dug it. I recommend it. P.S. Keep on the lookout for Samuel L. Jackson!7/10 "},{"Title":"wonderful     work","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Al Pacino, John Goodman and Ellen Barkin. a smart script and an interesting construction of atmosphere. a remarkable thriller. and little more. because is not only classic catch of bad guy but a show of a lot of nuances. an inspired use of ambiguity and tension, special inks between characters, subtle pieces from social, a wise manner to do all with rare precision. the cast is great but it is basic truth. more important is the science of Harold Becker to give force to each ingredient. result - an admirable movie about choice, fear and love. wonderful performance. oil of music. and something out of words - mark of a very good film "},{"Title":"Floating in a Sea of Love","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea of Love is not even bad. Sea of Love isn't just decent either. Sea of Love's more than just good. Sea of Love is actually just great. It doesn't get enough appreciation for how really great it is. It's not an average murder mystery. It's not an average cop noir. Sea of Love is predominantly a romance, and it makes up for its corny, trifle murder mystery with an exceptionally well written love story. It's a steamy, sultry romantic crime drama with bits of refreshing buffoonery. Sea of Love does an especially good job at luring you into lust, very fabulously setting you in the mood. It emulates tantalizingly sweet passions with stark precision, nicely, effectively turning up the heat. Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin are too desirably tempting. Ellen Barkin as Helen Cruger really gets me hot and bothered. She has that gift. Pacino is at his best as Detective Frank Keller in an understated performance. Richard Price has a true talent for creating that gritty, nightlife in the lonely city feel. Frank Keller's despaired life as a New York City cop gains a new zeal when he meets Helen Cruger. You must intently watch Sea of Love, if you have a short attention span, you may perceive it as dull. It's not. Sea of Love is deeply sensually arousing. "}{"Title":"Snappy Script and Neo-Noir Nuances","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A more than competent Film with now familiar erotic elements added to the Crime Thriller. In this snappy script the eroticism is more of a heart-felt wanting than a lusting. In an inspirational casting of Ellen Barkin who definitely has the looks than can radiate a two-faced mystery along with Pacino who is great when he is on his game and here he seems ready to play.It works in both arenas and can be an engaging if not complex story that has enticing Neo-Noir nuances. The Movie is not purely proficient with Police procedures, aside from the set-up and one excellent scene in a restaurant sting, instead relying heavily on the unsteady romantic relationship.While not a brain teaser, it manages to be flirtatious with its sensuality and psychology of the off-investigation couple's uneasiness with their mutual attraction. An above average genre piece with memorable performances (including John Goodman) and less than memorable crime elements. "},{"Title":"Sexy, Cool Thriller with Pacino...","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea of Love is a sexy thriller with Al Pacino, Ellen Barkin, John Goodman and Michael Rooker. It's very entertaining, thanks to great performances by the cast, good atmosphere and a lot of sexiness to spare. Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin are just stellar in their roles. They share great chemistry and every single scene with them is amazing. John Goodman makes a solid supporting performance as usual. Also you can see young Samuel L. Jackson in here too. The script is solid, with good dialog and doesn't waste its time on subplots or other type of padding. It's very tight and straight to the point. On the down side, it's very predictable and you will see the twist from miles away.It has to be mentioned that there is some healthy amount of nudity in Sea Of Love. But it's all from Ellen Barkin, so don't expect seeing Mr. Pacino's family jewels or anything. It's not as explicit as Basic Instinct but there are some cool erotic scenes.Sea of Love is your good thriller. Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin makes it well worth seeing. If you like to see a late 80's thriller with good cast, cool atmosphere and some late 80's sexiness, then Sea of Love is the real deal. "},{"Title":"Pacino lifts this with an above average performance","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watching this is like viewing a juxtaposition of two very different movies. We will talk about the thriller part first. Guys who are posting lonely hearts ads in magazines are being killed. Pacino is the cop who along with Goodman set out to trap the killer assuming her to be a woman. There is a parallel track about Pacino romancing a suspect Ellen Barkin. I found the romantic track to be far better and more entrancing than the killer one. The serial killer hunt is very mediocre and there are barely any scenes in the movie which will thrill you. However, it is Pacino's performance that lifts this movie from its abysmal depth and make it a one time watch. He scorches the screen with Barkin and their love making scene is spectacular. There are some witty lines which suit Pacino very well. 3 out of 5 because of Pacino. "},{"Title":"The babe who wore red (dvd)","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This title from frank miller's Sin city is a good pick because this movie is also a film noir. As its director wanted it, it's about characters that are lost, lonely and lethal (another Sin City's title). It's funny to see what happens to Al because I'm also a city loner, a bird of the night and a worker that have been seduced in his work. All this tension makes us sometimes a bit overreact but it gives us our originality as well. The only difference between Al and me is that I don't go to bars. Maybe I should. I always heard about it as the comeback of Al after the disaster of Revolution thus it has been 5 years without him at his prime age. Imagine all the good movies that could have happened! Except Shania Twain, I don't know any other artist that run away so long from the stage. In all cases, he brought a lot of new fresh faces here Goodman, Jackson, Rooker! If watching Frankie and Johnny made me watching a romance changing into a drama, this one is about a cop movie changing into a romance. "},{"Title":"Great Actors","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The actors make this film&#x97;the major players and the rest of the cast. Savoring Ellen Barkin, Al Pacino, John Goodman, and William Hickey delights this viewer. I saw it with my former wife at the time of the release and associate it with her. The location shooting in New York enhances the mood.This is a fun movie, but, when you think about if over coffee later, the plot is mechanical and unconvincing. The plot just fails in the end.What is convincing are Ms. Barkin and Mr. Pacino along with a great soundtrack. I overrate this movie, I know, but the actors deserve it. "},{"Title":"An Extraordinary Crime Thriller","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is one extraordinary popcorn movie.Despite of having a somewhat a forced twist in the ending,an awkward love story between a cop and a suspect that is unoriginal and a the title of the song which is barely important in the story,Sea Of Love promises the viewer of great performances from its lead stars namely Al Pacino,Ellen Barkin and John Goodman as well as the supporting cast particularly Michael Rooker. The plot is about a New York City detective trying to catch a serial killer who finds victims through the singles column in a newspaper.This film is directed by Harold Becker,who made a great film that is in the tradition of Jagged Edge and Fatal Attraction during its decade of release in the 80's.Others have considered it a great prequel to Basic Instinct,a movie of the same category back in the 90's.New York Police detective Frank Keller (Pacino) is an alcoholic. His wife ran away from him and remarried one of his colleague detectives. Frank is angry and aggressive. He investigates a murder of a man in Manhattan, shot dead while face down naked in his bed while listening to a 45rpm recording of Sea of Love. Keller has three clues - a lipstick- smeared cigarette, a want ad the dead man placed in a newspaper and a perfect set of fingerprints.A second man dies in the same manner in Queens. Detective Sherman Touhey (Goodman) from that department suggests that Frank and Sherman collaborate. Both victims put rhyming ads in the paper looking for dates. They track down Raymond Brown, the only other man with a rhyming ad. He's a married man and admits placing the ad, but swears on his children's lives that he threw away all the letters and never saw anyone.Frank has an idea - place their own rhyming ad in the paper, take any women who respond to a restaurant and take the prints from their drinking glasses. His boss thinks it is a bad idea and does not approve the idea. He changes his mind when Raymond Brown also turns up dead in the same manner as the other two murder victims.Frank has dinner with several women, while Sherman &#x97; posing as a waiter &#x97; puts their glasses into evidence bags. One of the women, Helen Cruger (Barkin) snubs Keller and leaves before she takes a drink. Keller bumps into her again at a market, but this time, Cruger is more friendly. Frank takes Helen to his place, against his better judgement and advice from Sherman not to do so. They start getting passionate when Frank panics finding a gun in her purse, but it turns out to be just a starting pistol. Frank and Helen begin a relationship. Keller has a chance to obtain Cruger's fingerprints on a glass, but decides to wipe the glass clean. Their relationship becomes rocky when Cruger discovers that Keller is a cop.Cruger's ex-husband Terry (Michael Rooker) breaks into Keller's apartment and threatening him with a gun, makes Frank lie on his bed and show him how he made love to Helen, just as he had done with his ex- wife's other three boyfriends. Frank overpowers Terry and tries to call the police, but the killer lunges at him and, in the struggle, Terry is accidentally thrown through the window and plunges to his death. Frank and Helen reunite. She forgives him, and they resume their relationship.Despite of its manipulative plot,I do believe that the movie makes it up for its strong performances.Particular to that is Al Pacino.He tries to live up to the roles that he played in the 70's like Serpico,Dog Day Afternoon and early 80's like Scarface,which he truly is known for.Aside from Pacino,Ellen Barkin also makes good use of her sex appeal to make the movie work especially in the aspect of the love story between Frank and Helen.While John Goodman provides comic relief very well in some good parts of the film.Aside from that,the movie makes good use of suspense to make the story interesting and engaging despite the fact that the plot devices used have been seen many time before in other film especially in the end.Overall,Sea Of Love is more than just a popcorn crime thriller but it falls short of being critically acclaimed film because of the forced twist at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"An Engrossing Erotic-Thriller! Pacino is Terrific!","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Sea of Love' is An Engrossing Erotic-Thriller, that is crisply written, sharply directed, and has it's Lead-Star, Cinema Legend, Al Pacino, bringing in a terrific performance. The film works big time.'Sea of Love' tells the story of a New York City detective trying to catch a serial killer who finds victims through the singles column in a newspaper.Richard Price's Screenplay is detailed, fast & crispy. The Screenplay offers the correct amount of thrills in the goings-on. Harold Becker Directs the film sharply. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are perfect.Performance-Wise Al Pacino, Like ALWAYS, is Terrific. The Academy-Award Winner sinks his teeth into the part, and performs with unmatchable ease. Easily, amongst Pacino's finest performances to date. Ellen Barkin plays her part seductively. John Goodman supports very well. Michael Rooker leaves a mark. Richard Jenkins is natural, as usual.On the whole, 'Sea of Love' is a winner all the way. It gets almost everything right! Go For It! "},{"Title":"Al Pacino's spectacular come-back in a story of Suspicion, Obsession and Passion ...","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So late-80's, so kitsch &#x85; but such an enjoyable film, and I don't even think Harold Becker's film works better as a thriller than a romance, and this is saying a lot, because it's one hell of a thriller. But the heart doesn't only pound from the thrills, Sea of Love is also an appealing love story disguised as a crime investigation, an entertaining flick served by great performances from Al Pacino as Detective Frank Keller and Ellen Barkin as Helen Cruger, his love interest, with a honorable mention to John Goodman as Sherman, Frank's very likable colleague partner. Likable is quite a fitting word to describe Sea of Love, the mood of the film is perfect for what it is, not too dark despite the sleaziest details of the murders and the adult content, but not too lighthearted either, it just works with the perfect dosage of humor, excitement and romance. I reckon I was very doubtful toward this film that I always regarded as a serious drama, and the first time I watched it, I was stuck by the humor that provided many memorable scenes, the introduction of Frank Keller, the blind dates, or more generally, the interaction with Sherman (no good cop and bad cop, both are genuinely good) and one of the most hilarious freak-out from a character who thinks he's going to be killed. The second time I watched the film, it was the romantic dimension that left an impression with me, the climate of suspicion and fascination that inhabited the heart of Frank while he was having a relationship with his own suspect number one. But Sea of Love is not just a mystery surrounding the investigation on a series of sexual-oriented crimes, but a powerful introspection into a very particular relationship, between two flawed characters who have both in common this mix of self-confidence and extreme vulnerability. And flawed is an understatement to describe Frank, alcoholic, he was left by his wife which left him with a bitter and aggressive view on life, a life literally collapsing as the perspective of retirement starts to mirror a dead-end condition. Frank is a good man and good cop nonetheless as shown in a clever scene where he prevents the arrest of a man, not to humiliate him in front of his son. Now to Helen, she is a divorced mother, trying to fill the emptiness of a sentimental life by any means. And between them, there's a killer, a mysterious woman who apparently answers to rhyming ads in the papers and kills her lovers while listening to Sea of Love before leaving the crime scenes and some lipsticks traces in the cigarettes found in the ashtray. Progressively, Frank and Sherman will elaborate an ingenious scheme by sending their own rhyming ad to attract the killer. This part possesses now, an interesting pedagogic value showing how people used to deal with love ads when Internet didn't exist.The magical encounter between Frank and Helen only happens at the first half-hour in the restaurant during the well-done blind dates scene, and the way both interact makes the growing relationship endearing in a realistic way. Helen, as the only woman who didn't leave her fingerprints becomes the suspect number one, but for Frank, there's another element that makes him attracted to Helen. And this is where the romance mixes with paranoia, suspicion and a delicate flavor of danger that contributes to the uniqueness of the story. It's a story of a weird but interesting relationship between two sympathetic characters, and thanks to Al Pacino's powerful performance, it becomes the evolution of a character who tries to fight his inner demons crystallized through this romance that waked up his most repressed feelings and drowned them in a passionate sea of love &#x85; Sea of Love is a remarkable thriller, a story of delightful lust and intense desire, and the sex scenes are handled in a good way as they're not just an excuse to throw some nudity and attract the crowds, it's like the highlights of a burning passion that was waken up between two fragile persons. But we know that it will never work as long as there will be this investigation, that would put a heavy weight of lies on a promising way to happiness, then the investigation becomes necessary, as we all know, this would be the turning point for Frank Keller and Helen Cruger. It's funny how the combination of their names create the name Helen Keller, as to sustain the blindness of a love that ignores all the bounds that could paralyze their relationship, lying, being a cop, fear, suspicion, stress &#x85; again, the relationship wouldn't survive the lies.If not the best thriller of the world, or the best romance, Sea of Love is one of the rare films that combine both elements in a very powerful way, on every department writing, acting, directing &#x85; it doesn't avoid some stereotypical situations, some elements have dated, but this is so minor considering the enjoyment following the story. And if only for having the merit to have resurrected Al Pacino's declining career, this film deserves a big and a sincere Thank you! Sea of Love or a movie you'll Love to See ... "},{"Title":"A good thriller, a solid 7.5","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea of Love was one of the movies, that put Al Pacino's career back on track. Even though I wouldn't put it as one of his top 10, it's definitely a honorable mention. The suspense works out very well, Pacino provides a solid performance (even though perhaps not one of his best ones - but it's not his fault, but the screenwriters'). I think John Goodman was just PERFECT as Pacino's buddy detective, he adds a lot to this one, and their chemistry is amazing. When I think about it, if there is one Hollywood actor I'd love to have a drink it - well, it's got to be Goodman, he just seems like he's acting himself in most of the films he's in. The actress is just amazingly sexy, she projects so much sexuality, it can drive you crazy. Anyway, it's a good, maybe even very good thriller, very 80's like. I think that with a better script it could've been much better, but nevertheless, it features some very good acting, great dialogs, some hot scenes, and overall it's a light thriller, with some comedy, and even some drama sprinkled here and there. "},{"Title":"An excellent though pathetic thriller","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As a cop this actor is pathetic but fascinating. A serial killer is at work in New York, using poetic ads in the Village Voice to attract his preys. But in fact he is not the killer really but the real prey of the killer who is&#x85; the woman, at first they thought, the police, and they are wrong of course. So our cops dress up as bar waiters and poetic lovers and they start dating women in a bar via some nice poems in the Village Voice. Of course in the lot they manage to catch the good one, but in the meantime our cop has fallen in love with her and he is unable to see straight. He is so shocked when he discovers she is connected with the victims that he stops thinking and he wants her to commit one more crime and he frightens her to death and she leaves. It is then someone rings at the door and what a surprise, a colleague of his, a cop, &#x85; you go and discover the details. Sordid, bleak, miserable, and that sea of love is just spilled over, a real tsunami. The actor is so good that he makes us believe two things. For one cops have special eyes and anyone can recognize them by the way they look at you or anything. And for two that a cop in love is like a whale out of the sea, dying because he is crushed by his own weight, that of his gun and badge, and crushing everything around himself like the big fat monster he is. One of these actors of the old generation who were, and some of them still are and have taught the trade to a few younger ones, able to impersonate any part, any role, any situation as if they were chameleons. That's rare, my gosh, that's rare but so good when you meet one from time to time. That thriller is The Experts plus a good touch of humane and human depth. Let's hope competition and the crisis helps Hollywood to ask their actors to relearn that trade of old and begin again composing their characters from inside and not as if they were some kind of costumes you don over your evening jacket or dress.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "}{"Title":"Do you remember the night we met?; Sea of Love 7/10","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" We are introduced to a character, Frank Keller, that just achieved 20 years in service, that can't see really something after the retirement (that is what he hears of a lot, about the retirement) and that not long before he had a divorce (one the guys from his job is now with his ex-wife. Frank is like we have been working together for like 6 years but we have never go for a beer yet somehow you stole my wife, and we will see Frank apologizing more than once with that guy). On the other hand we have the murders three murdered men, similar circumstances, certainly only one murderer. The third murder is of a man we know, the expected murder, expected by Frank and by another detective (John Goodman's character Detective Sherman Touhey from Queens). This film, Harold Becker's Sea of Love (with Al Pacino as Frank Keller, Ellen Barkin as Helen Cruger and John Goodman. Also Samuel L. Jackson appears at the beginning of the film as a criminal who thought he was going to meet the New York Yankees but soon received, like many other criminals, the bad news no Yankees, only arrests. From the IMDb trivia section The apprehension of criminals by arranging a Meet the Yankees breakfast was based on an actual event), has two parts, the first one is the one I liked better and the second is just about a love relationship, the whole thing with the murders is sort of just a pretext. And is typical stuff with the woman disappointed after finding out that Frank lied, and is predictable since you always know Pacino and Barkin's character will end happily together (and well the detectives found out who the murderer was just out of luck). Sea of Love is an entertaining film with a first part that is simply that, a fast-paced entertainment and a second part that, like I said, is predictable, with a sexy Barkin and with really bad scenes (for instance take the supermarket supposedly very sexy scene, very bad music is what stands out in that part!). In the Wikipedia page of we can read that Sea of Love is credited as the film that pulled Pacino out of his slump of film failures that occupied much of the 1980s. Pacino had 5 performances in the 80s in Cruising, Author! Author!, Scarface, Revolution and Sea of Love. Now, I have seen only De Palma's Scarface and Sea of Love (just yesterday I saw it for the very first time), I think Pacino is just f****** great as Tony Montana and just good as Frank Keller, never really great, he entertains just like the film itself and certainly this performance is extremely far to be one of his best (from the IMDb biography of Pacino It marked the second phase of Pacino's career, being the first to feature his now famous dark, owl eyes and hoarse, gravelly voice). And the song, here we can hear bits of Phil Phillips' song more than a couple of times, including a very funny interpretation by John Goodman. Actually the first version of the song Sea of Love that I ever listened was the version of the great Tom Waits (my favourite). The original version, by Phil Phillips, was first released in 1959 and Tom Waits' version in 1989 on the soundtrack of this film. But I listened Waits' version for the very first time just a couple or so years ago on Waits' latest album, the 2006 Orphans Brawlers, Bawlers & Bastards and just this year thanks to my mother (she loves that song as much as I love Waits' version) I listened, finally, the extremely famous original (and she listened the version of Tom Waits and she was like what is this?, certainly not quite her cup of tea but I do liked the original) version. The song eventually made me remember about that film of which I read positive comments some time ago and then I found out that Waits' version was originally released on the soundtrack of that film, pretty much it was time to finally give Becker's Sea of Love a shot. So Sea of Love is just light entertainment to see once, nothing that you must check out. "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled by the title","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was. I went to this movie when it came out simply because it had Al Pacino in it, and half-expected some sort of cheesy romance. And so began my love affair with Ellen Barkin; one of the hottest babes ever to hit the silver screen.Here she is at her steamy best as a femme fatale with a mysterious past who is linked to a murder being investigated by alcoholic cop Al Pacino. Inevitably, she ends up exciting more than just his tastebuds and the result is a conjunction even more sizzling than her bayou romp with Dennis Remy Quaid. All of this is played out against the backdrop of continuing murders being investigated by Pacino and his partner (excellently played by John Goodman), and the result is a taut, sexy thriller in the best traditions of film noir. "},{"Title":"Excellent commentary on the vicissitudes of excessive drunkeness","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie does a nice job of contrasting Pacino as an insightful, sensitive, and articulate dude when sober, against someone who inevitably says and does really stupid things when he's blotto. I like the fact that the movie doesn't beat you over the head with this message.Pacino gives another outstanding performance, and he is beginning to look like the ultimate winner of the Pacino/DeNiro sweepstakes, based on lifetime achievement (although neither career is far from over).This makes a good double-bill with The Big Easy. They both feature Ellen Barkin at a time in her career when sizzling sex scenes seemed to be written into her contract. "},{"Title":"A crime story with a twist","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea of love is the film that crawls under your skin and stays there. It's simple but distorted love story is the centerpiece of a synopsis that tries to show how desperate and dangerous can loneliness be. Al Pacino as Frank Keller is in one of his best performances there, and his character is a middle-aged man caught between a broken marriage and a dangerous job that leaves a little time for personal life. Ellen Barkin is perfect in her role and she and Al Pacino light up the screen in several ways. John Goodman is fantastic and his performance helps a great deal, to the solid, good acted and plausible life story. That's why it deserves 9 out of 10 any day, and especially on hot summer nights. "},{"Title":"Rent it, love, do it again..","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was an all around great film, no great themes just great performances by all involved. I remember seating in the theater and watching Ellen Barkin pull off a no nudity love seen that literally made me loosen my collar and feel the heat raising from my body. I find nothing sexier than a woman who isn't drop dead gorgeous, but can keep her cloths on, an make me feel the heat. She gave that same flavor in The Big Easy and I haven't tasted it sense Meryl Streep seduced Alan Alder (and me) in the seduction of JoeTynar. Aside from the heat, this film never missed a chance to thrill, surprise and excite so it's earned my IMAGESOFT seal of approval. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Story, Typical Ending","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie made me feel real sorry for one of the old ladies that is trying to get a date.  Even years from seeing the movie at the theater, I think about that lonely old heart.  What I didn't care for was the ending of the movie.  I had this big ole buildup with Ellen Barkin and that was the end?  Please!  Give me an ending that is just as suspenseful as the rest of the show was.  I just felt like the director took an easy way out after entertaining me the entire film.  The acting is fantastic, the script is wonderful, casting unbelievable, the ending just kind of sucked.  And guess what, I have a stack of 45s and I'm still waiting for them to become valuable. "},{"Title":"There are actors who always attract people's attention no matter what role they play","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are actors who always attract people's attention no matter what role they play and no matter what the film is about. Al Pacino is one of these guys. Most of his movies are great! And this is one of these good ones. The plot might not been so original, but it is good and moves the film beautifully. Det. Frank Keller (Pacino) is a policeman who investigates a series of crimes until the moment he falls in love and gets deeply involved with the main suspect, a very beautiful and sexy woman, played by Ellen Barkin. The performances are really good and the film pace is just breathtaking.My rate 8/10  "},{"Title":"Some terrific moments","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!'Sea of Love' is hardly one of the best known films ever made and indeed not the deepest, though it certainly has some terrific moments combining suspense with passion, love and death. It's difficult to discuss it without revealing little titbits of the plot, so apologies for my uncharacteristic disclosure of spoilers. Cop Al Pacino is probing a cold-blooded killer who, it seems, is scouring the lonely hearts columns, dating men, making love to them and then pulling the trigger on her post-coital victims. Undeterred, Pacino places an ad and goes undercover in a bid to fall into the lap of the femme fatale before eventually finding his soulmate and discovering, consequently, the true and unforseen identity of the killer! Confused? You won't be.It's a rather easy-to-follow experience with a healthy dose of dark humour. The screenplay, despite the lack of baffling complexity, is well-written and handled competently by the cast. The chemistry between Pacino and his colleague, John Goodman, is a particular highlight - and look out for an appearance from an unknown Samuel L. Jackson!Although it won't feature in his greatest hits collection, Pacino certainly doesn't sleepwalk through the film, as ever, putting in a splendid performance as a frazzled cop - a role he was born to play. It's an easy watch and by no means out of the top drawer, but good enough to satisfy the needs of Al's appreciative followers. "},{"Title":"One of Pacino's Best","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of Pacino's best performances.  He really looks the part of an alcoholic, burned out cop.  In most of the scenes it actually looks like he is fighting a hangover.  The plot is ok (people who answer personal ads are being killed while the song Sea Of Love is playing), but it's actually the characters and atmosphere that make the film enjoyable.  John Goodman puts in a good performance as Pacino's partner and Ellen Barkin is very sexy. Look for Samuel L Jackson in a brief role at the start of the film.  "},{"Title":"Dorothy Michaels deja vu...","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *spoiler*Watched this again on TV recently. Lotsa good stuff in this film.Just a comment on the final scene, which reeks a bit of studio tweaking. Seems to me that the screenwriter, stuck for an emotionally satisfying resolution, went out and hired Tootsie to relieve the impasse. Whack! Inspiration! Heroine deceived throughout the whole film by male lead and devastated thereby is *instantly* brought back to romantic equilibrium by some kerbside repartee.Compare the two and tell me it's a coincidence. Other than that, a satisfying effort. "}{"Title":"A very good script...","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I watch recently this movie for the first time on french TV, I was really surprised to realise how this story is near of Basic Instinct one... This is really amazing. The feelings you get is that movie contains all the ingredients that can offer a very good story, but not as good at it gests when the director is Paul Verhoeven. But a must see... Maybe just to have in mind how few ideas are walking at Hollywood Business Bld... "},{"Title":"Sea the movie","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sea of love is not as well-known as many other Pacino-films, but it's worth watching; at least once. It's not a great thriller that you want to see over and over again, but it keeps your attention throughout the whole film the first time you watch it.In fact, I believe that this is not a thriller at all. If you want to see a true thriller, you have to watch films such as The sixth sense, What lies beneath, The name of the rose and almost every film made by the 'master of suspense' Alfred Hitchcock.No, this film is more of a cop film that reminded me a bit of Pacino's earlier Serpico.  Even so, it does rely on some tense moments and a pretty original storyline.  There are even a few romantic moments involved between Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin.And that takes us straight to the actors in this film.  As expected, Al Pacino is the greatest one; by far.  Ellen Barkin en John Goodman are good, but Pacino is simply better.  Check out Samuel L. Jackson in a very small part as well.Overall, this is not a bad film, and it's definitely good enough to spend your money on. Near the end the film becomes somewhat predictable and the plot is not nearly as good as I had hoped for.  But this shouldn't ruin the film.In short go 'sea' the movie! "},{"Title":"Great comeback from Pacino","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Al Pacino plays a cop who has personal problems when it comes to women. To get away from his problems he takes on a serial killer case, in which the perpetrator sleeps with men picked up from the lonely-hearts column, and then kills them. Presuming the killer is a woman, Pacino and his partner (John Goodman) begins searching for her by putting a personal advertisement in the paper, in hope of that she will contact them. They meet up with lots of women, but none of them seem to be the killer. However, Pacino falls in love with the beautiful Helen (Ellen Barkin) and after spending some time together with her, he starts suspecting that she might be the one they are looking for.Sea of Love is a good thriller with many twists in it. The writing is clever and a perfect vehicle for Pacino. Although not a very spectacular movie, it still manages to keep the viewer interested. It takes a while until the film gets interesting, but when it really does, it´s a very exciting piece of work.The lead trio all do fine performances, Pacino carries the film, believable as the tough cop who begins to soften when he meets the sexy Ellen Barkin, in a great role for her. John Goodman is pretty fun as the comic relief, although you don´t get to know his character that well. They get good backup from good supporting actors like Richard Jenkins and Michael Rooker, in an early role. And if you are really observant you can see Samuel L. Jackson in one of his first films. He plays, er, Black Guy. Well, we all have to start from the bottom, don´t we? Sea of Love is a good thriller with a rather slow start, but it gets really exciting at the end. I have to admit that I was pretty surprised by the ending, I did not see that one coming at all! A great comeback for Pacino as well, after some tough years with no parts at all.* * * ½  "},{"Title":"Pacino's comeback a huge success","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Want a film to remake for the next century?  This is it.  It was already remade once, sort of.  Watch for the similarities between this and BASIC INSTINCT (men are murdered, woman is prime suspect, cop falls for suspect). But this film is a true original.Pacino returned from his self-imposed exile from Hollywood to make Sea Of Love with his favorite producer, Martin Bregman.  After a string of flops in the early 80s Pacino fled to the New York stage scene, finding himself so to speak.  Bregman coaxed him out to do this sexually charged thriller about a tired cop caught in a sexual dilemma during middle age.Bodies of men are turning up in New York City.  Two common denominator - the song Sea Of Love playing on the turntable, and they all placed ads in the personals.  After composing an ad themselves, Pacino and his team (including partner John Goodman) set to staking out the resulting dates.After wading through an ocean of desperate ladies, Pacino zeroes in on the ravishing Ellen Barkin.  Ellen has never looked better (trust me, women as beautiful as her do not place personal ads, let alone answer them).  Two problems arise - she immediately becomes a suspect, and Pacino falls head over heels for her.  Playing an intricate game of cat and mouse, Pacino tries to learn her true nature all the while combatting his own desires to possess her for himself.Pacino turns in an inspired performance as the single man who didn't NEED to find a woman, but once he does, he'll risk anything to have her.  John Goodman got some of the best early notices of his career as Pacino's partner and switch-off man during the dating process (would have been a whole 'nother film if Goodman had met Barkin, huh?)Also, look for Samuel L. Jackson in an extremely brief role in the opening scene, featuring what has to be the most inventive bust in screen history. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  That's impossible not to like this fantastic thriller. Richard Price's screenplay is wonderful, Al Pacino is in his best, John Goodman is really very good and Ms. Barkin, well..., she is the best. See it, record it, buy the video, buy the DVD and don't forget!  "},{"Title":"if only more films were made this way.....","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Brilliant pacey thriller. Pacino in fine form, with able support from Goodman. The really nice surprise was the performance from Ellen Barkin - a very sexy femme-fatale ( or is she?)the chemistry between her and Pacino is dynamic. if only more films were made this way....  "},{"Title":"Sea of Love","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Detective Frank Keller(Al Pacino, in a perfect star vehicle)is a middle-aged lonelyheart, recently divorced, whose ex is married to his partner. He begins thinking about his mortality as his 20 years of duty on the force has come up and longing for a female presence in his life has weighed on the mind.He's on a case regarding a swinger who was shot in the back of the head while listening to an oldie record 45 titled, sea of Love. A chance meeting with another detective from another precinct, Det. Sherman(John Goodman in a terrific performance)points to a possible string of killings as they find both their cases have the same MO. They decide to work together when they find that prints match from both of their cases and both males had put poems in the singles-ads. Frank wants to try this himself, with both he and Sherman believing the killer is a female with wrath towards ladies' men as the motive.Keller, after going through several dates with many women who answer the ad(..which came from a poem Frank's mom wrote), begins a steamy love-affair with a sexy divorcée into kink. That female is Helen Cruger(Ellen Barkin, heating the screen), and she has Frank feeling like a teenager. But, Frank begins questioning their relationship when he begins noticing little signs that may point to Helen possibly being the very killer he's investigating. This is true center of the story and a conflict plaguing Frank who is just head-over-heels for Helen.I must say this is one of my favorite Pacino performances because he wears weariness like a badge on his face. I felt Pacino plays him right showing a cop really damaged by a failed marriage and hitting the point in his life where he could retire from the force which brings up his age which torments him. Then this seductive gal comes along and throws him for a loop, rejuvenating him. I think Barkin is flat-out hot as the love-interest. I think she provides just the right amount of mystery that has us questioning her much like Frank eventually does. The film has a great dynamic between Pacino and Goodman which only makes it even better. "},{"Title":"Sexual thriller that delivers","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sexually charged character driven thriller that marked a return for Pacino after a few slow years.Pacino is excellent as Frank Keller, a heavy drinking detective who just passed the 20 year mark. He gets involved with a possible suspect in a serial murder case and while he feels rejuvenated he may possible be signing his death warrant.Deliberately paced and well directed, Sea of Love is a mature thriller that delivers in spades. Great supporting cast, well written script with a plausible mystery that's well handled all the way. What's not to like? "},{"Title":"Sea of Love Is a 10","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea of Love popped up on premium cable tonight, and in no time flat I was absorbed, even though I'd seen it several times in the past and remembered who done it. The plot is well constructed and well executed. The acting is well nigh faultless...the heroine's mother (Jacqueline Brookes) has only a couple of lines yet blossoms into a full-fledged person with appropriate weight. Pacino, Goodman, Baxley et al. are vivid and compelling AND funny the very few times the last is called for. The most amazing thing about the film is Ellen Barkin. I'm not surprised she was good. But I didn't expect her to transcend 99% of the film performances I've seen in my many decades...she jumps off the screen, you expect her to grab you where it hurts and twist while grinning (is it a grin or a sneer?, is it the ultimate put-down or the ultimate come-on?). She's all there all the time. It's easily one of the sexiest performances ever. "},{"Title":"Sea of love","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I confess that I've never been a huge Pacino fan and wasn't overly looking forward to this. I was hugely surprised and found myself gripped by an excellently scripted thriller. The first scene at the Yankee's breakfast however, wasn't believable. Surely not all those petty criminals would be hoodwinked so easily. The scene did first show Pacino's soft side, but I still feel the scene was out of place. The main plot then kicked in and the whole thing really picked up when John Goodman arrived. His was a terrific performance, humorous but also homely and very real. Ellen Barkin is stunning, nobody in my shoe shop looks like that. The chemistry between Pacino and Barkin is great, the unease between the two of them only truly broken right at the end of this film. Pacino's performance is really to be admired, when you watch it, look out for the little gestures and mannerisms. You always suspected there would be a twist at the end and I worked hard trying to figure it out. I couldn't and the climax took me completely by surprise, brilliant and not over-cooked. Fan or not a fan of Pacino, give this one a try. "}{"Title":"Wanted  A sweet, sexy lover for me to shoot in the head.  Respond.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I found this digging around the free movies offered by our cable company's On Demand service proving that once in a while, there actually is something worthwhile to watch On Demand. Most of it is free crap one wouldn't watch normally begging the question of, why, exactly, would I want to go through the trouble of digging this crap up through a rhino-hide-thick sea of menus to watch something I wouldn't normally give a crap to watch on regular TV? At any rate, I found this, it was Rated R and I was uncommonly bored, so I was willing to settle for just about anything. Luckily, this wasn't too bad...Sea of Love is about Al Pacino as a cop (and a drunk) who's hunting down an apparent serial killer who's been busy knocking off people met through personal ads. While Pacino is searching, however, he becomes involved with one of the suspects and then we travel through a sordid tale packed with enough twists and turns to keep us constantly second-guessing our predictions.Here's the breakdownThe Good--The acting is really good, but then, when has Pacino been known to do crappy work? Insomnia you say? Nah, that movie was ruined by the crappiest editing ever, among other things.--Good story, well written.--John Goodman is as entertaining as ever.--Excellent atmosphere and cinematography during tense moments.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--Music in general about average.The Bad--Totally 80's fashions will make this film feel really dated today this being written in 2005). I'm sure this didn't hurt the film back then, but today it might just make you cringe.--Cheesy we gonna make looooove music that was pretty standard of the time during sex scenes.The Ugly--John Goodman singing Sea of Love. ...well, okay, it was kind of entertaining.Memorable Scene--Pacino's speed-dating scene in the restaurant with John Goodman as his waiter.*Look for Samuel Jackson in the opening scene--he's in the film for about a minute. Listed in the credits as, of all things, black man.Acting 8/10 Story 8/10 Atmosphere 9/10 Cinematography 9/10 Character Development 8/10 Special Effects/Make-up 8/10 (just some gun shots, a little blood--nothing difficult or spectacular) Nudity/Sexuality 3/10 Violence/Gore 6/10 (mostly just some violence) Dialogue 9/10 Music 6/10 (average for the time) Writing 8/10 Direction 9/10Cheesiness 1/10 Crappiness 0/10Overall 8/10All in all, this is a pretty good thriller. Well acted, not exactly predictable and it has Al Pacino. A good film for general movie fans, and great for fans of thrillers and even horror films.www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"Sea of Love is a bumpy ride","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea of Love has been flying under the radar since it's release in 1989, and while it's not entirely fair that this film has pretty much been ignored all these years, it's easy to see why this is the case. The film has all the right ingredients for an enthralling thriller, but something has gone wrong with the delivery because it doesn't all bode together well enough for this to be considered any more than just above average. The film's main selling point is, of course, the fact that it stars Al Pacino. Pacino is an actor that will always make films worth watching, but it's worth noting that this is one of his 'autopilot' roles that really only requires him to power through every scene, rather than actually act. It's a shame that Pacino is on autopilot, because it's not every day that you get to see him paired with John Goodman and the two do work well together. If Pacino had managed to really get his teeth into the role like he has in so many other films, this pairing could have been something special; but instead, it manages to merely be amusing.The plot follows Pacino's police detective who discovers that a couple of murders in the neighbourhood are linked by a lonely hearts column and, after teaming up with John Goodman's detective from the other side of town, the pair put an advert in the same column on the hope of trapping the killer. What Pacino doesn't count on is falling in love with the suspect. The plot is never a problem for this film; the problem is the plotting. The first hour is really well done - it's engaging, thrilling and even quite funny, but towards the middle, the plot just dips and it doesn't manage to recapture it's previous form until the climax, and by then it's too late to save itself. Anyone whose seen Mike Myers' comedy So, I Married an Axe Murderer will recognise the plot instantly, but unfortunately; this is one of those occasions where the stolen ideas have been put to better use than the original ones. Don't get me wrong, though, this is still a good film and well worth seeing for fans of crime dramas. It's just massive shame that the writers couldn't write a film that has a plot as consistent as the good ideas that were put into it. "},{"Title":"Slightly Above Average Cop Thriller","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first half of this movie is a crime mystery. The second half is a love story. I thought that I would know what happened next and for the most part I was right. Thre were a few surprises and i admit i did not see the ending coming. Although once I saw it kinda made sense who the killer was.I just thought that the movie was repetitive in its dialog in some parts. Al Pacino is his usual self in one of his come back roles were he has picked up the deep voice and the dark eyes. Besides one scene in a Shoe store i think his performance is rather average. No where in the league of later works such as Scent of a Women and Glenn Gary Glenn Ross. In the confines of the script the actors did what they could so i give it a generous seven. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. I became an Al Pacino fan because of this movie, it finally showed me what all the fuss was about. Ellen Barkin gives a starmaking performance, it's just to bad she made poor choices after this movie, but I doubt you'll see a sexier performance in any movie. The chemistry between Pacino and John Goodman was also fantastic. Look closely at the beginning of the movie, if you don't blink you'll catch Samuel L Jackson in a couple of scenes. I highly reccomend this movie. "},{"Title":"A solid three star crime flick.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A 49 year old Al Pacino is at the center of this crime flick as a workaholic New York homicide detective on the trail of a serial killer while having a sordid affair with a woman (Barkin) who could be the killer. Sea of Love provides nonstop drama with little action while Pacino wrestles with issues including an exwife, a lover, alcohol, burn-out, and, of course, the killer. A three star flick, Sea of Love is a must see for Pacino fans and solid entertainment for all others into crime dramas. "},{"Title":"Another Pacino tour de force.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sea of Love puts Pacino at the center playing a NYC homicide detective who's juggling a midlife crisis with a serial killer investigation and a love affair with a woman who could be the killer. Artistically ok and technically good, SOL is an above average whodunnit which features the excellence of Pacino with a good supporting cast and a story which focuses on the human side of the cop as much as the business side. A good rental or broadcast flick for any adult in the mood for a detective story and a must see for Pacino fans. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sure, there may be better ones but this is a movie well worth to see if you like erotic & suspense. Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin both have a splendid performance. In some way the plot resembles Basic Instinct, though the story is quite different of course.  "},{"Title":"love story with a twist of fate","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie had a great cast and was a wonderful story. Unfortunately somewhere along the way the plot became somewhat confused. I was however able to keep up with what was happening but I had to actively try to piece the story together. This film could, and in my opinion would have been an easy 10 had it gone through another screenwriter/review process. If the story had followed one or even two particular paths clearly then watching this movie would have make it a great deal more enjoyable. -Also there was a large void where character development could have prospered in respect with the supporting cast members. If you like Al Pacino- you will undoubtedly still love this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent until the end","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Pacino is totally believable in this role, and the scene in which he stares down two young wiseguys is a testament to how much he can get done with facial expression alone. He does not need to utter a word, and he carries the scene.The relationships between the cops are totally believable. The chemistry between Pacino and Goodman works. Barkin isn't bad.The film falls apart in the last ten minutes, when Pacino is misled about the identity of the killer, and then discovers his mistake. It's sloppy, predictable that his first guess was wrong, nonsense how he makes the mistake, and the crisis is resolved only because the script requires it. Nothing in the last ten minutes of this film resembles the way human beings behave outside Sylvester Stallone movies. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo ending","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a decent movie until the last few minutes, wherein it took a slight twist and everything was nicely resolved.  The climax was right out of Scooby-Doo and left something to be desired.  It's too bad all of the talent in the movie was wasted by such a poor ending. "}{"Title":"Excellent Flick","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorites. Who ever gave this a bad revue needs to think again... Al Pacino is superb, as is the whole cast. And Ellen Barkin is as sexy as you can get...Rent it, own it.  "},{"Title":"A good thriller, Ellen Barkin at her prime","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a fairly good thriller.  I recommend it as a nice rainy day rental. If you like Ellen Barkin you will love this film.  She is extremely sexy in this film (well actualy, what film isn't she sexy in?)  I think this film is a little under-rated.  It is by no means a Hitchcock classic, but it by no means stinks as some of the comments suggest.  I am a stickler for good endings and this film has one.  Check it out, 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Heavy breather-cum-murder mystery...a bit overheated","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" New York police detectives Al Pacino and John Goodman investigate serial killings stemming from the classifieds; since the victims are married men cheating on their wives, the pair figure the killer to be a woman scorned. From director Harold Becker's handling to Richard Price's screenplay to--most especially--Trevor Jones' erotic music, everything in Sea of Love is revved up for a sleek horniness. The mystery-angle of the plot seems to take a backseat to naked limbs and orgasmic sounds. Still, the film doesn't pulsate with sex as much as it does skim over its surface. By the end, it all looks fairly silly and dire. Goodman does very likable work, but Pacino and Ellen Barkin are an oddly aloof pair--they're a photogenic couple, but do we really care what happens to either of them? ** from **** "},{"Title":"Don't You Move!!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's great. See it. Barkin-is she bad or good or REALLY bad? Keeps ya guessing all the way through. Pacino is great, intense, believable. Goodman does his usual jovial big guy buddy role. You will enjoy seeing guys like Hickey, Rooker and co. in here too. Great use of a bowling trophy(don't ask) as weapon too.This was a biggie in the fall of '89, it deserves to be seen now too.*** "},{"Title":"Sea the movie","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sea of love is not as well-known as many other Pacino-films, but it's worth watching; at least once.  It's not a great thriller that you want to see over and over again, but it keeps your attention throughout the whole film the first time you watch it.In fact, I believe that this is not a thriller at all.  If you want to see a true thriller, you have to watch films such as The sixth sense, Se7en, What lies beneath, The name of the rose and almost every film made by the 'master of suspense' Hitchcock!No, this film is more of a copfilm that reminds us of Pacino's earlier work such as Serpico and Scarface.  The difference however between this copfilm and 48 Hours is that this one relies on some tense moments and a pretty original storyline.  And, if you should disagree with me on that one, think about the great acting performance of an actor that can't seem to do bad acting.Of course, I'm talking about Al Pacino.  Ellen Barkin en John Goodman are good, but Pacino is simply better; as we except from an actor of his stage.  Overall, this is not a bad film, and it's definitely good enough to spend your money on.  Near the end the film becomes somewhat predictable and the plot is not as good as we had hoped for.But this shouldn't ruin the film. "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm watching this and I thought eh I'll check into IMDb and see the reviews and the ratings because I didn't get it. There's like no suspense in this movie. Sure Al Pacino is great but hey come on what is this about? It just doesn't make any sense and I'm not terribly excited about how it ends. I'm amazing Al Pacino didn't have anything better to do than stuff like this. I don't even know what to write in this review. I just wanted to tell the readers of IMDb that I'm perplexed about this movie. Write me if you have a good comment or something on it. Yeah, well, I'll watch now to see how it ends. Hope it will at least make some sense because what I have seen of it has not. "},{"Title":"Is Barkin guilty? Yes... of possessing a killer bod!","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frank Keller (Al Pacino), a divorced, bitter, alcoholic New York detective, risks a bullet to the back of the head to become romantically involved with scorching hot shoe-store saleswoman Helen Cruger (Ellen Barkin), possible perpetrator of a series of brutal sex slayings.When it comes to psycho-sexual thrillers from the 80s/90s, Basic Instinct unsurprisingly hogs most of the limelight&#x97;Sharon Stone's iconic crotch shot sees to that. Sea of Love, which shares many plot similarities with Verhoeven's film (but predates it by three years) seems to have been all but forgotten&#x97;a crime because it's a marvellous film with a clever noir-ish script that keeps the viewer guessing to the very end.Is Ellen really barkin' mad? I'm not telling. I suggest you dive into the Sea of Love to find out, and enjoy Al Pacino giving yet another winning performance, superb turns from an excellent supporting cast (including an early role for Samuel L. Jackson as 'Black Guy'), and the stunning form of Ellen Barkin, who is every bit as capable as Stone at steaming up the screen WITHOUT flashing her beef curtains (pretty much every other square inch of her smokin' bod gets a good airing, though. Hurrah!).8.5 out of 10, rounded up to 9 for Barkin's bodacious butt! "},{"Title":"Best Thriller I ever saw...","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Awesome blend of love and suspense. A top class thriller with Al-Pacino at his best. A record Sea of Love is played in all the crime scenes.. All the victims were killed after sex... The police suspects the hands of a woman.. The Investigation officer, Frank Keller(Al-Pacino) finds himself in love with a prime suspect. As they get closer he finds more clues to suspect her. Every time he was sure she did it, he finds his suspicions baseless... One day Keller finds the the list of all victims in his love's house along with the Sea of Love record. Story goes through twists and turns... The movie will put the viewers at the last inch of their seat. "},{"Title":"One of the Best of the Decade","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sea of Love (1989) **** (out of 4) I can't recall how many times I've watched this movie but it has to be more than twenty times yet it never gets boring, never loses its sexiness and I still find it intense even though I remember most of the dialogue in each scene. The more you watch a great film the more greatness you notice in it and that rang true again with this. What really caught me this time is how incredibly well written the love story between Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin is. My girlfriend even brought this up but at one point you forget you're watching a thriller because you get caught up in the love story between these two lost, broken and depressed people. The two actors are simply wonderful together and I also feel this is one of Pacino's greatest performances. It's hard to say what his greatest performance is since he's had so many but this here would certainly make my top three. John Goodman is also very good and brings some nice laughs. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Is nothing to say about,bout actors are just fine. Scenario is minded. Good production, good camera, good color. ''This is the type of Hollywood movie from which you can be proud of it'' For others Hollywood movies - let say 80 percent of it you can say I am dumb American, is only I know is to make the movies. Don't know way, my father use to be the same -) Best, D By the way I am not the fun of Al Pacino or she... "}{"Title":"A hidden gem","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have watched this film several times and aided by a gap of a few years between viewings and a bad memory, so i cant remember the twist, it is very enjoyable.I think it is very underrated because there are so many police/romance films- the initial impression is that it follows that well trodden path but the dialogue is v good, the story is good and the characters are great. The Al Pacino character in particular- he is a proper grown up complex person brought to life on screen- doesn't have all the answers, messed up a things but keeps plugging away. "},{"Title":"Top quality thriller","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is absolutely excellent and SO under-rated I can hardly believe it. The New York Police Department is trying to catch a serial killer whose victims are all men who've placed lonely hearts adverts with rhyming poems. Everyone thinks these crimes are being committed by a psychopathic woman so the NYPD place an ad of their own and 2 detectives (played by Al Pacino & John Goodman) pose as lonely hearts and try to snare the murderer. What elevates this film beyond the norm is the fantastic chemistry between Pacino & Goodman and the anguish driving Pacino's character. He plays a divorced detective who's probably lonelier than most of the people who place such adverts and falls madly in love with Ellen Barkin, the prime suspect. To say any more would spoil things so watch it for yourself, it's a great movie. "},{"Title":"Ellen Barkin Was Red HOT!","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Great film with great acting, lots of hot romance, and plenty of drinking booze. Al Pacino,(Detective Frank Keller),Insomnia,'02, was a great cop but he sure had a drinking problem and always seemed loaded in this picture. (Good Acting!) Ellen Barkin, (Helen),Someone Like You,'01, was a shoe store owner in NYC and was a lady who loved poetry and was a very very passionate gal, searching for an honest and loving guy who would be a real Hot Soul Mate! John Goodman,(Detective Sherman),Beyond the Sea,'04,was Frank's partner in trying to capture this serial killer, who killed men face down on their beds. Great Thriller and lots of Romance! "},{"Title":"Interesting well done -- a bit much in some areas...","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Pacino fans will not be disappointed. His character is beleivablyhaggard and trip-out, though more depth related to his psychicstate would have been helpful. I just saw this movie (2004) and Ijust keep finding new ways to enjoy and appreciate Pacino andGoodman! Barkins character was most intriquing and at the sametime incredulous! Afterall why would she be combing thepersonals? But then again that improbability somewhat lendssomething to the film. She and Pacino's chemistry is rich andtactile--without the nudity. It was unneeded. Their instantlife-on-the-edge sex encounters have a don't try this at homefeeling evidence by the scenes and timing. Barkin's raincoat onlymeet-me-at-the-market scene was one of the most interestingshots--without showing too much, brings a new meaning to latenight grocery shopping!   "},{"Title":"Not Bad, decent Pacino flick","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sea of Love is a decent film. Pacino is in good form after a long break in the 1980's. Hes a lonely alcoholic cop in search of a killer. Not a top flight  thriller but delivers with nice plot twists. Also has good performances by John Goodman and Ellen Barkin too.  "},{"Title":"Not Too Shabby!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After years of hearing about this film I finally got around to watching it tonight. With a solid cast and quality script, does Sea Of Love add up?There is nothing ground breaking here, but for the most part Sea Of Love is a very entertaining film. It is a guesser, but if you pay real close attention to the first half hour you can probably figure it out early on.Pacino turns in a good performance, as do Ellen Barkin and John Goodman. Becker's directing is solid at establishing mood and location. This is a very spiffy-looking film with only minor believability issues and plot holes. A very crisp script.In the end, Sea Of Love is well worth a viewing just to remind yourself that good suspense films used to be made. A solid hit in 1989, Sea Of Love still holds up today.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and sexy!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have always loved Al Pacino, ever since seeing his early films in the seventies and early eighties such as Dog Day Afternoon, The Godfather, (parts 1 and 2)And Justice For All, Author! Author!, etc. The only early ones I haven't seen are Serpico and Cruisin', but I've enjoyed them all.I really liked this one too, it was sexy and suspenseful and the music made me jump at several moments. As for the love scenes, I'm sure that Mr. Pacino was in his forties by this film and Ellen was much younger, but their scenes together were quite steamy. And the surprise ending, well...you just have to see it to believe it. It wasn't The Godfather, but it was dam good. But then maybe I'm just a sucker for sad-eyed, medium statured Italians. I recommend this film for diehard Pacino fans.  "},{"Title":"Quintessential Pacino and Barkin","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It was suspenseful and kept my interest throughout.  Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin were perfect in their roles.  Both were playing characters of a type that they had played before -- so perhaps not too original.  But the film was well made and carried the viewer along.  Although some of it was obvious, I for one had not guessed the ending.Overall, this movie interested me much more than did a top-20 box office film I saw this past weekend at the theater (which shall remain anonymous here).  Pacino played his role very well; his performance harkened back to his prime in the 1970s when he could be absolutely riveting on screen.  Ellen Barkin in this film is playing the sexy kind of role that she played all during the 1980s.  She is very good in this one.  John Goodman was also very good as the police partner of Pacino.  His sort of light easy attitude (even when he was very serious) played very well against Pacino's dark and brooding persona. "},{"Title":"One of the best erotic thrillers!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sea of love is for sure, one of the best erotic thrillers out there.I believe its Ellen Barkins best role and Pacino's performance is not bad either.The film keeps its suspense and passion every single time i have watched it.A really nice movie.Plus that once you watch it,it's really hard not to fall in love with Ellen! "},{"Title":"Ellen Barkin's best role","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ellen Barkin remains one of moviedom's sexiest actresses, exuding both a sensuality and an intelligence that are exceedingly captivating. Sea of Love is probably her best role, and Pacino is likewise excellent. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Sea the movie","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sea of love is not as well-known as many other Pacino-films, but it's worth watching; at least once. It's not a great thriller that you want to see over and over again, but it keeps your attention throughout the whole film the first time you watch it.In fact, I believe that this is not a thriller at all. If you want to see a true thriller, you have to watch films such as The sixth sense, S7ven, What lies beneath, The name of the rose and almost every film made by the 'master of suspense' Hitchcock!No, this film is more of a copfilm that reminds us of Pacino's earlier work such as Serpico and Scarface. The difference however between this copfilm and 48 Hours is that this one relies on some tense moments and a pretty original storyline. And, if you should disagree with me on that one, think about the great acting performance of an actor that can't seem to do bad acting.Of course, I'm talking about Al Pacino. Ellen Barkin en John Goodman are good, but Pacino is simply better; as we expect from an actor of his stage. Overall, this is not a bad film, and it's definitely good enough to spend your money on. Near the end the film becomes somewhat predictable and the plot is not as good as we had hoped for.But this shouldn't ruin the film. "},{"Title":"Won't chill you any deeper than the surface of your skin","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Al Pacino had a lengthy lay off from the movies before he made his long awaited come back in this sex thriller from Harold Becker. Big Al plays a New York detective whose recent divorce and twenty years service are bringing him down. Enter Helen (Ellen Barkin), a single woman looking for a man and readily available to lonely cop Frank. There's just one complication though, Helen just may be the prime suspect in a case involving three fatal shootings (sounds like Basic Instinct doesn't it).Sea of Love is actually quite akin to the more recent and inferior thriller, and the characters are slightly more believable in this movie. Becker has filmed this as a straight out, tense thriller, giving the audience no chance of guessing who done it. This works fairly well, but only at the usual superficial level.Leads Pacino and Barkin do a reasonable job and John Goodman is quite enjoyable in a movie that won't chill you any deeper than the surface of your skin.Saturday, May 28, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"More realistic than most cop movies","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The middle aged divorced, alcoholic cop who still calls his ex wife in the middle of the night, while she is now married to a colleague of his - part is tailor made for Al Pacino. With his anti-hero charisma he really is on his turf in this cat and mouse game with a sexy suspect, possible serial killer (Ellen Barkin), portraying a different cop-image than usually seen in American movies, while still remaining entertaining. He is constantly waiting for a reason to start a fight with his ex-wife present husband, leads a real lonely life, and reacts neurotically when cornered. Also we are spared the usual monologue in Pacino's recent movies, meant to display his dramatic power, and are left with the bare brilliant interpretation by all involved. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly LESS good than I expected...","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this for the first time ever last night from a widescreen laserdisc I had gotten recently. Years of waiting, and anticipating a very good thriller led to a let-down. Pacino is great, as he nearly always is, but Barkin and Goodman are merely adequate. The suspense is just not there, many scenes are full of trite dialog and just plain silly plot contrivances. Why doesn't Pacino's cop check the new love's fingerprints she left behind? Surely that would have saved a lot of stupid behavior on his part, and he could have pursued his love interest with an honest and open relationship. It doesn't ring true, but then the movie would have no reason to exist had he done that. The Pacino and Goodman characters are just not good detectives. A lot of things real detectives would have done are just left out. Once again, we have to rely upon the great acting of Pacino to carry a film. Worth seeing for just that reason alone. "},{"Title":"Not much of a thriller, but Pacino is just terrific","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Personally, I believe a thriller should grow more and more tense as it moves along. This doesn't happen in Sea Of Love. Harold Becker's direction is rather boring, and he can't seem to work up the suspense until the violent climactic fight. What really makes this movie worth seeing is the writing and the acting. The dialogue is very well-written and sounds authentic, particularly the banter between the cops. And the acting is just terrific Al Pacino creates a real, multi-dimensional character that quickly grows on you, and Ellen Barkin, who initially appears to be a typical femme fatale, also reveals more dimensions as the film goes on (watch her face in the final scene - it's a great moment). (**1/2) "},{"Title":"An entertaining movie with a sloppy and insulting conclusion","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was Al Pacino's first box office success of the 1980s. In 1983, Scarface came out and didn't do much business - the critics took a beating on it and Pacino's career suffered quite a deal throughout the decade - Cruising, Revolution, and Author! Author! didn't help much, either.Sea of Love transformed everything for him. It was a success financially and (somewhat) critically, and it helped him get more roles in the '90s.Looking back now, in 2005, it still holds up as entertainment, and sleazy entertainment at that, but the ending is too routine, insulting and oh-so-typical of the genre; it's the trick 'em at the end leg-puller where the murderer is revealed to be the most stupid of characters and you can't believe the film's ended on such a low note.The rest of it is actually pretty good. Pacino delivers an unusual performance as a socially and sexually awkward cop who meets a murder suspect (Ellen Barkin) and falls for her, only to realize she may be targeting him next.Basic Instinct got away with copying a lot of this a couple years later, but I prefer Sea of Love. It's erotic and sleazy and entertaining without resorting to cheap tactics like full-frontal nudity. Then again you do get to see Ellen Barkin naked and that's never a bad thing.The movie focuses on its characters, and I liked that. I just wish the ending would have been up to par with the rest of the production.It's an entertaining movie, but don't expect anything of substance. "},{"Title":"Better than average mystery","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Al saves this film, a good actor can do that.  I can't blame him taking 4 years off after acting in  Revolution. That film no one could save, but this one he could.  This shows you how good of an actor he is.  I like the plot twists at the end.  Worth renting 6/10 "},{"Title":"Leonard Maltin gave this three and a half stars?","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I mean, it wasn't terrible in the usual sense of the word, but it's not even close to that good.  The story is boring and largely predictable, the acting is okay at best, there are any number of tiny-but-unnecessary subplots, and the editing is terrible - particularly in the thrilling climax scene.  I didn't know whether to gasp or just burst out laughing at the atrocious editing job.  And boy, does that song get annoying fast. "},{"Title":"A good movie that could have been great","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw this film, I didnt really expect much because the rating wasnt real high, I guess I got about what I expected.  This film was a big comeback for Al Pacino after several bombs, I can understand why.  It's certainly a very watchable movie, but it never quite reaches greatness. It has a great cast which includes John Goodman and Ellen Barkin.  It's rather predictable and slow at times, but the ending makes up for it.  Leonard Maltin gave it ***1/2 out of ****, I think he went a little overboard on that, its more like **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"It's Al-Right with me.","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Is everyone in this movie a giant, or is Al Pacino a midget?' I found myself asking halfway through this movie. One google search later and I got my answer. Say Hello to my little friend.Next question Is the killer the strange looking blonde woman, or is there someone else with too much time on their hands? Al's a cop. He's assigned with a murder case. He falls in Love with #1 suspect. Conflict of morals. But wait! My house-mates thought we would watch this movie and laugh at it's clichedness. In all honesty, it wasn't that bad. The plot twist we didn't see coming (probably because we were too busy trying to find things to laugh at) and Fred Flintstone plays Al's cop partner, and does a cracking job of it to boot.The blonde woman gives Al a pair of shoes. I'm not sure what the significance was, but the director thought it was worth dedicating a few scenes just for them.Al Pacino dresses in Clothes made for a normal sized person. I can see the logic, Big Clothes = Big Person, right? But if you've ever been to Asda on a Saturday morning, you'll know this already- Wearing a size 8 top doesn't make a size 20 girl look any skinnier. And wearing a size L suit don't make Al any taller. He just looks like he's shrunk in the wash. This isn't the peak of Al's career. (how could it be? This guy was in Jack and Jill for chrissake!) But it was in no way the depth of it either (Godfather III)If you're looking for a really OK murder mystery starring Al Pacino , then look no further. "}{"Title":"High Score for Pacino","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The only reason I could even give this film above a 1 is that Al Pacino's performance prevented me from leaving the room until it was over. I did have to pause it a number of times simply because I was bored and other things caught my attention, however.How a movie which was put together so poorly received a 6.7 is beyond me. It doesn't know where it wants to go, is it a thriller, a cop movie, or a love story? I still haven't figured that one out.The ending felt like a forced twist. It was also too quick. I felt a Now you see it, now you don't type of impression during the last few minutes.Pacino and Barkin have no chemistry, and the fact they don't even bother to give us Helen's last name should tell you all you need to know about character development.I'm sure glad I rented this one for free. But even then, I felt cheated as I wasted my time. "}]