[{"Title":"No grit and grime.Just glamour and glitz for Troop Beverly Hills!","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If only all girls scouts were as fun as Troop Beverly Hills! The film about a down and out divorced house wife with a passion for fashion becoming a girl's scout leader is both hilarious,exciting and thoroughly entertaining.Comedic actress Shelley Long shines as Phyllis Nefler,the woman who dares to make alterations to her daughter's scout uniform,and modify the location of their bushland camping trips to the Beverly Hills Hotel! Phyllis rejects traditional scout activities such as bush walking for manicures and pedicures,preferring her troops to live in the lap of luxury.Needless to say,the girls adore her,the leaders of the other scout groups despise her,and this is all makes the delightful,hilarious and wacky comedy that is Troop Beverly Hills! "},{"Title":"The Girl Scouts...Beverly Hills style.","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Troop Beverly Hills is a funny movie for pre-teen girls. Goofy Shelly Long plays eccentric Beverly Hills mom, Phyllis Nefler, who decides to get involved with her daughter's life and prove that she can do things for herself (sort of), so she becomes troop leader of her daughter's Wilderness Girl's squad. This proves to be an embarrassing experience for the young girls, seeking some much needed leadership from their mother who can't seem to gain independence from the luxuries of her Beverly Hills lifestyle. But, once the pack is forced to compete with an aggressive, survival squad of hard core rival troopers, Phyllis and her team, tired of being a laughing stock (and also because Phyllis wants to gain her daughter's confidence and respect) are going to prove that they're not just a bunch of whiny rich girls from Beverly Hills. 80s fans will probably recognize many of the young troopers (from Jenny Lewis to Kelli Martin to Tori Spelling), and I'm sure pre-teen girls are sure to like the movie for it's silly story, young female cast, and the goofy antics of Shelly Long. It's a hilarious little movie with a good message for kids about the importance of female independence (Phyllis doesn't want her husband to think she can't fend for herself without a man's guidance) as well as individual confidence. It's bona fide family fun. "},{"Title":"adorable!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A stereotypical portrayal of a Beverly Hills Wilderness Girls troup of pre-adolescent girls and their flighty but maternal leader, Phyllis Neffler, played by Shelley Long.  Phyllis is going through a terribly messy divorce to her husband Fred the Muffler Man and decides on a whim to take over her daughter, Hannah's troup.  The group encounters many problems that spawn from the jealousy of Velda Plender, the organization's leader who resents the rather untraditional ways of the Beverly Hills troup.  All of these hilarious incidents lead up to the Wilderness jambouree where... oh see for yourself!  Although not particularly deep, this movie is sentimental, hilarious, and adorable all rolled into one.  The antics of the sheltered Beverly Hills troup are guaranteed to make you laugh.  This movie is definitely a must see!  "},{"Title":"Predictable, yet fun (some spoliers ahead)","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, so the plot's quite predictable, so what? I was still able to watch it and fully enjoy it. The story is about a lady from Beverly Hills whom decides to take over her daughter's girl scout troop. Some of the lines were absoultley priceless, the acting wasn't top notch, however, Carla Gugino pulls off her scenes really well, especially when her parents forgot her birthday. Sure, the plot was not new, yet, there was something refreshing that I got out of it. This movie made me laugh until I cried, I really enjoyed it. Another cool scene was when the troop was singing cookietime, I was rolling on the floor with laughter. This is, all in all, a family film, and it's in my opinion a classic, a gem of a movie. ********** stars and two thumbs way up, don't pass up an opportunity to see this movie! "},{"Title":"forget the critics; this is a fine family film","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For those who have forgotten their childhood (and if you want some examples, the film critics serve nicely), this movie is inane and not worth the price of a video rental.  For those who *do* remember their childhood -- with its mishmash of heartbreak and joy but never-failing optimism -- then this film is for you and your kids.  Its *target* audience (are you listening, critics?) is well served by this comedy, which along with its many laughs gives young people serious lessons in the meaning of loyalty and friendship, the sacrifices we're sometimes called upon to make for those we love, and the need for redemption.  Sounds a little too heavy for a comedy?  Well, not really.  It's all packaged into a frothy romp that makes the lessons go down like a spoonful of sugar, to paraphrase a famous lyric.  So what if it's not Noel Coward?  It's a light-hearted adventure through the roller-coaster ride of childhood which will delight any youngster, including those of us who still remember those days. "},{"Title":"hilarious Beverly Hills house wife proves that you don't have to have bad hair, no makeup or discount clothes to be a true wilderness girl...","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this movie is for anyone who can laugh at their own ridiculousness and still look utterly fabulous doing it. Shelley long is uproarious and reminds us all of what we loved about the 80's...EXCESS!! big hair, big fashion, big money and big fun! i know i wish i had Mrs. Phylis Neffler for my mom. she has the ability to make you laugh till your gut hurts and still let you know that she cares and would do anything for you..even camp with dirt and bugs and rain. many people who have never had money cant appreciate a lot of the comedy because they have never experienced what its like to have nothing to do all day but shop. and some may be offended because they believe that Beverly hills kids really do act as such, but living not too far from Beverly Hills makes it all the more hilarious. this movie is a classic and anyone who says otherwise doesn't have much of a sense of humor..probably a bad childhood or something...whatever...GO TROOP BEVERLY HILLS! "},{"Title":"Hollywoodland Adventure!","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Family fare for an entertaining evening at home. The problem of divorce is posed in this film without detracting from the value of marriage. Shelley Long portrays a bored Beverly Hills wife whose husband is leaving her for another woman. Deciding to make something of her life she volunteers to be the leader for her daughter's wilderness girls troop (I guess they couldn't get the rights to girl scouts). Shelley Long is a hoot as she tries to make it through a camp-out without getting her nails ruined. Both her and her troop of pampered Beverly Hills princesses learn valuable lessons in character, courage, and friendship with a super happy ending (no spoiler). Great mother-daughter movie. "},{"Title":"Silliness Galore","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pure Silliness makes this one a classic.  I loved it as a child and continue to watch it as I grow up I recommend this picture to anyone who enjoys a silly good time. Oh and they have to be able to stand Shelly Long, which I've noticed some people can't.  Oh well their loss. Beverly Hills What A Thrill!! "},{"Title":"Passable family fun","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cute enough and harmless enough to qualify as passable family entertainment, this movie aims for the kiddie humor, and succeeds. Shelley Long is a delight, and Craig T. Nelson portrays, well, Craig T. Nelson. This isn't great by any means, but high-spirited and upbeat. "},{"Title":"Rich People are People Too Darn it!","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's say it together, Troop Beverly Hills Sucks. However, I can't stop watching it.  What's wrong with me? This movie is like the moon, all cheese, but its campy 80s cheese at the peak of its cheesiness. No decade other than the 80s could have produced this film, as it has a direct not so subtle attitude of rich people get a bad rap. So what if they don't like camping or first aid or low budget shopping, they can 'survive' in the wild of Beverly Hills. It may just be me, but this is an extremely shallow movie and yet it is never ashamed of being so. Even in the troops redemption at 'real' camp the troop comes off as a bunch of whiny rich kids. You can't help but side with the pesimistic outlook of ms. Plendor towards the troop, because they're a bunch of spoiled brats who don't know what nature or hard work are. No true realization of the err of their way by the troop and Nefler and thus the film remains a cocky culmination of rich ideas and attitudes from the opening animated title sequence to the end credits. However, its so dated that one can't help but be engrossed by its themes as ridiculous. Plus Craig T. Nelson (Coach himself) is in it along with a brief cameo by Cheech Marin (Anie Herman, bo-yoi-yoi-yoi-yoing!) so it has its moments. Its fun to look at the young girls of 1989 Hollywood, which include Carla Gugino (Son In Law TV's Karen Sisco and 1st season of Spin City), Heather Hopper (Saved By The Bell's Nikki) ,Kellie Martin (Life Goes On, ER), Emily Schulman (the sister in the freakish 80s TV show Small Wonder), and Jenny Lewis (The Red Hed in The Wizard) they capture a decade of idiocy and greed so well its fun to watch and scoff at the film's shallow message. Plus you'll probably have that darn cookie song stuck in your head for weeks. For Quality, GradeD, for repeat watchability, GradeB+.  "}{"Title":"Brings back great memories","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sure, Troop Beverly Hills is cheesy, tacky, and often brainless. Who cares!? I was a Girl Scout for 5 years, and my troop would often watch this movie. Too bad we didn't come with ideas as ingenius as theirs to sell cookies!Shelley Long is deliriously shallow but good-hearted as the mom who takes over the troop, so she can spend more time with her daughter, and Craig T. Nelson is good as her estranged husband. Betty Thomas is still probably embarrassed about being in this movie.Great 80s fun!  "},{"Title":"Fine family fare","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not a side-splitting hilarious romp, but Shelley Long gives it her all and is quite funny (besides being so CUTE!!) The story involves a self indulged Long who becomes the leader of a dead end Girl Scouts for Beverly Hills. Will she turn this group of misfits around?? The tension doesn't mount but the laughs do-and of course, you can see the predictable ending coming a mile away. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable. Shelley Long both sings and dance.","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film and to see Shelley Long sing and dance is a real bonus.   The young ones who played troop members were great.  The roadside disco was excellent  The little bits of morality were very subtly and nicely done.  The music and tunes were  soo good,   The only complaint that I have is we didnt see more of Shelley singing and dancing and the music should have been  on longer.  I cannot remember a film where everybody seemed to enjoy themselves so much.  The background shots of Beverley Hills were soo good and the crowd watching the roadside discos seemed to be enjoying the disco as  were the young troop members.  The comments on the quality of the recently released DVD were not good but I found no problem with it at all. "},{"Title":"Oh, you know... the usual","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Girl power! Phillis is a single mother raising her daughter is in girl scouts. She lives the basic up keep style of Beverly Hills. But when the scouts need more mothers to be leaders, she steps up to the plates. She now has to learn the rules of the out doors. But being the mall addicted mother she is, she teaches the girls the rules of Beverly Hills instead of what they should know. And of course there always is a mother who disagrees. She must destroy the troops instead of being a good example.The movie is alright. Don't get me wrong, it's not bad. It has a few laughs. But this is nothing special.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty silly, but somehow it works","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Everyone has a guilty pleasure, it's inescapable. Sure as film lovers we want to see good quality film-making, but who doesn't love a good piece of fluff now and then? The 1980s and 90s were filled with these kind of movies from the likes of 'Maid to Order' to every Ernest adventure. None of these films would win an award for best direction or screenplay, but they all have a certain charm. They're a good way to kick back for 90 minutes or so and escape your problems. Shelley Long, known for her role on 'Cheers,' made a few movies considered to be guilty pleasures including this one, a film that's kind of a statement on the overindulgence of the 80s and is pretty silly when you think about it, but it's such harmless entertainment and the cast is so much fun that it makes it all worthwhile.Pros Spirited performances from the cast. Cute premise. Fun score and soundtrack. Some of the humor hits. Pace just zips right along. Teaches some good lessons like team work, friendship, and never giving up, which makes for a few genuinely sweet moments. Has a certain campy charm, which is helped by Betty Thomas' over-the-top performance as the villain.Cons Very dated. Totally predictable. Has the potential to be a good satire, at times coming close, but sadly never makes it. I'm no prude, but this is supposed to be a kids movie and it's loaded with unnecessary profanity.Final thoughts It's movies like this that make life a little easier. Sure it's pretty ridiculous, but it's such silly fun that it'll put a smile on your face. Also great for nostalgia buffs.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Shelley Long is Underrated!","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some actresses are truly under-rated and under-appreciated and Shelley Long is one of them. She is truly a gifted comedic actress who can make you cry at one moment and make you laugh in the next. She didn't leave Cheers because she wanted a film career. She wanted to have a normal family life. Rather she was subjected to be treated like a leper on the set of Cheers. Anyway, I always hoped the best for Shelley. I still think she is one of the best talents out there today but in Hollywood, youth sells and women over 50 or 60 might as well be a hundred years old. Anyway the casting in this film is first rate with Shelley Long and Craig T. Nelson are the divorcing parents. Stephanie Beacham is always a pleasure to watch as one of her friends. Betty Thomas is delicious as the evil foe who tries to outsmart Beverly Hills Troop. Mary Gross is sweet as the unlikely ally in both parties. Audra Lindley is always a treat as well. "},{"Title":"A gloriously underrated comedy... sort of","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From the opening title sequence (complete with a special remix of The Beach Boys Kokomo-era track, Make it Big), I knew this movie was something special. What most people fail to realize is that this movie more than anything serves as a time capsule for the period. Mid-80's Beverly Hills was a magical time and I still find myself looking back on this picture and wishing I was there.Shelly Long stepped out of Cheers and into the shoes of Phyllis Nefler, the doting, diva of shopping, big-haired, Beverly Hills mother of a wilderness girl. Phyllis is going through a divorce with her husband, Fred the muffler man (played by Craig T. Nelson fresh off of Poltergiest and pre-Coach). To bond with her daughter (and to prove to her husband that she can finish what she starts), she becomes the Beverly Hills Troop leader.This is where the fun starts. What I really love about this picture are the cameos/special appearances including Cheech Marin, Frankie Avalon, and Anneate Funnicello.Personal note; I first saw this on TV when I lived in Orange County, CA and it was edited. I videotaped it and I still have the tape of that broadcast. I've since seen the unedited theatrical/home video version and I can't believe how much I've missed. I sometimes think the edited TV version that I have is somewhat a better motion than what it originally was. Oh well...Still a good movie! "},{"Title":"You might not have liked it, but...","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You have to give this movie credit for a few things.  First off, this is a pure fun movie.  If you are looking for deep meanings and double-entendres, look elsewhere. Second, the movie is 15 years old.  As a ten year old girl, I thought this film was hilarious.  The clothing styles have changed, but it is still relevently funny to girls. For a light laugh and a movie you don't have to analyze, I think this film has timeless appeal.   "},{"Title":"Fun for children, pre-adolescents and adults (if they're willing).","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In my opinion this is a sweet story about dysfunctional families that find a way of dealing with the fact that achieving success means a lot more than they expected.Through out the movie the journey of the Troop becomes much more than just belonging Parents face the choice of truly growing up and figuring out a way to stop wasting time and search for a bond with their neglected children; while children find a way to stop playing the parental role, learning the value of friendship, teamwork and how `un-cool' it is to procrastinate.This movie has a heart and even if the story is simple minded and decorated with clichés about the rich and famous, it still rings true. It may seem shallow to many but for those who are part of this sector of the L.A. reality, it is not easy either, Rolls Royce and all, to be misunderstood. After all no matter how low or how high your credit goes, there are no perfect families and we all do the best we can with what we've got. Those who grew up in a high class family in the eighties will probably laugh lauder! "},{"Title":"I love it! I love it! I love it!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't seen this film in at least five years. It was a childhood favourite and my brother and I absolutely adored it. I guess I am slightly afraid that if i rent it again, it could not possibly live up to my memories of it. Shelly Long is hilarious...and totally perfect as Phyllis Nefler. I just think every aspect of the film is so funny...their daughter(Jenny Lewis of The Wizard- another late 80's/early 90's gem) having her own high beam for gymnastics being one of them. The wickedness of Velma Plendor fits perfectly...as does her final sequence, one of my favourite parts, the K-mart scene. Pure fun! Just thinking about this movie makes me want to see it again so I can remember all those classic moments. If you've never seen it, find a video store quickly and rectify your error!!! "}{"Title":"Just Faaabulous!","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I recently discovered that this movie was a box office flop and was panned across the board by critics. Why? I have no idea. I love this movie, maybe because I saw it for the first time when I was very young and thus not grounded in whatever makes everyone else dislike this movie. But not everyone else dislikes this movie. Everyone I know who has seen it (say, 15 people) enjoyed it thoroughly.It's simple, fun and light hearted. There's no social commentary, or moment of dramatic epiphany, its just a fun escapist romp about what a pampered Beverly Hills Housewife would do if she was stuck in the wilderness.Shelley long is wonderful. Rather than complain about her surroundings, she is always cheerful and proactive, and consequently never boring. Furthermoe, the wonderfully campy musical numbers and Robin Leech cameo make this a pleasure thats innocent as can be. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was excellent from start to finish. I enjoy watching old movies on TV and this was no exception. It caught my attention as soon as I read the movie description. Shelly long and her daughter lives in posh Beverly hills and she is the ultimate fashionista. She wanted to prove to her daughter that she knew more about life than jewels and clothes. She became mother of the wilderness girls troop which her daughter was a part of and led them to the finish line proving to her daughter all along the way that she was no quitter. Having had some fierce competition she was still able to beat them sending the other leader into a frenzy. This movie is perfect for little girl troopers who enjoy movies like Polyanna and Annie etc. I absolutely loved it and thought it was brilliant. "},{"Title":"happy campers!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie!  My mom took me to see this when it came out in the theater.  My mom was our brownie troop leader, so we were both  really excited about seeing it, and we went one afternoon right after she took the whole troop to be in the studio audience for the filming of the Eddie Albert variety show.  I was hoping that Mr. Albert would let me on stage to sing The Good Ship Lollypop, but all he did was introduce me and my mom to the TV audience at home, and then my brother made fun of  me.  Anyway, that's a whole other story. The part I liked best about this movie was the part when the lady from the other camp fell in the mud and ruined all her brand new camping clothes.  It's so funny because it's true!  The other thing that I liked about this movie was that all those people from like, TOTALLY different TV shows got together to make it - Mrs. Roper, Diane from  Cheers, Coach (Coach from Coach, not Coach from Cheers!) .  It was like watching Battle of the Network Stars - except it was practically a true story.I haven't watched this movie in a long time, so I can't be sure, but I bet this is the kind of movie that really holds up over the years.  Happy landings on a chocolate bar! "},{"Title":"Still leaves em laughing, despite not achieving great cinema status","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Beverly Hills, Phyllis (Shelley Long) has a blackbelt in shopping and a gloriously posh mansion. Unfortunately, her estranged husband, Freddy (Craig T. Nelson), who is a wealthy muffler franchise owner, has moved into the guest house in the backyard and has filed for divorce. When pressed, he says its because Phyllis spends to much time and money on frivolous things. Yet, long ago, Phyllis worked to support her husband through law school and was his every desire. So, is there still a spark? Its not certain. Also at this moment, their daughter Hannah's Wilderness Girls troop needs a leader and Phyllis volunteers. Right away, she manages to offend one of the Girls district commanders, Velda (Betty Thomas), who gets upset when Phyllis turns a rained-on campout into a slumber party at a swanky hotel. More trouble arrives when Phyllis invents new patches for her girls to earn, like jewelry appraisal and sixties dancing. But, the troop is a quick study. In the annual cookie sales, Phyllis and the girls sell more than 3,000 boxes, due to creative techniques. Velda's daughter's troop finishes second, much to the leader's chagrin. Therefore, at the upcoming wilderness survival competition, out in the woods, Velda vows revenge on Troop BH. Can she carry her bad-hearted plans to fruition? This film still leaves em laughing, even though it will never win any awards. Long has one of her best movie roles ever as the shopaholic, trend-setting housewife from 90210 while Nelson, Thomas, Mary Gross and all of the other cast members do nice work, too. Look for Carla Gugino and Kellie Martin as two of the troop's girls! Also wonderful is the tongue-in-cheek script which pokes fun at the lifestyles of the rich and famous while showing their glories at the same time. Naturally, the sets, costumes, and photography are quite lovely. The ever-moving, comic direction completes this fun little flick. Are you having a bad day? Snag this little movie and you will giggle away the blues. "},{"Title":"Eh, come on, it's entertaining...","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a pretty amiable comedy about a Beverly Hills mother (Shelly Long) who becomes the leader of a troop of local girl scouts. The catch? Their Beverly Hills lifestyle somewhat interfere with the rugged outdoors, and it all comes down to a halt when they enter an outdoors competition and the local girl scouts adversary tries to cheat to win.Hey, it's stupid, but it's occasionally quite funny, and manages to poke fun at the people of Beverly Hills. Sure, it's predictable stuff wtih girls telling horror stories of awful perms gone wrong around a campfire inside an expensive suite, but isn't that what this is all about?I like it enough to recommend it. The film is stupid and pretty cliched, but in the same light it's also sort of original. I've never really seen another movie quite like this, even if the same rich-kid jokes were used again in Legally Blonde.3/5 stars.- John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable in its own way","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Troop Beverly Hills is not a very good movie, but it is somewhat entertaining in its own way.  There are some good things to be found in this movie, as well as some bad things.The good-The opening credits sequence, set to Make It Big by the Beach Boys.  Perhaps the funniest part of this whole movie.-An interesting premise a spoiled Beverly Hills housewife (Shelley Long) decides to get involved in the community by becoming the leader of her daughter's Wilderness Girls troop (which includes Emily Schulman of Small Wonder and a pre-Life Goes On Kellie Martin).  Not exactly a high-concept film, but it shows some comic potential.-A few great lines, such as I may be a beginner at some things, but I've got a black belt in shopping!-Some truly silly moments (Long doing the Freddie is the most notable example).-Long's performance not Oscar-caliber, of course, but even when the film is at its lowest points, she puts a lot of effort and enthusiasm into her role.The bad-The film is excruciatingly boring at some points, especially  in the sub-plot about Long and her ex-husband (Craig T. Nelson).  It really doesn't fit in with the rest of the film.-It is also very predictable, particularly in the last half-hour.  Even in a light comedy like this, you would expect a little bit more originality.-Pointless cameo appearances by celebrities (including Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Pia Zadora).  Even the usually funny Cheech Marin is wasted here.Troop Beverly Hills may not be a great (or even good) film, but it is not without some enjoyable moments. "},{"Title":"This movie deserves some credit for a good storyline but","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  But (like i was saying) it's utterly boring with a few laughs and competion rights but other than that it shows kids in a way we'd have never imagined them, and Shelly Long is funny funny funny!! It's up to you weather you want to see it-it's not the best, but not a letdown either "},{"Title":"'Troop Beverly Hills' still holds up today and has a lot of heart.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I grew up watching 'Troop Beverly Hills', and even though I wasn't in the Girl Scouts or even a teenage girl, I still fell in love with story and characters in this extremely charming movie. Generally, the Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, and Cub Scouts of America try and teach kids of all ages to make new friends, build relationships, and achieve new skills that will help them have a better and easier time in life. It's not all about the fundraising and parties, which is why 'Troop Beverly Hills' still holds up today and has a lot of heart.This 1989 film showed us that a group of very privileged and wealthy young girls who have never had to work a day in their lives and who spend most of their time shopping for the newest outfit at the mall, come together and learn the true values and ethics of life, like loyalty, friendship, and helping others. In fact, 'Troop Beverly Hills' was based on a true story. I bet you didn't know that.Producer and co-writer Ava Ostern Fries had led a Girl Scout troop in Beverly Hills and was the inspiration for this film, which had a gold-digging, unappreciative wife named Phyllis Nefler (Shelley Long), who took up being a Wilderness Girl Scout leader for a troop in Beverly Hills, where she too had to overcome roughing it in the wilderness and help shape these young minds, while dealing with a hard-nosed, angry, and bitter co-leader. With this 'fish-out-of-water' storyline, the laughs and charm come in full.Phyllis Nefler (Long) is on the verge of divorce from her wealthy and successful husband Freddy (Craig T. Nelson) and their daughter Hannah (Jenny Lewis) is caught in the middle of it. Phyllis can only do one thing, which is shop with her husband's money, but she flips the table and proves that she can lead a troop of young teenage girls to learn and enjoy the more normal things in life, such as things without caviar and a $10,000 price tag. From selling cookies, planning local events, camping, and attending to annual wilderness hike, there is nothing that Phyllis and her Beverly Hills troop can't do.Director Jeff Kanew ('Revenge of the Nerds') doesn't change the game as far as new comedic stylings or adventure, but he does take a genuine approach with each character, giving every girl their own unique moment to shine. Shelley Long is perfect in this role as the money-grubbing wife who learns to be a better person to herself and to her daughter, while keeping things light-hearted and very humorous. And Betty Thomas as the evil Velda delivers each jab and put down with such comedic ferocity, that you can't help but laugh and hate her all at the same time.Even though 'Troop Beverly Hills' might be a tiny bit outdated with all the new technology that is out today, but with it's timeless charm, amazing characters, and great life-lessons, this film is surely to stick around for another thirty years. "},{"Title":"A very fine, fun family-style film","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I absolutely adore Shelley Long AND Craig T. Nelson (though admittedly this is the first -and prob only- film I have seen them costar.) They are wonderfully 'matched' as estranged spouses on the brink of divorce, and juggling a peacemaking preteen daughter. At first I wasn't sure what to think as my Shelley memories are stuck in CHEERS. However, this role was perfect for her personae, and the film, absolutely enjoyable.What it boils down to, humorously, is the a-typical diamond in the rough indulged Beverly Hills housewife; challenged to take on an area in which she is unfamiliar but at the same time intrigued. Enter The Wilderness Girls which her daughter is involved. The fun only begins when their chairwoman snidely challenges Nefler to prove herself as a Wilderness leader. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some people are really arrogant sometimes when they review things, and I hate when people use the word cheesy because it's ridiculous to assume that what's cool at this moment in time was always cool, fads and fashions change, people call the 1990s wave hairstyle cheesy now, but you never called it cheesy when you were in 8th grade rocking that style. That makes you and many others who use the word cheesy just a bunch of hypocrites.Same goes for this movie.I loved this movie as a child, the acting is great, people always underestimate it cause they're not actors, but I am, and it's harder to portray comedic roles than it is for dramatic roles, and actors who play comedic roles are among the most underestimated actors in the entire world. Shelley Long was amazing in this, it had a heart warming message, I watched it today and still love it as much as I did when I was a child. They don't make movies like this anymore, films nowadays look exactly alike and use the same formulas.The chemistry between Craig T. Nelson and Shelly Long was great, and the writing was so funny, I laughed so hard and I got a lot of the dirty jokes now as a 26 year old that I never did as a child. Just a heartwarming funny movie to relax with. Screw the arrogant critics! Not every film has to be a thought provoking life changing drama, if every movie was like that, I think we'd just all commit suicide! Some people are just unhappy in general, and some people need to lighten up! Comedies in general are underrated, especially those from the 80s and 90s, when those were the ones that provided the groundwork for today's comedies. This movie was great, a classic! "}{"Title":"happy campers!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie!  My mom took me to see this when it came out in the theater.  My mom was our brownie troop leader, so we were both  really excited about seeing it, and we went one afternoon right after she took the whole troop to be in the studio audience for the filming of the Eddie Albert variety show.  I was hoping that Mr. Albert would let me on stage to sing The Good Ship Lollypop, but all he did was introduce me and my mom to the TV audience at home, and then my brother made fun of  me.  Anyway, that's a whole other story. The part I liked best about this movie was the part when the lady from the other camp fell in the mud and ruined all her brand new camping clothes.  It's so funny because it's true!  The other thing that I liked about this movie was that all those people from like, TOTALLY different TV shows got together to make it - Mrs. Roper, Diane from  Cheers, Coach (Coach from Coach, not Coach from Cheers!) .  It was like watching Battle of the Network Stars - except it was practically a true story.I haven't watched this movie in a long time, so I can't be sure, but I bet this is the kind of movie that really holds up over the years.  Happy landings on a chocolate bar! "},{"Title":"Shelley Long wanted a movie career and this is how it turned out","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are really not any words that can properly describe Troop Beverly Hills, except maybe average, not great or perhaps to be more offensive bomb. Bomb is a little unfair because the movie is really no worse than a lot of mainstream 80's movies that somehow got more popular than this one.I first saw this when it was just put out on video in Denmark and at the same time the show Cheers was still on the air both here and of course in the U.S. We also became aware of Shelley Long's reputation here in DK because of the increasing popularity of tabloid magazines and TV. Long was embarrassed about being typed as a mere TV actress but to leave a hit show like Cheers to do this - well, the whole event speaks for itself.But just for laughs, let's try to describe the actual movie. Long is actually pretty good but it's a shame that what she is doing was basically the same thing done by Goldie Hawn in Private Benjamin, (there even was a time when I couldn't remember if they were actually one person - don't let that get out - oh, crap it's out now) that means playing a spoiled snob who transforms herself into a caring person. However, Hawn's turn was superior because of one thing, her Benjamin character was really quite unsympathetic in the beginning of Benjamin. In Troop Beverly Hills we get a lengthy explanation of how Long got the way she is by having her and the husband (played by Craig T. Nelson) argue about it. That was a fatal mistake because Long's character is made out to be more of a victim than simply a snob right from the beginning and it makes her transformation so much more contrived for a lack of a better word. Sorry to get so upset by this. I know you are not supposed to take this so serious but it just annoys me.Like many comediennes, Long also longs (sorry again) to be taken seriously and therefore there are many sappy scenes between her and her daughter and also other characters that are supposed to be high drama but really just makes you wanna click the off-switch. In the end there isn't really much to either upset you or to get you laughing in this movie. Betty Thomas of Hill Street Blues was born to play the role of the head Wilderness Girl but she is not given a lot to work with. Her role is purely one-dimensional. Mary Gross is also here but she plays the ditz once more and therefore it's not really her day in the sun either.To say that this is the best film ever gross exaggeration and Long's film career pretty much stagnated until the name Brady creeped up. Thank god that she didn't try to make another buddy movie with Bette Midler because that was ten times more creepy than seeing this. "},{"Title":"2nd AD project during filming","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An interesting side note to the production of Troop Beverly Hills. The studios that produced the film were actually producing another project while filming the low budget comedy. As the camera rolled for Shelly Long on the set of the film, a second camera crew was filming the zero budget corporate video for the 2nd Asst. Directors Program that is offered in Hollywood. The tape included interviews of a number of 2nd AD's in the industry alongside clips of the crew working on the set of Troop Beverly Hills.In one scene during the end of the movie, one of the Wilderness Girls falls and hurts her leg. It was up to one of the Asst. 2nd Directors to pick up the girl and bring her to a medic. This footage was filmed on video for the corporate tape. In the end, the studios saw this as an opportunity to save money to promote the AD program by shooting footage of the production of Troop Beverly Hills. Shot over 15 years ago, the corporate tape is still used today for students wanting to enter the program in 2004. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably horrible.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rule Number One NEVER go to a movie with the phrase Beverly Hills in it. Particularly if movies with unbelievably droll, stupid, overused, and ridiculous story lines and dialogue don't appeal to you. Let's start with the cast of characters. Poor, poor Shelley Long. Evidently her residuals from Cheers have run out long ago. I'd have preferred that she joined Lindsay Lohan at the local rehab than work on this turkey. And what about that phony, red fright wig? A little homage to Private Benjamin, eh? But as much as it worked for the clearly superior Goldie Hawn, alas, all it succeeded at was making me long for Goldie. As for the rest of the cast&#x97;the little girls&#x97;what can I say? When will Hollywood ever grow tired of the tired, old Hollywood cliché? One pretty girl, one poor girl, one Latina girl, one black girl, what, no Asian girl?, and the de riguer nerdy girl with the round glasses and creepy disposition (it's called comic relief, I believe). If you took Ugly Betty, Pretty Woman, The Addams Family, and Sister Act, and put them all together, you STILL wouldn't have anything but an empty, boring piece of cinematic garbage not worthy of anyone's attention. And speaking of attention, if you have insomnia, just pick up a copy of this film and put it on. In fifteen minutes, you'll be sound asleep. Trust me. Addendum Okay, there was one decent line in this entire mess. It was when Shelley was dancing with the dictator of a foreign county. She sez So, what do they call you? Dictator or just, Dick? Okay, I said it. "}]