[{"Title":"Underrated psychological masterpiece","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I actually enjoy Stepfather 2 more than the first Stepfather movie. The haunting theme does a lot for creating a truly sinister atmosphere. Rarely does a film score stick in my head, but this one does. And then there's Terry O'Quinn who plays the character just right.You have to remember that this film was basically made in only 4 months. That's writing the script, casting, shooting, post production, etc. It was made for about 1 and a half million dollars and originally was supposed to be a direct to video release. Some additional shots were added and changed when the studio decided it was going to run a theatrical release like the first Stepfather, and they needed a more violent Horror Movie.The new DVD release presents the film in it's original Widescreen format, and it's a very sharp Animorphic transfer. A great thing included on the disc is that it has many alternate and extended scenes that were from the original Director's cut. There is also a short still gallery, and a very interesting full-length commentary by the Director and Producer of Stepfather 2. The only thing missing is a theatrical trailer...albeit most Buena Vista DVD's lack a trailer so it's no big surprise there.If you like this film then you need this DVD, it easily blows away the old VHS and Laserdisc editions. Now, if only they'd release the 1st Stepfather movie on DVD!!! "},{"Title":"Never a shortage of available women for this guy.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Terry O'Quinn reprises his All I want is the perfect American family and if I don't get it I'll kill everyone and try again psycho role.  Once again he manages to get an unmarried woman with a child to fall for him. This time it's Meg Foster. If you're a fan of the first then you have to see this one. If nothing else then for O'Quinns performance as Henry Morrison no Jerry Blake no Hodgkins....Wait a minute, Who is he here? "},{"Title":"An acceptable, but rather inferior and unnecessary sequel to the outstanding original","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This unwarranted, but passable and reasonably engrossing sequel once again features the impeccable Terry O'Quinn as the titular anonymous obsessive family killer who this time escapes from an asylum, moves into a quiet suburb, and masquerades as a family psychologist (!). The stepfather's targets here for the perfect American family here are real estate agent Carol Grayland (well played by the always solid and lovely Meg Foster) and her young son Jeremy (an engaging portrayal by Jonathan Brandis). Director Jeff Burr (who previously gave us the good'n'ghastly horror anthology sleeper The Offspring) builds a sufficient amount of tension and there's a delightfully spunky turn by the vivacious Caroline Williams (Stretch in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre Part 2) as Carol's nosy best friend Matty, but this follow-up falls markedly short of the first film's sterling quality because of John Auerbach's predictable script and sophomoric attempts at humor. Overall it's okay and worth seeing once, but the original was much better and more resonant. "},{"Title":"So-SO","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You know what?  This movie actually wasn't so bad.  The premise is basically the same as most slasher movies, but this one has a twist in that the killer, is actually obsessed with having the perfect family life and in the process, this obsession drives him to murder. Nothing really original with the kill scenes or the ending, but the Stepfather's madness is somewhat interesting. A 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A decent sequel","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first Stepfather film is a classic in the slasher/thriller genre thanks mainly to it's incredible performance from Terry O' Quinn, and coming back for more in this fun ride.The plot = Not all that different from before, The Stepfather now sitting comfortably in an insane asylum, breaks loose and sets his sights on a new family.Stepfather II is a mixed bag in my opinion, although it is fun but could have been better, The plot is somewhat thin and follows too closely at times along the same path as the original film and the pacing is a little off at times, but this movie still manages to be interesting at the same time and boasts a decent cast with strong supporting performances from Meg Foster who plays the new would be wife with her stunning blue eyes and is always a delight to watch and Caroline Williams as the best friend, giving a really likable performance and has great chemistry with the cast and even the late Jonathan Brandis who plays the sun really shines in one of his early Roles, but off course is Terry O-Quinn who steals the show yet again.Another aspect I liked that this time round the body count is upped, But unfortunately lacks anything stands out and the pacing is drawn out Too much and the plot wasn't developed as well as it could have been. It Did face production constraints, but it's too similar to the original Film, but the ending was interesting, the wedding scene is definitely a Stand out and had me on the edge of my seat the entire time.All in all a decent follow up not quite on the level of the first one but overall a decent follow up, could have been a lot worse. "},{"Title":"You wouldn't hit me again, would you son?","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am sure Danny Thomas never thought that Make Room for Daddy would be the tag line in a film like this.Terry O'Quinn (John Locke from Lost) is a slasher/serial killer in a mental hospital. He escapes, and tries to start a normal life.But, that old slasher brain can't handle stress, and his romance with Meg Foster ends badly for him.Not a whole lot of slasher action. Mostly just a small town romance story with a slasher angle that plays in a few times.I really don't know how it could have been done differently, but it just didn't have that sparkle. "},{"Title":"Excellent Thriller, Better Than First","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After reading so many poor reviews about this movie, I was  reluctant to see it for myself. Terry O'Quinn's stepfather character is even more psychotic than he was in part one! Mr. O'Quinn deserves an Academy Award for this performance. But seriously, the movie is good from the standpoint that it is just a thriller about a troubled man who wants to start a family. The only problem is, he will kill to make that dream happen. Thumbs up on this one for me. Take it for what it is.  "},{"Title":"A fun sequel","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sequel to the original film, ditches the straight forward, horror/suspense thriller tones & instead goes for a straight out slasher film mentality, with equal doses of humour that unfortunately does not quiet match the original film, but remains a fun time either way. This time, The Stepfather escapes the loony bin & takes up the job of a psychiatrist (with a name he lifted from the very psychiatrist he killed while in the mental hospital). From there, he heads into a small town & eventually finds what he thinks might be a potentially new love interest & family in a real estate divorcée & her teenage son. But when a snoopy mail lady & friend to the heroine begins checking up on his past & her ex-husband comes back to try & rekindle their relationship, it sets Gene (The Stepfather) off on a new brutal murdering spree as he is more determined than ever to have the perfect family. Like most sequels, STEPFATHER 2 fails to live up to it's predecessor, an unnecessary sequel, that fortunately at least takes a different direction by going the horror comedy route (a very popular combination at the time) as a result, the film tends to be bloodier than last time & a lot of the situations are often played for chuckles. Mainly the comedy comes from the neighbour hood itself, which is always so bright, picture perfect & very cheerful, with even the rainy days given a certain amount of cheerfulness. TERRY O' QUINN put in another (And his last) great performance as the Ward Cleaver like stepfather from hell & I really enjoyed watching him here. Director JEFF BURR, who has quiet a few genre films under his belt, directs fairly well here & the acting is better than most films in the genre. The film as already mentioned plays more on it's slasher movie aspects than suspense, though there are a good number of scenes still that keep you on the edge of you're seat, most notably the climax, set at the wedding, where Gene's dark past is finally revealed, resulting in what has to be one of the most violent wedding days, ever put on film. Still it's worth a look for fans of the suspense/horror genre. Followed by STEPFATHER 3 FATHER'S DAY *** stars "},{"Title":" Do you want to marry me?","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jonathan Brandis is terrific as Todd in this charming horror film. The supporting cast is brilliant. The costumes are nice. One of the good films in the genre, Stepfather 2 Make Room For Daddy will become a father of terror to the viewer. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If at first you don't succeed, try, try again!","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Despite seeming to be quite dead after being stabbed in the chest and taking a tumble down some stairs at the end of the first film, the titular stepfather, still using his most recent name Jerry Blake, is incarcerated in an insane asylum. Needless to say, it isn't long before he escapes, murdering his psychiatrist in the process.The stepfather soon moves to California where he starts a new life for himself, and begins searching anew for his perfect family. Posing as a psychiatrist named Gene Clifford, the stepfather begins a romance with Carol Grayland, the real estate agent who sole him his new house. Carol is a recent divorcée with one son, Todd. Ideal for Gene to begin setting himself up as husband to Carol and stepfather to Todd.Everything is going swimmingly for Gene until Carol's ex-husband Phil returns and starts trying to get back with her, threatening to edge Gene out. In the meantime, Carol's friend Maddy is suspicious of Gene. She doesn't believe he's actually a psychiatrist, and begins trying to dig up his past. Things being unraveling quickly for him, all headed towards the inevitable disastrous, blood-drenched climax.This was a completely unnecessary (and theoretically impossible!) sequel. Fortunately, it's also quite good, thanks to a fairly good story and of course the acting. Terry O'Quinn returns as Jerry/Gene and delivers the same strong, terrifying-yet-sympathetic performance he did before, and Meg Foster and her gorgeous eyes as Carol is the other half of this doomed romance. "}{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Homicidal maniac from the original survives the events that occurred in part one and escapes from prison and almost immediately gets engaged to a lonely widow (Meg Foster). Cheap looking sequel still works because of Terry O' Quinn's creepy performance. The intelligent screenplay and tight direction of the first are sorely missed though. Rated R; Violence, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"pointless","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You know what? This sequel was pointless but it turned out better that I thought it would.  Terry O'Quinn is back and the rest of the cast is different.  This sequel was actually thought up with no imagination, but it worked out well.  I admit one thing, O'Quinn's performance was just as great in the original, and the rest of the cast was better than the original. "},{"Title":"Daddy Issues","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stepfather II (creepily sub-titled Make Room For Daddy) knows he isn't the original. He knows you probably won't care for him as much as the one that came before him. But he would like to try. Maybe if you just spent some time with him, you'd grow to appreciate that he is not in any way or form trying to replace his predecessor but that he's always there for you if you need him.With that in mind, the low-budget sequel to the surprise slasher/thriller flick, The Stepfather is a noticeable yet serviceable step-down from the original. Director Jeff Burr, who would go on to helm other horror sequels like Leatherface The Texas Chainsaw Massacre III and Pumpkinhead II Blood Wings does a pretty decent job of keeping Stepfather II from being too much of a step-down in quality. While the suspense from the original is all but gone, the film moves at a nice pace that compliments its somewhat contrived feeling. You might not be surprised or shocked while watching the film, but you'll never find yourself counting the minutes until it's over, either.It helps that the film boasts a solid cast. Leading the pack is the indispensable Terry O'Quinn, returning to the titular role. O'Quinn is given many an opportunity to expand on the character and have a little fun with it, and boy, does he. One line in particular -- the disgusted I even had sex with you, for God's sake! -- hinges completely on his deadpan delivery and his commitment to the character. Meg Foster plays his would-be wife, and as with anything she's appeared in, she's a pleasure to watch and classes up the whole affair in the process. A young Jonathan Brandis plays the hapless and clueless kid to perfection, while Caroline Williams entertains as the suspicious and somewhat obnoxious best-friend and neighbor, making the perfect foil for O'Quinn.The film was born in the era of mindless yet enjoyable slasher sequels and it shows. There is a lot of extra violence and gore that was shoe-horned in at the last minute, much to the dismay of the director, and often the film plays for cheap thrills whenever possible. But while it is nowhere near as effective as its predecessor, it is an enjoyable and breezy 89 minutes just the same. Worth seeing just to see Terry O'Quinn do his thing once more (he would be replaced in the mostly unseen third installment) and certainly of interest to any fan of '80s horror just the same. If you make room for daddy,Stepfather II promises not to disappoint. "},{"Title":"A passable sequel.","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As far as inevitable and unnecessary sequels go, the adequately acted and directed Stepfather II Make Room for Daddy suffers from the fact that we've seen all of this before and will know everything that we can expect. This simply fails to bring anything new to the table. The main reason why it would work (and earn an extra point) is because the filmmakers were able to bring back the original Stepfather, the great Terry O'Quinn, to once again obsess over his search for the perfect family and idealized suburban life.As we see from the opening, our merry psycho has survived being shot and stabbed (naturally) and been sent to the nuthouse. Wouldn't you know it he figures out a method of escaping and hightails it for a different area, and quickly gets up to all of his old tricks. Masquerading this time as a psychiatrist, he sets his sights on real estate agent Carol Grayland (Meg Foster), the single mother of a son named Todd (Jonathan Brandis). Assuming the identity of a Gene Clifford, he worms his way into their lives.Too much of this is utterly predictable, including characters who seem intelligent but end up acting completely stupid. Director Jeff Burr, whose other horror sequel credits include Pumpkinhead II and Texas Chainsaw Massacre III, does manage to create some suspense, and creates a few amusing touches here and there. He does the best he can with the uninspired script.Foster and Brandis are reasonably appealing, and Caroline Williams of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 fame offers an engaging presence in the supporting role of Carols' concerned friend Matty who's suspicious of Gene; Mitchell Laurance is appropriately smarmy in his brief turn as the unreliable ex-husband / father.Dedicated horror fans may derive some entertainment out of this; others are advised to stay away.Followed by another sequel, Stepfather III sans O'Quinn; this movies' premiere coincided with the arrest of real-life murderer John List, whose story inspired the script for the first movie.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stepfather II Make Room For Daddy","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The disturbed man looking for the perfect family, and will do anything to get it, is back at it again in 'Stepfather II Make room for Daddy'. We pick up shortly after the original film, and see that the man formerly known as Jerry Blake is inside of a psychiatric facility serving his sentence for all the murders and attempts he committed. He breaks out early on and changes his persona yet again to a psychiatrist named Gene, this time targeting single mother Carol and her teenage son Todd. After brutally dispatching people in the way of him building a life with them, Gene makes it to the church on his wedding day ... but will he get through the ceremony without losing his mind completely?Terry Quinn I thought 'Stepfather II' was really interesting in the sense that it separated itself from the other two films. In parts one and three, the stepchildren (Stephanie in 1 and Andy in 3) disliked the stepfather a lot. They could see that something was off with him, and it never really clicked. In this sequel, the son Todd really liked Gene the stepfather and looked up to him as a role model of sorts. His father just up and left him and his mom, so the writers did a great job of establishing Todd's need for a male figure. It kind of makes it all the more sad when it's revealed how sick Gene really is.Terry Quinn puts in an amazing performance yet again as the deranged man who would kill for a perfect family unit. Meg Foster did really well as the mother Carol as did Jonathan Brandis as Todd. I liked the friend Maddie that they gave Carol, played by Caroline Williams. She was really good too. It lacked the intensity of the original film, but 'Stepfather II' is still very well done. The finale at the church as Gene prepares for his wedding is also very creepy.. and perhaps very bloody. I recommend this one!7/10 "},{"Title":"It's stupid... but it kind of works","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'The Stepfather' is a solid thriller that slides into schlock at times but maintains an atmosphere of credible horror. The first sequel cranks ups the schlock factor and dials down the credibility, damaging the attempts to create tension by housing them in a plot so lacking in common sense it constantly trips over itself.Step one in the film's plan to undermine itself is reversing the ostensibly fatal stab to the heart sustained by Terry O'Quinn's demented stepfather at the end of the original film. He has a couple of scars but otherwise has recovered astonishingly well and should trade survival tips with Robert G. Durant. Next is a breakout from a mental hospital that cheekily leaves out a couple of key details, and from there it's one bit of silliness after another.How does O'Quinn rent a house using just the contents of one victim's wallet? How does he keep up this lifestyle when his phony counselling practice has about five clients, all apparently his neighbours? Why does he whistle his signature tune when he leaves a murder scene in the middle of the night? Why is there a picture of him in the newspaper for us to see but not one on the news when his fiancée Meg Foster watches a report about his previous victims?Foster's character is maddeningly gullible and it doesn't help that the romance moves far too quickly to be convincing. After all these contrivances the movie ends in an uncomfortably nasty (if visually impressive) way for Foster and her son, but as there's another sequel there isn't much finality in O'Quinn's apparent fate. It's all kind of rubbish and inferior to the original in pretty much every way.That said, I have to admit it's trashily compelling and does have a few scenes of genuine tension, like Foster's mailwoman friend checking O'Quinn's mail as she tries to catch him out. And O'Quinn is very good, as before. It's tat, then, but it does have a certain drive that gets it through its idiotic plot. "},{"Title":"bland Sequel.","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first movie was great, the plot and the movie flowed really well and the ending was classic.Its a shame that ending was lie to make room for this bland Sequel.This movie was very bland from start to end, it takes to long to get going, it's plots was way to slow for the movie.The ending was the only decent part, Which dose not make up for very long drawn out plot, we seen again, with nothing new added and less action then first movie. The the movie very dull and bland, The ending was good however it's like they also had enough and lets just rush the ending.There were some bloody moment and okay acting, Even John Lock looked a bit bored in some part of this movie. His good playing a really good psycho4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Father Knows Best!","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Seeking new blood after The Stepfather (1987), marriage-minded Terry O'Quinn (as Jerry Blake) escapes from a Washington insane asylum and takes on the identity of a cozy Southern California psychiatrist. Feeling neighborly, Mr. O'Quinn (as Gene F. Clifford) warms up attractive divorcée Meg Foster (as Carol Grayland) and cute skateboarder son Jonathan Brandis (as Todd). After O'Quinn gets rid of young Brandis' returning father Mitchell Laurance (as Phil Grayland), it looks like a new family will form, but Ms. Foster's suspicious pal Caroline Williams (as Matty Crimmins) smells a rat... ***** Stepfather II (11/3/89) Jeff Burr ~ Terry O'Quinn, Meg Foster, Caroline Williams, Jonathan Brandis "},{"Title":"Another unwarranted sequel, but actually not bad","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Some films simply don't need a sequel. If there's nothing left to tell then maybe it's best to leave it alone. But when there's a market for one Hollywood producers aren't going to let the opportunity pass. Even if the villain appeared to be finished at the end of the first film, they'll try to find a way to bring them back to life. The original 'Stepfather' wasn't a smash hit, but did well in it's own right and has a small, but devoted following. It left little room for a second part, but that didn't stop this first of two sequels from getting made. It's not a film that'll bowl you over, but all things considered it's pretty decent and fun to watch.Pros Excellent work from the cast. Nice score. Moves at a good pace. Has some good touches of humor. Some decent kills. Jeff Burr gets some cool shots and adds a touch of style here and there. Nice and crisp cinematography. Fun and bloody finale.Cons Lacking in suspense and tension. Predictable. Script could have used some polishing.Final thoughts The first time I saw this film I didn't much care for it, but felt like it deserved another chance. I enjoyed it much more upon the second viewing and though I still don't think it's a great movie, it is worthy of a viewing if you like the first film. There are better sequels you could find, but there are also much worse.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"There's something you should know about my past..","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked the highly regarded original, but wasn't particularly wowed over by it. As sequels go, Stepfather II is quite unnecessary, but an entertainingly fine and well done addition nonetheless by genre director Jeff Burr with the likes of a earnest Meg Foster, a scene-stealing Caroline Williams and Terry O'Quinn shinning again with that creepy intensity brimming from his calculative performance making the film larger than it truly deserves. Gone is the slow-winding, low-key suspense of the original replaced with unpleasantly over-the-top violence and darkly wry humour in a more straight-forward slasher style, as it goes to show the lengths this committed family man would go to end up with the desirably perfect family (life), but this would also go onto help with his own downfall. After escaping a psychiatric institution, Gerald 'Jerry' Blake heads to Palm Meadow Estates to rebuild his ideal family in the disguise of a family psychiatrist Dr. Gene Clifford. There he catches the eye of his real estate agent Carol Grayland and her young son, but whenever a certain obstacle gets in the way of his tailored dream he reverts back to what he knows best. Director Jeff Burr's bright handling makes able headway, as it's snappily paced and there are some spontaneous touches amongst its systematic narrative. The ominous music score is titillatingly arranged in drawing in the high strung tension and twisted jolts. "}{"Title":"Make room for Daddy","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Sequel king, Jeff Burr, takes over the reigns for The Stepfather 2. The original stepfather is an underrated horror/thriller thanks in all parts to a terrific performance by Terry O'Quinn. Stepfather 2 is almost the exact same movie, but with all the surprises gone. It also lacks the believability of the first movie. First off, we're asked to believe that the Stepfather survived the events of the last film's finale. Stabbed through the chest and shot twice...right. Anyway, he now resides in an asylum where a psychiatrist is trying to unravel his thought process and motivations. This is the most interesting area of the movie. Unfortunately, it doesn't last long. He's too soon back in the suburbs leading a women's support group and looking for potential wives. Did any of these women bother to check his credentials? We're also asked to believe that the Stepfather is a master criminal, yet does the DUMBEST things to get himself into trouble. The supporting cast around O'Quinn is as good as the original. This time we have Meg Foster as the new target and Jonathan Brandis is playing her son. Caroline Williams (Stretch from Texas Chainsaw 2) is quite good as the nosey neighbor. If you enjoyed The Stepfather and want to see more of the character, this is for you. However, I implore you not to waste your time with Part 3. "},{"Title":"Average Killer Thriller Sequel.","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have never seen the original Stepfather film, so I had no idea what to expect going into this movie. I'm not sure if that helped it our didn't. Stepfather II follows a man (Terry O'Quinn) who escapes from his mental institution near Seattle, Washington and assumes the identity of a psychiatrist after murdering an entire family years earlier. He finds a nice home in a Southern California suburb where he meets Carol (Meg Foster), a single mother who sells real estate. While assuming the identity of a man named Dr. Gene Clifford, the two begin to form a relationship, until Carol's ex-husband enters the picture, trying to get together with her again. Gene ends up murdering him one night in a violent rage. Matty (Caroline Williams, Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2), Carol's friend, suspects that Gene isn't quite normal, but Carol refuses to identify that there is anything wrong with him. Step-parents and blended families are hard enough to work out - but what about when your step parent is a psychotic murderer? I've heard a lot of great things about the original Stepfather movie and it's supposedly a pretty good horror flick. I came across this film one day and couldn't find the original, so I decided to just watch this film, figuring I wouldn't need to see the original to understand the plot - and I didn't. The film made perfect sense without seeing the original. While it had already been done before in the original movie, the premise is actually quite unique and had the potential to be very scary. Having step-parents and blended families is difficult (I know this from personal experiences), and the idea of a step-parent being a murderer is a great basis for a horror story. You may not always know somebody as well as you think, and that is a classic set up that works effectively here. Sadly though, this film fails to be scary - it's more of a thriller I'd say. The storyline is well written and surprisingly doesn't contain any plot holes (or at least that I picked up on). The pacing is a little bit slow in the beginning of the movie, but it starts to build a little and begins to kick in after awhile as we get to know our psychotic villain a little bit more.The acting is pretty good as well, not perfect though. Terry O'Quinn is menacing as the diabolical evil Stepfather and plays his character well. Meg Foster is the nice single mother, and Caroline Williams (the leading lady from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2) is her somewhat nosy but likable best friend. Again, the acting isn't perfect, but it's good enough. The film is directed by Jeff Burr (who a year later directed Leatherface Texas Chainsaw Massacre III) and he is creative with the film. There are some inventive sequences and crafty shots (especially near the end of the film). There isn't too much violence here, a few stabbings and a strangulation - but this is no splatter movie. Another small problem is that the movie ends a little abruptly and I would have liked to see a more dramatic climax, but the ending is passable enough and I must admit that I really like the final shot.Overall, Stepfather II is a decent killer thriller movie. It has a great premise and some sufficient thrills that are worth the time. I haven't seen the original film so I can't compare, but this was an enjoyable late-'80s horror flick that is worth watching if you like this kind of thing. It's about average I'd say (if not a little bit above), so I think I'll rate it just above a five. 5/10. "},{"Title":"good follow up","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For all the producers and directors who want to do a follow up of a movie take lessons from these guys who made stepfather 2. This is an awesome follow up. Picking up where the original left off. Now for the cast Terry O'Quinn doesn't seem to be as maniacal in this one, but he was still great, Meg Foster is Great as the unsuspecting victim, Jonathan Brandis overacted a little but it wasn't bad, and Mutchell Laurence is wonderful as the ex husband, and caroline williams was decent as Meg Foster's suspicious friend.. This movie will keep you watching to see what happens next. They should have ended it with this one. I give this movie a 9 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Very good  Terry O' Quinn","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If the first one Stepfather was fascinating by his intrigue and the quality of the story , Stepfather 2 also contains these same ingredients.One finds a built well history mixing policeman and suspense.As for Terry O' Quinn,he is always equal to himself,that is remarkable.Supporting roles are not badly either with the young Jonathan  Brandis or confirmed Meg Foster.A good sequel thus,turned with talent by Jeff Burr.So, see this movie ! Terry O' Quinn will not appear in the third Stepfather ,the damage ... "},{"Title":"Barely better sequel to a rather decent original","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Stepfather 2 is a slightly better sequel effort, even though it's still flawed.**SPOILERS**In a psychiatric hospital, Gene Clifford, (Terry O'Quinn) is in rehab for his past crimes, and manages to escape during a trick. Hiding in California, he takes a job as a family therapist and has a group session where he meets Carol Grayland, (Meg Foster) a single mom. When they begin to develop a friendship, along with her son Todd, (Jonathan Brandis) her friend Matty Crimmins, (Caroline Williams) decides to get involved, not completely trusting him. Able to manipulate her to believe him to marry her, which forces her into action and is able to uncover his secret. Confronted with his real plan of marrying to preserve his idea of the perfect, he goes berserk to keep it that way.The Good News This one is a rather decent sequel. The fact that this one still has the creepy motive and back-story for the main villain is a good selling point. It still feels rather creepy and unsettling due to a rather realistic feeling that happens to come from the film. From all the alternative actions taken to ensure that, to the way that it makes the activities he does both normal-seeming and yet really creepy at the same time. That is a fun quality and it adds to the overall tone of the film. This one's best features are it's few horror moments on display. These include the few slashing moments beforehand, which is the confrontation in the house as well as the kitchen brawl later in the film. Both of these are great and a lot of fun, and mixed together with the impressive impound lot scene that has a few comedic moments in it, and these are all rather fun. The wedding, though, is all kinds of fun. From the manic stalking to the constant brawling to it's few blood-splattering moments to the sheer joy at how it ends, this is all considered into a really great sequence. These here are all that work for the film.The Bad News This one here is really disappointing for several reasons, and most of it is due to the fact that it seems to be classified as a slasher rather than a thriller like the first one, which it really should be. There's nothing in here that is characteristic of a slasher film, since the body count is barely there, the few kills on display are barely worth talking about other than the ones mentioned before, and it never once tries to elicit a feeling of constant terror from others before the stalking at the finale. This one never tries to become a slasher, and instead of being called a thriller, which is based around the film's central gimmick and theme, this one tries to play with that rather than going for straight-out horror and all that's left is a feeling of boredom from those who expect a slasher. As a thriller, it isn't that bad, but it's still left with the fact that nothing even happens, and all that occurs before the finale is the attempts to hide the truth from those searching into the past, and these are rarely interesting. That makes this feel even more boring to those expecting a slasher, but when these events aren't that good to begin with, it lowers it to the other fans, leaving this one feeling down even more. Even worse the film plays up all the black comedy one-liners that were requisite for any mass killer anti-hero in a sequel franchise during the late 80s, with the one-liners coming in at very obvious and badly timed moments, and are just plain distracting and rarely funny. This is better than it should be, but still falls a little short.The Final Verdict With one of the main problems that plagued the first one while also fixing one of it's key ones, this one comes out in the end slightly better. Interesting for those who enjoy the psycho-thriller genre, while slasher fans should feel a little better about it over the first one and should give it a chance.Rated R Violence, Language and a mild sex scene "},{"Title":"A Good Part Two","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Stepfather was a good movie and at the end of the first movie I thought he was dead but I guessed wrong that time didn't I?  This movie is actually good as it continues the story of a man who's objective is to have the perfect all american family but can't get it.  You may think that this is just a typical sequel and horror movie and you may be right somewhere along those lines but I interpret these movies as a trilogy.  A good trilogy at that.  Anyway this time around the stepfather has escaped from the mental institution he was being held in since his last attempt at getting a family and trying to kill them.  The killer changes his name and look and heads to an entire new town setting his eyes on an innocent woman and her young son. They hit it off and he once again thinks that he has the perfect family until the smallest things ruin it for him and he goes berserk trying to dispatch his family so he can move on.  Damn I wish he would get what he wants, I guess I'm sort of on the killers side. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is still kind of dumb, like the first movie, but without the action.  Terry O'Quinn does a fine job again, and the story is mildly interesting if a little far-fetched (How does a recently escaped convict afford nice hotels, a nice big house, and lots of nice new stuff??)... Anyways, if you like your horror watered down, or are a fan of the first movie, then this is for you.  Otherwise, there are better movies out there. "},{"Title":"Not up to the original, but enjoyable anyway.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Terry O'Quinn kills a few people, escapes from an institution, steals a car and decides to move to Palm Meadow Estates after watching the Dream House TV show hosted by Bob Eubanks. His new identity is family therapist (!) Dr. Gene Clifford. He meets and dates a divorced real estate agent (Meg Foster) with a depressed son (Jonathan Brandis), then starts murdering people who threaten to come between them.Although the script has its fair share of clunkers and cheesy wisecracks, there are enough things here to keep it on track, especially O'Quinn in another dynamic performance. There's also some effective black humor, Caroline Williams (TEXAS CHAINSAW 2) offering wonderful scene-stealing support as Foster's suspicious best friend and a great hammer/fork/knife wedding-ceremony massacre finale. "},{"Title":"Above Average Sequel","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stepfather II (1989)** 1/2 (out of 4)The stepfather (Terry O'Quinn) somehow manages to survive the events of the first film. As this one here starts off he's locked up inside a mental asylum but managers to escape. He heads to California where he starts working as a councilor and this is where he meets and falls in love with his neighbor Carol (Meg Foster). The two plan to get married but something doesn't sit right with her friend (Caroline Williams) who decides to some research on the mysterious man.STEPFATHER II was released and pretty much died on arrival as critics and fan saw it as a cheap attempt at making money and basically wrote it off as being nothing more than a rehash of the first film. I used to think the same thing but this latest viewer really had me appreciating the film on a whole new level and while it isn't quite as good as the original, it still manages to be interesting in its own way.What I really enjoyed here is that we get to see O'Quinn's character playing the game.By saying that, in the original whenever we met him and his new family, they were already married and starting the story. We didn't get to see how his character worked the woman and the child but that's not the case here. There's a lot more character development all around and I thought it took the basic concept of the original and tried to do more with it.Another plus are the performances. O'Quinn delivers another excellent performance and it didn't matter that this was just a sequel as the actor certainly gave it his all. As with the first film, it doesn't matter if he was playing the nice guy or the evil one, he nailed the part perfectly. Foster was also quite good in the role of the woman struggling to move on. Williams, best known for her role in Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE 2, is also fun to watch here as is Johnathan Brandis as the child and Henry Brown is also good in the role of the doctor.The film starts off rather poorly as its pure slasher dumbness but things eventually start to pick up. I thought Jeff Burr did a very good job at keeping the film moving at a nice pace and there's no doubt that it's better directed than the first. I do wish there was a tad bit more suspense as this here is something that it's lacking. Still, STEPFATHER II is an above average sequel that deserves a better reputation. "},{"Title":"Good cast can't elevate threadbare material...","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sequel to 1987's critically-acclaimed sleeper hit (with a title which might be read as Stepfather Eleven if one is not too careful) has Terry O'Quinn's serial family killer escaping from the loony-bin and setting up shop in Southern California under the guise of a home therapist. As written by John Auerbach, this cool-and-cruel, potentially magnetic character has uncomfortably taken on some Freddy Krueger-like characteristics, tossing off dark-humored quips while dispatching the suspicious. O'Quinn plays the part like a warped variation of Pat Boone (he even sounds like Boone!)--yet without a taut script, he is stranded in a juiceless suburban rut. The opening moments at the Pugent Sound mental institution are almost a complete loss (with ugly sets), and the scenario hardly improves from there. One or two good performances in support, and O'Quinn is worth a look. *1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Decent Sequel","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At first, in maybe the first hour or so, I thought this film as on par with the original. But then the flaws started rolling in. Granted, the first film has flaws, but this one has far more. For one, The Stepfather should have changed his appearance better, as he looked exactly as he did in the first film (someone could have recognized him from pictures on the news, or in the papers). Second off, what was with Carol's friend being so suspicious of The Stepfather? She had NO reason to, yet she suspected him of being a fake. There was simply no reason for her to have those suspicions, as he did nothing to provoke those suspicions out of her. It was just thrown in there to replicate how the daughter found out about him in the first film. It just was ridiculous. Other problems include nobody not finding the dead ex husband's body (eventually the guts of the body would have been seen), and the fact the wife somehow remembered some wine The Stepfather bought her a while back. Also, how he killed that guy in the beginning in broad daylight. It was all just too forced & unbelievable. The original felt more realistic in that sense. Any way, complaints aside, this film is pretty enjoyable, and O'Quinn gives an excellent performance yet again, but unlike it's predecessor, this film ends up being a routine slasher due to a pretty weak script. I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Rent O'Quinn's Lost Movie","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Though the first was slightly better, I wouldn't count this sequel out. 'Stepfather 2 Make Room for Daddy' was all but equal (if not for the horrid closing) in reference to acting of the extras and the suburb job O'Quinn did on both. And with such a short film (I consider anything under 1½ hours short) I loved the long intro with Stepfather working his psycho madness on his psychologist. Honestly, they were good scenes. And then you're thrust back into Stepfather's routine of finding lost souls to take down. I will say this for #2 there was a lot of humor that despite it being a real b-movie, should've-been-direct to video, that still makes me laugh out loud. Also, I loved Meg Foster (back in 1989 when I first saw it) and those eyes &#x96; they mesmerized me. Today's watching makes me cringe at her acting, but still, those eyes. The biggest problems with the film happen towards the middle and second half. Again we get this Stepfather that apparently is invincible in regards to all the traces of DNA, evidence, fingerprints, etc around and a mail carrier who (in broad daylight) snoops around people's mail, opens it and then actually brags about it. Sure, it's a movie, but that was harder to shallow than Stepfather getting away with all this. And finally, the rushed end-job was so out of left field (see them walking down the isle) it all-but almost ruined the movie. Again, O'Quinn saves the movie with his solid Dr. Jekyll/Mr. Hyde, a role he played so perfectly in 1 & 2. On a side note, I remember seeing this 11/10/89 (almost 20 years ago) and geekly enough, I still have the movie stub. Without having seeing #1 and only 14, I loved it back then.Side Note (basically just for my own fond memories) Yes, I am a geek; I collect/save my movie stubs. Well, since 1989 and I thought the one I saved on 11/10/1989 for 'Stepfather 2 Make Room for Daddy' was the first (I actually have that summer's as well 'Batman' et al.) I remember seeing this movie at UA Metro (which has been destroyed for many years now) farthest left screen and alone, but they must've not carded as I was 14. I used to ride my bike roughly 3½ miles to Metrocenter in Phoenix, AZ, get a small cheese pizza at Peter Piper Pizza next door with a drink and then ride over to see whatever playing. Those were the good ole days, when I wasn't so critical about movies and just loved the thrill of going. That being said, still, to date, 1989 is my favorite movie year of all time 'Batman,' 'Lethal Weapon 2,' 'The Little Mermaid,' 'Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade,' 'Back to the Future Part II,' 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child' and even 'License to Kill,' 'Ghostbusters 2' (I still have my glow-in-the-dark 'Ghostbusters 2' AMC cup, and yes, it still works) and 'Star Trek V The Final Frontier' were fun to watch, because it was fun to go to the movies. I'm sure I'm missing some I saw that year (such as this movie) or in the years following (I just checked to see at least a 100 more I loved that year.) Maybe it's just the excitement of finally getting out on my own, my own bike, and watching dozens of movies (many 2-3+ times) that make 1989 so magical. Maybe that the studios were looking to make quality over box office. Though I am sure they wanted to make money, but look at 1990 since and how it became almost ONLY about money.Just now, looking at the list of 1989 releases, I am in total agreeance with my statement. 1989 was the best year for movies of all time. (Yes, this is all placed in a review for 'Stepfather 2,' and no, I wouldn't put this anywhere near the top of that year. I am mainly speaking of the experience.) Look for yourself and see how many you used to love, or still do. "},{"Title":"You probably don't need to make room for Daddy on your DVD shelf","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Though this wholly unnecessary sequel isn't quite an embarrassment to the classic original, it's safe to say that the world wouldn't stop turning if this film didn't exist.It's definitely a treat to see Terry O'Quinn reprise his marvelous and haunting role, and it's not surprising that it's he who carries this film single-handedly. The main problem is, while the story is a logical, if pointless, continuation of the events in the first film, there's nothing particularly fresh or interesting here to justify the re-visit.O'Quinn had a couple of fantastically morbid one-liners in the original Stepfather, but they served as a gasping respite from the more intense scenes. Here, his sense of humor becomes a gimmick, and more than once, the lines elicit groans instead of gasps. O'Quinn remains a likable psychopath, and it's still easy to see why the lonely ladies he encounters fail to notice that underneath his perfect family-man exterior lies a seething murderous rage. But, while his turns into that dark inner realm were shocking and brutal in the first film, we lose the element of surprise in this reprise, so the murders in this film simply become part of the drill.While the original Stepfather was chilling because of how utterly plausible it was, there are several elements in Make Room For Daddy that are simply too far removed from coherence to gel together nearly as well. Starting with our exposition, which finds O'Quinn's psychiatrist insisting to be left alone in a room with an unshackled sociopathic murderer, we quickly sense that we're in store for something considerably less realistic this time out, and this trend continues throughout the film. While O'Quinn's cunning was one of his strongest attributes before, and we see him use that to orchestrate his inevitable escape here, some of the steps he takes afterward make it seem like he's eager to get caught again.It's hard to ignore the mistakes he makes during his zealous murder of the ex-husband of the woman he's courting, which he commits in the house right across the street from hers. I can't imagine that ANY woman could know that her ex-husband and current boyfriend were having a private discussion across the street and be so indifferent to the exchange that she wouldn't notice the boyfriend carrying her ex's body out the front door and driving away with it in the ex's car. To further wave a red flag about his actions, O'Quinn then uses the stolen car to stage his own demolition derby in a junkyard, which is apparently the only junkyard in the United States without security cameras or guard dogs and happens to rest in a city where an extended crescendo of screeching tires and crashing metal doesn't attract the attention of the police, or anyone else for that matter.It's also difficult to swallow the idea of O'Quinn inserting himself into his new community as a marriage and family counselor, or that he could so quickly find a group of women eager to join in sessions that take place not in an office, but in the living room of his house. None of these women seem to notice that not only does O'Quinn conduct his therapy in a strikingly unorthodox manner, but that he does so without credentials of any kind.Perhaps he's just lucky? This trend continues when we see a newscast asking the public for help in the nationwide search for our lovable escaped multiple murderer... a newscast that doesn't even run a picture of him to alert the public what they should be looking out for.Nothing here rivals the frenetic intensity of the original, though the climactic gore-soaked battle in the wedding chapel hits some lofty heights of absurd coolness. However, since we already know exactly where the story is headed, there isn't a whole lot of suspense generated along the road there.It is nice to spot a few where are they now? candidates, such as They Live's Meg Foster and one of the kids from Stephen King's It. But other than that, Stepfather 2 doesn't do anything to convince you that your time couldn't be better spent watching the original again instead. "},{"Title":"I even had sex with you, for God's sake!","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As far as rapidly produced sequels to unexpected 80's horror sleeper hits go, The Stepfather II is as good as it gets. And yes, I really meant that as a positive remark! The original was suspenseful, moody and even somewhat plausible. The sequel is outrageous, campy and absurd, but all that is completely acceptable because sequels are supposed to be like that. When the element of surprise is gone and the plot is as predictable as the weather forecast in Siberia, what else are you supposed to show except grotesque madness and nonsensical horror goodness? But, most of all, this is primarily Terry O'Quinn's big showcase movie. There were he was genuinely creepy and unpredictable in the first movie, he's a mad raving one-man-lunacy show here. The story logically continues where The Stepfather ended, only you'll have relish with some far-fetched things that may come across as unreal. Shortly after his initial murder spree, Jerry Blake is alive, kicking and institutionalized. Not only did he survive that stabbing at the end of the original, he only has the tiniest little scar on his chest even though I clearly remember that the blade of the knife was planted in his body for at least three quarters! His escape from the mental asylum is even more implausible, as the stupidest psychiatrist imaginable pretty much breaks all the safety rules ever written and literally begs to be massacred. He moves to a brand new neighborhood where he takes on the identity of a deceased family counselor and purchases a house. Jerry &#x96; or Gene, as he is calling himself now - may a lot more psychopathic than he used to be (whenever his anger gets the best of him, he retires to his basement to play with his buzz saw); he nevertheless remains a smooth talking guy who specializes in heartbroken women and confused kids of divorced parents. He seduces the lonely real estate agent Meg Foster (who looks like Kirstie Alley's identical twin sister) and befriends her teenage son in just a matter of days. His obsession to become a model family is interfered twice, though. First Carol's runaway husbands returns to revive their marriage and secondly there's the skeptical best friend Matty. I really liked her character, even though she should have gone to the police a bit quicker instead of playing Sherlock Holmes herself. The Stepfather II has a terrific climax! This was the best, hands down, wedding day sequence ever! The husband nearly kills his wife and together they practically destroy the whole building, yet none of the invitees notices a damn thing! "},{"Title":"The Stepfather II","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Terry O'Quinn reprises his role as the psychopath searching for the perfect family and willing to kill anyone who stands in his way. The first was more of a thriller while Jeff Burr's sequel is more or less a violent slasher film. Escaping from prison thanks to ridiculous means(..a psychiatrist wanting to help rehabilitate him, allows O'Quinn to meet with him, absent handcuffs, with the security guard waiting outside!It was an issue of trust, and O'Quinn saw fit to take advantage of such foolishness), O'Quinn uproots in a nice suburban neighborhood assuming the identity of a shrink, soon bewitching a real estate agent and her son(Meg Foster and Jonathan Brandis). Foster's husband, played by Mitchell Laurance, a dentist, took off with his receptionist and attempts to re-enter her life to the chagrin of O'Quinn. Also disrupting matters is Foster's gal pal, Caroline Williams, a postal worker who senses something's wrong about Mr. Right. Will O'Quinn allow certain people to interfere with his plans of betrothal? Or, will he solve such complications through violent means? Burr's direction is just as flashy and colorful as ever, attempting to better rather mediocre material. The movie is as predictable as they come, helped somewhat by a solid cast. Caroline Williams(..best known in Tobe Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre II)has a substantial role as Foster's snooping best friend, and pays a heavy price for attempting to protect her from O'Quinn. Foster and Brandis have rather thankless roles here, more or less servicing the plot as potential victims-in-the-making. This is O'Quinn and Williams' show all the way, and Terry capitalizes on the many nuances of his character, trying to develop him despite a plot which would wish to have him just murder people like some soulless madman. Amusing use of the tune Camptown Races, whistled, and how it plays in the undoing of O'Quinn. "},{"Title":"Awful movie, nothing like the first one","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just like any other sequel to any other movie a pure let down. I rented this movie with anticipation to see the step father at it again. Well the escape from the asylum to becoming a marriage counselor kind of spoiled the deal. I think the movie should have stayed with the insurance salesman bit. The kill scenes lacked that old stepfather try. "},{"Title":"Middling sequel.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel to the disappointing Stepfather was middling and highly unnecessary (it was perfectly clear that the main character was meant to be dead at end of the first movie), yet I enjoyed it a little more than the original, maybe because my expectations were much lower (it got negative reviews), or maybe because it is less pretentious than its predecessor; it's a slasher movie, it knows it, and it doesn't pose as a character study. O'Quinn's performance was slightly better than his previous one in the same role, and the supporting cast is adequate. But that the-psycho-that-keeps-coming-when-he-should-be-dead cliche is getting REALLY tired. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good sequel!","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, I have to say that this film was nowhere near as bad as I thought it was going to be. The original Stepfather was a good little thriller that worked thanks to the way it handled its unoriginal plot line with intrigue and panache. This sequel attempts to build on that by giving us a pretty similar storyline complete with the star of the show Terry O'Quinn doing his thing once again as the obsessive 'stepfather'. The film picks up pretty much where the last one left off. The Stepfather has been committed to an insane asylum after his brawl with the family in the last film. He doesn't want to stay there, however, and so makes an all too easy escape and quickly sets himself up with a new identity in a new town. Despite being a nutter, he has lost none of his charm as it's not long before he meets a woman, with a son, who likes him. The two decide to get married, but it's never plain sailing for this guy and unfortunately for him, several of the local people don't want him to get married! The Stepfather doesn't take too kindly to that, and begins getting rid of everyone who is in his way...The film is directed by Jeff Burr, who made the decent anthology 'From a Whisper to a Scream', as well as a few crappy sequels to films like Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Puppet Master and Pumpkinhead. Obviously this film was going to be on the back foot from the beginning as the first film didn't really need a sequel, but even with that in mind, Jeff Burr really has done a pretty good job as the film is fun to watch throughout and offers good entertainment in the same way that the first film did. The only standout performance comes from the leading man Terry O'Quinn, who isn't as frightening as he was in the first film; but still gets away with looking menacing enough to be convincing. The story does feel like it took someone a few minutes to stick together, and it's obviously just an excuse for the Stepfather to go on another rampage - but I can't complain too much about that as I didn't expect anything else going into this film. It all boils down a satisfying conclusion, and while I won't say too many good things about this film; it's decent enough to warrant a viewing from anyone who enjoyed the original...and that's more than I can say for a lot of sequels! "},{"Title":"It is a federal offense to watch this movie.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This stepfather is not the kindest man I have ever known, he is the stupidest man I have ever known! He escapes from prison and moves into a neighborhood so easily and then becomes a therapist! He falls in love with gray eyes and there is a horrible, horrible love making scene. The stepfather isn't even enjoying it and I was waiting for him to be looking at his watch any second.The mail lady was really annoying and would have been fired long before she met stepfather. I couldn't believe that she looks at everyones mail before she delivers it. I thought that the post office had tons and tons of mail. In real life, she wouldn't have time to look at his mail or she would be way behind on her route.The stepfather isn't even scary either. He looks like Mr. Rogers with no hair. I gave it three stars because of Mr. Brandis but other than that, this movie sucked.If you see this movie, take it down below to the car junkyard and hum and whistle as you watch it go into the car crusher! "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what these people are talking about, this has got to be the worst movie I have ever seen! Everything about it was stupid and bad. First of all, how can some random guy move into the suburbs and magically become every lonely woman's favorite family counsellor? If it were that simple, don't you think people would do it all the time? It's not that easy to run a practice, especially out of your million dollar home, and especially getting all the neighborhood's women to come to your house every day.Second of all, this movie sucked because it was not the least bit imaginitive with the characters. They might as well have little Todd on a baseball team and running around with the wrong crowd then this new daddy teaches him how to hit a homerun and talks him out of doing drugs. So stereotypical! I hate those father-son scenes where the kid is throwing a baseball wrong and some macho ladies man comes up and tells the kid how to do it perfectly, while the onlooking, overly-feminine mother drools all over her homemade casserole and wipes skateboard marks off the tile floor with a pink rag. It is so unoriginal, and seriously, this kind of thing is really outdated.What woman would marry some guy she doesn't know anything about? And let me get this straight, they are engaged to be married, and the night of the engagement party one of them suggests maybe they should make out with each other?? And then the guy says he doesn't want to make out and the woman still wants to marry him?!?!?! When does THAT happen?As far as stupid male sweaters and ugly dresses, this movie is the winner. And how can this guy get away with so much murder? The Cadillac guy, the biological dad, the folks in the prison, what the heck? And what was with the balding/non-balding idea? You don't grow all your hair back in two days after you stop physically plucking it all out of your entire scalp. It just doesn't work that way.Finally, how many people here have never heard the song Campdown Races? Maybe if you're 5 months old and deaf, but really, show me someone who has never heard that song. And then show me someone who hasn't heard it in a long time and gets all excited because they're hearing an old song from their childhood! That's like saying you've never heard Twinkle Twinkle Little Star. And what does Campdown Races have to do with a guy that murders people because he wants a perfect family? That song is about horseracing! I don't get it.Perfect family - yuck. This should be a lesson that the perfect family is not one that lives in the suburbs, conforms to the stereotypical gender roles in every way and is primarily focused on being perfect. And Mr. Serial Killer, what's wrong with women that use diaphrams? This movie BLOWS.  "}]