[{"Title":"a great formula film","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  RENEGADES is a great formula film from Jack Sholder. The films format is action adventure with a heavy native american theme. The film tells the tale of police corruption, mafia dirty dealings and the theft of a sacred lance from a native american tribe. The film has predictable elements yet is worthwhile. Of note is the directing style of sholder which is kinetic enough to keep the audience interested. RENEGADES is formula but succeds at being good formula; good formula never fails. I recommend this film as a popcorn and coke film. "},{"Title":"not a bad film which is popular in syndication","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  RENEGADES was the victim of UNIVERSAL which released it around the time of INDIANA JONES AND THE LAST CRUSADE which was box office suicide. The film should have been out in early spring or late fall. This particular film is still poular in syndication on cable and other tv stations. The film is a mixture of police corruption, mobsterism, and native american folklore. The film sports some familar elements yet, many good mainstream movies do. The positioning of this film opposite the paramount pictures RAIDERS sequel hurt the box office of this film in 1989. However, it did well on video and in syndicated tv release. (still does) RENEGADES was a movie which was released with little advetising or fanfare and is a relatively entertaining crime picture. Not the godfather by any stretch then film revolves around a cop named BUSTER who tries to crack a case involving a corrupt cop who works for the mob. Things get complicated when the brother of a native american civilian is killed and a sacred lakota spear stolen by mob heavies following a heist. The brother of the man played by LOU DIAMOND PHILLIPS teams up with the cop played by SUTHERLAND in order to stop a mutual problem.  "},{"Title":"Chasing The Sacred Lakota Lance","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The only reason I give Renegades as high a rating as I do is because I'm a great big fan of the leads Lou Diamond Phillips and Kiefer Sutherland. Rarely have I seen a major theatrical motion picture resting on a supposition as outrageous as this one.Kiefer Sutherland is a Philadelphia detective gone undercover on his own to find a corrupt cop. He's infiltrated a mob headed by a very cold blooded hood played by Robert Knepper who's planning a jewel heist.The heist goes off, but with some unforeseen complications. Such as the fact that Knepper while fleeing from the cops in hot pursuit, goes through the Philadelphia American Indian Museum and on impulse steals a sacred lance of the Lakota Sioux tribe. He also shoots Gary Farmer who tries to stop him and cold conks Sutherland who tries the same.Phillips is Farmer's brother and he and Sutherland form an alliance of convenience to accomplish their separate goals. But I have to say that the whole idea here is just plain preposterous.Phillips is a stoic Indian figure, he's carrying over his performance from Young Guns where he and Sutherland met and became lifetime friends. Sutherland's performance is a combination of Clint Eastwood as Dirty Harry and Steve McQueen from Bullitt.For action fans there are enough gun battles and one great car chase as in Bullitt through the streets of Philadelphia/Toronto as some of Renegades was filmed there. As Sutherland and Phillips are good friends in real life as well the spirit of camaraderie does come through. Jami Gertz as Knepper's girl friend has a very nice role as basically an old time gangster moll.Yet the whole idea behind Renegades is just plain preposterous and unless you're a fan of either one or both the leads you're going to laugh yourself silly. "},{"Title":"Decent Movie, Funnier Now Than Before (Possible Spoilers)","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films that just grows on you over time because so many of the people have gone on to such better works (and at the same time have had work just as bad, if not worse).  This film just shows you how far Kiefer Sutherland and Lou Diamond Philips have come in their careers both in terms of success and acting ability - you can definitely see where Sutherland starting building up his in pain acting that he uses so effectively in 24.The acting is decent, nothing to scream Oscar about, the story is somewhat fleshed out, there are some cinematic holes (like the scene where Lou Diamond Philips is supposedly sitting on the front to the car while Kiefer Sutherland is driving the car backwards with the hood up - the entire scene you can see under the crack of the hood that no one was sitting there - not well thought out in my opinion), but it does keep you guessing until the very end of the movie who the bad cops are and it is a little bit surprising that there is not one, but two bad cops.Its an entertaining movie that doesn't allow the violence to run the whole show until the very end of the movie.  Its got some decent twists, some mild comic relief, the requisite chase scenes and a fairly satisfying conclusion.Its a good late night rental for Sutherland and/or Philips fans. "},{"Title":"Gertz, Kiefer and Lou Shine","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I will always like this movie for 3 reasons- 1. That Jami Gertz was in it--2. That fellow Canadian Kiefer Sutherland was in it and 3. It was shot here in Toronto,Ontario downtown and I watched alot of the location shooting. I remember watching alot of the filming downtown and they had alot of the streets blocked off that made for traffic nightmares donwtown Toronto. But getting to meet Jami Gertz was the exciting part. She was very friendly to the people who would be standing around watching the filming. At this time I had only known who she was from Lost Boys and the TV Show Square Pegs.Anyhow Kiefer is great in this as a cop who is on a corruption in the police force task force but seems to never have the best luck. Lou Diamond Phillips plays a native indian and he is not too bad in it. But Jami Gertz I say steals this movie for sure. Lots of pretty good action and shoot ups. I don't see what people never liked about it. I guess nowadays it is just waaay too hard to have a viewer actually not go into watching a movie with a closed mind nowadays unless someone like Tom Cruise or Brad pitt is in it. I didn't really see any boring parts in it and Sutherland,Phillips and Gertz all together have some charisma on screen. Surprising with Phillips who is usually hot and cold in his flicks. "},{"Title":"Dated action film","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Keifer Sutherland is an undercover cop who has gotten himself in too deep, and Lou Phillips is a long-haired Indian on the trail of a stolen lance sacred to his tribe. The two team up against the bad guys, and all hell breaks loose. Plenty of car chases, shootouts and general mayhem ensue, in the best style of all those late 1980s low-budget crime thrillers. Sutherland and Phillips are always fun to watch, although Phillips is maybe a bit too stoic from time to time. The finale is high on the body count, which is all we can ask from many of these '80s action setpieces. If it all looks a bit dated now, especially Sutherland's funky-chicken hairdo, so be it. They can't all be DIE HARD or LETHAL WEAPON. Having said that, RENEGADES beats TANGO AND CASH any day. "},{"Title":"Really bad late 80s thriller.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Renegades is set in Philadelphia where detective Buster McHenry (Kiefer Sutherland) is working undercover to try & bring down a dirty cop by arranging a robbery to steal six million dollars worth of diamonds, however things don't go to plan & the dirty cop doesn't show up & instead McHenry is forced to go through with the armed robbery with local mobster Marino (Robert Knepper) & his men. Things go from bad to worse for McHenry as bullets start to fly & people are shot & killed, the cops show up & all hell breaks loose & Marino, his men & McHenry try to escape en-route stopping off at an art gallery where Marino takes a fancy to an ancient Indian tribal lance on display & decides to steal it shooting Goerge Storm (Gary Farmer) in the process. His brother Hank Storm (Lou Diamond Phillips) is understandably annoyed & when he saves McHenry's life as Marino shoots him & leaves him for dead the two team up to bring Marino down, prove McHenry's innocence & get the Indian tribal lance back...Directed by Jack Sholder one has to say that Renegades is a really lacklustre & lifeless attempt at mismatched partners teaming up together to bring down some bad guy action thriller & is in fact maybe one of the worst examples I have seen. There are plenty of great examples of this type of mismatched partner action thrillers from 48 Hrs. (1982) to Lethal Weapon (1987) & it's sequels to Midnight Run (1988) to Tango & Cash (1989) to The Last Boy Scout (1991) to the more recent Rush Hour (1998) & sequels to name but a few fine examples, unfortunately when compared to shining lights of the sub genre like the aforementioned Renegades is just plain poor in every department by comparison. The main aspect of these types of films that ultimately make or breaks them is the partnership, here it's a quick talking wise cracking Philadelphia cop with a blatant disregard for police procedure who gets teamed up with a quiet respectful native American Indian & it just doesn't come off since there's virtually no humour or memorable interplay between the two. I just never warmed to either of them although to be fair Sutherland does try & his character does come off as the more likable of the two. The plot is extremely bare-bones & very thin, basically there's this robbery where events take a turn for the worse for our two main character's & it becomes personal for them so they team up to bring down a common enemy. That's it. There's a supposed plot twist about a bad cop but it comes to early in the film & has no real impact on the story other than a cop is involved with the main bad guy. The action scenes are poor & very forgettable, there's a dull car chase & a few seen it all before shoot-outs where the bad guys can't shoot straight, no-one ever runs out of bullets & it's just a case of men standing there holding guns firing at each other. Yawn. The plot is extremely predictable & strictly by the numbers with these two mismatched partners hating each other to start with but growing to respect each other & becoming great friends & even putting their own lives at risk for one another, seen it all before & usually done much better with more humour & more excitement. I also hated the ending, I mean after killing people, stealing cars, threatening people at gunpoint, taking part in an armed robbery where innocent people are killed & breaking every rule in the book McHenry gets off scott free & even gets a vacation out of it!The action scenes, if you can call them that, are poor with only a fairly sedate car chase to remember the film by & even that seems lethargic, slow & dull. The occasional shoot-out are dull & all look the same as each other, the plot twists are handled poorly & have little to no impact & Renegades is one of the worst examples of the mismatched partner action thriller genre I can remember seeing. For an 80's big studio big budget action thriller Renegades doesn't seem to be that well known, there are only sixteen reviews on the IMDb as I write this & only three external reviews. I can certainly understand why it's been largely forgotten about & why it doesn't seem to have any sort of a following.Making less than $10,000,000 at the box office I assume that Renegades was a flop, the same years Tango & Cash is a much superior film using the same general template. Filmed in Philadelphia & Ontario in Canada. Kiefer Sutherland looks fat, out of shape & has a really bad moustache but managed to live this down & has gone on to have a fine career as a respected actor while Lou Diamond Phillips has made dozens of low budget straight to video action films.Renegades is a really predicable, humourless, dull & plodding action thriller that throws two mismatched yet boring characters together to bring down an equally boring enemy. One to avoid, even newly converted fans of Kiefer Sutherland (beacuse of hit TV show 24) might want to skip this. "},{"Title":"Story could have been better....however, the film is not a total loss. SPOILERS.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this back in 1989. I enjoyed THE HIDDEN, which Sholder also directed. This film is very well directed, featuring a impressive car chase sequence. However, I feel the story should have focused more on the mob aspect and less on the sacred dagger spiel. I like the idea of a cop and a indian in the big city, battling the bad guys.....There is the possible western motif here. Perhaps, Lou Diamond Philips character could have been a tribal police officer sent to investigate the mob murder of a relative on a reservation or pursue a fugitive from justice. This could have been a better substitute for the sacred dagger plot element. They could have left the dagger in I suppose, but the plot needed something more to it. There was not enough payoff in the end. I mean this could have been a bad ass cop/mob movie. I like the idea of the native american subplot with the city as a back drop....this needed to be developed better. They needed a better character and actor for the mob heavy, I found him too stereotypical and boring. Just another cliche' uppie mobster I've seen a zillion times on MIAMI VICE and other shows and films. Also, BILL SMITROVICH, is a great actor.....his talents are wasted playing the stereotypical corrupt cop who wishes he'd never gone bad. This isn't a bad film...however, it is nothing remarkable. A lot of this piece was shot in TORONTO/ONTARIO CANADA. (It's cheaper for US companies to shoot there) With some tweaking a good movie could have been made better. Sholder is a great director....I mean the 1st PERSON POV SHOT during the car chase, when the cops are shooting at the windshield, and you can see the simulated bullet hits.....THAT WAS GREAT! I just wish Sholder would direct more and get better material. He's one of Hollywood's underrated directors. If you have any doubts check out THE HIDDEN! "},{"Title":"A dry thriller. (spoilers)","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't understand why the cop drama/action film 'Renegades' has such a steady following (relegating it, of course, to cult status), although I can guess that it's familiar cast--Sutherland, Phillips, and Gertz--had much to do with it, because this is certainly one bland, if not condescending thriller. Kiefer Sutherland plays good cop and bad cop. He's working undercover investigating a ruthless gang leader who is in cahoots with a dirty cop and brokers a deal with the gang leader on a jewel heist in exchange for giving up the cop's name. But, the ruthless leader is of course, ruthlessly violent, and the heist goes seriously foul. When the leader decides to take with him a valuable Native American relic, killing one young man's brother in the action, Lou Diamond Phillips seeks revenge like a martial arts film.This movie is wholly unconvincing. You can figure it out almost immediately who the dirty cop as it is done without any subtleties. The story lingers on far longer than it should, especially with all of the effects of car chases and explosions of a good (if not cheesy) action film, minus the need for all of it. With either Sutherland's arrogant and seemingly out-of-place character or Phillip's spiritual-mined character-with-a-vengeance, this film probably would've been much better, even if following more of a martial arts genre routine, with just the story of the Native American family seeking revenge on the drug dealer. There is something here that does not mesh between the two main leads. And Gertz is wasted altogether.For a good 1980s cop thriller, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"a great film","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE film RENEGADES, was a movie shot in ONTARIO and used such locations as a building used by TORONTO POLICE 42 division or a similar unit. The film was also shot partially in Pennsylvania. The film had moments of on screen brillance which is a trademark of all the JACK SHOULDER aka SHOLDER movies I have seen. The film should have had a alternate version. I am a fan of such films as the COWBOY WAY which use projects modeled after the big city modern western approach of film plots. This film has a big city western feel yet, also has a supernatural polt which ties in with indian myths and religion. RENEGADES also featued a early appearance by the respected actor who played LIAM KINCAID on EARTH FINAL CONFLICT (VON FLORES. I would have done things differently yet, i am nobody. The film was not a bad film, yet, could not LOU DIAMOND PHILLIPS have played a triabla cop in pursuit of a criminal or a PI? Yet, giving him the role of a normal citizen who can handle himself is possibly better. This avoids cop movie cliches. In the film BUSTER and CHIEF played by Phillips get caught up in a mob war after a well financed mob thug steals a sacred relic. This film is not the DEER HUNTER but is worth a evenings view and features BILL SMITROVICH doing a great job playing a role we have seen in the movies one hundred times...I liked the character. Formula, well made formula sells. Or is that statement trite on my part? RENEGADES has the edge on being a restrianed action piece which brings it down to earth on believability. I enjoy seeing Sutherland playing agood guy hot off the heels of playing a psychotic in THE KILLING TIME...one of his best roles.  "}{"Title":"Not bad at all, but as routine as a trip to the dentist","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" (53%) A decently sized step up from the more average buddy cop movies of the 80's and 90's, that has still managed to get itself largely forgotten about. The plot is simple as you like fluff surrounding undercover Kiefer Sutherland tracking down a typical, yet without doubt very dangerous bad guy criminal who just so happens to steal a native American spear and kill a family member of Lou Diamond Phillips (big mistake) which of course leads to an unlikely team-up. The action sequences are better than most with plenty of car chases, shoot-outs and it's all solidly entertaining. The script could have been improved by giving more depth to the characters as the cast are fed on scraps throughout resulting in no real lasting impression. Which probably explains why this has fallen through the cracks a little. For fans of police action movies this is well worth a look, as it does give most of what one could possibly want from a mid-budget 80's flick. "},{"Title":"Standard actioner","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" RENEGADES is your standard buddy-buddy action cop thriller from the late '80s, with the twist here that one of the central twosome is a Native American and the other's, well, Kiefer Sutherland. Otherwise it's business as usual as the pair are forced into an unlikely partnership when they have to track down a gang of diamond thieves.The film benefits immensely from the presence of skilled director Jack Sholder, straight from the excellent B-flick gem THE HIDDEN and bringing plenty of style in his wake. The early heist-turned-chase sequence is the definite highlight of the whole movie and although it never regains this level of expertise, it proves to be perfectly adequate.The script is fairly routine but the addition of some Indian philosophy (and more than a little mumbo-jumbo) makes for a welcome change. Sutherland is a solid leading man even this early in his career, but Lou Diamond Phillips is the real star, bringing a zen-like calm to his character. RENEGADES isn't brilliant and certainly doesn't have the intensity of the likes of the first two LETHAL WEAPONs but it does pass the time well enough. "},{"Title":"They trusted no one. Until they had to trust each other.","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It suffers from the pitfalls of many other 1980s action films, such as plot holes, silly twists and predictability of formula, but there is a very good action film here that's more than a time waster for the so inclined.Young Guns (1988) stars Sutherland and Phillips (by now firm real life friends) team up again, this time in Phioladelphia with Sutherland as a maverick copper working undercover and Phillips as a Lakota Indian. The two of them are thrown together by fate when a case Sutherland is working on goes bad and Phillips' brother is killed and a sacred Lakota lance is stolen in the process. They are complete polar opposites as characters and struggle to get on with each other to achieve their respective goals. We know they will find a happy ground and kick ass, and with the actors chemistry well founded, it works real well as a buddy buddy action piece.Director Jack Sholder (The Hidden) has a good knack for action construction, be it shoot-outs or punch-ups, but the highlight here is a blunderbuss extended car chase through the city that wouldn't be out of place in a far bigger budgeted blockbuster. However, with the more character based sections of film the director is not so adept, struggling to get much out of Robert Knepper's villain and letting Jami Gertz wander in and out as a love interest type without any real rhyme or reason. But if frantic action is what you like, you get it here by the bucket load, just enjoy that ride and forget any hope of depth elsewhere. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"I'm a police officer. I was working undercover.","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After appearing in Young Guns a year earlier, Kiefer Sutherland and Lou Diamond Phillips would reunite again in this very clear-cut and wry, but well executed chase action thriller by director Jack Sholder (The Hidden '87'). Quite a cosy formula with no surprises, but the taut action when it erupts is blistering (from the frenetic shoot-outs to the intense chase scenes and the death by flaming spear). While Sutherland (reckless) and Phillips (spiritual) make a fitting combination, where the two go after the same criminal (for different reasons) and from that learn a mutual respect for each other, despite a bumpy first meeting. Robert Knepper malevolently hams it up in the villain role with cold glee. An undercover maverick cop is left for dead after a diamond heist, but is saved by a Lakota Indian who needs him alive as a sacred lance of his people was stolen by one of the robbers who also shot his brother. So now the two team up, unwillingly at first, but differences aside they realise they are after the same man. Enjoyably no-nonsense, filled with high energy and snappy dialogues as we watch how two opposites attract. The story is well meaning in its context; sharing some light on the Lakota Indians and the typical angle of honour/revenge. Traditional, but unassertive. Also showing up is Jami Gertz in nothing more than a minor sense. Schematically earnest late 80s action thriller.I'm a punk and you're a dirty cop. "},{"Title":"This is the chief....","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sutherland and Phillips take time out between the young gun movies, and make this pleasant little buddy film.Sutherland plays Buster, with a moustache of jealousy. He is on vacation, but is doing his own thing. When a diamond heist goes wrong, Phillips' brother is killed and his beloved spear is stolen.so they team up and try to take down the bad guys...formulaic stuff, but thanks to the chemistry of the leads, it's a little above your usual action movie.Things are the same though. They dislike each other at first, get to know each other, fall out a bit, and then become best mates at the end.It's the kind of movie, that won't trouble the grey matter, the set pieces are at regular intervals, and there is a little racism on board for good measure.It's a shame it was released in a year when there were so many high profile sequels and franchise movies, if this was released a little later in the year, it might have been more recognised.Still forgettable fun though. "},{"Title":"All too forgettable","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very poor and unimaginative action pic which finds detective Buster McHenry (Kiefer Sutherland) teaming reluctantly with American-Indian Hank Storm (Lou Diamond Phillips) in order to catch some crooks who stole a priceless Indian spear.The story, from David Rich, is little more than an excuse to get these two former brat-packers back together for one last fling. As a pairing they are pretty good, but neither of the two really put out in this flat, predictable cops and robbers garb. Jami Gertz (from The Lost Boys) pops in as the heavy's girl.Over all this was an all too forgettable way for these two young, potential laden actors to close out the eighties.Tuesday, November 3, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Kiefer Sutherland And Lou Diamond Phillips Are Great In This Movie","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Today is Kiefer Sutherlands birth day and he is my favorite actor of all time so i am having a Kiefer Sutherland movie marathon and i am going to watch and comment on a few of his movies.This movie called Renegads is a good movie about an under cover cop called Buster Mchenry (Sutherland) and he is trying to find out which cops are corrupt but the under cover operation gos wrong when he has to participate in a diamond robbery and 2 people get shot.And as they are trying to escape though another building where some Indians are one of the bad guys shots one of the Indians and steals a sacred Indian spear from an exhibit and buster (Sutherland) gets wounded and one of the Indians named Hank Storm (Lou Diamond Phillips) from the exhibit follows him and captures him and fixes his wound.Hank Storm then makes buster help him find the bad guys that killed his brother and that stole the sacred spear.This is the 2nd movie that Kiefer Sutherland and Loudimod Phillips have done together the first movie was Young Guns in 1988 and they have been in 4 movies together and a couple of TV episodes over the last 17 years and on screen they have such good chemistry between them and in my opinion they should do a couple of new movies together in the near future.And if u are are a fan of Kiefer Sutherland or good action movies u should rent or buy this movie and u will really like it.Over all this movie is good and this movie is one of the most underrated movies on this web site and it is not a 4.7 out of 10 this movie is a 6 and a half out out of 10. "},{"Title":"Toronto lensed movie starring the always dependable Canadian actor Kiefer Sutherland ...","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great little action movie, lensed on the streets of Toronto, Canada. Kiefer Sutherland plays a tough plainclothes cop. Some great scenes here.Worth checking out ... "},{"Title":"Under-rated! A straightforward plot, 2 mismatched leads and the bad guys end up dead.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Given the sheer number of successful buddy films in the 80s and 90s you might wonder how such a simple formula could be misused? After all, the buddy shtick is simply there to justify a bunch of action sequences and perhaps some snappy dialogue. First the formula for a good buddy picture. Have one guy meet another guy he shouldn't get along with, give them both a bad guy to hate and cue the explosions and car chases! Get it? Just keep it simple, don't try too hard and make sure a bunch of guys end up dead. In Renegades, two guys from disparate backgrounds are drawn together when they must unite to track down a bad guy who has done done them wrong!Bingo! Put some titles at the front and credits at the end and I'm in! The two guys are Buster McHenry (Keifer Sutherland) and Hank Storm (Lou Diamond Phillips) who play an undercover cop and a person of Native American heritage respectively, an Indian for the cheap seats. As you can see above Keifer and Lou (sounds weird with the DP part), fresh of The Lost Boys and La Bamba respectively and Young Guns combined, went into what should be a B-movie and kicked it up a notch. One thing I can say for Keifer is that he always seems to be trying, he won't allow himself to just coast through a film, and I always thought LDP was cool even with his slightly girly hair. Unfortunately after both enjoyed the 80s and early 90s hot streak their careers went in opposite directions, Keifer ultimately landing the well respected and long running 24, and LDP being left with the reality of being little more than a direct to video guy and TV show guest actor. Keeping with the broad stereotypes the bad guys are a faceless Italian-American crime syndicate lead by a charismatic but vicious bloke who looks like a 5% off Johnny Depp, the real JD would have made this the perfect 80s movie, but I think he was still Jump Streeting at this stage. How he caused the respective gentleman grief is not important aside from motivating them to hunt him down for their own personal reasons, good old fashioned vengeance and a sense of justice among them. It also leads to some solid and in this case, extremely inventive set pieces that push Renegades ahead of several other pretenders from the era. The first car chase after a botched diamond heist into which Buster is inadvertently involved is a doozy, it takes around 12 minutes and seamlessly embroils Hank into the proceedings at the half way point. So once the boys band together to further unite them against a common foe events transpire that they are being hunted by both the Mafia crime family and the cops, meaning they must rely solely on each other, for a brief time the film also introduces a young woman, for what reason I am unsure, as she is not a love interest as much as someone who is in a few scenes before being shot. I'll leave it at this There is a reason Jami Gertz is not on the cover of the DVD. Some of the best scenes emanate from the fact that Buster wants to work alone, and that Hank needs him as he is not a local and doesn't have the contacts Buster has. So the dynamic is that Buster is continually trying to ditch Hank, who is always trying to either stop this from happening or rejoining with Buster after being ditched. In short everyone how is not on the poster dies at some point in this film, the goodies die to add importance and gravitas to the film, and build the need for vengeance, the bad guys because bad guys deserve to die and because someone has to win. As you can see that is a lot of people, in true buddy tradition the guys that deserve it more die in a more graphic and painful manner. This is called Movie-Karma. One last point There are many times in this film where there is gunfire or the need for police intervention, but the police response times in Renegades are simply off the charts. In more than three occasions, if my memory serves they are on the scene less than a minute after the first shots are fired. In the case of the finale no sooner has the last shot rung out and the required bad guys have eaten lead the cops are there, which might not be such a big deal if the film hadn't indicated that the location was in the middle of nowhere and a long drive though empty territory! Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. The simple things are often the best. Broad stereotypes, obeying the formula and in this case leaving out the snappy and inane death quips leads to an excellent and too often overlooked action flick.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"The Flaming Lance!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Sholder may do well with fantasy and horror (Aracnid, The Hidden), but not so well with cop dramas.I only tuned in as I like Lou Diamond Phillips (La Bamba, Courage Under Fire, Stand and Deliver, Young Guns); not so much his good buddy Kiefer Sutherland. The fact that this is the best of the four movies they have done together is no recommendation.Some funny scenes, and one of the most outstanding car chases I've seen, but the rest just stretches the imagination.A whole house full of mobsters against two intruders. It is so hard to get good help these days. "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Lou Diamond Phillips Superstar.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Renegades (1989) reunites two of the stars of Young Guns I and II. L.D.P. and Kiefer Sutherland are two guys out to get justice for the red man and the down trodden. One funny scene in this movie is when an old chief goes out like his ancestors. Other than that there is nothing worth watching. The acting is mediocre and the direction is pedestrian. L.D.P. mugs for the camera whilst Kiefer Sutherland carries the movie on his tired shoulders. Too many movies like these were cranked out during the eighties and they're all bad. But if you're an L.D.P. fan then you'll be in hog heaven!Recommended for L.D.P. fans. Others will want to stay away!! "},{"Title":"a great wannabe dirty-cop-killer story","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  in that dying minute of the action part of the movie, that seems to last an hour, the conflicts between the aspiration of the scriptwriter and the inspiration of the filming crew is revieled. from an A to a F in just 1 mínute, huh?however what is more worrying, is that this recipe has been used to cook up that world famous jack 24 hour bauer story, that makes you wanna move to the country or beyond! "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Lance?","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiefer plays an undercover cop who infiltrates a gang and takes part in a diamond heist where things get messy. They find out he's a cop and he almost gets iced. So here enters Phillips as a quiet dignified Lakota Indian who teams up with the hard boiled Kiefer because the diamond baddies stole his people's sacred lance. Yes, I said sacred lance. The supporting cast don't help matters any. Bill Smitrovich appears in the one note role as Sutherland's police superior and the moment Michael Moriarty shows up it's the Hey I'm this movie's dirty cop. Yeah me! dance.The only noteworthy element to Renegades is how quick the police response time is. Anything breaks out and they're on the scene pronto! In most movies, there's enough time to kill twenty people, blow up a building and have a car chase before the police even show up.I should mention the whole Native American Indian sub-plot and it's attempt at mixing culture fails miserably too. It's another variation on the whole buddy cop movie. The random factor is who's going to be the white guy's partner and having it be an Native American Indian doesn't change anything. Partnering up because of the sacred lance is without a doubt the absolute worse excuse to have two people join forces in an action movie I've ever seen too. 'They stole my secret lance - now we are partners'. Give me a break. It's not even so bad, it's funny. Renegades is a sad waste of nearly two hours if you're looking for it. "}]