[{"Title":"#3","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm probably the only person that likes this installment. Even Kaufman himself doesnt care for it but I like this one. I can't really compare it to part II becuase c'mon..it's pretty much the same movie just a 2nd half. Toxie III is the 2nd half of an overlong movie that was split down the middle. It opens with an awesome scene a video store with Troma posters covering the place , some bonehead criminals pop in to cause trouble attacking the role Troma plays on consumer favorites like anything released by Warner Bros and MGM. It's also an attack on how mainstream chain video stores like Movie Gallery and Blockbuster are driving independent mom n pop video stores out which always have an awesome variety of movies..especially low budget horror on their shelves. Toxie bust in as a symbol of Troma's stance on cleaning up these corporations with some grissly death scenes..ahh how funny jump roping with intestines is. After this Toxie isnt having as much fun as he used to , he's resorted to stopping old ladies from cheating at cards..to getting kids to eat their lima beans. That annoying girlfriend Claire can get her eyes corrected with an operation..all Toxie needs is money. He signs a deal with Apoclypse Inc the corporation he ran out in Part II and gets her the operation.. And so Toxie becomes the most horrible thing of all..a yuppie. Clearly taking a stab at the Reagan era spoiled brats Toxie III has the least action in the series..in fact the entire middle is pretty lifeless until the chairman (again Rick Collins) reveals himself to be none other than the Devil himself and challenges Toxie to the Levels Of Doom. In the end..you'll just have to see it. Definitly not the best in the series..but hey..it's got it's moments see it anyway...but probably only really worth it in the Unrated Directors Cut since the R version omits most of the gore in the first half. "},{"Title":"Started out well...but...","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" By the way this started I thought it was gonna be better than 2...maybe not better than 1 but better than 2. From the opening scene, however, it goes way downhill. Very disappointing since some of TOxie's greatest, goriest, and funniest kills are shown in the opening scene. Theat scene is seriously the ONLY gore scene in the film, except a little at the end. The rest is turned into some type of family comedy. Not for the family, but a regular comedy. Some of the jokes are funny, when Toxie is talking like a tennis player...cracks me up. But most of the jokes fall flat. It is, however, still fun to see Toxie kill the bad guys. We just want it with more gore. This film barely even has any nudity! Troma without nudity is like Easter without eggs! Come on Troma is known for their gore and nudity. Basically needed in most Troma films with some exceptions...like Kabukiman. However the other Toxic Avengers had it and it is missing. There is a n homage to the original in this one though, about his Mother-In-Law. Classic. Overall, not horrible but not great. Seen a lot of better Toxic films. Worth a watch if you are a Troma fan. "},{"Title":"Weakest of the three that I've seen","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The third TOXIC AVENGER film (aka LAST TEMPTATION OF TOXIE, 1989) by Herz/Kaufman pair is not too interesting anymore because it seems to rely more and more on the inept humor that would be found in the many other Troma films, too, but which was much more intelligent and critical in the frist TOXIC. Still the third part includes even Satan and an internal moral fight of the protagonist mutant which are welcome additions to the dramatic structure of the monster story! There are some nice and even clever camera tricks and angles (like the school bus terror) and naturally lots of ridiculous sexual situations and (some) ultra gore, but when compared to the originality and great dialogue of the first movie and the ultra wild and still pretty fresh feel of the second part, this third movie seems more and more just a money taker and not so great a (trash) movie anymore. Usually if a sequel has many segments or scenes from a previous film (usually from part one), that tells something about the obvious lack of new ideas and in addition to this sequel in question, that can also be found among others in an awful Sonny Chiba sequel to his Japanese karate flick THE STREET FIGHTER (1974), THE RETURN OF THE STREET FIGHTER (1975). These films don't have anything else in common for sure but both sequels tell the same thing. "},{"Title":"Great opening scene, but very disappointing overall","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As somebody who for the first time just got to watch all of the Toxic Avenger films back to back, it is all too obvious that splitting the original 2nd film into two films was a rather big mistake.  While this film does have some of the best moments in the Toxic Avenger series, the film feels flat due to the major lack of action in the film overall.There are several very good moments in the film however worth seeing. The opening videostore heist, containing what has got to be the weirdest (and funniest) cardboard cutout joke I've ever seen in my life, along with a obvious kick in the shins to what would later be known as the Media Cartel courtesy of Lloyd Kaufman.  Another classic is obviously the end fight between Troma's rendition of the Ultimate Evil and Toxie.Overall, for fans of Toxie and Troma this is a mandatory viewing. However, I have to agree with Stan Lee's opening narration of Citizen Toxie when parts 2 and 3 were disowned. "},{"Title":"Hodgepodge of odds and ends make-up this movie","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Toxic Avenger, part III The Last Temptation of Toxie (1989) is basically the left overs from Toxic Avenger II. The film-makers at Troma took what was left from the first sequel and patched them together to make another film. As a quilt work film, the results are pretty satisfying. It's not horrible but on the other hand, it's no great shakes either. The film is essentially the second half of a three hour movie. If you're a huge Toxic Avenger fan, then this film's for you. Others need not apply.Lloyd Kaufman and company decided to make a couple of extra bucks when they released this movie. He should go back and edit the two together a make an epic version of this movie instead of having a movie that's basically 75 percent filler.Recommended for Troma film fans only "},{"Title":"People just don't understand","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Despite what people will say this is another great Toxic Avenger movie. Part 2 & 3 were made as one so this movie takes place right after the first. Putting Toxie in a yuppie nightmare was a very smart and funny thing to do. I loved the fact that they turned toxie back into a 90 pound weakling(although i wish they would have used Mark Torgle). The beginning was a really good! If you haven't seen this movie you might be afraid by some of the other comments on this movie but don't be. It's a great movie about the temptations of Toxie. Satan is the main bad guy!! How can you not like this movie? A toxic avenger movie with Satan as the main bad guy, what's not to like? Anyways if you haven't seen this movie please go buy it, not rent it, buy it. GO BUY The Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie!  "},{"Title":"New rule for Troma No Sequels.","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" TA 1 was a great movie. TA 2 and TA 3 were bad, even for fans of the Troma genre. Not enough stupid gory action and too many bad jokes and unfunny idiocy. From now on, I'm only watching TA 1 ever again. A serious let down by Troma. We need more gore, more action, more nudity, and less intentional comedy. TA 2 and TA 3 prove that it's not exactly easy to make a movie so bad it's good. Troma was trying too hard on 2 & 3 and they're just not the same as the excellent TA 1. Troma should attempt to make a serious horror movie. Their attempted comedy just isn't working. If they attempt something serious, I'm sure it will be entertaining and hilarious. Better luck to the great Troma studio. Only for hardcore Troma fans and even most of them don't like it. 3/10 "},{"Title":"better then part 2 but still dull","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" So many fans didn't like part 3 but just look what really is going on. It was shot as a very long flick and has been divided in part 2 and 3, so it explains why we go back to Tokyo at the end and why part 3 starts were 2 ended. For me part 2 was a bit boring and stupid but part 3 is a whole lot different. There's no nudity to see what is rather strange for a Troma flick (if you don't count bodypainting to it), one moment, Claire goes nude but not that there's anything to see like in part 2.The gore is left out but there are 2 moments worth picking up and let be that the thing that makes it worth seeing. The melting of Toxie and the destroying of the devil. It's pure gore but not like in part & and 2 were we had another kind of gore.The story is of course dull and a lot of blah blah is going on. Not your typical horror as it isn't really a horror. But for me better then part 2.Gore 1,5/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 1/5 "},{"Title":"Better then the second movie","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie (1989)I saw the other two about 2 years ago, so I thought it time to give the others sequels ago.I enjoyed the first , I thought it so bad, that it good but the seconds one , It was just bad.This one I found a bit more fun , it was so over the top , the whole movie was just silly. But it was a fun watch.There were some decent gory or better word would be gooeyNot as good as the first but better then the second.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Has it's moments, but mostly a dud","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" What an unusual task it is to split a movie into two sequels. Recently this was done in adapting the final 'Harry Potter' book to film. But what if when you make a film, there's too much footage for just one? When Troma made 'The Toxic Avenger part II,' they ended up with around 4 hours of footage. To solve this dilemma, they decided to use some of it as a start for part III. Both were released the same year, but the end result was quite mixed. While II upped the ante in outrageousness, III mostly unfortunately lacks what makes it's predecessors such fun.Pros Cast gives it their all. Exciting score. Quite good special effects. Some really amusing bits and dialogue. Still enough goods for camp lovers. Strong opening and closing.Cons Virtually plot less. Pace drags a lot of the time. Too talky. Hasn't aged well. Could have used another trip to the editing room. Story is perhaps too straight forward this time.Final thoughts After the zany fun of part II, this is quite a letdown. Even Lloyd Kaufman was disappointed in how it turned out. Still recommended for those who enjoyed the first two, but don't go in with high expectations. Experimental filmmaking can be a wonderful thing, but in this case it didn't really work out. Too bad.My rating 2/5 "}{"Title":"Terrible third installment of The Toxic Avenger.","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie begins with the revelation that Tromaville is now an almost perfect place to live & the Toxic Avenger (Ron Fazio & John Altamura splitting shifts in the rubber suit) has effectively become useless & surplus to requirements. The Toxic Avenger suffers from feelings of inadequacy, & rightly so as unemployed hideously deformed superheros don't make much money so when a letter informs his blind girlfriend Claire (Phoebe Legere) that an operation is available to make her see again the Toxic Avenger becomes even more depressed when he discovers the operation will cost $357,000. Determined to earn the money so Phoebe can see again the Toxic Avenger sets out to get a job, it just so happens that the evil chairman (Rick Collins) of Apocalypse Inc. wants to regain control of Tromaville & tricks the Toxic Avenger into working for him. With the Toxic Avenger on the payroll & only interested in Phoebe's operation the good citizens of Tromaville are defenceless against the might of the evil Apocalypse Inc., will the Toxic Avenger see the error of his ways in time...Produced & directed by Troma's head duo Lloyd Kaufman & Michael Herz this film is crap, it's as simple & straight forward as that as far as I'm concerned. I have to say straight away that I actually think the original The Toxic Avenger (1985) is one of Tromas best films & has a good blend of tastelessness, over-the-top gore, exploitation & a pretty fun story. Damn, even the not very good The Toxic Avenger, Part II (1989) is better than this, at least that had some outrageous gore & tried to be funny. The script by Kaufman & Gay Partington Terry is slow, boring, has no significant action or gore & the bad taste gags & exploitation are disappointingly kept to an absolute minimum, not that their funny anyway but it would have been nice if they had tried a little harder. The dialogue is crap, the character's are crap, the stories crap & as a whole The Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie is a complete total & utter waste of 100 odd minutes of mine, your & anybody else's life who was stupid enough to watch it. I'm sorry, I just can't say anything positive about the piece of crap apart form a couple of the scenes when the Toxic Avenger becomes a yuppie are mildly amusing. I know Troma films have fans & they like them for what they are & that's absolutely fine with me, if you want to watch something like this & convince yourself that it was good because a certain studio made it then go for it, it's no skin of my nose. For anyone with any cinematic taste or judgement than I ask, no I beg you not to rent, watch or buy The Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie, what if I say please as well?Directors Herz & Kaufman show their usual incompetence, they don't seem overly bothered by continuity or production values. This is as grotty & cheap as any other Troma film you care to name, in fact according to the 'Trivia' section on the IMDb this film is made up from half the footage shot (outakes maybe?) for The Toxic Avenger, Part II which quite frankly I have no problem in believing whatsoever. Some of the special effects are reasonable, there's a cool scene when the Toxic Avenger melts & one in a video shop when a thug has his hand shoved into a video player & the cogs inside crush & chop it up. There's a bit when someone has a mop handle shoved through their head & then have it twisted off, someone has some of their intestines pulled out & played with but apart from that the trademark Troma amateurish & excessive gore is sadly lacking.The Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie is apparently a spoof of Martin Scorsese's The Last Temptation of Christ (1988) but the title is as clever & funny as it gets. The film isn't anything to look at with rock bottom production values, a rubbishy looking devil whose 'horns' wobble & atrocious acting from all involved, yep this is definitely a Troma film.The Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie is rubbish & I don't quite know how I managed to get through it, the things I put myself through so you don't have too. This is an absolute must for Troma & Toxic Avenger fans, however fans of good cinema should give this one a wide berth. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining sequel with some good moments.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As many fans can tell you, THE TOXIC AVENGER PARTS II & III were originally supposed to be one movie, that wound up being cut in half due to TROMA having a little over four hours worth of footage. Naturally cutting one film into two, results in many flaws & continuity errors in both films. Despite it's many flaws, Part III, arguably turned out to be the better sequel out of the two & thus far has the best plot line out of any of the TOXIC AVENGER films. The story is far more interesting than it was in Part II & adds a Faustian like plot line, which features a depressed, suicidal & a bored, down on his luck former superhero, with no crime left to clean up & trying to help fund his fiancée's eye operation, that will restore her sight, but without any luck, until he is offered a job as the spokesman & assistant to a conglomerate corporation - Apocalypse Inc. this time Apocalypse is featured as a corporation literally from hell & a much eviler Chairman, that tells Toxie they want to re-build Troma into a thriving metropolis that will see everyone with a well paying job & much nicer city full of business & opportunities, but are really intending to brain wash Toxie & turn him into a corporate yuppie, while they transfer their chemicals & force the people into submission, until Toxie learns of their deeds & intends to flush them out, only to discover the Chairman he is working for, is really the Devil himself! whom he has sold his soul to & may not be able to up seat him at all, without the Devil destroying him. The opening scene set at a video store, that sees Toxie fighting off a group of criminals features some pretty effective gore scenes & some of the best kills this series has to offer. The film also takes a humorous jab at capitalism & the corporate lifestyles. Part III also continues it's self referential angle, as Toxie stands up in front of a cardboard cut out of himself from the first film & then uses the VHS version of the first movie to tie up a criminal. Plus the video store is littered with tons of Troma movies. RICK COLLINS is a hoot as the chairman/devil. Troma's Two Million dollar price tag for both movies, was clearly put to good use since both films features countless stunts, chases, explosions & fight scenes, but the films for whatever reason still felt cheap, despite a much slicker look.That said while Part III is clearly more interesting in terms of plot than Part II. The downside is Part II was clearly better in giving fans what the wanted & expected from the series (in terms of the Directors Cut which runs 102 minutes, available in the first TOXBOX set). Over the top gory kills every few minutes, tons of action & gratuitous nudity. WARNER BROS badly butchered R- Rated cut which saw practically all the gore removed, probably is the reason many fans preferred Part III, for many years over PART II, since the VHS version of Part III, released by VESTRON VIDEO, at least was uncut & contained the gore. Part III's main problems mainly consist of the fact that what makes up for the majority of the films running time, is merely extended scenes of shots already in Part II, including the sex scene between Clair & Toxie, which is just the extended version of the one used in Part II. Plus many of the scenes are just plain silly & could have been cut out of the film. Not only that, after the opening video store massacre, there is no gore & no violence until the last half hour, when Toxie takes on the Devil. Toxie's dad which showed up at the end of Part II, also is not seen anywhere in the film. The results of cutting one movie into two, also results in a series of continuity problems such is as follows Toxie II saw Toxie returning from Japan to chase Apocalypse out, but yet he seemingly has no memory of this here, simply because he now joins them, by taking a job offer they have for him & becoming a yuppie in the process Although shot in 1989, PART III would wind up being picked up by the now defunct VESTRON VIDEO, where it sat on the shelf unreleased until 1991. However this was in many ways a blessing for Part III, since the film landed on video store shelves around the same time the TOXIC CRUSADERS cartoon series was playing on TV, as a result of this, Part III, was heavily promoted in video outlets. JOHN ALTAMURA (who left midway in production after a disagreement with the film-makers) & RON FAZIO (who also plays a member of Apocalypse) do well in the title role, although I tend to prefer Fazio, simply because the scenes Altemura is in, makes Toxies face look chubbier. LLOYD KAUFMAN & MICHAEL HERZ both direct the film with an assured hand & the acting is mainly bad, but then again it's TROMA, so what do you expect? But again like in my review for PART II, I was still thinking to myself, wasn't Clair named Sarah in the first film? & wasn't Toxie's last name Fern & not Junko? it seems like the film-makers changed Toxie's last name to a Japanise one, in order to fuel their plot for Part II, with Toxie thinking his dad was maybe Japanise, but it is still stupid.In the end, despite it's many flaws I enjoyed Part III & would definitely recommend it. Followed by a direct sequel to the first film only, that ignores Part II & III - CITIZEN TOXIE THE TOXIC AVENGER 4. *** stars "},{"Title":"A bad film  (may contain spoilers)","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film is bad. This is coming from somebody who usually like B movies. But this film is downright boring. It's better than the Toxic avenger part 2 but not my much. This film unlike Part 2 actually has more than 2 gory kills and isn't made like a Disney film. This film still suffers from a lot of problems like being boring, bad acting (mostly from the blind chick) and being stupid and unrelated to the original Toxie film. This film could have been worse but not much. The best moment in the film is the first 15 minutes. It started out so cool and the middle was dreadfully boring. So boring that the movie was crawling like a one legged cat on ice. That's how slow it was. Then finally we get to the last 25 minutes which is OK. But still not as good as the first 15 minutes. Watch at own risk. You've been warned. "},{"Title":"Incomplete","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Part two had a good entertaining middle but a slow dull beginning (explained too much by narration the movie was made out of half of a 6 hour movie, the other half being this one, Part 3) and a bad, unsatisfying ending. The movie has a good beginning and good ending, but dull middle. The film is good and funny, but pretty much the same stuff as in Part 2.See my review of 2 for more detils, as the same problems are evident here.Not bad Troma, not bad. "},{"Title":"What doesn´t kill you, makes you stronger... yeah right.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I had seen the first toxic and enjoyed it quite a bit. It had the sort of morbid humour that is rare in American movies. So, I rented Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie, The (1989) and watched it... all of it. I had never seen a trailer that lasts for an hour and a half, Toxic Avenger Part III was the first. Don´t get me wrong, I love a good bad movie. I think a funny movie is better than a mediocre one. However, when I start to kick the mattress I´m lying on... something must be wrong. Then, what is the matter with this movie? Shouldn´t it be a funny one, if it´s so bad? No. It´s like those advertisements that keep dropping on the floor from a magazine. You might think well a couple of bucks for a bad movie... I can live with that. This movie will however make you so angry that it will cost more than a few dollars to repair the damage you will cause to your apartment. You have been warned! "},{"Title":"Aw Gawd!! It's hard to defend this movie!!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay. I grew up in New Jersey, and love it. I have many fond memories, of the idiosyncracies of my home state, but this movie is just bad. But I recommend it to hard-core Jersey fanatics as a true test of their mettle...  "},{"Title":"Has an awesome beginning and ending but a fairly average middle","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Oh what a disappointment!! After the hilarious second installment I was really excited when I finally got to see this one. And when it started I was very excited. We get to see a man's intestines ripped out and used a skipping rope then used to strangle another man. We also get to see a man's hand shoved into a VHS player and then gruesomely decapitated (while Troma get a bit of advertising in as well)!! Unfortunately after this it slowly started getting boring. Although the jokes were there (and some very funny) there just wasn't enough gore for a Toxic Avenger movie. Not until the hilarious ending did we see anymore disgusting gore. And what an ending! We get to see Toxie battle the Devil himself!! Although he is green and fish-like.....2/5. A tad disappointing but still a pretty funny movie. "},{"Title":"Phoebe again!!!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As i've said in my reviews for the first two films, you can't take these films and compare them to a classic as thats not the point. I don't normally like cheesey films but found the first three to be laugh out load funny. Maybe i've a screw loose but I just think they're great. Again, i'm not going to give the plot out because I don't feel like it. And i'm not going to say whats good and whats bad (mostly because I couldn't think of anything bad). If you really aren't bothered about the film, watch it and point out the continuity and poor acting. If you don't watch to enjoy or nitpick, watch for Phoebe (oh phoebe). She is by far too talented to be in a film like this but boy does she look good. Basically, just watch the film... You might not like it, but it's only a film.    "},{"Title":"awful, go straight to Toxic Avenger 4 instead","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" After a recap of the last two Toxic Avenger movies, the cartoon violence starts in a local video rental outlet, where the goons of the evil cooperation are out to take over the small mom and pop business, but Toxie puts an end to that. After much cartoon bloodshed, we flash back to when Toxie is going out of his mind because all the evil is gone from Tromaville. He has to resort to stopping old ladies from cheating at cards and making naughty kids eat their Lima beans. To compound this his girlfriend needs an operation to restore her sight. A financially strapped Toxie has to swallow his pride and go to work as an IRS man, video store worker, muffler salesman, and eventually as a spokesman for the evil Apocalypse Inc. This film manages to be worse than even Part 2, by having less action. The dumbing down of the franchise was complete. TRUE fans of Toxie would have to wait till Citizen Toxie for a good B-movie as the didn't find it with the first two sequels.My Grade D- DVD Extras Intro and Commentary by director Lloyd Kaufman; Second commentary by CineSchlocker, Joe Fleishaker; Interviews with Rick Collins, Ron Fazio, Gay Terry, Tracey Mann, and Joe Fleishaker; The stars of Toxic Avenger 3 on the set of Citizen Toxie; Anthology film Achrive screening footage; Naked Dance of the Damned Fat (a 2 and a halm minute putrid short); the same damn Radiation March that's on EVERY Troma DVD; a fake Troma shopping network skit; A look back at Tromadance 2000; Poster and art gallery; 'Where in the World is Toxie?' click various sites on a world map for footage from Troma's many festival visits; Theatrical trail; and trailers for The Toxic Avenger, The Toxic Avenger 2, Citizen Toxie The Toxic Avenger Part IV & Terror Firmer Easter Egg In the 'where in the world is Toxie?' menu there's a hidden X below the Indian Ocean, click on it to find out where Lloyd Kaufman is "},{"Title":"The worst one in the series!","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" After the events of part 2, lovable monster hero Toxie must still deal with the diabolical Apocalypse Inc. as he struggles to get his fiancée's eye operation to restore her sight. He joins the corporation and becomes a yuppie then the hero that Tromaville loves, unknown to him that the owner of the corporation is actually Satan planning on taking over the town of Tromaville but can Toxie regain back his soul and take on the dark prince himself or will Tromaville suffer? The absolute worst sequel in the series! it has none of the charm of the original Tromatic masterpiece or the 4th entry Citizen Toxie Toxic Avenger part 4 which pretends that this and the second one didn't exist. Sure some of the splatter is well done especially the hand in the VCR sequence, but it's a truly unfunny entry with no sense of humor or excellence like the original.Stick to the next sequel Citizen Toxie for the best sequel of this franchise. "}{"Title":"so bad!","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Toxie has cleaned Tomaville from the evils, but he know has nothing to do, and he needs a job, so, the president of apocalypse Inc. contracts him as a public relation's manager. Toxie learns ho tempting and bad can be having too much money. Will all this pleasure tempt Toxie and make him forget his duty? Well, despite the two movies before are quite bad, but funny, this one is totally awful. The movie has nonsense, all the scenes are pathetic and forced and Toxie has lost his sense of crudely smashing the bad ones. There's almost no violence, as most of the film could be considered for all publics. In addition, there's some enormous holes in the plot, as, for example, the name of the company of the bad ones it's the same that Toxie fought and destroyed on the second part!! It's a film to avoid to see, even if you're Toxie Fan! "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" After finishing The Toxic Avenger Part II they found out that it was over three hours long so they decide to split the film into two so The Toxic Avenger Part III The Last Temptation of Toxie is the second half of Part II and it does have a few longer segments from Part II like the love making scene. The gore is limited again but the gore scenes that are shown are good like the hand in the VCR. An interesting thing about Part III is that Toxie is now working for the Apocalipse Inc but it's not long before he becomes good again. Part II and III are one film cut in two and I find that to be very cleaver. The Toxic Avenger Part III is worth a watch and you may even enjoy Part II and Part III. "},{"Title":"One Of he Worst Film Ever To Grace The Cinema!","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Monster mash sequels, who the hell needs them, not me.  In one of the most laughably boring (though you may be too bored to laugh) films ever, not so much a spoof as a rip off that sends itself up, it obviously doesn't take itself seriously enough and that proves costly and it ends up being one of those films that you remember wanting to see to give a bad rating and say you'd seen it, you walk away like you have been completely and utterly un-enthralled, (which is how you will feel after watching this), pure trash, only for the simple minded! Utter Trash*/**** "},{"Title":"Burn Out","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was unable to watch more than 30 minutes of this movie. There were some gory opening scenes, but as the movie dragged on I decided that I had seen enough of the ugly Toxic Avenger and his dumb-dumb girlfriend. Unless you love cult films that are unbearably stupid and much worse than the original movie that cult film sequels came from, you might enjoy this. But... you probably won't - This movie sucks!!! "},{"Title":"Wears out its welcome too quickly","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  After the disastrous TA 2 I was hoping that this would be a vast improvement.  It is an improvement all right, but in no way a vast one.  The film starts out well, with an amusing fight scene taking place in a Troma video store owned by a Hasidic Jew.  And I liked the premise  Toxie sells his soul to the Devil, and ends up working against the citizens of Tromaville, when he's supposed to be working for them.  But the novel premise goes dry too quickly, and we're bombarded with much of the same hijinks we've seen in the past two TA flicks.  And the worse things is...there's no gratuitous nudity!!!  Yes, I'm whining because of the lack of nudity, and since this is a Troma flick I have the right to.  Boobs are one of the essential components of a good Troma movie.The film definitely has its moments, but overall it's way too dull to recommend.  I'd better recommend you check out the original Toxic Avenger.  Hopefully, Citizen Toxie will be much better.  The previews look great! My score  5 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Makes up for part 2, but impossible to live up to original","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If the entire movie were like Toxie 3's opening sequence, it would live up to the original. This movie has an awesome first 15 minutes and last 25 minutes, but NO action in between. The nudity from parts 1 and 2 are gone, but there is still some really funny sexual humor in 3 that was missing from 2. In the opening scene in makes up for all the missing gore in part 2. The least action of the toxie series, but really funny still. A cool movie for any troma fan.  "},{"Title":"It's simply the best...","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ... of the sequels that spawned from the original TOXIC AVENGER, and it raises above a lot of sequels that I have seen (By the TROMA team that is) as being the second best movie of the TOXIC TRILOGY.Anyone out there who is into TROMA films will probably have seen the original, and the sequel is ok, but lacks a good storyline.  But this movie is another story altogether!It has a good story, hammy acting and crappy effects.A true TROMA fan could ask for no more.  See also TROMEO and JULIET.  "},{"Title":"That Thing Actually Wore a Suit.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Yet another disgusting installment in the awful series has the titled character (Ron Fazio and John Altamura splitting time in the part) finally ridding the world of crime and pollution forever (we could use this guy in real life). All seems great, but naturally the Avenger is getting bored. Things look up when he is approached to work for an environmental company, but needless to say their motives are not as squeaky clean as they seem. Bottom-of-the-barrel trash that was rushed out as soon as The Toxic Avenger, Part II fizzled away. Wants to be a parody of Martin Scorsese's The Last Temptation of Christ, but cannot even do that. Comparing The Toxic Avenger to Christ is like comparing this waste of film to Gone With the Wind. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "}]