[{"Title":"Bad movie that was saved by Eastwood","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As much as I would like to, I simply can't say Pink Cadillac is a good movie but I got to add that it's not a completely vain or useless one either. Plot is flimsy and incoherent and practically about 90% of the whole motion picture is more or less nonsense but if it entertains someone, what's the big problem? It should be enough. I have to admit I liked Pink Cadillac only because of my huge Clint Eastwood fanatism. Without him on the leading role movie would have been a very trivial experience for me. But although I love Eastwood's tough, violent and ruthless hard-ass characters with killer one-liners it's pretty pleasant to see him in an amiable, easy-going role in a genial, yet very stupid movie. Jim Carrey's uncredited appearance as a comedian who imitates Elvis is also worth checking out even though it's a very short one. You'll find the longer version in Man on the moon. Amusing and very watchable Pink Cadillac is a film for people who just don't expect miracles every time they watch movies and naturally for hardcore Eastwood fans like myself who really don't care if the film isn't perfect as long as the man is on the screen. He has made movie history with so many astonishing films. I think we can approve couple of flicks that aren't part of it, can't we? "},{"Title":"Better Than Average Screwball Comedy","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Q What's hotter than a blond in a pink cadillac convertable? A a blond in a pink cadillac convertable with a trunkful of money. So hot, in fact, she's got her hapless husband, his white supremist buddies and a bounty hunter on her trail.This a true screwball comedy, not just because of the absurd situations and unlikely romance, but for its warmth, humor and intelligence. Some of the laughs are pure slapstick, others pure wit, but through it all, the lovers sparkle. Burnadette Peters, probably the best screwball actress of her generation, is a delight as the smart, silly Lu Ann. Eastwood displays a surprisingly light touch as the bounty hunter who gets drawn into the hurricane she's inadvertantly released.If you're looking for the Great American Film, try Citizen Kane. If you want braindead humor, try Dumb and Dumber. But if you want a light, funny, sexy, smart flick, you might want to check out Pink Cadillac. "},{"Title":"Cadillac Clint meets Pink Peters","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Someone who, as the result of long military deployment at the end of the Cold War, saw nearly every theatrical release of the time is familiar with the Eastwood Mayoral Late Bubblegum Period. Scholars define this as Clint's tenure as mayor of Carmel, between the Marine anthem Heartbreak Ridge in 1986 and Clint's Western opus Unforgiven in 1992. In 1988 he put a belated end to Dirty Harry in the Dead Pool, in 1990 he had a PG-13 bondage scene with Sonia Braga in The Rookie, and in between there was this streetwise chase caper that was, to our loss, his only work with Bernadette. Bounty hunter Tommy (euphemistically a skip tracer since he's chasing a girl) captures bail jumper Lou Ann in Las Vegas and becomes caught up in the chase for a cash stash hidden in her pink '59 Caddy convertible by her drug-addict husband & his white supremacist, counterfeiting friends. Clint is at his most likable in these average-Joe tough-guy roles, men who survive only by their wits in seedy jobs (bounty hunter, bank robber, detective, street boxer) & take their lumps when they fall for lost causes or damsels in distress. Peters is fantastic in a humdrum role, going from sullen to sassy to sexy to sensitive without letting us down for an instant. The film is pure fun for its first two thirds, featuring little besides the two stars (Clint mimicking Bernadette's unique soprano is not to be missed). Geoffrey Lewis, an essential in all Eastwood movies like this, is entertaining as ever, this time as an addled hippie forger. The story follows the formula of several movies of this period, the best of which was Midnight Run (Cop/bounty hunter finds initial quarry, who's a patsy holding the key to bringing down a really nasty criminal/terrorist outfit). Unfortunately, the bad guys are too psycho-nasty for the light-hearted script, which also features Lou Ann's baby as a hostage. The pre-Sopranos mob bad guys of Midnight Run brought just the right amount of humor to distill their menace, but if you can find anything funny about neo-Nazi redneck drug addict survivalist militiamen who kidnap babies, please seek therapy. Clint actually gives it a shot near the end, so never let it be said he's not up for a dramatic challenge. Pink Cadillac isn't worthy as the only vehicle for the Broadway star and the greatest tough guy of his day, but it was a pleasant way to spend a couple of hours at sea. Compliments to Speed Channel's Lost Drive-in for bringing this & other forgotten car movies back to the small screen. "},{"Title":"Well Made But Dull","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like most people I guess, I'd never heard of this movie (it not getting a theatrical release in the UK). But I like Clint so when it came around on late-night TV...The leads are excellent, the script is witty, but the direction plods. The first third is so slow it almost had me reaching for the off switch. (A Pink Cadillac that runs on Valium, is no fun ride, me thinks.) Still I hung on in there and am not disappointed that I did.Eastwood's attempt at playing characters was vaguely cringe-worthy. Let's face it, his best role is playing Clint Eastwood. Even so, he still has enough charm to get away with trying. Bernadette Peters adds subtlety, humor and integrity to her role. The film is well made. It hangs together. It was just never worth a special trip to the cinema. But fine on DVD or video with wine and a pizza. "},{"Title":"Eastwood expanding his acting range","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I suppose this was part of the period when Clint Eastwood was intent on expanding his acting range from just squint-and-shoot. Actually I thought he did OK at it. Bernadette Peters was sooo cute and quirky, like she always is. There was one emotional scene where I cringed at her acting, but other than that once, she was great. The stereotypical white supremacists were laughable. Clint needs to come up with some better bad guys. These were just as bad as the biker gang from his orang movies; in fact, some of them might be the same ones.  "},{"Title":"It was a departure","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was supposed to be a comedy, a bridge between the Clyde movies and his later, more serious movies. Here, Clint is beginning to show his age. HE just cant be as rough and tumble as he was in the 60's & 70's. Ms. Peters wasn't a very good actress in this movie, Its painful to watch the baby bomb scene. She's better suited to Broadway.Here, Clint played down his character. This was more of a parody of his Gauntlet role, just as the last Dirty Harry movie was a parody of the entire Dirty Harry series. The Caddy gets ruined much like the bus. The Brotherhood gang isn't as scary as the Black Widows, but they are as goofy, and they serve the same purpose just a group of outlaws to give Clint someone to contend with. Clint had better adversaries in his Spaghetti Westerns.The scenery is nice though. I graduated high school not long after this movie came out and it was an encouraging factor in all the road trips I took all over the American Southwest. I still haven't made it to the Sierras though.The lesson learned here is, its better to make fun of yourself and have fun doing it before someone else does and possibly does it with venom. "},{"Title":"One of Clints lesser known films","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As mentioned in another comment, this film is very, very similar to the brilliant De Niro movie Midnight Run which came out a year before this one. This one pales in comparison unfortunately. I wouldn't have thought it was a deliberate move by Eastwood to cash in on the success of Midnight Run, because I don't think Clint has to ride on anyone's coat tails, and was Midnight Run a big hit anyway? Actually this must be one of Clints least known films, its very rarely shown on TV here in Great Britain, in fact I think it went straight to video, a Clint Eastwood film straight to video! It must be really bad yeah? well no, not really, but not exactly great either. Its a pleasant enough way to spend a couple of hours, and does show Clint doing different things. He takes on different personas in his Bounty hunter role to catch the crooks including a DJ and a redneck, which I thought was hilarious, really funny. Bernadette Peters was really good in this I thought as well, bright and quirky. What really let it down was the gang of Nazi redneck bikers (or whatever they were meant to be), they bordered on comedy villains, in fact I kept waiting for Clyde the Orangatun to wander on screen and punch them out and drink all their beer! So one for Clint fans only I'm afraid (like me!) P.S See if you can spot Jim Carrey AND Canadian rocker Bryan Adams in the film. "},{"Title":"Not a waste of time, but one of my least favourite Clint Eastwood films","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't consider Pink Cadillac a terrible movie, just one I didn't care for. It is a well made movie, with a beautiful car, a good soundtrack, a few witty quips in the script, Clint Eastwood giving his all to the role and Bernadette Peters all bubbly and fun. On the other hand, I find the film rather dull, with a very sluggish first half, a mostly incoherent plot, characters that don't have much substance and you don't care much, some jokes that feel forced and lethargic direction.Overall, Pink Cadillac was not as bad as I thought, but considering how much I respect Eastwood, both as an actor and a director and a large body of his films, it could have been better. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Track em and snatch em Clint.","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Pink Cadillac is directed by Buddy Van Horn, written by John Eskow and stars Clint Eastwood, Bernadette Peters & Timothy Carhart. Story sees Peters as Lou Ann McGuinn , who finally has enough of her no good husband Roy (Carhart) and flees off with their baby in his treasured pink Cadillac. Unbeknown to her the car contains a lot of money garnered from illegal means by the white supremacist group that Roy was hanging around with. Bounty hunter Tommy Novak (Eastwood) is then brought in to capture her since she has skipped bail. Once locating her an unusual friendship begins to form as both of them get deeper and deeper into trouble as the gang close in.Pink Cadillac was a flop on release, and now it's almost forgotten by not only the casual film fan, but also by many of Eastwood's loyal fan club. Yet it's hardly the disaster some have painted it out to be. Yes the plot is a thin one and has been done brilliantly before; notably Midnight Run a year previously. While there's not enough action and comedy to sustain the 2 hour running time. It's also not unfair to say that the villains here-an array of dunderhead white supremacists-are weak and in the case of Carhart ; badly acted. But Pink Cadillac does have its moments and in Eastwood & Peters we have a most engaging, unpredictable odd couple act that is easy to warm too. Peters turns in a fine comedy performance, both psychically and verbally. Her ability to blend cute and needy with spunky feistiness works well off of Eastwood's more rugged charms. It seems that finally having a co-star of some worth is loosening the big man up, for here he enjoys playing comedy with his series of caricature disguises that he uses to catch the bail jumpers that form part of the story.Perhaps it's a little unsettling to some fans to see Eastwood not being overtly macho, but this does make for a nice change of pace for Eastwood. A return to his days with the Orangutan; which incidentally up to Pink Cadillac's release were his biggest hit movies. But breaking it down it's a neat character that Eastwood has taken on with Tommy Novak. Almost anti-macho yet able to single handedly protect Lou Ann and her baby. You feel that this was a personal and deliberate choice for Eastwwood in a decade that for him mostly consists of diminishing sequels and poorly scripted misfires. Pink Cadillac has been lumped in with the worst of his career, but viewing it now it holds up much better than nearly all of his 80s output. File it along side Bronco Billy as one of his most underrated performances.Not breaking any rules of the genre, or showing technical prowess and sharp scripting, Pink Cadillac is still the kind of inoffensive fun that knows its limits. Boosted by a relaxed Eastwood and a perky Miss Peters it's just waiting to be reappraised by a new audience. 7/10 "},{"Title":"aging well","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I didn't care for this movie when it first came out, but now it plays much better than most late 80's action flicks. There is great chemistry between Eastwood and Bernadette Peters. Eastwood has been canny about who he teams up with. Pink Cadillac is in the mold of Two Mules For Sister Sara, The Enforcer and The Gauntlet, in which Eastwood's macho character gets saddled with a female partner, and has to make the best of it. In fact, this plot device is used in Million Dollar Baby.Pink Cadillac is simply good old-fashioned Hollywood film-making, no fancy cinematography or special effects, just a simple but well-told story with two characters that we like and care about. Eastwood is gracious in allowing his female characters to live and breathe and have unexpected reservoirs of strength and resilience. This is evident in movies like Tightrope with Genevieve Bujold and The Enforcer with Tyne Daly.As for Eastwood, he makes it look effortless, but he is an underrated actor. Pink Cadillac gives him the opportunity to do some odd character acting bits, as he adopts eccentric accents and disguises in his job as a skip tracer. One gets the feeling Eastwood is enjoying himself immensely, and it is a joy to see him doing off-the-wall stuff, although it is also cool to see Eastwood being Eastwood during the action sequences.Pink Cadillac also shares with other Eastwood films like Bronco Billy, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, A Perfect World and Honkytonk Man an affinity with American people living on the margins. While most filmmakers (such as the smug Coen Brothers) treat rural American characters with contempt, Eastwood views all people with a measure of respect and affection (except for the white supremacists).There is also a great sense of place in this film, as it captures off the beaten path locations in Northern California that are seldom used in film. Director Buddy Van Horn provides efficient craftsmanship that doesn't call attention to itself, but his eye always alert to the telling details of character and setting.In all, an unexpected pleasure, and an underrated road film. "}{"Title":"One Of Clint Eastwood's Worse Films","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Clint Eastwood stars in this unlikely action/comedy about a bounty hunter and a group of white supremacists chasing after an innocent woman who is running away from everyone using - as the movie's title states - Pink Cadillac. Bernadette Peters co-stars with Eastwood on it.There is a lot of car chases and it seems to be too violent to be categorized as a comedy.Added to that,the character of Clint as a violent bounty hunter with a good heart is far from convincing.Also,the screenplay was definitely mediocre and the team-up of Clint with Peters simply lacked charm and it would not interest the viewer at all.This is obviously one of the worse films made by Clint Eastwood if not the worst!!!! "},{"Title":"Not a skip tracer's ride","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Pink Cadillac has Clint Eastwood playing a skip tracer who most assuredly is not Dirty Harry. But he's a guy who's good at his job and is most clever at arresting subjects, catching them off guard with all kinds of cons and disguises.He also likes a challenge so he's not terribly thrilled with getting an assignment to track down Bernadette Peters who simply has the bad misfortune to be married to a real loser in Timothy Carhart. He's done some jail time and made some real friends with the birth righters, a white supremacist neo Nazi gang who work on the outside as well.And what they're into is counterfeiting and when Peters walks out on Carhart taking their baby and the Neo Nazi loot with both real and bogus bills, she's got them after her as well.This film which will please die-hard Clint Eastwood fans didn't rise to any occasion for me. I just could not quite accept the neo-Nazis as even comic villains. And the film seemed to be a one note joke about the Pink Cadillac that hovered over the film. That no one would expect Clint Eastwood to be driving in such a conspicuous and flamingly effeminate ride. Even if it is Peters' car which they have to use out of necessity.Clint and Bernadette never quite connected either. Funny thing that with a different leading lady and a more serious treatment this might have been an Eastwood classic.But they would have to get rid of the Pink Cadillac as well. "},{"Title":"Pink Cadillac","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I knew the leading actor was in this film because I had heard the title quite a few times, I didn't realise it was meant to be a funny as well as serious, and I had to see why it wasn't highly rated. Basically Tommy Nowak (Clint Eastwood) is a skip tracer, with a talent as master of disguise who fool a criminal on the phone or in person into thinking well of him, and then he makes his move to catch them for whatever crime they are wanted for. His latest target is Lou Ann McGuinn (The Jerk's Bernadette Peters) who has skipped bail, and she married to husband Roy (Timothy Carhart) who is Nazi inspired and has a stash of counterfeit money, which he hides in the pink Cadillac. Tommy does catch Lou Ann in Reno, Nevada, but he comes to like her with the time they spend, being chased by Roy's gang of thugs for example. It is when the bad guys kidnap her baby who was being looked after by sister Dinah (Frances Fisher), Tommy decides to help his new friend get her baby back and deciding to forget about her in to the police. While driving through the West and catching a few more criminals with the disguise tactic along the way, romance is blooming between Tommy and Lou Ann. Eventually after some adventure, they do eventually catch up to Roy and the other criminals, and in the end they do manage to get the baby back and Tommy and Lou Ann drive away in the pink Cadillac together seemingly as fugitives. Also starring John Dennis Johnston as Waycross, Michael Des Barres as Alex, Geoffrey Lewis as Ricky Z, William Hickey as Mr. Barton, Home Alone's Gerry Bamman as Buddy, James Cromwell as Motel Desk Clerk, Bryan Adams as Gas Station Attendant and young Jim Carrey as Lounge Entertainer. I will admit I did giggle a little at the moments where Eastwood was in disguise as the radio DJ, the rodeo clown, the casino hotshot and the trash pool player, Peters was also quite amusing as his female companion, and the car of the title is obviously nice, but the film is too long, the more serious side of the story is silly, and not all the jokes are funny, so all in all, a disappointing comedy drama. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Another Eastwood B movie.","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Clint Eastwood is Tommy Nowak, making his living working for a bond company, tracking down and bringing back those who have jumped bail. The opening scenes establish his character by showing him in action in two different cases.Bernadette Peters has always been a favorite of mine. Here she plays a young mother Lou Ann. Her husband is mixed up with a gang of Caucasian supremacists who are also thieves. It turns out her husband and their friends have a big stash of counterfeit money and, when a raid happens she is the only one there, thus the one arrested. Out on bail, she slips away and Nowak is hired to track her down.This isn't a particularly good movie. The title comes from the car that Lou Ann's husband owns, and which Lou Ann and Nowak end up traveling in. There is a big gun fight near the end. But when it is over it all adds up to nothing much. "},{"Title":"Driving on half empty.","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Skip-tracer Tommy Nowak is the man who chases down people who have jumped bail and to get his target he does it in many different disguises. Now his on the tail of Lou Ann McGuinn, who has hit the road in her husband's, pink Cadillac that has a quarter of a million in the trunk. Nowak is not only one after her, as the money belongs to a group Neo-Nazis that want it back. Eastwood has been in his fair share of duds and this one could be added to the list too. The lively rapport between Clint Eastwood and Bernadette Peters is what makes this forgettable outing admirably watchable. The offbeat premise comes across like a live cartoon, but when it goes for a serious drama touch it loses its spark, falls into a uneven patch and the tongue-in-cheek script just doesn't work with its grim sub-plot involving white-supremacists. It moves away from humorous gimmick to follow a systematically overlong and goalless old-hat narrative of two-dimensional good guys, bad guys on a road trip. Oh, and what bunch of numbskulls the bad guys were! These hammy Neo-Nazis have got to be most inept and over-the-top bunch of villains I've seen in any movie. Especially since I think they are supposed be realistically based, than being comically goofy (as they come across). They spit out a good quota of brainless drivel that simply bores you. Eastwood's joyfully loose performance has to be one of his better ones (though not the movie), which he generates warmth, wit and truly gives out zesty attitude that shows he loving every minute of it. A very cute Peters is delightfully good along side him and adds a real pluckiness to her seductively sweet-hearted character. Geoffrey Lewis is quite run in his minor role as the spaced out hippie. Bill Moseley shows up and there are blink and you'll miss them parts by Jim Carrey and musician Bryan Adams. Director Buddy Van Horn plays it straight with his filming techniques. It can feel drawn-out because of the relax nature of his style, but he does milk out some nice backdrops and minor characters along the trip. It does turn heavy-handed towards the end though, when a slight dose of action goes Duke Hazard. Swift camera-work and a rousing country tied score are cooked up too. In all it's definitely one of Eastwood's lesser film vehicles that harmlessly passes the time in a light-hearted, mediocre pink Cadillac ride. "},{"Title":"See Midnight Run Instead","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As mentioned in another comment, this film is very, very similar to the brilliant De Niro movie Midnight Run which came out a year before this one. This one pales in comparison unfortunately. I wouldn't have thought it was a deliberate move by Eastwood to cash in on the success of Midnight Run, because I don't think Clint has to ride on anyone's coat tails, and was Midnight Run a big hit anyway? Actually this must be one of Clints least known films, its very rarely shown on TV here in Great Britain, in fact I think it went straight to video, a Clint Eastwood film straight to video! It must be really bad yeah? well no, not really, but not exactly great either. Its a pleasant enough way to spend a couple of hours, and does show Clint doing different things. He takes on different persona's in his Bounty hunter role to catch the crooks including a DJ and a redneck, which I thought was hilarious, really funny. Bernadette Peters was really good in this I thought as well, bright and quirky. What really let it down was the gang of Nazi redneck bikers (or whatever they were meant to be), they bordered on comedy villains, in fact I kept waiting for Clyde the Orangatun to wander on screen and punch them out and drink all their beer! So one for Clint fans only I'm afraid (like me!) P.S See if you can spot Jim Carrey AND Canadian rocker Bryan Adams in the film. "},{"Title":"This Cadillac runs a little rough","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Pink Cadillac is a fairly dull action comedy (long on runtime, short on laughs), but it's worth a look-see for Clint Eastwood in a comedic role. He really goes all out in those goofy disguises and it's always something to see when he plays against type. Also, for the very cute Bernadette Peters and the curious bit parts (James Cromwell, Jim Carrey and Bryan Adams). But I don't see myself coming back to this; I don't remember making with any ha-has. If you want to see a movie star in the sick-of-bounty-hunting role, stick with Midnight Run, no question. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Turkey Burger","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Pink Cadillac is, simply put, Clint Eastwood at his worst. Smug, coy, and far too dependent on his tired tough-guy persona, he's just going through the motions in this senseless and silly turkey burger.We've seen Clint coast on charm before, and this type of film might have worked in 1979, but by the time the movie was made in 1989 it was sloppy and insubstantial, and it can't be saved even by Clint's frequent winks to the audience that imply there's a funny teddy bear beneath his bad-ass characters. Awww.... (vomit).The plot throws everything into the mix counterfeit money, crystal-meth amphetamines, the titular vehicle, kidnapped babies, grenades, Vegas and a militia training complex. It still doesn't make any sense. Perma-baby Bernadette Booby-Dupe Peters shows up to coo and gurgle while managing to conceal her prize-winning bazongas the entire time. Boo!Clint definitely thinks he's funny here, impersonating a fast-talking radio DJ and pretending to be a dirt-stupid redneck in order to infiltrate a criminal gang. Our standard for Clint humor is usually set pretty low- if only because he's so stiff and dry that ANY comedy seems hilarious- but his routine here is corny and embarrassing. He comes off like your Uncle who believes he's funny enough for Saturday Night Live but- in an ironic twist- is nowhere near funny enough for Saturday Night Live.The movie also features an awful cameo by Geoffrey Holder, as an aging hippie who can't stop saying, whoa, man and oh, coooool! This painful, anachronistic performance- only twenty years out of date- is further evidence of the arrogance that went into the film. When the bad guys burn Idiot Hippie's house down he responds by saying, major bummer. Are you laughing yet?I'm gonna go ahead and assume that the makers of this film came up with the title first and wrote the screenplay around it. Oh... just a hunch. I love Clint Eastwood- I truly do- and his Dirty Harry films and westerns are some of the most enjoyable action films ever made, but Pink Cadillac is a sloppy, contrived ride which goes nowhere fast. Miss it.GRADE D "},{"Title":"Doing the chameleon","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Somehow I was under the impression that this is a turkey. Perhaps the poster - or DVD cover, as it were - was the source of this (mis)conception. Or the title. Ridiculous the film is constantly, but in an enjoyable manner. Though it is presumably meant as a comedy, it actually feels more like a tongue-most-of-the-time-in-cheek action piece where little happens. It's too long. There are a few emotional scenes as well; they don't work and seem out of place.The supporting performances are so over-the-top that they do achieve some laughter. Don't blink or you'll miss James Carrey setting the tone for his career to come. There are also some decent lines here and there. But I don't really like watching dumb characters act, hence my grimacing during certain scenes.Clint shows his-- nay, his character shows his range in the variety of roles he plays. As noted earlier, his effort here at comedy looks a tad amateurish, but is nevertheless an amusing one. The redneck in particular is quite thought-provoking.This is surprisingly good, though nothing extraordinary, and certainly exceeds the orangutan embarrassments. It's enjoyable and occasionally even funny. Who wouldn't want to see Clint in a porno 'stache? "},{"Title":"Clint plays a bounty hunter, his target...Bernadette Peters!","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is kind of a weaker Midnight Run film. I liked it a bit more than a lot apparently as it is scored rather low here. I found it rather humorous and I liked how it played out. I enjoy films of this nature just as I enjoyed Midnight Run. This one has a bunch in common with that film, it also reminds me a bit of a film called Dead Bang with Don Johnson as the bad guys at the end were very similar. This one though is a bit of a road trip movie on a smaller scale than Midnight Run, however it works in its own simple way. Mainly because Clint Eastwood is in it and he adds something to this movie to be sure. The film features Peters as a woman who is married to a guy who has been hanging with the wrong crowd. She ends up arrested, jumps bail with her husband's pink Cadillac and her and her baby are on the run. Enter Clint who is the bounty hunter assigned to tracking her down. Things are not all that cut and dry though as something of interest is hidden within that car. Like I said, for what it was I enjoyed it. It was not Clint's best movie, or even his best comedy, but I thought it was enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Stolen plot","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie was released with the intent on capitalizing on the smash hit Charles Grodin/Robert DeNiro bounty hunter film _Midnight Run (1988)_ (qv), which was DeNiro's first widely accepted comedic role. Eastwood tried to copy the success, but the ultra-lame screenplay and bad acting by Bernadette Peters just sunk whatever possibility it might have had. It would be better to listen to the song, not the movie. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey appears in Pink Cadillac","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You should add Jim Carrey to the cast list.Jim Carrey, (credited in the movie as James Carrey) has a part on stage in the Casino doing an Elvis Presley interpretation. He is shown in the background while Clint Eastwood and Bernadette Peters are talking.She says she is tired of hearing Elvis, referring to Carey and Eastwood grimaces when he sees Jim Carrey's act on stage.As usual, Jim Carrey's face seems to be made of flexible latex.This was not his first movie, nor his first Clint Eastwood movie. Jim also appeared in Clint Eastwood's The Dead Pool as James Carrey and prior to that he appeared in Earth Girls Are Easy. "},{"Title":"Another Side of Clint Eastwood","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of Clint Eastwood's worst movies, it nonetheless features one of his most relaxed performances.  It's worth seeing just to get a glimpse of a side of this actor that he has rarely shown.  He can be quite a hoot, and, in Pink Cadillac, he is. "},{"Title":"Better the second time around.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My dad and I went to see this film at Garden City.  We were disappointed, and I saw it recently.  A bit better than the first time I saw it, but do I like it?  No!  There is nothing special in this  forgetable film, but not awful like Pale Rider!  This film could be a sleep aid! 4/10. "}]