[{"Title":"A great mix of action, comedy, romance, fantasy, horror and suspense","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I simply can't understand, why did everybody vote this movie so bad? Personally, I liked it more than every one of the A Nightmare on Elm Street series. I know that the Nightmares have a better story (at least the 1st one), more gore and a better villain. Good old Fred Krueger is far more interesting that Horace Pinker, I can't argue with that. But Shocker has all the action and humor that misses on A Nightmare on Elm Street. The characters are quite interesting, specially the lovely Cami Cooper's Alison. Great action and fight scenes, pretty good gags, touching romance, creative TV fiction and horror, less gory but with some good suspense makes Shocker a great movie to see, but without linking to the Nightmare series.  "},{"Title":"One of Craven's Most Wanted","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ======POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!!=====During the 80's, Wes Craven put out a couple of films that were either a hit (A Nightmare on Elm Street and Swamp Thing)or a miss (The Serpent And The Rainbow and Invitation To Hell), and some that fall in between (Deadly Friend and Deadly Blessing). Shocker falls into this area. The premise is pretty good Horace Pinker (Pileggi)is an EXTREMELY vicious serial killer that has been caught by Jonathan Parker(Berg), who has a strange kind of link to Pinker, and whose family and girlfriend (Cooper)were killed by Pinker. Pinker is executed by electric chair, and that is where the story really comes to life. Seems that Pinker ends up with the ability to jump into bodies (Sort of reminds you of the movie, The Hidden.), and is after Jonathan. Many things are not quite explained, such as Jonathan's psychic ability, and many things are not explored, such as what is behind Pinker's link to Jonathan and why he turned killer(They did for Freddy Krueger!). The film is not really that scary(Not by today's standards, anyway), although it has it's moments. Still worth a look if you want to look at 80's horror or are a Craven fan. Too bad they never made a sequel, although if they did, would Pileggi played Skinner on The X Files? I guess we'll never know! "},{"Title":"One of Craven's best.","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jonathan Parker (Peter Berg) is been having dreams of a psychopath serial killer Horace Pinker (Mitch Pileggi). When Jonathan sees his step mother and his family are murder in his dream that turns into reality. Jonathan could also identity him with the help of his step-father (Micheal Murphy), who is a Police Detective. When his father finally caught Pinker. Pinker is sent to prison to the electric chair. But before Pinker dies, He is into the black magic. Pinker has the power to transfer his could into different human bodies for a brief moment at the time. Which Pinker is making more victims faster than ever. Making Jonathan more difficult to destroy Pinker.Written and Directed by Wes Craven (Scream Trilogy, Cursed, Red Eye) made an absolutely entertaining supernatural horror thriller. Craven for better or worse, he re-imagine his A Nightmare on Elm Street with a bigger budget and talented cast. Craven has some fresh ideals but also he uses some elements from Jack Sholder's The Hidden. Which The Hidden and Shocker were later borrow to the extremely flawed but watchable Fallen and the campy Jason Goes to HellThe Final Friday.This film has excellent use of Special Effects, this film was shot on a low budget. Shocker was shot in ten weeks, giving Craven enough time making the film look professional. This film is violent, it has some scares and it contains a memorable gross-out scene, which it was also later used in Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill Vol.1. Which it is the infamous lip biting stretching scene.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good-Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. The DVD only has an Original Theatrical Trailer and Production Notes as Extras. The film features an Heavy Metal soundtrack by Megadeth, Alice Cooper, Iggy Pop, Dangerous Toys and Others. The Heavy Metal soundtrack of the film is good. This horror film is well photographed by Jacques Haitkin (Wishmaster). The film has good performances by Berg, Pileggi and Murphy. The film also starsCami Cooper as Jonathan's Girlfriend and Victim of Pinker's, Richard Brooks and Ted Raimi. Peter Berg is now a filmmaker (also actor), he has directed the underrated Very Bad Things, an enjoyable action adventure The Rundown and the true life football drama Friday Night Lights. This is One of Craven's best and One of the most Underrated horror films of the 80's. Watch for Reporter turned Pinalist John Test in a bit role as a T.V. News Archorman. Look fast for Heather Langerkamp in the opening scene as a victim. (**** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"a good craven film...drags a bit at the end","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is better than expected. Wes Craven tries to create another boogeyman in the character of Horace Pinker. Pinker is a serial killer who studies voodoo and kills entire families in their sleep. A young college football player named Jon (Peter Berg) develops a psychic link with Pinker. Jon begins an attempt to help the police catch the crazed killer. The first half of the film is realistic and intense, but the second half is based in the supernatural. Pinker gets the electric chair but becomes an evil entity that can transfer from body to body (mush like Fallen with Denzel Washington) and move through electricity. Once again Jon must use his link to stop the killer. Or is the killer to powerful to be stopped? There is some surprising gore and a pretty nifty plot twist. It's fun to watch a young Peter Berg in an earlier role but the film tend to drag a little. This film came near the end of the slasher craze and Craven was trying to cash in on it one more time. Craven was trying to make a point about televisions and the media, it was evident in the film. Overall, it was a solid and better than average slasher flick with a supernatural killer. "},{"Title":"Shocker","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A serial killer of families, Horace Pinker(Mitch Pileggi, really overexerting himself), makes a deal with a demon or evil spirit or something for which provides him with an opportunity to travel from human body to human body thanks to some sort of electrical current spawning from a botched execution in the Chair. He has one main goal, other than killing as many families as possible, and that is to kill his son, Jonathan(Peter Berg, whose face remains frozen in a state of cluelessness for most of the picture when he isn't constantly running from the killer). He already brutally murdered Jonathan's mother and lover Alison..he even kills the guy's football coach and pal(Ted Raimi, Sam's bro). Michael Murphy(why is he in a movie like this?)portrays Don, Jonathan's foster father and cop trying to nab Pinker and then worried about his son Jonathan sore afraid he's losing his mental faculties as well with all this talk of Pinker flowing through the bodies of different people and electrical outlets. Jonathan's pretty lucky Pinker couldn't shoot if his life depended on it because he wastes two different guns trying to plug him. Once Pinker has become this electrical traveling journeyman, only one thing can stop him from taking over a host shell until the lifeforce is sucked dry..strong willpower or a specific heart-shaped necklace worn by Jonathan's beloved victim of Pinker. Soon, Pinker and Jonathan battle inside the television switching from program to program until his football buddies shut off the main power to the city closing the gateway of electrical travel.Really, really awful Wes Craven vehicle is bad beyond mere mortal words. It has lots of special effects in it, but the story-telling is so insipid, uninspired, and reckless you never fully know how the hell Pinker could accomplish such a feat. The film is crippled by ineptitude thanks to the premise's overall goofiness. What also hurts is the fact that Alison's ghost seems to fight Pinker..how? The necklace that seems to weaken Pinker and how Alison just communicates away with Jonathan..these elements just compile to create an unmitigated disaster. By far one of Craven's worst films..if one didn't know Craven's other films, probably couldn't believe there isn't an amateur in the director's chair calling the shots. I mean the film never makes much sense and creates situations for it characters as it goes. What a disaster. "},{"Title":"Good action movie!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"     Shocker is one of my favorite serial killer movies. At first glance it might look like a standard hack and slash movie though it has some of those elements, it isn't. There is some originality to this movie and the characters aren't your run of the mill dumb high school students. Oh, they're in high school, they're just not dumb. The Shocker played well by Mitch Pileggi of  X-Files fame is a lot better than Freddie Kreuger or Jason Vorhees. He has a reason for killing that I won't give away. Not all of the students are killed if you can believe it and the ones that make it deserve to. There is a very good scene involving the killer and hero as they fight across multiple TV channels that I've never seen done before this movie. There is comedy in this movie but not much. It is not a scary horror movie. It is more of an action move that is done well. Catch it or rent it if you can.Rayvyn   "},{"Title":"Unintentional Comedic Gold","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've never actually felt the need to write a review in all my years surfing IMDb, but I felt there really wasn't any review for this movie that gives it the justice it deserves.If you're a fan of insanely illogical and hilarious B-movies, this my friend's is for you. Fans of 80s crap-laugh-fests like Night of the Creeps, Blood Diner and Troll 2 will truly love this movie.Where to begin with all of the unintentional humor in this film? Let's start with the fact that none of the plot makes any coherent sense, whatsoever. Let's just run down some of the things that will leave you scratching your head in confusion and laughter.1. Why is Peter Berg a Psychic? Did that serve any purpose in the actual plot itself? 2. How exactly does this serial killer manage to massacre over THIRTY families in what appears to be a very small town. Seriously, how the hell do you get away with murdering 30 families in the same town? And why would anyone ever stay in that town? 3. The police in this movie are probably the dumbest I've ever seen in a movie. Upon finding the killer in a house in the beginning of the film, all 8 or so cops storm up the stairs chasing the man as he escapes from the roof. Seriously, no one thought to maybe keep one guy outside the building, ya know, IN CASE HE TRIES TO ESCAPE? Also, why aren't the police following Peter Berg's character this entire movie? Literally everyone he comes into contact with gets murdered by the killer, and these cops don't have time to even check up on the kid once after his entire family and girlfriend have been slaughtered? Worst (or best) of all is the scene in with Peter Berg's character is chasing the killer's soul which is jumping from body to body through a park. Despite the fact that bullet after bullet after bullet is shot, and several dead bodies lay in the middle of a public park, the police are nowhere to be found. (This scene is especially hilarious when Berg begins violently shaking an 8 year old girl who's body the soul has jumped into) 4. How the hell does Mitch Pileggi's character attain his shocking powers? The only attempt at an explanation given is just a vague comment that he liked to practice black magic. We're given maybe 20 seconds explanation of this, and then it's never mentioned again.You get where I'm going with this? Me and my buddy were in stitches this entire movie, whether it be the stereotypically laughable 80s metal soundtrack, or the small things like why and how the entire football team has matching black trench coats with their schools initials on them (what school issues black trench coats? The comedy here practically writes itself).If you're a lover of bad movies, as in so bad you cry with laughter, then check this out, IMMEDIATELY. Almost on par with Troll 2 as the worst and funniest movie ever. "},{"Title":"Come on, boy, let's take a ride in my Volts Wagon.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now this was a weird idea; a serial killer (Mitch Pileggi, The X-Files) that feeds off electricity.His nemesis was a high school boy (Peter Berg, Collateral, Cop Land) who hit a goalpost and had dreams about his kills - including his own family and girlfriend (Camille Cooper). Wow! The body count rose as the killer had to move from body to body. Then comes the final battle, which I imagine would not ever be seen again as they chased through TV show after TV show. It was something to see.This was more action flick than horror, although it did have it's share of blood and gore. "},{"Title":"I Saw This at the Perfect Time","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Honestly loved this....mostly for the musical soundtrack and Peleggi's over-the-top acting. I had just come back from many years of living in Micronesia with vacations in SE Asia and I was trying to catch up on trashy music and cinema. This fit the bill and Wes Craven is an artist.To digress slightly, seeing cinema is weird in foreign countries. It gives one a good idea of a peoples slant on morality and perspectives. Case in point I saw Re-Animator in a theater on Mabini St. For those unaware, that is the middle of the go-go, prostitute, lady-boy, underage sex business. But watching Re-animator there, any scenes of nipples or other nudity or depiction of sexual activity was censored out with green bars or blobs....but the gore was there in all technocolor....including Dr.Hill being beheaded by a shovel. Go figure.I digress. Shocker was one of those original ideas. Admit it. How many new monsters have been created in the last 50yrs?? Not many, and a guy that can travel thru wires and virtual reality is sumthin new!! Peleggi has a field day!!!....LOL "},{"Title":"Morphing can be dangerous","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I found this gem on late night cable, maybe one of the HBO's or thisTV (out of Indianapolis), and I was nicely surprised.I was going to listen to it and work on my computer in the other room, but couldn't leave the couch, because it is very visual and astute. The killer uses energy from electricity and television, a wry comment of society.Wes strides the very delicate line of humor/horror and he does it very well. Films seem to be either SCARY MOVIE (spoof) or SCREAM, (horror). But to have you scared, and then to inject humor is hard. Here you are afraid of the serial killer morphing around, than laughing when he morphs into a little dangerous girl with a protective mom. It kind of reminded me of Night of the Creeps, where slimy worms, keep transferring to other bodies, including a very hot blonde.You all know the plot by now, so check out this gem, especially the end when Wes takes dead aim at media images.I am anxious to get the uncut version so see why he had to submit it 13 times to the approval board to get a release rating. "}{"Title":"is what it is","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven is a writer director of horror films who was not recognized for his genius until after his genius had already been exploited. Last House on the Left in it's original time.... UNHEARD OF!!!! GROUNDBREAKING!!!! HIlls Have Eyes, SAME THING!!!! Sorry to any snobs out there who are actually bold enough to claim that Nightmare On Elm Street is ANYTHING but a perfect horror movie (you just want attention for intelligence that you don't have) Shocker for its time, premise, story, and(dare I?), acting... is great! Does it compare in effect to what he had already done up that point.... no. Does that make it a bad horror movie in the year it came out up against late sequels that were running their course... one of which being Nightmare 5 which had a pen credit to Craven, no. In short... If you like Wes you'll like this... if you like horror of the time... you'll like this... WATCTH IT!!! "},{"Title":"quite fascinating as only Wes Craven could do it","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I found Shocker to be one of Wes Craven's most fascinating movies. It portrays serial killer Horace Pinker (Mitch Pileggi, aka Walter Skinner on The X Files) who, when he gets executed, sends his soul through the electrical circuit so that it possesses one person after another. And only teenager Jonathan Parker (Peter Berg) knows what's going on. Naturally, it all leads to a showdown.What I really liked about this movie was how - like Scream - it sort of understands that it's an exercise in camp, and so it deliberately gets as comical as it wants. Hell, the very premise is outlandish (the movie Fallen basically ripped it off). They waste no effort in portraying any crazy predicament that they can think of. I recommend it. Also starring Michael Murphy. "},{"Title":"And they said jumping into TVs was uncool!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really good movie, but many people often overlook what my mom and I thought was the best scene of the entire movie the scene where The Shocker and the good guy enter the TV. I'm telling you, that is one of the funniest scenes in a horror movie ever. Some people might be like horror movies aren't supposed to be funny. Quit whining, cause this one is. When the people on Entertainment Tonight start talking about people complaining about The Shocker and the other guy fighting on different channels and the fight spills onto the ET set, when The Shocker knocks the other guy down then steps in front of the camera and says, And that's the way it is! Hilarious! That was so funny! The first time I saw Shocker that was the scene I remembered better than any other. It was like, Can this be any funnier? Let's not forget that Wes Craven was known just as well for his comedic genius as for his ingenuity with horror scenes. Give the man a break, cause when it comes down to it, Wes Craven will always be one of THE true horror movie geniuses. In the immortal (in more ways than one) words of The Shocker, And that's the way it is! "},{"Title":"Action, supernatural serial killer, some comedic moments","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and most people I knew did like the movie. It was unlike any other horror movie I had seen. The only problem I had with it was casting. I didn't like Peter Berg and even though he made a good attempt he was not lead material. Possibly if someone else had been cast in that part the movie would have done a lot better. It seems some missed the fact that Jonathan hit his head really hard while at practice in the first part of the movie. Afterward that is when he started having dreams and a psychic connection to the killer. You didn't see the police as much because the movie focused around Jonathan. Why, they give you a clue near the beginning of the movie about him being a foster child who was found beaten up and raised by the detective in the movie that has a melt down due to his family being killed. The connection, he raised the killers son. I didn't care much for that actor either. The link is because of the head injury and the fact that Pinker is Jonathan's real father. The touch of the supernatural made sense since it was a Wes Craven movie. It was totally his style of movie making so if you aren't a Wes Craven fan you might not like the movie. The body jumping was interesting, and the television scenes where they hop through show after show priceless. The body jumping was later copied in the movie The First Power, which came out a year later. I remember coming home from the movie thinking it wasn't the best movie ever made but I was entertained and thought Pileggi did a fine job in his part. I don't like him that well as a heavy but he did the part justice. The scenes with the lead character's girlfriend were really eerie and a part of the movie I liked the best. She was the aspect of good stepping in to protect her boyfriend from the evil influence of the killer. It isn't a movie to win awards but just to be entertained. If you like Wes Craven's style of movie making and campy horror you should like this one. "},{"Title":"Review of an awesome film","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Probably one of the craziest movies Wes Craven ever made, and one of the craziest movies ever. Now, i like many critically acclaimed movies that got bunch of awards and stuff, but i also love wild movies such as Shocker. This is one of those movies that i can always watch and never get bored by it. It's hard to list everything that i like about it; Heavy metal soundtrack, serial killer with a limp, bunch of hallucinations and nightmares throughout, final fight between hero and villain in TV world... It's just one hell of a movie. There is some gore, but instead of being torture porn like Saw or Hostel movies, it has its limits with violence and juicer scenes and it doesn't hurt the movie but actually helps a lot, cause you can watch it without feeling sick by on screen carnage and still have fun with it even if you are 100% gore hound. Story? Watch the movie and try to tell its story; In first part we have slasher that goes around neighborhood killing entire families, our main hero is actually son of the villain but he doesn't knows it at first (no sht), he has dreams about murders that his daddy commits, daddy kills son's new family and girlfriend, gets caught,burned to crisp and resurrects as electrical ghost not even minute after, then in second part of the movie we have main villain entering other people's bodies and goes after hero, hero starts seeing ghosts of his dead girlfriend and other people that villain killed, villain gets bored with his new ability and returns to his old hobby of killing families but this time by going through TV sets, hero goes after him and fights him through the bunch of different channels of the TV world while Demon Bell is playing in background and in the end traps him in TV and walks away into the night. Yep, that pretty much says it all. Acting and directing; Well,pretty much O.K. But then again, if somebody's gonna take this movie seriously then they will be very critical about these two things. Horror and scary scenes; Quite a lot, and they work. Soundtrack...Best part of the movie. Songs are awesome, my favorites are Shocker that opens the movie, Love Temptation that plays after funeral of Jonathan's family, Demon Bell that plays in the craziest and funniest scene in the movie-the TV world fight, and two ending songs, Sword And Stone and Timeless Love. Awakening i also like but mostly just first part of it, i personally think that it would fit well with the scene where Jonathan is searching for necklace of his dead girlfriend through the lake. I don't know when or is it actually played in the movie though. Score; Also excellent. Both scary and sad in places when it's supposed to be. My favorite part of it is in scene where Jonathan dreams his dead girlfriend coming out of the lake and later when they kiss. Say what you want about Wes Craven, but he always could get few things right in (most of) his movies, and getting a score that would get desired reaction from audience is one thing that his movies always had. Just check out scores for Nightmare On Elm Street, Deadly Friend, Shocker and Scream. Problems with movie; Not much, except maybe the fact that MPAA have cut out some gorier parts, but it's not that noticeable when watching the movie so it doesn't bother me that much. Still, uncut version would be nice. Does this movie deserves better release and special edition? Hell yeah it does! My final opinion; Fun as hell movie, one my favorites of the era and from director, with one kick ass soundtrack that makes it even better. "},{"Title":"No more Mr. Nice Guy!","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven's Shocker is often one of the more derided in the director's career, but in this own reviewer's humble opinion, it still manages to be pretty entertaining, even as it gets awfully silly and keeps wavering between a serious, somber tone and an insane, over the top one. It doesn't help that it's too obvious that Craven was trying to create another Freddy Krueger in the form of raving maniac Horace Pinker, a savage psychopath played to foaming- at-the-mouth perfection by Mitch Pileggi, eventually to become better known for playing Skinner on 'The X-Files'. Pinker's on the loose, slaughtering whole families, but opposing him is college football star Jonathan Parker (a remarkably sincere Peter Berg), a nice guy who was raised by a police lieutenant (Michael Murphy). Jonathan and Horace, who are connected in a way that the younger man doesn't anticipate, are also psychically linked, and Jonathan is able to give the cops his name and place of business and before too long the killer is caught and executed. But the story doesn't end there, as Pinker, in league with Satan, survives the electric chair and lives on to overtake various unlucky people and control their bodies, including, in the movie's most memorable sequence, a little girl. How can one not hold in their laughter watching this blonde haired moppet curse like a sailor, and try to operate a bulldozer? Ultimately, the movie is a little too absurd for its own good, but damn if it doesn't have some good atmosphere, show off some amusing ideas, and go overboard on the bloodshed. One particular murder scene is just drenched in the red stuff. One of the methods used to combat Horace is pure corn, involving Jonathan's love for girlfriend Alison (Camille Cooper) and an all-important locket. The best stuff is the wonderfully ridiculous climax in which a rampaging Horace and Jonathan run amok through TV programming (they end up in an episode of 'Leave it to Beaver' where Jonathan pleads for the Beaver's help). This does show some invention, and the special effects are effectively cheesy. (One has to love the You got it, baby! moment.) The cast is extremely game throughout this thing; also popping up are Ted Raimi as an assistant coach, Vincent Guastaferro (Jason Lives Friday the 13th Part VI) as a victimized cop, Heather Langenkamp in a tiny, non-speaking cameo as a murder victim, Richard Brooks ('Law and Order') as football player Rhino, Ernie Lively as the warden, rock guitarist Kane Roberts also doing the cameo thing as a road worker, and Craven's kids Jessica and Jonathan in bits. The heavy metal soundtrack adds to the fun. Overall, this may not be something this reviewer would necessarily consider good, but it's still something of a hoot, and may keep some people watching out of sheer disbelief. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great 80's Horror!","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Mitch Pillegi, Peter Perg and Michael Murphy star in Wes Craven's 1989 horror film. A teen tries to stop a killer TV repairman who becomes electrical. Jonathan Parker (Berg) is a football playing teen whose family is murdered by a psychotic TV repairman, Horace Pinker (Pileggi). Jonathan has the ability to see where he strikes and after his girlfriend, Allison (Cami Cooper) is the next victim, he stops at nothing to find Pinker. Pinker is then captured by Jonathan's adopted father & police lieutenant, Donald (Murphy). Once he's executed, Pinker becomes an electrical force that's able to channel through people making them kill. Jonathan learns what happens and tries to stop the ghastly killer once and for all. I've always enjoyed this film and Mitch is excellent in it. I recommend this great 80's horror flick. "},{"Title":"Patchwork and Patchouli","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven is probably one of the best movie makers in his field, in his genre. Horror does not have any kind of secret for him. But this undeniable quality kills the novelty a horror film is supposed to have in order to go beyond plain technical or even semiological excellence. And that is just the point here. We can recognize all the films that Wes Craven has made, and from each of which he has selected a little tidbit here and a small tiny piece there and then he has knitted everything together, with some loose moments here and there for the seams to be visible and people to recognize the borrowings. And he even managed to get some samples from films by other authors, Stephen King for example and his Green Line. But that is just the shortcoming of the film. It is nothing but knitted together borrowings and there is no new element, no new stuff, no new level of horror. It is déjà vu. The fear of television that invades our life, that manipulates our minds, that violates our virginity, all that is not enough to represent a new discourse. Because it is not. I am afraid this genre leads to repetition and Wes Craven take the sane decision Stephen King has taken, even if he took his time to take it, is the decision to retire one day and just stop always doing the same thing. And don't believe you can change styles. Anne Rice tried that but her life of Jesus is not convincing at all. Vampires are her real stuff. Messiahs are not exactly her cup of tea or should I say her glass of wine. In other words I don't think Wes Craven has reached a new level of extreme superb-ness. Just a well-crafted thriller and horror film. Nothing more, entertainment for sure, but nothing to put aside as the masterpiece you must not forget to take when you leave for the desert island to which we are all convicted to go after six, seven or eight decades of life. The Green Mile yes, Scream yes, a couple of others too, but not this one. It is not one of the five unforgettable ones.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Underrated Horror Film. Wes Craven At His Best.","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven's Shocker is one of the best Horror films of the late 80s and early 90s that deserves a second chance. A great mixture of Horror,Comedy,Wonderful direction, excellent soundtrack,great special effects and an unforgettable villain,Shocker is Wes Craven at his best an most underrated.Shocker tells the story of a college football player named Jonathan Parker(Peter Berg)who after a hard day of practice has a nightmare about a serial killer named Horace Pinker(Mitch Pileggi)who kills Jonathan's family and has been murdering families for months. Unfortunately,Jonathan's nightmare comes true. With Jonathan's help,Pinker captured by the police and sent to the electric chair and even though Pinker is electrocuted and dead,Pinker's soul is still loose thanks to black magic and electricity giving Pinker power to posses people's bodies and get revenge on Jonathan. Now Jonathan has to figure out how to stop Horace Pinker and get rid of Pinker once and for all.Wes Craven's Shocker was Craven's attempt to jump start another Horror film series that revolved around the character Horace Pinker that can rival Freddy Kruger and the Nightmare On Elm Street franchise,after Craven wasn't able to make money off the Elm Street films. Although Shocker made a profit at the box office,it wasn't enough to make a sequel or a series. But that doesn't stop Shocker from being the great, wonderful and Underrated Horror film that it is. The first ten minutes of the film set the tone for most of the film,giving us viewers a world where a city is on edge and Horace Pinker is murdering families during the night and the news and media shows us the horrifying images of Pinker's murders. While it is grounded in reality,Shocker also has nightmarish feel to it where the characters are not safe from Pinker's wrath and the way Craven shows violence in this film and his other films is brutal and harsh. What I also love about Shocker is the Comedy that Craven injects in the film especially when Pinker starts to possess people's bodies,because it's so over the top,insane and filled with maniacal energy and you think as a viewer that the film could not anymore crazier or insane. I also like the pot shots that Craven takes at the media and television where Craven makes fun of the media and their constant reporting on Pinker's whereabouts and that they're televisions always on and all over the place. You can say that Craven's exploration of the media was a precursor to his later films like New Nightmare and the Scream films. Horace Pinker is such a great memorable villain and is one of the most entertaining villains in a 1980s Horror film and is a classic invention from Wes Craven because Pinker is a killer who has a sadistic joy in killing people spitting out funny and insane one-liners and showing no remorse or feelings for what he does. Pinker is so over the top and off the wall you never knew what Pinker was going to do next and you can't talk him down. I believe that if Shocker was a box office hit Shocker would have gotten more sequels and Pinker could have been a major Horror icon and while Horace Pinker wouldn't necessarily be as big or huge as the big three 1980s Horror film icons(Freddy,Jason,Michael Myers),I think Horace Pinker would have been known and recognized by Horror fans. The violence and gore in this film is bloody and brutal and fits in with the film's tone,but you can tell the film's violence was cut(the film was originally rated X and had to be submitted 13 times to get an R rating). One of the main criticisms of Shocker is that it's too similar to the first A Nightmare On Elm Street and while they're maybe some similar styles and a few connections(same director,opening credits,dream sequences,main villains)both films are different and should not be compared. The final 15-20 minutes of the film are among the funniest scenes you will see in Horror film and is filled with such wild imagination and creativity. It is an ending that will stay after the film ends and is a classic Wes Craven ending.The acting from the cast is great. Mitch Pileggi is excellent as Horace Pinker,with Pileggi bringing a scary,over the top and funny brilliance to the role. Peter Berg is wonderful as Jonathan,the hero of the film with Berg bringing depth to the performance. Michael Murphy is effective and believable as Cop Donald Parker,Jonathan's Father. Cami Cooper does a good job as Alison,Jonathan's girlfriend and has a good chemistry with Berg. Sam Scarber(Cooper)and Richard Brooks(Rhino)give good performances as well. Also lookout for cameos by Ted Raimi(Packman),John Tesh(TV Newscastor),Heather Langenkamp(Murder Victim),Dr. Timothy Leary(Television Evangelist) and Wes Craven himself(Neighbor).Wes Craven's direction in the film is excellent with Craven using great camera angles,constantly moving the camera and giving the film a good visual style. Great direction,Craven.The score by William Goldstein is effective and creepy and fits with the films tone. Great score. The film also has a great soundtrack with songs by Megadeth(No More Mr Nice Guy),The Dudes Of Wrath (Shocker),Saraya(Timeless Love),Bonfire(Sword&Stone),Dangerous Toys(Demon Bell-The Ballad Of Horace Pinker)Iggy Pop(Love Transfusion)and Dead On(Different Breed). An excellent Hard-Rockin' Heavy Metal soundtrack.The special effects are well-done and work for the film and hold-up well years later.In final word,if you love Horror films or Wes Craven I highly suggest you check Shocker,a great,underrated Horror film that deserves a second chance and is Wes Craven at his best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"An underrated Craven horror flick.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Shocker takes a lot of heat for the similarities it shares with another Wes Craven film, a true horror classic, A Nightmare On Elm Street.  While Shocker is not a horror classic, it doesn't deserve the backlash it has received.  In actuality, Shocker is one of the better horror flicks of the late 80s and early 90s.  Starring Mitch Pileggi as Horace Pinker and Peter Berg as Jonathan Parker, Shocker is a solid slasher story with plenty of gore.Pinker is a mass murder who murders high school athlete Jonathan Parker's family, and then Parker's girlfriend.  After being brought to justice, Pinker is sentenced to death by electrocution, but that is only the beginning.  Pinker studied black magic, and he turns himself into electricity during his date with the chair.  He is able to transfer his soul into other bodies, effectively moving around the city, adding to his impressive body count.  No one is safe, and Parker cannot trust anyone except for some gridiron teammates.  Parker searches for Pinker to kill him once and for all, which leads to an awesome battle that takes the two through every television channel on the dial.The film is as gory as any of the Nightmare films and is much better than the Friday the 13th series.  Shocker was supposed to be the first in a series of films, a series that was supposed to become the next great horror franchise, but the concept apparently felt flat before Craven's vision could be realized.  Nonetheless, Shocker was a very good horror film.  It delivered a ton of thrills and spilled a lot of blood.  I seriously recommend this film for every horror fan.Shocker receives *** out of ****. "}{"Title":"wes craven does it again","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i love this movie so much it's one of the best horror films i ever saw. Wes Craven proves he's the best in the horror genre once again. there were plenty of scenes that scared me. my eyes were glued to the t.v the whole time i was watching it. and shocker is very original. a great movie. i'm so glad that Wes Craven is finally getting his respect after all these years. shocker is full of suspense and a few scares i give it 8/10. WES CRAVEN IS GOD OF HORROR "},{"Title":"I love this flick to death - A Wes Craven's underrated classic horror flick!","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am written this review In Memorie of my all time favorite the best horror director Wes Craven that sadly is no longer with us anymore. On August 30th 2015, Craven died of brain cancer at home in Los Angeles. I am doing this for him.Shocker (1989) is a master of horror Wes Craven's underrated excellent horror flick, that I do believe is a classic and I love it to death! It is my third favorite Wes Craven's horror flick. This movie is a memories on my childhood, I grew up watching this movie as a kid. The same thing that was with the Chinese director John Woo by me, I had no idea who was Wes Craven or that it was directed by him. The only movie I memorized by Wes was Scream, which become my favorite film when I was 15 years old, I watched Scream with my mom and even my mom liked Scream. I found out a year later about this film Shocker, but version I had on VHS was extremely horrible lousy picture quality and awful audio. The subtitles were extreme lousy dubbed so I couldn't watch this film. Now recently I got this film on Blu-ray and I really had a blast watching this horror film! Plot After being sent to the electric chair, a serial killer uses electricity to come back from the dead and carry out his vengeance on the football player who turned him in to the police.A Nightmare on Elm Street and New Nightmare are my favorite Wes Craven's horror films that I love to death and Shocker is my third favorite horror film is my number 3 Wes Craven's slasher horror flick, that I love to death! This amazing stylish horror film from the late 80's is about a diabolical mass murderer who harness electricity for unimaginable killing powers. Why I love this film? because Horace Pinker is a bad ass, kick-ass villain! The film simply reminds me on A Nightmare on Elm Street the original flick. Btw I hate horror idiotic icon Michael Myers from Halloween franchise, I hate him and I hate Jason Voorhees the same as Myers, but Horace Pinker could kick both of their assess! I love this film because in any horror film that I remember the main hero of the whole film is a kick ass guy who is likable decent male hero character trough whole film! In every horror film that I remember the main hero is always some stupid girl, but Wes tried something else which it worked.You have a great horror, likable characters, a lot's of action, a lot of fantasy in it and a lot of fun. This is Peter Berg's best film in his whole career which is an awesome classic! Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) from A Nightmare on Elm Street is my favorite number 1 horror icon heroine but Jonathan Parker is my favorite number 1 horror icon which I love him to death.I love the music scores from Megadeth and The Dudes of Wrath, I love soundtracks No More Mr. Nice Guy and shocker to death.My favorite scene is when Horace Pinker (Mitch Pileggi) posses the body of 9 year old girl and drives an excavator and try's to kill Jonathan which that scene was incredible awesome! Horace posses the body of Lt. Don Parker (Michael Murphy) and hunts down Jonathan (Peter Berg) and shots with a gun on him, missing him and they both fight face off on a tower when they both climbing up and Don Parker kick's him away.Ghost Alison Clemens (Camille Cooper) kick's Horace's spirit away from Jonathan.Jonathan face's off Horace him self and fight's him off and finally beat's him in his own game, like Nancy did and he survives.The cast is very solid in here Mitch Pileggi gave a solid performance﻿, Peter Berg's best underrated role, Camille Cooper is very underrated and excellent actress in here.You also have Ted Raimi in here and Heather Langenkamp in a cameo scene as Horace's Victim.Wes Craven did amazing job as script writer and director you have a solid script and awesome dialogue in the film.Overall I love Shocker to death and it is my third favorite Wes Craven's horror film! The rating is a 10/10 for me.Shocker (also known as Wes Craven's Shocker) is a 1989 American horror film written and directed by Wes Craven. It stars Michael Murphy, Peter Berg, and Mitch Pileggi as the evil antagonist Horace Pinker 10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Universal Pictures, Alive Films Starring Michael Murphy, Peter Berg, Cami Cooper, Mitch Pileggi, Sam Scarber, Richard Brooks, Ted Raimi, Heather Langenkamp, Lindsay Parker, Janne Peters Director Wes Craven Producers Warren Chadwick, Wes Craven, Bob Engelman, Peter Foster, Shep Gordon, Barin Kumar, Marianne Maddalena Screenplay Wes Craven Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 50 Mins. Budget $5.000.000 Box Office $16,554,699 "},{"Title":"Not Craven's Greatest Moment","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I honestly believe that Wes Craven may be the greatest horror director of all time. It's not necessarily one movie that cements that view for me, but when looking at the career as a whole, I don't think you can match up any other director who has created as many true horror classics as Craven. In any career, though, there are bound to be a few missteps and SHOCKER just might be one of Craven's biggest, in my opinion.The movie is really just a half-hearted concoction created from bits and pieces of Craven's previous hits, in an obvious attempt to create another franchise. The seams really start showing in this creation, though, as I find that the weaknesses far outweigh any highlights.The movie centers on a young man, played by Peter Berg. Of course, it is a mite different to see a male lead in one of these films. Almost immediately we're reminded that this is the man who created Freddy as we're already in a dream world. Seems our young hero can see a serial killer committing his monstrous crimes. The plot takes an obvious course from there to the hero eventually assisting his cop foster father in bringing in the villain.We're already about halfway through the runtime when the plot switches altogether. The killer is executed by electric chair, but through some poorly explained black magic, he becomes some sort of malevolent force, able to pass from body to body to continue his bloody killings until we get to the inevitable final showdown between hero and monster.The worst flaw, for me, in this movie was the script writing. I'm a big horror fan and, trust me, I get it....these movies are going to have some chinks in the armor. We're not supposed to think too hard, but this movie is a lesson in hackneyed plot design. Every twist and turn in the plot is precipitated by some thrown together coincidence. People and items just happen to be in the right places at the right times, and are connected to just the right people, so that the plot can continue along its' merry way without the writer having to put too much effort into explaining it all. That includes one of the most vital cogs in the whole design, the explanation of how this transformation was possible. You don't have to explain too much to me in a horror film, but give me some reason to believe in this monster's existence.As a Craven film, this plays out a bit like a remix of his greatest hits. It's as if he took all of the ingredients that made his previous movies successful and threw them in a blender. People seemed to like dreams in EM ST, so let's have a hero who sees the killer in dreams. His early films like LAST HOUSE and HILLS HAVE EYES were notoriously nasty slashers, so let's throw in some gruesome murder scenes. He had just done black magic in SERPENT & RAINBOW so let's pepper in some of that too. The list goes on. It started to feel like more effort went into finding success than creating success.I guess I don't have too much positive to say and that's a shame because Mr. Craven is a genius who has certainly created some of my favorite films ever, but I just wasn't impressed with this one. "},{"Title":"Shocker-A staple of my childhood","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not the type of person who reviews movies on technical aspects. I do it based on entertainment. I LOVE Shocker. Its entertaining, fun with a great villain(Mitch Pilegi of X Files fame as the demonic TV repair man Horace Pinker) an incredibly likable hero(director Peter Berg as Jonathan Sparker) and directed by the great Wes Craven. Linker is a television repair man who through the use of black magic comes back from beyond the grave after a date with the electric chair. Now a ball of electric energy Horace can jump from not only person to person but television set to television set. Only young Jonathan and the ghost of his dead love and the heart necklace he bought her can stop the murderous electrical demon. Energetic, fun and at times very dark shocker is a great thrill ride from Wes Craven with a killer soundtrack. Ignore all the negativity and give it a try. Maybe you'll like it. He's nationwide now. No More Mr. Nice Guy. "},{"Title":"Could've been better, but it's not bad","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Responsible for a ending a mass murderer's rampage, a teen finds himself and his friends the target of the killer's wrath as he returns from the grave to seek revenge and into a final showdown to end his killing spree.This turned out to be quite an enjoyable and somewhat entertaining entry. One of the better features is the manner in which hes eventually caught in the beginning as the backdrop of the reign of terror and his rampage through the city makes for a pretty effective start to this. That makes the early scenes line the police search at the repair-ship or the encounters among the family's is all rather fun and chilling as they all are built off that early storyline premise. That also works with the later scenes of him now being confronted directly and trying to outwit the killer through the neighborhood which is continued later on when the body-hopping part of the story kicks in. these are just as fun with the park chases being a lot more enjoyable and really fives this one quite a punch in the middle segments. These are enough to make for a rather enthralling time in the finale which is the film's crazies set of circumstances where they begin fighting through the different TV programs and movies which are so much fun and highly entertaining to see them in such classic moments and footage which just adds to the whole appeal of this one. As well, the whole sequence for the prison execution is incredibly fun with the actual execution and escape which makes for a wholly thrilling sequence that has plenty to like about it. These do manage to help overcome the few flaws present, which are enough to hold this down somewhat. The biggest problem here is the rather lame body-hopping storyline which is never explained or developed beyond just the limp which makes all of this poorly developed and quite haphazard. That feeling also ties into the special effects and fantasy part of the storyline as both of these are equally underwhelming since they tie into each other, the fantasy element driven along by the special effects to show the ghosts battling each other and them fighting through the TV shows. It looks back in execution and seems stupid in concept. The last problem here is the rather neutered gore on display, which is very noticeable since the kill count isn't very impressive and is all mostly found after-the-fact without really showing it on-camera. These do hurt it somewhat, but there's more than enough to knock this down somewhat.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"Dumb","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh yeah! Four terrible movies in a row - all thanks to my curiosity and iTunes rentals. Shocker was the 4th one.I wasn't expecting Citizen Kane, but nothing whatsoever in this movie made sense. Well, maybe some parts did but I couldn't watch more than 30 minutes of it. It's just such a stupid movie, and I tried to hang in there for the camp and the B-movie pathos, but it was too bad. Awful movie, very surprised it has a 5.3 instead of a 3.5 rating.Football players hurts himself. Then he is able to see the future. Bingo! The worst serial killer in American history is in jail, on death row - and they allow him to have candles, a television, and somehow jumper cables or something in there! Bingo!! Cha-ching!! Because that makes sense.My favorite part of the first 30 minutes though was when 7 or 8 policemen chase the physically handicapped villain. He burns past them like Usain Bolt. Cha-ching!! Dear lord, I wonder what absurdities come in the next hour of the movie. I use wonder loosely, however, because I will never watch this piece of trash again. I paid $3.99 to rent it - worst money I have ever spent.You guys really like this movie? Like actually like it? It was unbearable to me after 20 minutes, one of the dumbest things I have ever seen. Forced myself to watch another 10 minutes, and I was done.Shocker - you are a very, very, very bad movie. "},{"Title":"Wes Crackhead","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The last movie I watched before seeing Shocker for the second time was Nic Cage's Ghost Rider, a movie that certainly didn't leave me thinking I put my time to good use. But when I sat down and watched Shocker on blu-ray for the first time, I thought to myself, Wow, this is pretty bad, it makes Ghost Rider look good, I actually kinda wish I was watching Ghost Rider instead right now. That was the first time I ever wished that I was watching Ghost Rider in lieu of another movie.Everything about this movie is bad. The story makes absolutely no sense and it seems like it was written on a sheet of ad lib paper rather than an actual script. To summarize the film (if I remember correctly), Peter Berg is a high school football player who dreams the reality of his mother being murdered by a TV repairman who Berg helps law enforcement identify and find and eventually sentence to death by the electric chair. To Peter Berg's misfortune, the evil TV repairman practices a form of black magic that enables himself to become impervious to electricity and somehow gives him the ability to possess anyone's body with his own spirit......I guess it sounds fun on paper, but only at around an hour and forty minutes long, Shocker sure seems to feel three hours in length. There comes a point in watching the movie when all the stupidity and bad acting just becomes monotonous and tiresome and completely pointless. Furthermore, Shocker seems like a film Craven made just so he could experiment with visual effects. It's a movie completely devoid of any form of sense or reason that it just leaves you feeling dumber by the end. If this movie has taught me anything, it's that if you ever make a movie so absurd and stupid, just label it a comedy and that will safeguard your reputation/legacy. "},{"Title":"We can't go killing people just to get Pinker out of their bodies.","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven's Shocker doesn't have much of a reputation, but I didn't mind it although I thought it just got too silly as it went along almost becoming a joke upon itself. However it does hark back to the surrealistic touches of Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street, as Craven recycles certain ideas (like the suburbia setting) and adds variations with no real narrative stringing them together. But with that in mind, I found it to be an mildly rousing, if unevenly confounded horror comedy with Craven's vivid direction (with characteristically free-flowing cinematography) and an amusing animated performance by Mitch Pileggi as a family serial killer who manages to survive the electric chair by body hopping to continue his vicious murder spree while also seeking vengeance against the teenager (a deadpan Peter Berg) that put him in the chair. I actually prefer it, before its gimmicky electricity angle kicks in and then it drags on for far too long. The story kind of reminded me of the similar themed The Horror Show (1989), but that one was much more serious. Shocker can be dark in spots (and surprisingly violent with its splatter), but its soften by its self-knowing dialogues (the killer's smart arse remarks), daft actions and goofy eccentricity. Some scenes are so ridiculous like something out of a cartoon, which can be its charm or Achilles heal. The special effects are clean and direct, while the score has a constant anxious drill to the cues. Performances are adequate with Michael Murphy showing up and there are some small parts for Ted Raimi and Heather Langenkamp. More so cheesy than electrifying, but unassuming entertainment nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's new franchise?","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **some spoilers**Horace Pinker is a serial killer infamous for the slaughter of several families. Through a link he shares with a young man, he is eventually caught and sentenced to die in the electric chair. However, the operation goes horribly wrong due to his use of occult forces, and his spirit lives on to continue his work by possessing the living. Wes Craven's Shocker was an attempt for the cult writer-director to replicate the success of his smash hit, A Nightmare on Elm Street. Having sold the sequel rights, he decided to start a whole new franchise, using many of the same elements, especially the idea of having the ghost of a dead mass murderer haunt the living. Alas, the film did not strike a chord with the public as he had hoped, and as of this date there has yet to be a sequel of any kind. Shocker isn't a bad film if you don't take it too seriously, but despite its technical merits it lacks that special something that made Nightmare a cult classic to this day. Still, it's kind of fun if not watched with inflated expectations.The film is pretty silly, but Craven makes it slick-looking and keeps things moving at a reasonably good pace. The material downright goofy at times, but it's rarely boring or eventless. There are plenty of nasty deaths and disfigurements to keep the gorehounds watching, not the least of which is having Pinker bite off a prison guard's finger. There is a ghastly aftermath of one particular murder that is mean-spirited, even for a horror movie. The climatic special effects sequence, depicting Peter Berg's protagonist pursuing the killer through TV-land, is very well-done. Craven's talent at using ordinary settings to create his close-to-home brand of horror is apparent, as is his satiric jabs at popular culture (brought to fruition seven years later in Scream). There is even a cameo by the infamous Timothy Leary as a televangelist.As the psycho killer, Mitch Pileggi carries much of the film on his shoulders. He seems to be less of a human being than a savage, destructive beast, and his efforts do bring a sense of urgency to this admittedly flawed effort. In contrast, Peter Berg (sad to say) does not play a very convincing lead. I am sure that he gave it his best, but at this point he still had a lot to learn as an actor (though I am told that time and practice has improved his work). Michael Murphy is adequate as the foster father/cop, but he doesn't really have the screen presence necessary for the material. This is an over-the-top movie where a more energetic approach would have been appropriate. Likewise, Camille Cooper (as the dead girlfriend) does not embarrass herself, but she still isn't my first choice for the role.At this point, there is no use in pondering what would have become of the film had it been successful enough for any sequels to be greenlit. It may not have found favor with audiences, but looking back on it after thirteen years, Shocker is still reasonably diverting as a junk movie. The video cover makes it clear that the film is not for those who dislike trashpics, so you have been warned. This movie isn't nearly as bad as most critics made it out to be. I can admire it on a craft level, though it would be indefensible by any artistic standard. It's a lot of fun at times, and a must for fans of B-grade horror.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by Universal Pictures "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's Finest!","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one is his best, apart from his other gem, The Serpent And The Rainbow.In this one, Mitch Pileggi plays his most famous and iconic role, the psychopath Horace Pinker TV repairman by day, serial killer and practitioner of the occult arts at night.Our hero in this film is played by the excellent Peter Berg.Plot One day Jonathan (Peter Berg) has a dream in which he witnesses his family being slaughtered by a maniac. Having seen Pinker's TV repair-van in his dreams, he now tells his father, detective Lt. Don Parker (Michael Murphy) where to find Pinker, but under one condition that he accompany his father on his mission to capture Pinker... But Pinker is not the easy prey that they think. "}{"Title":"This movie rocks!!!","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven, superhero genius of all horror films (besides John Carpenter) decides to revive the Freddy Krueger image with a new type of villain, his name is Horace Pinker and he runs a TV repair business, sounds innocent enough to me! Well Horace is kinda sloppy, he likes making late night 'house-calls' and instead of fixing peoples TV's ....he kills the people! Now he doesn't sound so innocent anymore. Bring into play this male teenager good looking guy, has the hot chick girlfriend, plays football like a mutha and for some reason he is having dreams about Pinker going into peoples homes and killing them, well one of the dream victims turned out to be his family with the exception of his father who is a Lieutenant of the police force. Well Pinker gets caught and he gets the chair...or does the chair get him? Hmmm..... All I'll say is that this movie gets very good from where I left off. Have a blast and enjoy this flick, it's practically the 'last hurrah' to horror movies of the eighties. "},{"Title":"More socially conscious horror from Wes Craven","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Shocker once again shows writer-director Wes Craven in prime pundit form. The central target of his half-satirical attack this time is one of America's favorite anomalies television. Horace Pinker (a pre-X-Files Mitch Pileggi) spends his evenings slaughtering families, returning to his dungeon-like TV repair shop after (he apparently gets the Vietnam War Atrocity Channel); one night, Jonathan Parker (Peter Berg) has a vision of his family being killed by the madman, and finds himself psychically linked to Pinker. Caught and sentenced to die via electric chair, he makes a pact with 'the God of TV' that allows him to cheat death, invade dreams, and 'channel surf' human bodies with his homicidal presence; late in the film, he chases Jonathan from station to station after literally plunging INSIDE a television. Got all that? While the performances are quite good and Craven rations out a considerable amount of gore to accompany the dark humor, Shocker's wealth of ideas become muddled and confused--while a fine specimen for a film student's deconstruction, it isn't as entertaining as it should be. That being said, I enjoyed Craven's playfulness with the material--the seriousness of the first half eventually becomes surreal, bizarre, and very Monty Python-esquire, with Pinker becoming a zany anchor to the proceedings (at once loathsome and pretty darn funny). Shocker may be a mixed bag, but it's still worth a gander. "},{"Title":"beautifully made...","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" out of all of the wes craven films as of late, I find this to be one of his better films. The menacing performance of Mitch Pileggi has resonated inside of me with the utmost fear since I first saw this and well into the series of the X-Files.peter berg turned in quite a powerful performance as the distraught high school senior that has just lost his beautiful girlfriend. with the onslaught of genre films like this that came out in the 80's, one comes to mind that was equally frightening...Destroyer...these two films will always be in my top fifty for horror films.Wes craven did a great job with this film. The climax of the film reminded me of the time jumping that Dennis quaid endured in Dreamscape as Peter chases Mitch through the televisions. Overall, this film is worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Shocker No More Mr. Nice Guy","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Shocker, is about a high school football player named Jonathan Parker, who has recently lost his step family because they were murdered by someone who is killing a lot of the families in the town. One day Jonathan, has a dream and sees what the killer looks like and finds out his name. The police pursue him and finally capture the murderer (named Horace Pinker) and sentence him to the electric chair. But things go wrong when Horace, is put into the electric chair and using electricity he can jump in and out of people's bodies and control them and he is on his way to kill more people and most importantly Jonathan. Jonathan, soon finds out about this and must get his stepfather Don, who is a police lieutenant and his friends to finally help capture and put an end to Horace Pinker. Shocker, has good direction, a good script, good performances from everybody involved and good original music. Shocker, is an interesting film and while at times it may be far fetched and certainly has it's flaws it is a compelling and very entertaining film. According to the film's director and writer Wes Craven, the film was quite heavily cut to receive an R rating instead of an X rating. It took about thirteen submissions of the film to the Motion Picture Association of America, to get them to finally give the film an R rating instead of an X rating. Shocker, is done in a way as a B movie but it is very entertaining and compelling and had me entertained the whole time and I quite enjoyed it. While the film isn't exactly scary it was still a fun ride. "},{"Title":"You come to look death in the face, huh schoolboy?","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Shocker is one of Wes Craven's best.  At times, the movie doesn't make a lot of sense but it has some great ideas.  Some of these ideas are pulled off very well.  Others don't belong.  I love the bit where the main characters are chasing each other through the television set.  The dream elements in the story are a little shady though.  It's obviously a reworking of A Nightmare on Elm Street.  There are quite a few comparisons between Horace Pinker and Fred Krueger.  But since Nightmare is another Craven flick, I suppose it's okay to rip off his own material.  Shocker has some really cool stuff going for it.  It's also filled with great characters and a few genre favorites.  Horace Pinker is one hell of a screen villain with a great theme song.  Mitch Pileggi plays him perfectly, he's damn evil and I love the limp.  Peter Berg, who is usually wasted, is always fun to watch.  This is one of his better roles.  Ted Raimi (Evil Dead II), Heather Langenkamp (A Nightmare on Elm Street), and Wes Craven himself all make cameos.  Despite some flaws it's one of my favorite from Craven and it could have easily became a franchise. "},{"Title":"Poor effects","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great but too bad the effects are very poor. I mean, this excellent story has such a poor effect for a horror fiction. Also the performance are not as expected.My second time watching this one, earlier before in the 90's at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's ambitious vision falls short.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The story is excellent but unfortunately the poor special effects (especially at the end) weaken the movie's impact.  Wes Craven's vision could not be for filled with the technology they had at the time.  It is an excellent film up until they battle it out in TV Land. "},{"Title":"Shockingly Dumb And Annoying","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven used to make good Horror films once. His disturbing debut The Last House on The Left of 1972 remains his absolute greatest achievement up to date, and The Hills Have Eyes (1977) and A Nightmare On Elm Street (1984) are without doubt classics of the Horror genre. After Nightmare, however, Craven obviously thought that his name alone was enough to make any film a masterpiece, and he subsequently began to direct crap, such as the immensely overrated Scream trilogy in the 90s, and films like this Shocker of 1989. Shocker is such an incredibly stupid thing that it hardly qualifies as a Horror film. It is not quite clear to me if this was actually ever intended to be scary, or if it is just meant to be some kind of (terrible) spoof.- SPOILERS! - Shocker is about a serial killer (Mitch Pileggi) who, after slaughtering a couple of families, gets sentenced to death. After going to the electric chair, however, the psycho, who used to work as a TV-repairman, uses electricity and TV rays to come back from the dead and carry on with his murders... The film doesn't start out very well, but the beginning is bearable, at least. It gets dumber and dumber with each passing minute, however, and nothing in the film makes any sense. Many elements of the movie have no reason other than to serve as an excuse for how the story goes on. After raising from the dead, the killer can only be stopped by a necklace that suddenly has supernatural powers, for example. The last fifteen minutes are so damn stupid that I would almost call them an insult to the viewer. The idiocy of the film's climax, in which the killer and the hero (Peter Berg) engage in a chase through different TV shows, truly has to be seen to be believed.The score always seems quite out of place. Alice Cooper's No More Mr Nice Guy is a cool song, but I still wouldn't call it very original to play one song over and over again throughout a movie. The performances are also quite terrible. Mitch Pileggi is passable as the villain, but he is anything but scary and seems like a thuggish redneck more than a psychopath. All things considered, there is hardly a thing about Shocker that didn't annoy me. A damn shame, since Craven used to be a good director once. Watch his earlier films instead, Shocker has almost nothing to be recommended for. Avoid! "},{"Title":"It was a nice attempt!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven has made a lot of horror genres. A Nightmare on Elm Street was just a beginning. Shocker deals with another undead mass murderer. This guy's named Horace Pinker(Mitch Pileggi). This killer walks with a limp, but when he was executed, he still had the limp. To me, that's a dead giveaway to the buffs. A once murdered killer should have a new body and a new start, but because of that flaw, it makes it a total letdown. Getting himself into that voodoo did the trick, so he can kill, without warning, or enter unsuspecting hosts in the process. When that deranged killer murders a jock's girlfriend, he really made his own death wish as well. Going after his friends and family, that's really a recipe for revenge, on Horace that is! This killer really makes Freddy Krueger laugh. The question is, would these two be a team, or new rivals in the world of mayhem? For me this movie didn't have a good review, but to me, it was a nice attempt to build more characters in horror. It could have had more intrigue, in my opinion. 2 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Utter Crap","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have seen hundreds of B horror flicks. So many that my soul is probably wounded because of it, and I have to say this one is utter crap. I could not even sit through it, and that is even with such a bad case of the Flu I can barely stand. Yet I did to turn this piece of crap off. Now I am not being super harsh here. I have seen every horrible film from Basket Case to Its Alive. Even when those films are bad, at least there is still something ironic in their awfulness. In Shocker everything was just very very lame. I like some Wes Craven films like The Elm Streets, and The People Under The Stairs. The Hills have Eyes was decent, but this one seems like it was written and directed by a disturbed 10 year old, who's imagination runs into cliché after cliché, accompanied by a pretty corny 1980's soundtrack ( and not in the good way). "}{"Title":"An embarrassment to humanity.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Man, when Wes Craven slums, he really falls HARD. This is an atrocious movie that rips off The Hidden and not to mention Craven's own Nightmare On Elm Street and tries to pass itself off as being original. Has Craven been hanging around Brian DePalma, the original ripoff artist??? There is so much plot here, it seems like the film is 5 hours long. There is no suspense, no terror, just a lot of unconvincing special effects, half-developed satire, and nonstop violence. Plot twists are unbelievable and there is no emotional investment in the characters whatsoever. This is a shameless bunch of hooey that Craven must've written in 9th grade. I much prefer The Hills Have Eyes or Nightmare on Elm Street instead.  2/10. "},{"Title":"Shocker is Electrifying","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Personally I haven't met anyone who loves Shocker as much as me. In fact its one of my favorite films. Shocker has a great mix of horror, action, drama and a sense of humor. Its a fun movie.Shocker is about a psychopathic family killer named Horace Pinker. His occupation is a television repair man who practices voodoo. He murders the family of Johnathon Parker a high school football star. He saw what happened in his dream. With the help of his stepfather he tries to hunt down Pinker using his dreams.In addition to killing Johnathons family his brutally murder his girlfriend Allison as well. When Pinker is sentenced to die in the electric chair he becomes a powerful supernatural force in which he has the ability to possess people. I have seen people express much dislike for Shocker but it has gained a cult audience. Everyone has their own tastes and of course is entitled to their opinion. See Shocker and decide for yourself. Personally I love it.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A shocker indeed","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you're going to release a film called 'Shocker', you're taking a big risk as saying that its rubbish becomes easy, and for Wes Craven; it's a risk that didn't pay off. Craven has had a number of deserving successes before he made this shocker, with films like The Last House on the Left and A Nightmare on Elm Street, but this film represents a huge hole in the man's list of directorial credits. Personally, I don't rate Craven too highly anyway; and that's mostly because of films like this. The director has certainly made a lot more rubbish than he has stuff worth seeing, and it's unfortunate that a career which started off so promisingly ended up making bottom of the barrel stuff. Anyway, the plot is actually rather promising and it follows a similar idea to the one that made A Nightmare on Elm Street such a success. The film features a homicidal repairman who enjoys killing people right up to when he is caught by police. Naturally, he sentenced to death by electric chair; but the authorities didn't count on him making a bargain with Satan, and after a silly sequence involving a TV - our killer is back! Perhaps the most annoying thing about this film is the running time. For a film with a retarded plot like this, it's unnecessarily long and while Craven does have a few good ideas; there's not nearly enough to fill nigh on two hours. After the stupid scene where the killer electrocutes himself, I honestly didn't think I'd make it all the way to the end; but the film does pick up a little after that with a body swapping sequence that, while derivative of several other films, actually works quite well. That part of the film lasts for about twenty minutes, and once it's over we're back to tedium. The final sequence, which is fitting, is also ridiculous as our two major characters find themselves in a TV. This part of the film features movies such as James Whale's classic Frankenstein, but it's a bit too silly and while the film is tongue in cheek all the way through; it just doesn't work. All this nonsense is topped off by a silly script that neither manages to build characters or provide entertaining dialogue and side-plots such as the one revolving around the ghost of the lead character's girlfriend provide nothing in the way of interest. Overall, I highly recommend skipping this film. "},{"Title":"A Mess That Just Doesn't Come Together","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Shocker (1989)** (out of 4)Disappointing Wes Craven shocker about college football player Jonathan Parker (Peter Berg) who after a bump on the head witnesses a murder as it is happening. He tells his cop father (Michael Murphy) and before long they're able to capture the serial killer Horace Pinker (Mitch Pileggi). After dying in the electric chair the killer manages to force his spirit into the bodies of others via electricity.SHOCKER was meant for the horror legend as an attempt to start up a new series since the Freddy Krueger character had gone into directions that he didn't really like. Sadly for Craven and the viewer the end result is somewhat of a mess. SHOCKER starts off decent enough but it quickly falls apart during it's second half and there are just way too many problems for the film to work.I think the majority of the blame has to go towards Craven's screenplay. The film starts off as some sort of weird thriller with elements of A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET. The entire thing dealing with Jonathan seeing the killer just didn't work. To make matters worse is that the second half with the spirit jumping is just downright stupid and it never becomes believable to the point where you can get caught up in what's going on. Another problem is that the film clocks in at 109 minutes, which is about twenty minutes to long. There are so many stretches of boring stuff that you can't help but wish Craven had cut it down.Both Berg and Murphy deliver good performances and their relationship is certainly the best thing about the story and it helps keep you somewhat entertained. Pileggi easily steals the picture as the foul serial killer and it's really too bad the entire film wasn't based around him. Once the spirit jumping happens it takes the actor out of the material and the film flat-lines. SHOCKER features a nice score and some interesting ideas but they just never come together. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven on an off day","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven is one of my favorite directors. the plot of Nightmare on Elm Street was brilliant, and decades later, Wes Craven's New Nightmare was just as brilliant, IMHO. I even love Cursed. So I really wanted to like Shocker. but that's only possible if you ignore some truly major inanities.For instance from the beginning, it's obvious that Jonathan has information about the killer and can help find and capture him. But Jon's cop father refuses to believe him, and keeps telling him to go home, this is MY job. Why? Or the scene where Jonathan dreams himself into the next murder, with one of his football buddies to wake him just in time (for-- what?). How does he know the murderer's going to strike right then? In fact, Jonathan's psychic abilities overall are hit and miss he dreams some of the murders, but he's happily playing football while his girlfriend is being slaughtered. Why didn't he feel that one coming? And when Jonathan searches for the necklace that somehow (it's never explained how) will keep him safe...I just had to laugh. Seriously? He's going to dive to the bottom of a lake, AT NIGHT, and find that tiny necklace? And speaking of that, why is he loving ghost-Alison half the time, but scared witless of her the other half?It's not all silliness, though. There are some things to recommend this movie. It's definitely gory, for those of you who like that. There is some humor, and the Zelig-like trip through the TV programs was quite interesting. And there are some nice scenes of autumn in the suburbs the leaves swirling in the wind, the witchy little kids running across the street (again, unexplained), the moon through the trees...And anyway, a bad Wes Craven horror movie is still better than a good non-Wes Craven horror movie. "},{"Title":"It's not Craven's best, but it was still fun.","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I only recently discovered this 1989 Wes Craven feature and even though it's cheap(cost only $5 million to make), I actually thought this was an alright film.It follows a serial killer with a limp named Horace Pinker(Mitch Pileggi), who is terrorizing Los Angeles. Jonathan Parker(a young Peter Berg) is a high school football hero and one day after an accident, he manages to actually encounter Pinker. Soon Jonathan helps his dad, Lt. Don Parker(Michael Murphy), find and capture Pinker, who's sentenced to death via the electric chair. But Pinker made a deal with the devil and when he gets fried he becomes pure electricity. Pinker can now use this power to transport from various human bodies to continue killing. You can tell when Pinker's invaded a body, via a limp from the possessed. Only Jonathan, along with help from the spirit of his dead girlfriend Allison(Camille Cooper), can stop Pinker and his murderous ways for good.This movie actually made me laugh, and not completely in a bad way. It's more a horror/comedy than just pure horror. Pinker is a brute, but he pops out silly one-liners, like Finger lickin' good! after biting a guard's finger off and that well known quote, No more Mr. Nice Guy!. I also really enjoyed the last 20 minutes, when Jonathan and Pinker actually battle inside various T.V. shows and films like Frankenstein and Leave It To Beaver. But it's also so horribly written, it's kinda funny. The biggest disappointment is that due to the small budget, the effects were mostly terrible, except for a few spots in the channel surfing battle. The soundtrack for the film is pretty good, with a cover of Alice Cooper's No More Mr. Nice Guy being the most known.There's a remake on the horizon and that actually sounds interesting, because of the advance in special effects technology. But the original still kept me entertained from mostly start to finish, even if it was poorly wrote and done very cheap.7/10 "},{"Title":"I'm not sure what to think","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a childhood favorite of mine and all the pals in the early years. Shocker is quiet an enigma. I'm not real sure as to what Craven was trying to pull off. Not only was Shocker a strange film, The People Under The Stairs that came out a year or two after was also a strange film.As for 'Shocker' - I can only go as far as to say that there were nays and yays. First and foremost, all the supernatural elements of 'Shocker' may turn a few heads and leave some wanting to turn it off. Some people like the supernatural element going on with this film. Personally, I lean towards the former. If this flick was made into a balls out slasher/serial killer film which only used the main character's psychic ability instead of going to the extremes of allowing the main characters (killer/Hero) to jump inside televisions, using electricity as a source of supernatural power, it would have fared better, and been one of the great ones.Even aside from all this nonsense, 'Shocker' still has it's moments. It has a very dreary and bleak atmosphere that somehow sucks you in. It's almost the same atmosphere emitted from his 1984 venture, 'A Nightmare on Elm Street'. There's this surrealistic feeling throughout the entire film, and you're not quiet sure what's gonna happen next.There's a few comedic touches in the film that come from nowhere, but they are quiet welcomed in what otherwise is a very depressing feature.In all honesty, 'Shocker' is a laughable attempt by Wes Craven. As I mentioned, the film has its moments, but the sheer absurdity of the circumstances lures one away from giving it a chance. Understandable.Good acting, tho. A good performance by our male lead. Also, a great performance from our deranged psychopath - Who uses television and electricity as a catalyst to possess other people to do his dirty work. There's a slight hint of some occultisms when the killer (right before he's to be executed) has hooked boosting cables to his hands and attached them to a live television set. I guess he was recharging or something. Plus, I have no idea how he obtained boosting cables in jail. Maybe he put them in his lower body cavity? Anyway, if you're in the mood that allows you to throw all sense out the window, it might be an OK time waster. I'd almost go as far as to say that only horror fans would even watch 'Shocker' more than once. Good things, but mostly stupid things...not necessarily bad things, but things that should have been used for another ANOES sequel. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have to agree with what people have said here, this movie  was pretty good. This first half of the movie was a bit slow, but once people start getting killed it really picks up. The FX aren't the best, but it's still pretty good for it's time. Another great movie by Wes Craven.  "},{"Title":"Loved it!!!!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie. The characters are cool and it is a fun movie to watch. It has more action than horror, but don't get me wrong, it does have a lot of scary parts. If you want to see a movie that is just plain cool, watch this one. "},{"Title":"Freddy beat Shocker","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Shocker is not that bad. The second half of the movie is actually quite good. Too bad it had to compete with the Freddy Krueger character, that proved to be Shocker's downfall. Still, this movie has been remade, sort of Check out the awful Fallen starring Denzel Washington, and see where they stole the idea there from!  "}{"Title":"Wes Craven's Shlocker or Two in the Pinker, One in the...well,you know...","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" To say Wes Craven has made his share of terrible films is an understatement; in fact, one could say that for every Nightmare on Elm Street there is a Hills Have Eyes 2 and for every Scream there is a Cursed. But like most of his late '80s/early '90s output, Shocker is a film that slips under the radar. It is neither bad nor good, neither offensive nor effective. It's just a crazy, mixed-up little film amidst a mid-career crisis.Mitch Pileggi stars as Horace Pinker, a TV-repairman turned mass murderer with a bad limp. Business is fine and good for Pinker until local high school jock Jonathan Parker (played by Peter Berg) hits his head a little too hard and starts seeing visions of the bad guy doing his dirty deeds. With the kid on his trail, it's not long until Pinker is riding the lightning; however, he quickly proves that you just can't keep a good serial killer down and starts hopping bodies in the afterlife whilst continuing to blaze his trail of carnage.It's quite obvious from the get-go that Craven was trying to ride the slasher wave enjoyed partly by his own Freddy Krueger. Not only is the film similar stylistically and thematically to its big brother, it also borrows a few exclusive traits, namely the one-liners and dreamscapes. Thankfully Pileggi is up to the task of being a ruthless character who enjoys his share of dirty work, and for the first half of the movie we are treated to a truly frightening and seemingly unstoppable presence. It's a shame then that the movie peters out in the second half, making way for ridiculous scenarios and inane plot-twists, culminating in a so bad it's good chase scene through TV channels that feels like it belongs in a different film altogether. It's an often confusing film and a mixed bag for sure. In fact, one can't help but feel the movie is too scripts crammed into one. The first half is a nice, suspenseful slasher flick, while the second feels like its fantastical sequel that takes things a bit too far. Perhaps Craven had a premonition regarding the film's box office take and figured it best to get it all wrapped up in one film.There's a bit of social commentary and satire running throughout the film, but sadly it's lost amongst the mean-spirited violence and the constant throbbing of its heavy metal soundtrack. It's ironic then that these distractions are the film's strengths. Once you turn off your brain and stop trying to analyze the inanity of Shocker, it can be enjoyed as the schlocky shocker it truly is. "},{"Title":"the real shocker was how mundane it felt","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jonathon (Peter Berg) sharing an unexplained supernatural bond with Pinker (The X-File's Mitch Pileggi), the killer of most of his family members, leads his cop step-father to arrest him. But Pinker makes a last minute deal with the devil that allows him to move through power currents as well as body hop. Now the electrified killer is back with a huge hard-on to get revenge on Jonathon by making his life a living hell.As I watched this film it seemed like a poor retread of the director's earlier Nightmare on Elm Street than anything else. From the wise-cracking bad guy who can get to people in their dreams to the scene of the hero being pulled into a water bed, I felt that I've seen all this before. Mitch Pileggi is decidedly one-note as the villain (which would have been acceptable if that note wasn't off-key) Peter Berg is actually worse as the proclaimed 'hero' of the flick.And while there are some good scenes to be had here, they are too far and in between to actually care. Of course it wouldn't take long for Craven to redeem himself with the great the people under the stairs two years later, but I still feel this film was a misstep.My Grade D+ "},{"Title":"This film might be the best of Wes Craven","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Shocker is one of Wes Craven film's best. It has a very imaginative plot that goes weird sometimes and the final half hour or a bit more than very entertaining. It starts a bit of slow. I mean till the execution you have 45 minutes. But after that point the movie goes better. Very good performances and music. Mitch Pileggi portrays Pinker the killer so damned good that you must see his face to believe it. For the record two thumbs up in music and entertainment.Great Pileggi and very good the rest. And the last 30 minutes amazing. I rate this movie 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Another by the numbers Craven film but still half decent","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I remeber renting Shocker back in 1990 when I was a boy of nince. I had always been an Wes Craven fan since ANOES and I thought this would be pretty decent. As a child the film had a couple of scare moments but as I got older the film became more comedic with some of the lines. Peter Berg did a decent job as the hero but Micth Pillegri really carries the movie as Pinker. As a matter of fact I'm watching it now for nostgala sake. "},{"Title":"Plenty of Potential If They Had Toned Down the Cheese","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young man (Peter Berg) dreams of a killer (Mitch Pileggi)... and the dream is all too real, with his mother and sister left dead in the morning. But that is just the beginning. Once captured and executed, the story is not over but only starts anew!We start with a shape-shifting story inspired by The Thing and Jack Sholder's The Hidden. Craven even borrowed a shot from Midnight Run of all places. Then add in executive producer Shep Gordon (Alice Cooper's agent), which caused the use of Cooper's No More Mr. Nice Guy, a song that became the film's tagline. Even Cooper's guitarist has a cameo as a construction worker.Peter Berg makes a strong lead, acting as the poor man's Christian Slater. This was one of his earliest roles, having started in the business as a production assistant. Today (2015), he has become a wildly successful actor, director and producer, most notably on Friday Night Lights. Mitch Pileggi is also excellent, though a bit campy, and it is nice to see him in a tougher, darker role than FBI Director Skinner.Mike Mayo says, Wes Craven creates a fierce satire on television and the way the medium distorts our view of reality. Not sure I agree. If this is a fierce satire of anything, it is hidden well. I did not see a critique of television or the media in here at all, and Craven does not make a point of saying this was intended.Mayo continues, saying, the film is just another derivative exercise in obvious special effects, borrowing liberally from Craven's own work, including the fact Pinker becomes a channel-surfing Freddy Krueger who returns to attack his enemies. This is absolutely true... Craven himself, in his audio commentary, notes just how similar Shocker and Elm Street are in theme.Both Timothy Leary and Ted Raimi show up, so that's a plus. Even Wes Craven's daughter has a slight cameo. Worth singling out is stuntman Dane Farwell (who worked with Craven since Serpent and the Rainbow), who takes a few beatings, including running head first into a pole at full speed. Farwell doubled for Bill Paxton in Rainbow, and had previously doubled him in Spaceballs. Indeed, Peter Berg and Bill Paxton are physically similar in some ways.The special effects had to be done in the last two weeks of post-production, which ate up much of the profits, after the original effects plan fell through. This last minute rush may explain any shortcomings. Craven himself says he can still see outlines that should not be visible. We also have an MPAA-required 13 cuts, which cut down on some of the darker moments (including the electrocution itself.)If you happen to be one of those who contemplate movies too deeply, you can look for the intentional use of water in the film as a Freudian symbol, saying (among other things) that there is more hidden beyond the surface. Or the father issues Craven tried to present in regards to the poor relationship he had with his own father. Or, on the lighter side, you can ponder the legacy of John Tesh -- only a local TV reporter at the time (1989), but quickly catapulted to national stardom... was it this film?Wes Craven fans will need to see this one, but may want to keep their expectations a little lower. Some parts, such as the possessed girl, are entertaining. But budget issues, special effect limitations, and a cheesy sense of humor make this much more a cult film than one of Craven's best. (For those who like a little horror cheese with their beer, this may actually be a great pick.) "},{"Title":"Fans Left Craven Something Better","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cool poster? Check. Semi-reliable director? Check. Great idea for new horror villain who could have spawned a series of sequels? Check. Thrills, chills and coherent plot? Unfortunately not. Wes Craven has disappointed before, but SHOCKER ranks as one of his worst efforts to date (and yes, that includes VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN!). This film about a sadistic TV repairman coming back from the electric chair as an energy source doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Then again, it's so dull and dreary that you'll be too disappointed to notice. The climax is particularly unbearable; you won't know whether to laugh at it or with it... you'll likely just put in a different DVD. "},{"Title":"Out of fashion horror","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film screams of an 80s style that is now out of fashion. Just like thin ties, dangly earrings, shoulder pads, flicked hair and leg warmers this film no longer works at any level. I'm sitting here trying to think of it's redeeming qualities and after a few minutes I realised there just aren't any.The film borrows its ideas from other films, particularly A nightmare on Elm Street 1-4 and American Werewolf in London and has little of it's own uniqueness. In fairness Wes Carven produced this and the Elm Street movies but that doesn't excuse this from being so poor. The movie is laughable but not in a good way and the acting is surprisingly poor. I looked up the main actors to see what other films they'd been in and it was quite a few so it must have just been bad in this movie.I can't really recommend this unless you are having a nostalgic 80s horror night with your friends, in which case don't forget your leg warmers! "},{"Title":"Watt a Live Wire!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Horace Pinker, local television repairman and novice Satanist, fills his spare time with butchering families. Poor Horace has a problem.  A young boy name Jonathan Parker(strange coincidence this is SO closely related to the Dracula  character Jonathan Harker?) can see where and what he is doing in his dreams.  Parker leads the police, led by his step-father, played ably by character actor Michael Murphy, to the scene of a crime.  Horace is incarcerated and stands for execution by the electric chair.  Well, needless to say, Horace beats this rap in electrifying fashion.  I could go on - but might give too much away or just confuse myself even more.  Shocker is one of those horror movies that has the power to engage the viewer enough to keep him interested even though there is no earthly way he knows WHAT is possibly going on.  We have people shifting bodies, traveling through television currents, landing on reruns of Leave it to Beaver even, dead walking around giving out lucky charms, and many other implausible things.  Director Wes Craven does way too much here, and it might be his attempt at making a bad story seem credible, by polluting it with so many other bizarre plot devices.  The acting is pretty decent for this type of film.  Peter Berg plays Parker adequately as does Michael Pileggi as the grouchy serial killer with a limp.  Despite its ridiculous storyline and silly ending, Craven, through his use of creating moody, eerie scenes with well-timed pacing, makes a movie that will at the very least hold your attention.  Craven doesn't take it too seriously either having Pinker utter one-liners throughout.  There are also some genuine thrills and a couple good scares. "},{"Title":"Trust me, it won't shock you.","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Craven tried to create another great franchise to override the overwhelming success of Nightmare.  He made up a character with pretty much the same qualities as Freddy Kruger himself, a smart ass, show no mercy serial killer, with a pronounced limp.  Well, as anyone can clearly see, there is no sequel, and no other movie portrays killer Horace Pinker.  But, on a personal note, I did enjoy this movie - somewhat. The beginning is pretty decent, if somewhat standard.  It moves at a surprisingly fast pace, making the middle of the film its best part, with Pinker moving from person to person.  Only the ending is a let down.  It moves slow and a horror flick with a male protagonist doesn't always go hand in hand...in this case, it really doesn't, basically because former teenage heart-throb Peter Berg is rather annoying.  The sub-plot with Berg's former girlfriend coming back from the dead is also lame.  For Craven's fan, I do recommend it, but only to understand what the director was trying to do with his career in the late eighties.  Others need not bother. "},{"Title":"Romantic Horror Movie @ It's Best !!!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Tjoho !I think that Shocker is a very sad lovestory about a young couple were the girl is killed by a mentally disturbed serial killer.However the girl contacting she's boyfriend from the other side and helping him out to catch the killer.A very worth seeing movie that contains a lot of Comedy, Horror, Drama & Love undertones to fullfil the story.Badly there is a lot of wannabe movies like House 3 , Evils Trace f.ex.However I think Shocker is one of the best movies when it comes to multicategory movies ! "}{"Title":"A mixed bag.","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Shocker is mostly a mixed bag. The story has almost no development beyond the initial ideas, turning the film into an endless series of repetitive chases, and gets increasingly silly as it moves along. There are also too many action scenes which lack credibility to a point where that can't be forgiven (is Berg protected from bullets fired at him by an invisible shield?). However, there is also a particularly memorable sequence with the villain and the hero entering another dimension and fighting each other while jumping in and out of various TV shows. And Wes Craven's direction has enough energy to keep the film generally painless.   (**) "},{"Title":"Looking dated","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For the time, this was one of Wes Craven's better examples of work.  In the wake of some of his more recent work, this now looks dated.However, it's still good as the tale of a serial killer's obsession with a member of the one of his victim's families, even beyond the grave.Several moments have been echoed and copied in subsequent films, which is always a good measure that there's something about a film. "},{"Title":"Retread...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love how people can be short-sided. I am a fan of Wes Craven's work for the most part, but this movie is a retread of The Horror Show. It makes me cringe to read the reviews for that movie which say that it lifted ideas from Shocker when The Horror Show was released 6 months before Shocker and the ideas are too identical to be coincidence. Unless Wes Craven is Alan Smithee on The Horror Show, I can bet you money that the reason there was no sequel, besides the $16M lukewarm return, is that someone was sued. I'm not saying that Craven lifted the idea because I'm not going to pretend that I know what occurred, but why would two movies with nearly identical plots be made at nearly the same time? The saddest part is that the cheaper version is the better HORROR movie. Actually neither movie is good because they are both B, but I have seen The Horror Movie a few times and I have labored through Shocker once. The only thing I remember about this film is that Peter Berg tries really hard in a truly horrible film. If you must watch a movie about a killer getting electrocuted, go watch Lance Hendricksen and Brion James (in a great performance) in The Horror Show, but stay away from this clunker. "},{"Title":"Shocker was a SHOCK!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Shocker was a SHOCK! Being another brainchild of Wes Craven, I understand how well directed and written. The writing was not as good as the directing but none the less. I think the film had a good plot. But the dead people were a little out of place for my taste. It was still a good movie. Died down by the Nightmare craze of the late 80's. This was one of the films that couldn't survive the waves. That is a terrible thing. It was spiritedly acted and an interesting supernatural method that hasn't been done at that time. It has been most recently (Fallen, 1997). But that being the case, its up for argument. I feel this is worth seeing for the horror film lover in all of us and I love the films of Wes Craven, so this was an obvious choice. "},{"Title":"Craven makes a fool of himself here...","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SMALL SPOILERS AHEADLet me tell you a little secret...Wes Craven isn't the most talented horror director alive. Far from it actually, and this movie is the excellent proof. Craven is nothing but an overrated director who suffers too much from his own ego. He made two great milestones in the 70's which were outstanding ( Last House on The Left and The Hills have Eyes)and also the first Nightmare on Elm Street was more than decent. After that he only made average films and even a few unalloyed suckfests...Like Shocker !! By the way, I am aware that I left out Scream. It's a damn stupid film which doesn't make any sense, poorly acted and directed, filled with dumb plot twists and unfunny jokes and an overload of shameless references to classics.  It's about a 'horrible' murderer who prepared himself to the electric chair so when they finally catch him and sentence him to death he's able to return through television and even through lampshades ! He also needs other bodies to crawl into when he wants to murder some more people...That results in some very goofy scenes.  In the same year this piece of sh*t was brought out, there was a movie with a similar idea as well. House 3 aka the horror show involved an electric chair, a horrible serial killer and a return through electric impulses. This wasn't a highlight either but I still prefer that one because it didn't take itself so seriously...Also it had Brion James as the psycho and his death-ride was much more fun ! Wes Craven even rips off his own movies here...Coming into contact with the maniac through a dream ??? Didn't Wes do this already ?Furthermore there are talking TV-sets and stuff...don't ask me why. And tons of other things that don't make sense ( why did the necklace had supernatural powers all of a sudden ). The acting is even worse. The lead character Jonathan is supposed to be a popular football player but he looks more like a dork to me...and above all, he can't act!  The semi-metal soundtrack is really annoying and even a headbanger classic by Alice Cooper can't save it.  I can point out a few more negative elements but I think you get the idea...Shocker is bad and certainly not recommended.  "},{"Title":"I think maybe parts of this movie are supposed to be funny, the but the only joke in Shocker is the movie itself","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Assuredly the lowest point of Wes Craven's filmography, Shocker is a jumbled and often absurd horror/comedy that woefully misfires on both counts. The convoluted plot crowds in so many mismatched pieces that it seems like Craven decided to cram sketches of several movies into this one, and the end result is an over-long pastiche of clichés that limps along to its obnoxiously lame conclusion begging desperately to be put out of its misery.I'm hoping that writing the plot down will help me make sense of it in my own mind, so let's give it a shot. The story is centered around a brutal serial killer named Horace Pinker (played by the normally solid Mitch Pileggi, who eschews acting here in favor of presenting an over-blown caricature of a movie psycho) and a twenty-something protagonist named Jonathan Parker, who, in a fine example of how relentlessly silly this movie is, we later discover is actually Pinker's long-lost son.Though this is never made clear, the sequence of events seems to suggest that after suffering a concussion at football practice, Parker somehow develops supernatural powers that allow him to dream of Pinker's murders while they're happening. After Pinker butchers Jonathan's entire family (except for his detective father), and later his girlfriend, the vengeful lad makes catching the madman his personal mission. This leads to a Nightmare On Elm Street-cloning moment where Jonathan forces himself to fall asleep to see where Pinker will strike next and asks a friend to wake him up at the first sign of trouble.Through Jonathan's resourceful plan, Pinker is captured and eventually executed via electric chair (the next day, apparently, since no effort is made to suggest any sort of time elapsing in between). However, before this justice is meted out the crafty maniac performs a Satanic ritual with the television in his cell, during which demonic yellow electricity overtakes him, ostensibly giving him the ability to transfer his essence into other people's bodies and take them over. Using this power, Pinker is able to escape his demise in the chair by jumping into someone else's body, and the killer is then free to roam the streets again while masking his identity with a series of human disguises (remember the movie The Hidden? If not, you should check it out, since it's a hell of a lot better than this one).Clearly miffed that Jonathan foiled his murderous plans, Pinker's first order of business is getting revenge on his nemesis. Luckily, Jonathan is informed of Pinker's non-demise thanks to a dream he has, in which his dead, covered-in-blood girlfriend appears to warn him. In the vision, she hands Jonathan the necklace he once gave her and tells him it's the secret weapon that will stop Pinker once and for all (???), and, in yet another Elm Street lift, Jonathan wakes up to find the necklace in his bed.Thus begins the second phase of the film, in which Pinker pursues Jonathan while inhabiting a variety of bodies. Apparently our hero read the script ahead of time, because the first time he is confronted by Pinker (disguised as a police officer), he immediately sees through the ruse and deduces that the malevolent spirit of Pinker is controlling the cop's body, and he also figures out without hesitation that when the body's life force is used up, Pinker will have to find another vessel to occupy.In one of the film's ludicrous high-points, Pinker zaps into the body of a little girl, who then commandeers a conveniently abandoned tractor with the key in the ignition and tries to run Jonathan over with it. Despite Pinker's ability to leap into someone's body by touching them, he fails to use this skill when our hero picks up the little girl (wouldn't it be easier for Pinker to just jump into Jonathan's body and force him to kill himself?).After escaping a few more retarded twists during this scenario, Jonathan seeks help from the first person anyone with a shape-shifting murderer chasing them would run to his football coach (who, naturally, believes our hero's entire story without question and can't wait to help). Pinker takes over more bodies, he kills some people, he gets a few guns along the way and shoots at Jonathan approximately 819 times without hitting him, etc.It takes almost two hours for this tripe to arrive at its thudding conclusion. Jonathan eventually figures out a plan to stop Pinker (way too involved and stupid for me to waste your time with here), but before he implements it he takes a break to have sex with the ghost of his dead girlfriend. In case you're curious, the climax finds Jonathan transforming into electricity (?), leaping into a television set (??), and doing battle with Pinker throughout TV land (???). Oh, and our hero also uses a remote control to force Pinker through a series of grade-school pratfalls (fast forward makes the brutish killer talk in a high squeaky voice, hardy har). Other than the ample displays of Pinker's gory handiwork, there is absolutely nothing to recommend in this wretched mess. The meandering plot never coheres into a rational story, and the padded sentimentality of Jonathan's visits from his ghostly lover belongs in a young adult romance novel, not a fright flick. About the only thing Craven gets right is ending the movie in a way that doesn't blatantly crack open the door for a sequel (I can't even imagine how awful Shocker 2 Electric Boogaloo would be...). The only shocker here is that the same film-maker who made a horror film as intelligent as New Nightmare also helmed this load of abysmal, mindless crap. Maybe he directed this after suffering a concussion at football practice? "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With a serial killer on the loose, Jonathan Parker, (Peter Berg) is terrorized by dreams of psychotic killer Horace Pinker, (Mitch Pileggi) and helps his father Lt. Don Parker, (Michael Murphy) track him down. After the death of is girlfriend Alison Clement, (Camille Cooper) he helps to finally get the killer caught and sentenced to death. As the series of violent deaths start again, using the same style, no one believes the explanation that Horace is still alive after being killed, and Jonathan is instead implicated in the murders. With one last chance to prove his innocence, he draws Pinker out into the open and battles him to save himself and his friends from the maniac.Even if it does have some questionable ideas and moments, there is enough in here to make this a watchable entry in Craven's cannon. It's not the best of it's genre and contains too many reminders of other films, so this one is mainly there for the more hardcore fans of this type or if everything's out that you would rather see.Rated R for Graphic Violence, Profanity and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"I agree it's underrated","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It was pretty suspenseful and unique in a sense. I had a hard time finding it in the video stores, so I had to order it through Amazon. Obviously not Oscar material, but it kicks butt.Mitch Pileggi is a completely different character from the Skinner role in the X-Files. I actually thought he was African American.I saw it several times about seventeen years ago when I could see the movies for free as a there employee.All kinds of emotions comedy, drama, suspense, sadness, excitement, etc.7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lately I've found myself returning to the 1980's horror movies, simply because the stuff that has come out as of late with the exception of the odd horror flick here & there are just down right terrible, boring, filled with WB actors & an over abundance of CGI work, or I've had to put up with a bunch of let's play it safe PG-13 horror films or awful remakes. I had never seen SHOCKER up until a couple of days ago, but always heard negative things about it, usually from big shot critics so I knew that it had to be good! however I was unable to find it, until a new video store opened up in town, I decided to pick it up since I didn't see anything more recent that looked to good to watch. So I popped this into my VCR & boy did I have fun! This flick is one of the many examples of fun horror flicks that does not get made anymore or at least does not seem to, SHOCKER tells the story of a young football player who has an awful nightmare that his foster family is being done in by a vicious serial killer who does in families. When he awakens he discovers that his dream was real & works with his policeman father to help nab the psycho who did it, it turns out that the son can dream about the murders before they happen & when he & his dad nab the killer thanks to his son's description taken from his dream, he is executed in the electric chair for his crimes, but it ain't over yet! Now the killer named HORACE PINKER (who was an occultist who practiced animal & human sacrifices while working in his own shop as a TV repairman) has the ability to jump from body to body & soon continues his vicious killing spree targeting people that the hero's knows, including killing his friends & his girlfriend. Now the only way to stop Pinker is with the help of his girlfriends ghost & it's going to be a long & dangerous ride! Although a tad long in running time, SHOCKER does not bore & features good directing & acting, HORACE PINKER was a well written character & it's such a shame that they never made a sequel to this, horror fans should have lots of fun with this, especially near the end when the hero & Pinker are jumping from old re-run shows, horror movies, an ALICE COOPER rock concert, game shows, boxing, documentaries & news broadcasts & even into other peoples living rooms as they fight one another. The scene where the hero uses a TV converter to make Horace pause, fast forward, rewind & bleeps the heck out off him is hilarious & works well. Essentially however, this is really nothing more than a remake of WES CRAVEN'S earlier horror film, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, since there is so much here that is reminiscent to that film, the scary dreams, the dark secrets held by the parents, the wicked one liners that pop out of the killers mouth, the neat plot twists, hallucinations, the killer being unable to kill the hero because of some power learned to defeat him, the vicious killings, the connection between the antagonist & protagonist of the story etc. I loved the SHOCKER theme song that played during the credits, they should have used it more in the film! Watch the beginning sequence on the football field it's absolutely hilarious! Sadly this is wound up getting a remade (Though which Wes Craven movie isn't getting remade now a days)?**** stars "},{"Title":"weak","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Weak stuff from craven here, a story that starts off interestingly enough, and then spirals into a random pointless sequence of events which are not only unbelievable, but also poorly done.  Avoid this if you want to preserve any kind of respect for craven. "}{"Title":"Worst Movie of All-Time","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A horrible movie that is the epitome of bad film making. This is simply the worst movie I have ever watched. And it is not one of those so bad it's good and you have to see it. It is just plain bad. The violence is useless and for a horror film it just fails to do anything useful or unique.Watch this movie and you will either not make it through the entire thing, turning it off about half way in, or you will suffer through it and realize these are two hours you will never get back.Obviously the budget on this wasn't huge as Craven has commented before on going after unknown actors because they were cheaper. Well, it shows. But budget aside, the real issue here is the story. It's not scary so much as depressing. The pointless killing is...well, pointless. It's a shame too, because Craven's films, especially 1980's Craven films were by and large great. Even when the budget was small. Not the case here. Stay away, stay away, stay away!!! If you want a good 80's horror film by Wes Craven try Nightmare on Elm Street I or II and don't go to sleep. Avoid Shocker at all costs. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Bad movie that is so bad that it is great","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is so dam bad that in turn that makes it so dam great and the plot for this movie is a bloody joke.The acting in this movie is a bit crap and why in the hell would the Horror movie master Wes Craven write and direct this movie.At the start of the movie there is a football game and u can clearly see the shadows of the camera and the sound equipment and the crew and they could of somehow got rid of the shadows.There are some good scenes in this movie like in the end of the movie when the bad guy called Horace Pinker (Mitch Pileggi) and the good guy called Jonathan Parker (Peter Berg) went into the t.v and they where going around different shows fighting and that scene is a bit funny.And there is a great soundtrack in this movie with heaps and heaps of great heavy metal songs and i recommend that u buy this soundtrack and do not waste your money on buying this movie u should just rent it.Over all if u like crap horror movies that are so bad that they are good or u just want a giggle at how bad this movie is u should watch this movie.And my rating for this movie is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Films of Wes Craven Wes' last hardcore horror film?","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Shocker (1989) was Wes Craven's last old school hardcore horror film (to date). I don't count New Nightmare because it wasn't that great and it's of old hat variety. Sadly the viewing audience didn't think that much of this Freddy Krueger retread and it never got the multiple sequels that I'm sure his producers were pining for. This is the Wes Craven the world needs. Not some hack who hangs out with that Scream ween.A convicted serial killer (who loves to dabble with electricity) is executed for his crimes. But before he dies, he makes a an unholy deal and comes back meaner than ever. Can the kid who survived his final encounter and his cop dad stop this madman before he claims more victims? To find out you'll have to watch SHOCKER!!! Not a great movie but it's what Wes Craven does best. Recommended for true horror film fans. "},{"Title":"horrid movie","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was the worst movie i have ever seen. nothing new and shocking ever happens, and i wanted to see the movie for one reason to see heather langenkamp (from a nightmare on elm street) because i heard she was in it. sadly, she's only in it for one second playing a dead lady on the floor. this was horrible. i give it a 0/10. "},{"Title":"Nothing is shocking in Shocker.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Shocker is another overrated piece of junk from so-called horror master Wes Craven.I found only three of his movies actually interestingLast House on the Left,The Hills Have Eyes and maybe Deadly Blessing,his other movies including Shocker are lame. Shocker is truly horribleno suspense,no gore,just stupid mess.Yes,Horace Pinker is a cool psycho,the film is fast-paced,cheesy and pretty enjoyable but I like horror movies to be scary and disturbing.I'm sure that kiddies under 16 or fans of politically correct garbage from Hollywood will like this one,as for me,I give up.If you want to watch a good horror film,check out Argento's or Fulci's stuff instead.My rating3/10(because the ending is really funny!). "}]