[{"Title":"Have you ever seen a bushman?","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" If there is something I connect to the 80's more than anything it's movies like this one. It came at the shivering end of the decade, when the cold war was nearly over. But it shows a technique honed through literally dozens of cold war action movies. A genre of it's own.The Russian KGB-agent Nikolai (Dolph Lundgren) is sent to Africa to kill a native revolutionary. However he is betrayed by his own people and instead befriends the man he was to kill. Soon he exacts his vengeance on his deceitful commanders.Dolph Lundgren is known from cold war epics like Rocky IV and Pentathlon. It seems his blonde Swedish looks are very Russian in the eyes of the American audience. Also his garbled accent might be appropriate as a substitute for real Russian. Here he shoots, explodes and slices half the Russian and Cuban armies in his quest for vengeance on the men who betrayed him. The machine of the communist party just needed one small deceit to see the error of his ways and instantly team up with natives and guerrillas to fight for their freedom.A touching story if you don't think about it. So, you've seen Rambo II and III? You've seen Missing in action with Chuck Norris? You've seen dozens of other cold war action movies where Russians are killed in the hundreds and the hero hardly flinches when he is shot? Then you KNOW what this is about. And this might just be the best of the lot. This is simply 80's propaganda-action in it's most purified form. Entertaining to say the least. Rating is 1/10 for quality, 7/10 for entertainment and 10/10 for accents. "},{"Title":"Lame and overpatriotic, but not as brainless as you might think","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Red Scorpion was filmed and released in the final months of the Cold War when communism was soon to fall.  The 1980s saw a whole range of anti-Soviet films (which, in their style, were technically propaganda) as well as films promoting peace between the United States and Soviet Union (the most odd example probably being Red Heat)This is certainly of the former camp.  Portraying Dolph Lundgren as a mindless automaton of Soviet-era Russia, he fights with dedication for his Soviet commanders, until he is thrown in jail for drunken behaviour. There he meets a resistance fighter, who the Soviet command have designated as a terrorist threat, and learns the truth about the Soviet presence.Looking beyond the mindless action scenes (which, despite the countless guns and explosions), there is a good fable about the possibility of manipulating truth, and how appearance is not always truth.  It's nothing deep, and won't have film academics breaking out in a sweat, but it does add some interesting twists to the story.Dolph Lundgren's acting, as always, does leave a lot to be desired, but then this film does seem to be concentrating more on the storyline and action. His education by an African Bushman is particularly funny, even touching at times as you see the relationship between Nikolai and the Bushman develop. It's just a shame that more wasn't made of it.All in all, the film does try to be what it isn't but doesn't suffer for it - indeed, at times, it even shows signs of succeeding. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but misunderstood","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" There are four rules that seem to be required for a great movie1. Acting = Dialogue2. Excitement = Explosions3. The Russian is not allowed to be the hero4. There should be romance, even when irrelevant to the storyRed Scorpion is one of my all time favourite movies, precisely for breaking all of these rulesThis is a brilliant, well paced movie. Well acted by Dolph Lundgren, who is one of the few actors with the ability and charisma to succeed with the quiet but strong type of hero.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"excellent pile of junk!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" OK now I'm not going to try and say that this film is by any means a true classic, BUT it is a type of classic.in so much as that it has the man Dolph, mostly half nude, and it has guns, and some really nasty ones at that. so the plot is really weak, nobody is going to buy into the fact that one guy can save a nation but thats not the point, its really just a vehicle for Dolph to do his thing, which is to look tough and sound funny in a monotone kinda way.i really like the torture scene where the guy is sticking large needles through Dolphs anatomy, actually looks pretty realistic considering its not a big budget film, and also i like the scarification that Dolphs little tribesman friend does for him while he is drugged.the highlight of the film for me is probably the goofy relationship that is forged between Dolphs character and the little bushman, its really fun. the language barrier is well played out but the writers and actors have enabled this element to flow very well and their means of communication is really very effective at translating the messages of the relationship for the film.so do yourself a favor and go rent the DVD as it has at long last been released, and sit back and enjoy some cornball action for all its worth.just don't expect any special features cause their isn't any. "},{"Title":"A classic bit of 80s action cheddar","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" All true film fans must check out this classic example of the genre. Dolph Lundgren, never a poor man's Arnie by any standards, stars as Nikolai - a Russsian 'spech-nach' special forces, one man army type. There's a corny American journalist dude who likes rock n roll and democracy, a bushman who wanders around (yup you guessed it - Dolph switches sides and helps out the local tribespeople against his evil, commie ex-comrades) and there's the Russian Hind helicopter. Even if this sounds like pure hell you should check it out. Made in 89, it's a strange bit of forgotten film history - dozens of Rambo-style war movies came out at this time, preaching the sort of right wing Ronald Regan style pro-American politics. Most disappeared without trace but this sticks out. Dolph Lundgren in his prime, lots of AKs, a Raiders of the Lost Ark style Lorry chase - what more could you want? "},{"Title":"One of Dolph's best and most memorable role.","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I can't believe all the negative reviews and low rating given to this excellent film. This is one of Dolph's best film. There is a scene which I will never forget the tall Russian standing alongside the tiny bushman.The film is about the oppression of the Communist regime against an anti-Communist black revolutionary. A Spetsnaz-a Soviet agent (Dolph Lundgren) par excellence trained in deep undercover work is assigned to infiltrate and stop a rebel African uprising.He does this by being a sort of decoy a drunk and undisciplined solder in a jail cell where he makes friends with one of the captured rebels and American journalist (M. Emmet Walsh). They all escape together and inadvertently Nikolai is lead to the leader of the rebels. In the middle of the night he attempts to assassinate him but is caught red-handed and imprisoned.He is recaptured and placed under inquiry.Nikolai unexpectedly finds himself drawn to the guerrillas cause, a betrayal that enrages his Russian superiors, who order his immediate termination. He is awaiting torture but manages to escape through the desert, but is stung by scorpions in the process.A bushman rescues him and cures him of the poisonous stings. He also tattoos a scorpion on him, according to their tribal customs. Thus the title of the film RED SCORPION.Nikolai recovers and the bushman starts to train him in the art of survival in the harsh desert environment. Nikolai learns fast and soon reunites with the rebels and helps them overthrow his former masters. Very good acting, action and cinematography of the Namibian desert and bushmen. A must film for all action lovers. Highly recommended. I give a full 10/10. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's a fantastic movie and very touching. It may appear 'slow' at times, but bear with it, because it's well worth it. I love the switching. First he's on the soviets side, then pretends to be on the african side, go back to the soviets only to be tortured and then escapes to re-join the african rebels. The theme music for this movie is FANTASTIC. The best scene is after Dolph blows off the Cuban commanders arm; he is outside firing a heavy machine gun (in slow motion with the theme song playing in the background). That part may only be 5 seconds long, but it's the best part in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"A Russian Special Forces soldier is sent into the African desert to assassinate a revolutionary!","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" One of the best '80's action films you have never seen or heard of! I stand by my statement having watched 'Red Scorpion' aged 9 and finding it even better than I remember when watching it again as an adult. If you want the quick explanation, it's up there with 'First Blood part 2.' It's also a thoughtful war film that leaves America out of the Cold War picture and instead ponders on just how much death and destruction a man must witness before he realizes he's fighting a war that is inherently not only wrong but simply evil.Dolph Lundgren is Nikolai Rachenko, one of the Spetsnaz's finest soldiers. He is exactly how the Motherland has cut him out to be, an intelligent, resilient, unstoppable and obedient killer. Unable to march through Africa because of anti-communist revolutionary Sundata, the Russians send Nikolai in to gain the trust of whoever will lead him to his target where he will then assassinate his target.The plan fails and Nikolai is first captured by the Africans and then sent back across the desert with one intended message; to tell the Russians that even their greatest soldier cannot kill Sundata. Barely surviving, Nikolai finds himself disgraced and left to the Cubans to be tortured and killed but escapes and then only survives the desert a third time thanks to the Bush Man, a lone member of a secretive African tribe, who takes Nikolai under his wing and teaches him the ways of the free African.Nikolai learns how to survive the desert and then learns of the atrocities executed against the innocent people of Africa first hand. Accepting that he is no longer with the Russians after the way they treated him and left him for dead, when he is ready to move on, Nikolai takes it upon himself to go back to see Sundata and show that he now bears tribal honours only to find that the revolutionary has been mortally wounded by the encroaching Russian forces.Feeling that he owes it to Sundata and his people after a heart to heart with the dying man, Nikolai goes on to lead an offensive against the invaders, his former leaders and fellow soldiers, to smash the Soviet and Cuban forces and send them out of Africa.The film was directed by Joseph Zito who reached varying degrees of success in the '80's with three other titles; two Chuck Norris vehicles, 'Missing in Action' and 'Invasion USA' and intended franchise finale 'Friday 13th part 4 The Final Chapter.' Turning Chuck Norris into a legitimate action movie star, the same could almost be said for Lundgren, only it was Lundgren's later features that failed him.Zito makes a great film by taking the old-school action and war molds and applying a sensible amount of politics and intelligence into the African characters and their purpose. Lundgren plays not only an atypical brute of a soldier with little to say for himself, he plays a man reprogrammed by the military to obey who learns to listen to the voice of reason instead and as much as people might argue that Lundgren cannot act, watching his face turn from a constant menacing scowl to one of resolve and respect is effective enough. His change from villain to hero simply does what no other action film of its time dared to and this makes for a feelgood moral tale.The film is literally exploding with stunt doubles doing their various acrobatic death rolls and grenade explosion somersaults etc. Special effects come courtesy of 'Wizard of Gore' Tom Savini (who worked with Zito previously on Friday 13th) and M. Emmet Walsh has a co-starring role as a terminally offensive American photographer, which helps you settle into the very ethnic feel of the movie. Add the Little Richard soundtrack and you have a classic action film with something a little different to offer.'Red Scorpion' is like many other action films of the '80's that could have gone on to have successful and valid sequels, however it's a perfect little gem all by itself and one of the reasons Dolph Lundgren was such a promising star back in the day.I recommend 'Red Scorpion' for an action movie night if you're planning on watching 'Missing in Action' or 'Rambo' or Schwarzenegger's 'Commando.' "},{"Title":"Exciting adventures , thrills and bloody  battles in the African desert","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Russian agent named Nikolai (Dolph Lundgren) is a Spetsnaz , a perfect killer machine . The Soviet lieutenant journey to Africa where is the headquarter in which lives the Russian and Cuban militia (Carmen Argenziano , Brion James). He is assigned to infiltrate and to assassinate an adversarial anti-Communist black revolutionary named Sundate as leader of a rebel group who is assisted by Kallunda (Al White). Nikolai unexpectedly , commits a betrayal that enrages his Russian commandant as the General Vortez (T.P. McKenna), who orders his immediate punishment . In this case the nasty General is a genocide officer who uses his helicopter to cause mayhem and slaughter in minority communities. Making his getaway through the dangerous desert, Nikolai switches sides and join forces with the rebels, in the company of an American reporter (M. Emmet Walsh). Nikolai allies himself with a tribe of bushmen, and earning the nickname Red Scorpion . As Nikolai's new-found independence and switch allegiances with new friends . All of them , lead in his leadership of the rebels against his previous comrades .This moving film contains thrills ,fiercy combats , tortures , lethal shootouts and lots of explosions and noisy action . From the beginning to the end the comic-book action-packed and extreme violence is continued and it's fast movement ; for that reason the picture is pretty entertaining , though contains some perfunctory scenes . Passable performance of Sweden Dolph Lundgren as Soviet agent par excellence trained in deep undercover job and finds himself drawn to the guerrillas' riot . This is a routine actioner with Karate expertise star Dolph Lundgren as the Soviet veteran resulting to be one of the best roles he'd made to date , as he's fine -though some wooden- as tough, cold , obstinate agent Nikolai. It provides some interesting background on Dolph Lundgren 's rocky relationship with communism and switching allies with spectacular final climax storming their headquarters in a no-quarter , deadly showdown . Poor acting abounds but packed with violence , bloodshed and exciting action scenes as when Lundgren shoots his machine gun , several explosions or scenes from spectacular helicopters similarly used in ¨Rambo III ¨ at Afghanistan. Catching musical score by Jay Chattaway and regular cinematography by cameraman Joao Fernandez , both of whom worked in the trilogy ¨Braddock's Missing in action ¨ who bears certain resemblance in some qualities to ¨Red Scorpion¨. The motion picture produced in average budget is professionally directed by Joseph Zito (Invasion USA, 13th Friday final chapter, Missing in action , The prowler). Rating  Acceptable, passable and amusing but violent . Although the movie has some aspects a little tough to take , this thrilling film still has its nice moments getting a bemusing atmosphere with agreeable results , furthermore grossed moderated success at the box office . "},{"Title":"Late 80's action classic","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm pumped that Synapse films gave this the proper treatment on bluray ( my first generation DVD is basically VHS quality ). Red Scorpion is a bit underrated in my opinion. It came out at the end of the cold war and around this time action movies were still in demand , but less than a few years previous . I love the action genre and while movies like Commando and Rambo First Blood pt.2 came first and are better films, this movie is similar and delivers . This is by no means a drama , just a pure action film with lots of one liners and a high body count. Dolf Lundren plays Soviet super soldier who switches sides and did a fine job in this one man army flick . M.Emmet Walsh is great in this and completely hilarious . Brion James is a great heavy and director Joe Zito blows up half of the continent of Africa. If the same movie came out in 1986 it would be much more popular , but if you want action this movie was made for you. Also, like Predator you get the music of Little Richard. "}{"Title":"It doesn't pay to lie to Dolph.","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Never mind any sort of political angle or goal of propaganda in this agreeable bit of non- think entertainment. All that matters is that it does do its job when it comes to the entertainment aspect. Sometimes it's good for laughs, sometimes a strong and touching anti-war message comes across, and sometimes it's genuinely action-packed and exciting. Dolph Lundgren plays a *supposedly* top notch Russian operative dispatched by his superiors to get close to an African rebel leader who's objecting to the occupation by Russian and Cuban forces. The surprising thing is that Dolph's character isn't too good at his job and gets figured out. While awaiting punishment for screwing up the mission, he escapes and befriends a local bushman. The gentle and helpful ways of the bushman and his people help Dolph to realize he's fighting for the wrong side and he leads the rebels in a wonderfully over-the-top action finale. Director Joseph Zito is an old hand at this kind of action fare, having already directed Chuck Norris in the classics Missing in Action and Invasion U.S.A., and he and a capable crew give this all the juice that it needs, with a decent pace and violence aplenty. Zito also works with makeup effects expert Tom Savini once again; they'd collaborated previously on The Prowler and the fourth Friday the 13th movie. Dolph is fairly stiff as always, and it's up to the very amusing supporting cast to bring life to the story. The movie really hits its stride once the great character actor M. Emmet Walsh shows up, bringing lots of xenophobia, energy, and comedy relief to the proceedings, playing an investigative journalist. T.P. McKenna is the slimy Russian villain, Carmen Argenziano a thuggish Cuban bad guy, and the late Brion James brings a ridiculous accent to his Czech adviser the same year that he pulled the same gag for Tango & Cash. (Annoyingly, his character is never properly paid off.) Ruben Nthodi is fine as the rebel leader, with his associate played by Al White, whom the viewer may recognize as one of the jive talking dudes from Airplane!. But the performer who gives this movie a good deal of charm and presence is 95 year old Regopstaan, a natural in the role of the bushman Gao. These actors do help to make this fun. It's decent action fare where one can loudly root for the villains to meet their doom and where it's nice to see the redemption of the lead character. As an aside, helping to give this film some notoriety is the subsequent fate of this film's co-writer and producer, lobbyist Jack Abramoff, but that shouldn't distract from what is basically acceptable escapism. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dolph stings communism!","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Lt. Nikolai Rachenko is a Russian Special Forces soldier assigned to go undercover in Africa to root out an anti-communist leader, Kallunda (White) - don't forget, Rachenko's superiors are all commies. While in the midst of this deep cover, Rachenko becomes sympathetic to the anti-communist cause and realizes he has been manipulated by the higher-ups. So he goes on an explosion-packed killing spree, shooting and, when need be, dismembering his enemies (hey, it was an emergency). Rachenko may seem like a man of stone, but it's clear he yearns to be free. Along the way he meets an obnoxious American journalist, Dewey Ferguson (Walsh) and an elderly African tribesman shows Rachenko his human side.With a movie starring Dolph Lundgren, directed by Joseph Zito (forever in the hall of fame for Invasion USA, 1985 alone), and produced by Jack Abramoff (rumor has it his evil hat was an uncredited co-producer), you'd think the results would be just a bit more impressive. Not that Red Scorpion is bad at all - but it's too long and the middle section drags. Perhaps that's just to lull us before the big final battle, but it's quite a lull. There's no reason for this film to be 100 minutes. With the pedigree involved in the movie's production, it's not unreasonable to expect more.The film has some really high-quality, impressive explosions. The team that worked on the pyrotechnics should be applauded. And of course, the hero gets tortured (there are some really impressive effects there too), but there are some nice underlying plot ideas in addition to the many blow-ups 1. Think for yourself, 2. Communism sucks, 3. A friendship can exist between a geriatric African bushman and a blonde, Swedish hulk even if they don't speak the same language 4. The intrigue of who are the real enemies?, and of course, playing the same, repetitive Little Richard songs over and over again will remind everyone of America's greatness and freedom.Interestingly enough, the one American character, Dewey, is obnoxious and unlikable throughout most of the film. If this movie is just a propaganda piece for the U.S., they aren't helping their case by portraying Americans that way. But we do learn the secret of the Red Scorpion tattoo - later seen as the only, tenuous (at best) link between this film and its sequel. But there are actual scorpions in the movie that crawl on Dolph's body. Whether they are Red, i.e., commies sent by his superiors, remains unknown.There were a lot of anti-communist 80's action movies, but this one has Dolph Lundgren, and apparently the filmmakers were so impressed with their explosions, rightfully I might add, that during the end credits, there are continuous explosion sounds. You don't see them, you just hear them. While you may know what to expect with Red Scorpion, its messages help it stand out.For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Surprisingly very enjoyable Lundgren flick *Possible Spoilers*","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Surprisingly very enjoyable Lundgren flick. This is very underrated (in my opinion with a good story (even though it's pretty dumb at times. But come on what did you expect! It's action people learn to enjoy it!. It had TONS of explosions, destruction and plenty of violence to keep you entertained. I thought Lundgren was excellent in this(but more on that later). This is not a very popular movie but i checked my brain at the door and enjoyed myself very much. Lundgren has a quite a few funny one liners too. Throughout the film you begin to see Dolph becoming more human. Loved the scenes between him and that African voodoo guy.The Direction is very good. Joseph Zito does a very good job here, with good effects, cool story, and keeping it at a very fast pace and overall doing a solid job!. There is TONS of violence!. we get TONS of bloody gunshot wounds, a bloody broken nose, a person sticks pin needles into someone's flesh, HUNDREDS of very graphic but non bloody gunshot wounds, very bloody wound on a leg, an arm shot off (nasty scene the arm literally comes off. The acting is great. Dolph Lundgren deserves more credit then he has been giving he is a GREAT action star and very entertaining to watch, he gave a very good performance here and was very likable plus was he ever buffed up ! and he kicked that butt!. M. Emmet Walsh annoyed me at first but turned out to be a likable guy in the end. Al White was awesome here i remember him from Airplane 1 and 2. he gave a very good performance and was very likable. T.p McKenna is good as the main villain and was menacing. Overall i highly recommend this give it a try! ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Public Relations Campaign for UNITA","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Anything Red out of Hollywood would be better dead.The usual Cold War anti-Soviet/Russian propaganda.The movie most likely takes place in Angola, as this was the only place where Soviet and Cuban troops were deployed in Africa in the 1980's.The real history was that a Progressive Angolan government was overthrown by freedom fighters(UNITA) loyal to Ultra-Nationalists in South Africa and the US. UNITA was a terrorist organization which grew out of low level Civil War in the country which had raged well before any Soviet or Cuban troops arrived. Various factions supported by the European Powers as well as the regional South Africa were seeking to come to power. A government that would have stabilized the country did come to power, but it was not friendly to UNITA, and therefore an enemy of people like Jack Abramoff and the South African government. There was a regional ideological conflict and the Soviet Union was providing weapons to some of the local government friendly groups. But in reality the amount of Soviet troops in this country never exceeded 600, Cubans sent several 1,000. This war raged way after the fall of the USSR into 1994, when the South Africans went in to clean up the mess they started, fighting their own UNITA allies for control of oil supplies. By that time UNITA was busy shooting down airliners with Stinger missiles.Anyway this conflict in the movie is simplified as Russians evil, rebels 'good'. Of course Russians are the darkest form of evil in the movie, even a Russian does not want to be a Russian. There are many mistakes with uniforms and such where Soviet troops are shown without any kind of gear and in uniforms dating back to the 1930's. As well as the Mi-24 in the movie has too many rocket pods on its wings, there can only be a maximum of 4, there are 6. "},{"Title":"One of the many Red films, but above average","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" 1980ies saw various Cold War related films with titles beginning with Red Red Dawn and Red Heat are most known, Red Scorpion has got somewhat less attention, but it is not bad at all. Many other action films contain much more clichés and Lundgren is less numb actor than e.g. Seagal, Dudikoff or Norris.The only thing that really annoys me is letting Americans or Slavic emigrants to communicate in Russian - the result (= accent) is horrible, providing films undue undertones.But still, both the script and Lundgren's performance have earned my 6 points; M. Emmet Walsh's part is even more catchy. Just forget the past black-and-white East-West collisions and enjoy it as a proper action film with constant (and at times complex) fight between good and evil, friendship and betrayal. "},{"Title":"Action!","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" OK now I'm not going to try and say that this film is by any means a true classic, BUT it is a type of classic.in so much as that it has the man Dolph, mostly half nude, and it has guns, and some really nasty ones at that. so the plot is really weak, nobody is going to buy into the fact that one guy can save a nation but thats not the point, its really just a vehicle for Dolph to do his thing, which is to look tough and sound funny in a monotone kinda way.i really like the torture scene where the guy is sticking large needles through Dolphs anatomy, actually looks pretty realistic considering its not a big budget film, and also i like the scarification that Dolphs little tribesman friend does for him while he is drugged.the highlight of the film for me is probably the goofy relationship that is forged between Dolphs character and the little bushman, its really fun. the language barrier is well played out but the writers and actors have enabled this element to flow very well and their means of communication is really very effective at translating the messages of the relationship for the film.so do yourself a favor and go rent the DVD as it has at long last been released, and sit back and enjoy some cornball action for all its worth.just don't expect any special features cause their isn't any. "},{"Title":"If Rambo were Russian his name would be Nikolai","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Recap Nikolai Rachenko is an elite soldier, trained warrior and the best weapon in the Soviet System. Nikolai is Spetznaz. Now he is sent to Africa where The Soviets with their communist allies tries to pacify a country and it's native rebels. Nikolai's mission is to assassinate the leader of the rebellion, stemming it at its source. But his time with the natives open his eyes and shows his armies leaders as who they truly are.Comments Extremely similar to the Rambo-movies, especially the ones after First Blood. So similar that you actually might interchange Rambo and Nikolai without really noticing it, except for the hair color. This movie is all about muscles, guns and explosions.But no one really expected anything else, did they? For all it's faults in story and, unfortunately I must say of fellow Swede Dolph and companions less than stellar acting, it is entertaining. There is a lot of shooting going on, and everything that possible can (including straw huts), blow up.Probably not the movie you would choose for a date (well, guns for the boys and muscles for the ladies, so maybe after all? ) ) but for anyone who likes mindless action, this is a sure bet.6/10 "},{"Title":"Passable popcorn action flick","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Plot Synopsis Nikolai, a Spetznaz (Soviet Special Forces) commando is sent to an African country to assassinate the leader of a resistance group fighting the Soviets. Thrown in jail for disorderly conduct, he helps a resistance soldier & an American journalist escape. Failing to kill his target, Nikolai decides to help the resistance overthrow the Soviet base camp.You'd think that the popularity of the Rambo trilogy would give rise to a whole host of clones, imitators & rip-offs, but that is not the case. So far, only Red Scorpion was made to copy the legendary Stallone character. While both the idea of the film's hero being a Soviet & the casting of Dolph Lundgren in the role was inspired, the film fails to make the idea work as well as it should. Certainly the first few minutes, with Lundgren managing to stage a hilarious bar-room brawl in order to get in close with his target, along with an effective chase scene, works to the film's favour. But the film does not explore the idea fully, only giving a failed mission & an interrogation as the reason for the commando to betray his superiors & help the locals fight. Brion James' character is built up to provide a menacing villain but is not seen at the climax. All in all, the film is a decent popcorn flick. "},{"Title":"Below average Lundgren action drama.","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Red Scorpion is set in Africa where the Russians & Cubans are at war with the natives as they try to bring Communisim to the country, however the war isn't going as well as they had hoped so step in hard as nails Spetznats special forces solider Lieutenant Nikolai Rachenko (Dolph Lundgren) who is ordered by his boss General Vortek (T.P. McKenna) to go undercover in Africa to assassinate an anti-Communist revolutionary & hero to the people Ango Sundata (Ruben Nthodi) by gaining the confidence of his right hand man Kallunda Kintash (Al White). It's a tough job but someone has to do it. Nikolai apparently saves Kallunda from a public execution at his own risk which has the desired effect of making Kallunda trust him, as Nikolai spends time with Kallunda & eventually meets Sundata he realises that he has been fighting for the wrong side & wages a one man war on his own country & it's army in order to liberate Africa & it's people...This South African, American & Namibian co-production was directed by Joseph Zito & I actually had quite high hopes for Red Scorpion in a cheesy over-the-top testosterone filled late 80's action flick of the kind they just don't make anymore sort of a way but after wasting 100 odd minutes on this rather mundane & boring film I realised why they don't make these sorts of films anymore as Red Scorpion exemplifies just about everything wrong with the late 80's & early 90's action flick fad. I like my action films with plenty of action & gratuitous violence in them, unfortunately Red Scorpion actually tries to have some sort of meaning & say something relevant about world events at the time. Now, I'm all for a bit of drama & seriousness if it's done properly but having the Sweedish actor Dolph Lundgren playing a Russian in Africa finding his true self, redemption & have him join some tribe or other in which he then instantly sympathises with the whole country & realises how bad & evil his own country is while running around in nothing but shorts & sandals with a silly haircut is not the way to go about it. Right? A lot of the running time of Red Scorpion is devoted to Lundgren wondering around as he develops a conscience, yawn. Where's all the action? Where are all the one-liners? Where is the obligatory love interest for Lundgren to save at the end? Why is Red Scorpion so boring & quite frankly dull? These Russians can't be that smart can they? I mean you have invaded Africa & have waged war on it's people so who do you send in to kill one of your biggest enemies? That's right a huge soldier with a Russian accent. Yeah, that's going to work isn't it? I mean I am sure every African will help big Lundgren, totally & utterly trust him & give him pretty much anything he wants. Wouldn't you? For my money Red Scorpion has too much preaching & moralising with the main plot an obvious take on apartheid & the events in Africa at the time. I usually like big, dumb, brainless action flicks but I found Red Scorpion seriously dull.Even the action sequences aren't that good, they feel too random with lots of shoot-outs where lots of people are shot but you never feel Lundgren is in danger & of course all the bad guy's have terrible aims & can't shoot straight. Lots of things blow up too but for no real reason & Lundgren is rarely in the same shot so again there's no threat there or last minute escapes or anything of that sort. For all we know these explosions could be happening twenty miles from where Lundgren is. There's a reasonable car chase about twenty minutes in but it's ruined by a very inappropriate & somewhat annoying song on the soundtrack. The violence is also disappointing, there's barely any fighting or hand to hand combat in it & there's not much blood either. A guy sticks some spikes into Lundgren as a form of torture & Lundgren shoots a soldiers arm off but other than that this is actually surprisingly tame.With a supposed budget of about $16,000,000 Red Scorpion was shot in Namibia in Africa & therefore breaking an international boycott of the country for it's apartheid regime which this film ironically tries to highlight, apparently the budget for the film was pulled & the cast & crew were stuck there for three months while the money was got back. The cast is alright although Lundgren is awful, it's always nice to see Brion James in something but what happened to his character who seemingly disappears half way through the film.Red Scorpion is a anti apartheid drama disguised as an action film & a bad action film at that. This has no real meaning, the dialogue sucks as does the story & action. Not one I would want to see again in a hurry. Followed by the totally unconnected Red Scorpion 2 (1994). "},{"Title":"Wake me up when it's finished","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What was this monstrosity of a film?  I had hopes for this movie I really did.  The amazing part is that this movie actually spawned a sequel.  Yet the sequel does not contain Ludgren.  He must not have been stupid enough to do a sequel but he was sure still stupid enough to do the first.The movie itself is about a Russian special forces soldier sent to Africa to assassinate a couple of innocent African tribes men only to defect and join the rebel's cause.The movie is painfully slow from the beginning and the majority of the action is packed in to the final ten minutes, a syndrome which many action movie flops suffer from.It will take you at least half the movie to get used to Ludgren's ridiculous hair which looks like a cross between Mr. T and Einstien.  Well maybe not Einstien but you get the idea.  It is only after he defects from the Russians where it appears that the tribes people must have stepped in and gave him a few fashion tips.  It seems silly but it is very difficult to take him seriously with the hair and it absolutely does not suit his character.The acting is low grade and it is often difficult to understand what the actors are saying in addition to trying to identify whether they are speaking in English, Russian or Swahili.All in all this movie is deadly boring.  Some bits just do not make any sense at all.  Its as if Ludgren is trying to...trying to ummmm, I don't know what the hell he was trying to do but he was terrible at whatever it was.The only good thing about this movie is the end portion oh yeah and the final credits too.  The action scene right at the end was actually pretty good.  And just when it starts with the entertainment the movie ends.  I don't know about you, but I like big guys shooting people with big guns.I think Ludgren is capable of much more its a pity that he his acting portfolio is not very impressive, no thanks to this movie.  Stay away from Red Scorpion, I m giving it two thumbs down and the title of Stinker Movie of the Month.2.5/10 "}{"Title":"He can be controlled.","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Joseph Zito is no stranger to noisy gun-ho, explosive action joints with films like semi 80s classics Missing in Action and Invasion USA under his belt. So you know what he would bring to the table and Zito doesn't disappoint. He goes big on nearly all fronts. An all-out assault on the senses with general mayhem. Now who to play an indestructible Russian Special Force soldier who must go undercover to infiltrate and assassinate an African rebel leader. Look no further than a stolid Dolph Lundgren. He's perfect for the role, as an instrument of war. The plot is typically laid-out; as a soldier goes in terminate a target to only realise he's expandable and left for dead by his superiors. This sees him sympathizing with the guerrillas' cause and leading them against his old comrades. It doesn't offer up much in its one-note story and the script can be a touch preachy, but the tough action is frenetic and well-staged even with some slow (the spiritual journey with the bushman), tired passages. The grimy atmosphere adds to its humid tempo. There are some colourful supporting cast with the live-wire Emmet Walsh, T.P McKenna as the evil Russian General, and sadistic glee from Carmen Argenziano as a Cuban Colonel. Also character actor Brion James shows up for a small part doing the standard bad guy shtick. A film that sticks to formula, but that's its strength and Zito knows it. "},{"Title":"Ivan Drago joins the military","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Once Mr. Dolph Lundgren began pursuing an acting career, it wasn't until he played He-Man in The Masters of the Universe (1987) that he began approximately putting out a movie per year. Next in that line up was this action film. It's also probably the last time Dolph Lundgren ever played a Russian character. Good thing too because being typecast as a certain character frequently doesn't give the viewer something more to look forward too. Here, he plays a devoted Russian soldier who is trained and highly skilled in the art of killing. But as the story continues, he realizes maybe he's not seeing the whole picture.With a screenplay written by first timer Arne Olsen, it isn't great nor is it terrible. The story does contain some meaningful moments, but most of them are frequently overshadowed by scenes that are predictable enough that regular viewers could see it coming a mile away. There are also some points in the film that would make the viewer question How does this pertain to the development of the character?. It can be far fetched at times. Like how is learning the way of a hunter open one's eyes to reality? Is it really that powerful of a activity?That's not to say the actors perform badly though. Dolph Lundgren portraying a Russian is accurate. He's a blonde, large, hulking mass of muscle and can speak with the basic accent. Al White plays an African rebel leader who is also legitimate in his role. M. Emmet Walsh plays a an American reporter who accompanies Al White's character. My question is though, how did an American reporter get caught in the middle of this? Lastly, Brion James makes an appearance too, who would play the British character, Requin in Tango & Cash (1989) a year later. It's an alright cast for this movie.However, the way the action is executed reminds me of Arnold Schwarzenegger's Commando (1985). There's lots of explosions and plenty of shootings. Just like Schwarzenegger, Lundgren runs around in war paint firing his machine gun without getting a scratch. But perhaps what helped this movie to excel further than Commando (1985) was the human aspect of it. Al White's character leads a bunch of poor followers who seek freedom from the Russian oppression. And when the audience sees them fall, it's hard to watch. Assisting those particular segments was Jay Chattaway's music to the film. In some places it worked but the rest didn't. It was an average listening experience.At least, the film was directed by a competent person. Joseph Zito, the man behind Chuck Norris' Missing in Action (1984), Friday the 13th The Final Chapter (1984) and The Prowler (1981) knew what he was doing. Also accompanying him is cinematographer João Fernandes who has also worked with Zito in the past. Fernandes was able to get nice shots of the arid terrain, which at least allows the audience to believe the place Lundgren was set in wasn't forgiving. In the end, it's not great or terrible. It's just average film making.As Dolph Lundgren's last film to play a Russian character, it comes off as a better rip-off of Commando (1985) but doesn't take the story in any direction that hasn't been explored. Just average on the whole. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm not the biggest fan of action movies. But i love this one. Good action scenes, excellent scenarios, a not-ridiculous story. It's for entertainment, for sure, and that's all. The acting is just enough, no need for amazing acting. I love the rebirth theme with the indigenous character, realizing what is good and bad for those people, for those who lived in that country. Lundgren is just like Scharzenneger was in the early movies. Acting with few words and a lot of muscles. The chasing scene with 50's and 60's rock screaming in the megaphones is excellent. If you want to have a good time, pure entertainment... By the away, a little history lesson. There has been a lot of criticism because the soldiers in Africa speak Spanish. Well, the Soviet forces in Africa many times had Cuban soldiers inlisted. The reason the weather, the cuban were more used to high temperatures. It's not a mistake. "},{"Title":"Watch out Matrix and Rambo! Here's Nicolai!","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Red Scorpion' is one of the weakest efforts from Dolph Lundgren in the first phase of his career (roughly defined as from 'Rocky IV' to 'Joshua Tree'). I personally felt the story behind the making of this film was more interesting than the plot itself; however, 'Red Scorpion' can be viewed without all the political implications and messages the producer and the South African regime that funded it intended in the form of a brainless action film. I can say that the primary enjoyment only comes from seeing Dolph kick some ass, and all the explosions and mayhem that comes with it. The director, Joseph Zito (who also helmed the equally over-the-top Chuck Norris vehicle Invasion U.S.A.) doesn't disappoint, and he keeps Dolph blowin' shiznit up real good the entire film. M. Emmet Walsh was just really annoying as the ultra liberal reporter stereotype, and the only other costars who are tolerable in this are Brion James and the bushman who takes Dolph under his wing. The film drags a lot, and the most annoying aspect of the film, in my opinion, was the overuse of Little Richard's music. I swear, every time there was an action set piece, they would play that crap, and it didn't really fit at all. I demand a re-score.I have to say that this is good Dolph, but in comparison with something of the caliber of 'I Come in Peace,' 'the Punisher' or Showdown in Little Tokyo- dare I say it, even Masters of the Universe?-, it falls far short in the first phase of the Dolph cannon. Yeah, he still delivers here- he's a big, towering dude beating up bad guys, shooting big guns at commies, drunkenly singing the Soviet national anthem and beating up little pansies in a bar, showing off his muscles, hunting warthogs, and blowing a whole crap load up. What more do you really need if it's Dolph?If you want brainless action, you may enjoy this. If you want Dolph, he's done better. But this is still an interesting film to watch if you can't get ahold of 'Joshua Tree' or 'Showdown.' "},{"Title":"Good for what it is.","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Can't say I fell in love with this movie but it has a certain appeal to it. As far as cheesy, overblown, 80's, B-action movie flicks go, this is being a petty enjoyable and good movie for what it is! There were certainly certain aspects about this movie that I appreciated. One was its story. Not that it's being much good or anything cleverly written but it at least takes the movie to plenty of good places and meets some good characters along the way. And how many actions movies set in rural Africa are out there anyway? The movie is great and unique already, just because of that.Another thing I also liked about the movie and its story was that Dolph Lundgren was being both the villain and main hero of the movie. There isn't really being a main villains in this, since Dolph Lundgren is already on the 'wrong' side and along the way switches sides, as he is growing more and more sympathy for his objective and their cause. the transitions his characters go through are pretty good to watch and gives the movie and its story something extra and more depth. It's probably also part of the reason why this movie is often being regarded as the ultimate Dolph Lundgren movie.And this movie also definitely benefits from Lundgren's presence. He's a very charismatic lead, even while he doesn't speak an awful lot. He handles all of the action very well, both the hand to hand combat scenes as the ones in which he has to handle a large gun.The action itself is always something decent enough. Certainly nothing that blew me away but there are still some large setup moments that are great to watch and definitely something the '80's action movie lover should enjoy and appreciate. It's still being a totally silly and overblown action movie of course but if you're able to take it as just that, you'll most likely have a good time watching this movie.6/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Spoilers ahead.","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Spoilers ahead. Do you wish to know why this is one of the worst movies ever produced? Look at who wrote the story and produced the film. No, your eyes are not tricking you. It's the same self-righteous hypocritical right-wing 'fundie' who was recently condemned to jail for corruption. Look at the name of the studio. Look at the name of one of the countries where it was produced, in 1989, before Apartheid was abolished.I am a conservative, in the REAL sense of the word. But this right-wing propaganda is so dismally moronic that I wonder if the kind of talent required to write such trash is also the talent that will make you wildly successful in Washington.Do *NOT* avoid this film. All schoolchildren in America should be forced to watch it in civics classes. It will immunize them for all time against a certain type of propaganda. "},{"Title":"not even worth it for over-the-top Cold War propaganda","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Red Scorpion - produced by Jack Abramoff, formerly one of the top lobbyists in Washington, now a convicted criminal behind bars. At one time, before he reaches his notoriety with his embezzling of Native Americans at their casinos, among many other things, he was into movies, and was also part of the 'Young Republicans', who were, basically, a bunch of right-wing nut-jobs exerting their influence at the tail-end of the Cold War. Also, they were interested in propping up dictators in Africa and elsewhere who happened to be vehemently anti-Communist (that they may have also been totally blood-thirsty maniacs, such as the one Abramoff helped out in Angola, wasn't as much of a concern). I mention this in part as background on this movie, funded by right-wing folks and African heavies, but also that this story- mentioned in the documentary Casino Jack- is much more fascinating than the film itself.This didn't mean I was expecting something truly amazing action-wise, and chances are you aren't (or did not) expect it either. This is a Dolph Lundgren action flick where he comes in like an action figure (just off of playing action figures He-Man and about to be the Punisher) and tears it up where it may lay. It's quite stupid, though not incompetently made as an action movie. It's got a couple of decent character actors, both from Blade Runner, M. Emmett Walsh and Brion James. It's got lots of action, the kind that if you're still hankering for lots of s*** blowing up real good and the death count going past 100 before the 30-minute mark after the Expendables is good enough. Hell, even Lundgren gets to let his action-pecs fly, and it's entertaining in bits to see him do to (these bits are mostly at the climax).But there's little of way of interest past it being a mundane action movie where a) because it's really funded by Americans and meant to be an anti-Commie screed, the Russian killing-machine will be changed after seeing th oppression his people wring on the African tribes, and fights back with them becoming... uh, an oppressor for African dictator rule! Morally the film is confused, unless you are so anti-Commie that you agree with the comic-book aesthetic. But even if one can go into it as a mindless action movie, certain moments (like when Lundgren escapes from the prison which is just one room) don't make sense, and the dialog takes itself too seriously. This should be a lot of fun, not something that makes us think. Lots of crap does blow up real good, and at one point ol' Dolph lifts up a tank. That's about it. "},{"Title":"Last anti-Soviet movie?","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Nowadays it seems to be thought that films in denunciation of other country's contemporary political beliefs and methodology is a bit out of place, that this matters should be discussed in the political sphere. That is, unless we are talking of action films. I won't criticize these anti-'certain political system' nor anti-Soviet in special movies for the sake of being directed this way, as a lot of quite interesting anti-American movies have been made in USSR for example, we have not just Dovzhenko's 'Sumka dipkuryera' but his witty inconcluded satire 'Farewell, America'. But I wonder why low budget action films have amnesty to spread such demagogy as having the 1989 Soviet Union in a genocidal expansionist campaign all over Africa, in what is the most delirious portrait of the Gorbachovian USSR I have ran into.About the film itself, I'll point out that to a certain extent it's a movie channeled by Zito with efficiency and a certain craftsmanship, working in a sober mood even in the most spectacular action scenes. As far as scenics carrying out goes there are some suggestive moments, and some performances, as Carmen Argenziano's turbulent but not histrionic Colonel Zayas are quite compelling. But the script is schematic, the characters developing horribly as relations vary in a trivial way as for resolving the movie in a silly carnival of settlings of scores; I thought the most ridiculous changing allegiances story was Del Ponte's libretto for Mozart's opera 'Die Zauberflöte', but this beats it up...I feel that this movie's handicap is the horrible Robert Abramoff's script, which is a burden for any appealing carrying out of it. Though seeming sympathetic to a such banal script Joseph Zito gives expression to it in a quite imaginative way, but seems unable to do a scarcely convincing film out of such a horribly written script just by working efficiently. By shooting a more sophisticated and subtle one this would have been a quite interesting movie, but with a so gratuitous script 'Red scorpion' stands as a not just mediocre, but ridiculous anti-Soviet argument. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Reagan's America","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film captures the essence of the American experience during the Reagan administration. A time of evil commies, senseless violence and stuff getting blowed up. Seeing this movie gives you a sense of the patriotic glee that was such a big part of life in the 80s. Dolph Lundgren gives a great performance as a soul-searching death machine whose disenchantment with communism leads him on a rampaging kill-o-thon. This was one of many movies with a theme that good Russians can escape a bad Soviet system and become heroes and allies to freedom (so long as they don't run out of bullets). Seeing this movie is like seeing history written with grenades. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"really bad flick!!!","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" It's about right that Jack Abramoff is in prison now, but he should have been jailed a long time ago for making this movie! It's the same old 80's action garbage that every Tom, Dick, and Harry put out to capitalize on the whole Rambo and Terminator idea. Sloppy unoriginal writing and loaded with cliché's. A true BOMB! I feel sorry for anyone who confuses this with either RED DAWN or RED HEAT, both of which are pretty good in comparison. Dolph Lungdren isn't an Accademy Award nominee for this one for sure. He's a poor man's Arnold Shwarzenegger in almost all his flicks, but this performance is especially bad. If you liked his direct to video movies or the ones he made for HBO in the early to mid nineties, you may like this, and your nuts to boot! I voted a 1 out of 10 but only because zero wasn't available as an option. "}{"Title":"Average","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The most distinguishing feature of this is where it was filmed, and, linked to that, the fact that there are actual bush-men in it. Lundgren makes a good enough Rambo-type, one-man-army action flick protagonist, though one has to wonder why this passes on every single opportunity for a one-liner. I do not know enough about Russian to judge his accent or pronunciation, but going by the message boards, it's terrible. The acting is OK. I'm certain I'm not the only who wanted to strangle Walsh every time he opened his mouth; that's not his fault, it's how his role was written. The plot is sufficiently simple. Pacing is acceptable. The explosions, chases, shootouts and fights are reasonably done and entertaining enough, if nothing special. There's a lot of attempts at humor in this... however, only a select few are funny. More typically, it comes off as forced and trying too hard. This is by no means a great piece of work, and if was truly funded by pro-Apartheid military, it basically redefines the term guilty pleasure. There is frequent strong language and a moderate amount of bloody, and occasionally gory, violence. The DVD contains a trailer for this, and one for Blue Jean Cop. I recommend this to fans of those who made it. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Yes, THAT Jack Abramoff","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was produced and written by none other than Jack Abramoff, recently in the news (and in the slammer) due to being convicted of illegal lobbying and fraud. Eventually, two White House officials (J. Steven Griles and David Safavian) and a congressman (Bob Ney) were also convicted in connection with his activities. You can get an accurate feeling for the Rules? What Rules? attitude of Abramoff and his cronies in the Bush White House by watching this bit o' dreck.Although this movie was released during the Reagan Era, when the atmosphere was also Rules? What Rules? - see Iran/Contra, the October Surprise, etc. etc. - the Bush Administration has taken this to new and previously unimagined extremes. I am anxiously awaiting a movie (written by Scooter Libby- or maybe a sequel from Abramoff when he gets out) that captures the zeitgeist of stupidity and arrogance that only a true insider can really know. Team America comes close (America!! F*ck Yeah!!), but it is intended as a comedy. What we have experienced the last seven and a half years is no joke. "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but not what it could have been either","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I remember when Red Scorpion came out & remember thinking then that it basically looked like a Rambo knock off with that guy from ROCKY IV. When I finally saw it years later I was really disappointed. This was obviously a vehicle to propel Lundgren into action super star status the likes of Stallone, Schwarzenneger, or Van Damme. No such luck. In all fairness, it isn't a terrible film though. I just feel that it is not what it was portrayed to be. Take RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART 2 for example. Whether you love it or hate it you have to admit it's full of action from start to finish. There were a number of films that rode in on the coat tails of the Rambo phenomenon that were likewise action packed, like Schwarzenneger's COMMANDO for example. RED SCORPION on the other hand, while it is an action movie, is rather slow moving. Most of the action sequences are at the beginning & the very end, with a nice little moral lesson about doing the right thing set against the back drop of the atrocities of the Soviet/Communist red army. I'm a big fan of the whole one man army style action films like the Rambo movies, COMMANDO, & Segal's UNDER SIEGE films, & unfortunately RED SCORPION just doesn't rank very high on that scale. Many reviewers often take every opportunity to slam Lundgren as an actor, but he's not bad & this film isn't his fault. The story is just lacking & isn't at all what it could have been. "},{"Title":"Just another Lundgren movie","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Dolph Lundgren as a soviet soldier fighting with rebels in Africa. Stupid and a typical Lundgren movie. Starts out as a B-action movie with a mission, turns out that that mission just failed.M.Emmet Walsh as an american reporter is absolutely the best. "},{"Title":"Better dead than red...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" A soviet soldier is sent to assassinate a troublesome African rebel who is causing (never explained)problems for soviets in an unnamed country. Along the way our lunkheaded hero sees the error of his ways and decides to blow up his former employers. Red Scorpion has managed to come up in discussion, due to it's connection to Jack Abramhoff however even the most curious are well advised to steer clear of this stinker. For one there is hardly any action and Dolph Lundgren's charisma-less perf is actually one of the film's better qualities. A neat action sequence at the end but the movie is too dull for even people like me. (Lovers of bad action cinema)*1/2 stars out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"One of Dolph's lamer earlier features","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsDirected by Missing In Action's Josepth Zito,this has Lundgren as Russian killing machine Nikolai,sent to Africa to take out an anti-communist rebel leader,only to suffer a conscience attack and take sides with his innocent,poverty stricken targets.Sure,there may be a lot of action packed explosions and gunfights between the middle and the end,but frankly,with a plot this slumberous and tackily put together,even the most dedicated action fan is likely to not care.** "},{"Title":"What part of Dolph Lundgren video did you not understand when you rented this?","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have a special place in my heart for this movie.  OK not really --- but it *does* have FX by Tom Savini and that alone makes it watchable.  And who can resist Blade Runner alumni M. Emmet Walsh AND Brion James --- together again for the first time!  Seriously, a solid actioner with many extra frills to make it worth your while.   "},{"Title":"this probably really was meant to be good but....","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" it was a good idea but everything was done poorly. Apart from the action scenes which is why it gets more than a one. But only barely. The story had no other surprises. The back of the video box basically told you the end, which i should have just read and then put the film good at the beginning, set in the dark explaining the mission. How ever after this it turns to bad. The acting is horribly bad, the American is the only person to deliver half decent lines. I could kill for a bacon cheese burger - that line was delivered classically. The action scenes after are good - until they start killing African villagers. Only Hollywood could imagine villagers having hugely armoured land rovers. The end battle is outstanding with the American again being the highlight. son of a bitch! after his car is hit was another classic line. all in all this is horrid but the occasional gun fight and car Chase and the American are highlights. but i would not recommend this film. Not one bit. "},{"Title":"Good Action Flick","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the better Dolph Lundgren movies, whom I believe to be one of the most overlooked action stars.  The movie bumps along, but in the end the story hangs together.  Dolph is the king of B action movies, it's disappointing he never got to get a chance to star in a major big budget film. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst film I have seen","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is probably the worst film i have ever seen. All 101 minutes of it. The action is rubbish, the acting even worse and as for the plot, well is there one? Avoid at all costs. Dolph Lundgren should not be counted as an actor he is so awful.The so called story is Dolph Lundgren is a Soviet KGB Agent trained as a deep undercover agent, assigned to infiltrate an African Guerilla Group. Dolph has different ideas after he sees what the Russians (and their Cuban Allies)are doing to the locals. He switches allegiance to the locals against his form employers and helps the rebels fight.An absolute Dud "}{"Title":"Great Action Flick","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow this is one great action flick! Dolph Lundgren takes care of business in Africa...great action and beautiful location. Well worth seeing. I highly reccomend this film to anyone who enjoys action/ adventure films, especially those set in exotic locations. "},{"Title":"Red Scorpion is deeper than any action movie","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Red Scorpion isn't just another dumb, witless, pointless action movie, it goes way deeper than that. It is a story about how even the most inhuman killing machine can see the difference between right and wrong, good and evil. It is in my opinion, a good movie all around.  "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Dolph Lundgren stars as Nikolai a perfect killing machine who is sent to kill an African rebel leader and ends up switching sides after his mission fails in this standard one man army bodycount actioner. Dolph Lundgren more then fills the bill as an action hero but the script is silly and the acting is even worse, however the action is well put together making the movie not a total washout. "},{"Title":"Dolph he's the best! No, hang on, he's abysmal.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Credit given to Red Scorpion for not trying to rise above its station (i.e. brainless action flick packed with random explosions). Credit rapidly withdrawn upon realisation that it's going to be one of those really boring brainless action flicks where almost all of the action and random explosions happen in the last five minutes. I understand now why it took me 12 years to get around to seeing it.Surely the main objective of a film like this is to keep you entertained for a couple of hours with stupidly over-the-top violence and expensive effects... but when you've got a tiny budget, an infuriatingly ponderous director and some of the least charismatic actors in the world, you're basically shafted from the start. Okay, it's got Brion James, but then again so have 75% of all action films ever made. Something like that.And of course the most aggravating thing of all about this film is that it somehow spawned a sequel, which I'm going to have to rent just to find out why. The indignity...  "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had'nt seen this movie in a while until last night and it's cool to see Dolph Lundgren do what he does best... Kick some serious ass!!! He's very good here as a Russian Special forces soldier. Very explosive... Needs to be on a widescreen dvd!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Rocky IV meets Silent Trigger","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you have ever seen Bridge of Dragons or Men of War, Red Scorpion is what both of those movies should have been. This movie is Ivan Drago from Rocky IV combined with the sniper Dolph plays in Silent Trigger.In Red Scorpion Dolph plays a Soviet agent (Nikolai) who has been trained to be a state of art killing machine that follows orders and is ultra loyal to his country. He has been fed propaganda all of his life so he really believes in his country and its leaders. He is sent to Africa to kill the leader of a band of rebels (having been told that they are the bad guys.) Eventually, he realizes he is on the wrong side of this conflict and joins the rebel army. There is a scene where a Bushman rescues Nikolai from certain death in the desert. I think the Bushman character is awesome and actor who plays him is fantastic. He seems so sincere. The whole movie may be more relevant to people who are familiar with Africa, (the Congo/Angola in particular) and the past political situations there. Dolph doesn't really have that many lines, however, he does deliver the action and convey the emotions. His costars (the guys who play the bushman, one of the rebel leaders and a reporter) are excellent. "},{"Title":" Great Great Great Action Movie.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great Great Great Action Movie! This is an amazingly relevant  movie in that, although it's set in Africa, it deals with the morality of commitment and war in general.  Red Scorpion is smarter and more moving than all the rest , while masquerading as just another Lundgren action flick.  Great!!! "},{"Title":"One of the most touching movies ever made","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This awesome movie featuring one of my all-time favorite actor, Dolph Lundgren is simply the greatest actor of the 80s and 90s. He should have been doing some Andy Sidaris films with chicks like Julie Strain, Anna Nicole Smith or hardcore movies with Jenna Jameson. Well back to this Red Scorpion movie. The acting is excellent, all the scenes are well made. The only thing that this movie don't have is one good lead actress, just imagine how perfect this film would be with Jenna Jameson. Well, all the movie can't be as good as Dangerous Tides or Skyscraper. Here is the story thanks to SgtSP.A Russian KGB agent is sent to Africa to kill an anti-Communist black revolutionary. However, he has a change of heart when he sees how the Russians and their Cuban allies are killing and repressing the locals, so he switches sides and helps the rebels.The final scene is a historic scene is cinema history, a must-see for any movie buffs. Get the DVD. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think this was one of Dolph's better movies. It does a pretty good job of representing the factions in Angola. It has a solid plot.  Red Scorpion does what its supposed to do, which is make Dolph the savior of the people in Angola while showing off his body. Its unrealistic that one man is going to come along and single handedly end a war thats been going on for years (especially in Africa) but thats why its only a movie. "},{"Title":"Poorly credited I think - Why?","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hi all, first off, this movie is not so bad after all when all comes around. This was one in the first row of movies that he did, so he could not possible had gone from newbie to pro that fast. That's one reason, the other is the script that lacks dialogues, comments every here and there in the movie.Another thing that you must bare in mind. Take a look at the year it was made... 1989, ok, so it's the late 80's, but then again. How many movies do you remember that were worse than this, vs. better? This movie is from the time all other movies had hollywood- tires in the sand wich made screeches when they did a hard turn to the right or so.Film-companies almost compedited for whom would be first out with a action- packed movie.I could go on and on, but I'm to tired.In short Dolph Lundgren have almost all the time gotten many wrong parts, but this one was not such a bad choice he made. He has talents for anyone who's a good chooser of talents. In many many cases, it's the script that pretty detailed describes for the actors how they'll behave infront of the camera. Dolph is a good camerafigure, too bad he's as I said, gotten too many bad roles just to make a movie almost worth watching.I sure hope some of the big movie giants will pick him up and give him the credits he deserves! Go sweden! "}]