[{"Title":"Forgotten cult classics #5","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dr. West and Dr. Cain strike back again! This film is very similar to Frank Basket Case Henenlotter´s Frankenhooker, but obviously shot with a higher budget and a more elaborated story. It never reached the status from its predecessor, the unique Re-Animator directed by Stuart Gordon, but it´s worth to be watched in any case! Especially Dr. West´s weird creatures like four spider-looking combined fingers, a strange symbiosis between arm and foot, and a dog whose leg was replaced by a human arm make Bride of Re-Animator being a bizarre pleasure! At the end Dr. Hill and some creepy zombie maniacs storm the laboratory and destroy the property. Dr. West seems to be dead, but recently I read on IMDb about the production of Beyond Re-Animator - starring Bruce Abott and Jeffrey Combs... "},{"Title":"Very decent sequel to an absolute horror favorite","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's very hard to make a sequel to an absolute masterpiece that can live up to the original. Let us not forget how bad the Exorcist II and the Howling II were. Like the previous titles mentioned, Stuart Gordon's Re-Animator is a true classic in the field of horror, so I was very careful with my expectations towards this film. Yet, several elements showed that it could be a very good film. Jeffrey Combs returned as his memorable Dr. West character and also Dan Cain and Carl Hill are present again. ( well, at least his head is... ) Brian Yuzna took the seat of the director. Good sign, I thought. He knows what he does when it comes to horror. And this film proved itself to be good. It can never reach the level of the original but the complete cast and crew seems to realize that. They just tried to make a sequel worth watching and in that viewing... they succeeded.TINY SPOILERS FROM HERE ... Dr. West is even more fantastic ( and that means more crazy - ) to achieve his discovery of re-animating dead bodies. He keeps convincing Dr. Dan Cain to assist him by claiming he can bring back Megan to live ( Dr. Cains love interest from the first film ) West found Megan's hart in the hospital and they shall create a new woman with it. Great !!! Also, the head of the infamous Dr. Carl Hill gets re-animated and he's only after one thing. Nail Dr. West and avenge his dissection ! By this he gets assisted by another doctor. Thing are even getting more difficult for Dr. West when a fanatic detective follows him around... The bride of Re-Animator (a clean tribute to Frankenstein) is 90 minutes of pure fun. Horrorfans won't be disappointed at all. It's a logical sequel to the original, but also a film that could stand to itself. As far as sequels go, this is a good effort. Now, after 13 years a second sequel is about to come. Beyond Re-Animator ( also directed by Yuzna and starring Combs ) is claimed to be a worthy addition to the series as well. I haven't seen it yet but I sure will when I get the chance. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Peru, Dr. Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) and Dr. Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) are medical volunteers in a civil war with the assistant Francesca Danelli (Fabiana Udenio) and they are researching how to create human life from dead tissue using wounded soldiers as guinea pigs. They return to Miskatonic Hospital and Dan treats a terminal patient, Gloria (Kathleen Kinmont), and gets close to her. When the snoopy Lt. Leslie Chapham (Claude Earl Jones) investigates the Miskatonic Massacre, he learns that body parts are missing in the morgue, and Herbert and Dan become his prime suspects. But Herbert kills the lieutenant and revives him with the serum. Meanwhile, Dr. Graves (Mel Stewart) finds the head of Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale) and the green substance that the deceased doctor stole from Herbert, and uses the serum to resurrect Dr. Hill's head. When Gloria dies, Herbert and Dan use her head, with Meg's heart and parts of other women to create the perfect woman. But Lt. Chapham teams up with Dr. Hill to seek revenge against the crazy scientists. Bride of Re-Animator is a great sequel of the cult Re-Animator, with Dr. Herbert West creating some of the most weird and bizarre creatures. The last time I had seen this film was on 23 March 2000 and today I have just seen it again on VHS. The storyline is very similar to Frankenhooker, both films released in the middle of 1990. I really do not know who might have plagiarized who, but either Bride of Re- Animator or Frankenhooker are worthwhile watching. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Noiva do Re-Animator (The Bride of the Re- Animator)Note On 26 June 2015, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Herbert West...At It Again!!!","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" BRIDE OF RE-ANIMATOR is a great, gory, funny, all around fun film. This time, the good doctor decides that re-animating alone just isn't enough, he has to play Dr. Frankenstein and build his own woman!!! (among several other strange creations). BRIDE isn't quite as ground-breaking as the original RE-ANIMATOR, because we've already been prepared (sort-of) by the first film. But BRIDE has all the same sleazy, funny, over-acted elements of the original. Both are excellent films, as far as BEYOND RE-ANIMATOR is concerned - leave that one where it belongs...on the shelf. Not nearly as original, funny, or gory - the whole style of BEYOND just doesn't fit with the first 2 classics, in my opinion. 8/10 for BRIDE!!! "},{"Title":"A good sequel!","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Herbert West and his reluctant sidekick, Dr. Cain, return for another fun, gory round of bringing back the dead in bits and pieces. This time, West cons Cain into an attempt to rebuild his late girlfriend, using her preserved brain and body parts scrounged from the local hospital. From here on in, this film is like a contemporary Bride of Frankenstien, except the special effects (I love the stop-motion eye spider!) are terrific and there's enough gore to please fans. A underrated sequel. See it~ "},{"Title":"A not-so-bad sequel","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr Herbert West and Dr Dean Cain are back to their old ways. West isn't trying to bring back life now- but actually trying to create life from spare body parts. But along the way they have a police inspector snooping around and Dr. Hill is back.This is a reasonably stylish, but crazy sequel to the very good original. Keeping with the tradition of the original it sticks to the black, campy humour we loved and also being soaked in blood & gore.The story is pretty much the same as the original with West's freaks of nature causing havoc again. Though just like the title implies, it parodies the film 'Bride of Frankenstein'- but the repetitiveness' this time really shows throughout the film. It has some plot holes that aren't explained on from that of the first film- but it didn't fault the story, the humour or pace of the film.The director this time around was the producer from the original, Brian Yuzna- he brings some nice added touches and a morbid sense to the film, though it might have been much better if Stuart Gordon held the realm.The performances are good, with the ever-reliable Jeffrey Combs delivering the eccentrically insane Herbert West, Bruce Abbott as the sympathetic Dean Cain, Claude Earl Jones as the mischievous police detective, Fabiana Udenio as Cain's concerned girlfriend Francesca Danelli and finally David Gale as Dr West's Nemesis the deviously evil head (Yep, that's right) of Dr. Carl Hill.The atmosphere is truly stunning- from the dark basement filled with enthusiastic experiments and West's bizarre creations to the coldness of the eerie mortuary and hospital. The cheese ball performances, along with the witty script and dazzling special effects add up to equal a lot of fun.3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Was it necessary to reanimate?","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re -Animator extremely well received (quite rightly so) at the time of issue,still stands as a classic of the horror and fantasy genre.Who cared if it was not faithful to Lovecraft?Were the sixties Corman's movies that much faithful to Edgar Allan Poe?Crazy situations,witty lines,and above all an extraordinary skilled actor,Jeffrey -West,Herbert West-Combs who managed to be at once sinister and hilarious.The sequel is not so exciting;like in most of the follow-ups ,the surprising effect has disappeared.Besides ,the script is too derivative ,borrowing from the bride of Frankenstein (James Whale,1935) and from night of the living dead (Romero,1968).Only Jeffrey Combs remains.They put the weight on him and he carries it honorably.During the cast and credits,we can hear the same music ,which is absolute plagiarismHermann's Psycho. "},{"Title":"Are We Having Fun Yet?","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Herbert West (Jeffrey Coombs) is at it again! Having not learned anything from his experiences in 1985's Re-Animator, the mad scientist continues to simultaneously play both doctor and God. Culling spare body parts from the local university, West promises to his loyal buddy Dan (Bruce Abbott) to restore the love of his life, Megan (who you may remember as being played by Barbara Crampton in the original). It seems Meg's heart continues to beat, and while Dan is distracted by a new love (Fabiana Udenio) and a dying patient (Kathleen Kinmont), Dr. West is determined to re-unite the two lovers by any means necessary because, well, what else are friends for? Taking the reigns from director Stuart Gordon, Brian Yuzna (Return Of The Living Dead III) has his work cut out for him. Following up a certified cult-classic such as Re-Animator is no easy task, and yet Yuzna's follow-up, Bride Of Re-Animator, works hard to maintain the same level of zany good times as delivered by its predecessor. Retaining the pitch-black humor of the original almost to a fault, Yuzna's film is steeped in tragedy, revenge and outright insanity. Coombs is in top form as Dr. Herbert West, while Abbott is admittedly given little to do beyond tearing himself between his various loves. No matter, because the film is endlessly entertaining and utterly twisted. The special effects are quite the spectacle unto themselves, boiling over into a wacky and truly delicious final act.If there's one gripe to be had with Bride it's that the film lacks a cohesive pace. More often than not, story is forsaken for the sake of various undead antics and shenanigans (see the wife-beating detective hot on Dr. West and Dan's trail for reference). Sometimes the film tries a little too hard perhaps, but that's part of its charm. It's all or nothing with Yuzna, and his hyped-up take on H.P. Lovecraft's mythology does not disappoint. Those seeking a gloriously gory and at times touching horror story would do well to find themselves hitched to Bride Of Re-Animator. "},{"Title":"there's a bit of bridal tension","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How did these boys get jobs at the hospital? Just how many deaths do you have to cause in Arkum to mess up your resume? Bride of Re-Animator isn't as good as the first, but it has the same feeling, the same dark humor. It owes as much to Bride of Frankenstein as it does to Re-Animator, and that's pretty good parentage. Jeffrey Combs is once again the standout followed by some wonderful monsters (four fingers, a thumb, and an eye wired together would make a pretty good pet).My God! They're using tools! With one line, Jeffrey Combs sweeps in and rescues this whole movie. Okay, Combs has all the good lines, and without him, this would be a sad little sequel. Bruce Abbott still can't act, Udenio (who made her debut in Passion Flower Hotel) is no Babs Crampton, and even David Gale's talents are underused, since we only get to see him from the neck up - though I was amused to see where his character went, given Herbert West's comment in the original film. Plotwise, no attempt is made to explain how Dr West (Combs) escaped in the original movie; we first see him and reluctant partner Cain (Abbott) in a Peruvian civil war, for no readily apparent reason. Soon, they're back in the US of A, continuing their experiments while a local cop, investigating the Miskatonic Massacre, closes in.Far too obviously, this aims for Bride of Frankenstein, but watching West wax lyrical as he flies into delusions of god-hood covers a great deal of weakness. The effects are nicely done too, though the idea they can now re-animate anything, is only used to a fraction of its potential. Their integration into the storyline...well, they aren't. Everything moves in a herky-jerky fashion towards an impressively excessive climax, largely failing to build upon the original, or even re-invent it, and even Danny Elfman's songs seem like they were tossed off over a wet weekend. However, no film can be entirely condemned with speeches such as, The only blasphemy is to wallow in in-SIG-nif-i-cance!, uttered by a B-master like Combs. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and gory but missing something from the original","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Crazy Herbert West (Combs) and sidekick Doctor Dan Cain (Abbott) have volunteered to be peace corp. doctors in South America where they discover their serum can create life not just reanimate it. Ten months after the Massacre at the University, West and Cain return with a nosy detective (Jones) with a grudge begins to investigate the duo. Of course the whacked out West has been experimenting with dead body parts from the cemetery which is right next to the former morgue that West and Cain are using as a lab. Eventually West sets out to create life in the basement while constructing the Bride. Crossing a line that every doctor shouldn't, Cain agrees to help West because he plans to use the heart of his dead girlfriend from the first film. In the meantime, Dr, Hill (David Gale) has been reanimated by a doctor (Mel Stewart) who has sewn on bat wings to his severed head. Still obsessed with revenge on West, Hill's head plans some surprises for West and Cain. This crazy follow up to the surprise 1985 Gore hit is executed by the first films producer Brain Yuzna who also co-wrote. Trying to hit on all the same points the original had, Yuzna delivers the expected excessive gore, mixed with plenty of black humor and one-liners. Some of the humor this time is pushed a little too far out ahead and at times this feels like a dark comedy. The returning Combs and Abbott are solid as West and Cain and it is nice to see the further exploits of these two characters. Fans of the first film will probably enjoy this, but sadly this sequel is missing the tension of the first film and it really doesn't have anything new to offer that hasn't already been done in the original. Where this film amuses and entertains, the original also shocked and scared you at the same time. The slick production and crazy finale with West's body experiments getting loose make this a watchable sequel. "}{"Title":"Now this is how you make a sequel!","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eight months after the original Miskatonic university massacre, Doctors Dan Caine & Herbert The Re-animator West, continue on their research in bringing the dead back to life, despite the nasty side effects their subjects have had, when they return back from the grave. After leaving a war torn Peru, they return to the U.S. to continue their experiments, only this time they want to make life & decide to construct a human being taken from spare parts they steal from the morgue, which is quiet easy for them to have access to, since they both have internships at the Miskatonic hospital. They assemble a series of body parts & the heart of Dan's former girlfriend (Meg from the first film) included for good measure. But when the evil Dr. Hill is resurrected by another doctor, curious about the re-animating formula he has found, he seeks revenge on the pair of doctors, aided by several messy corpses & soon the boys good intentions & keeping things under control this time, naturally get well out of hand in true Re-Animator fashion. BRIDE OF THE RE-ANIMATOR is a wild, gruesome, hilarious, scary & thought provoking black comedy/horror film sequel, that comes close to matching the originals outrageous style! The film is really a modern day remake of THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, since there's way to much here to make it so. Herbert West's work is to similar to that of Dr. Frankenstien's in the black & white classic & like in that film, THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTIEN, the Bride is not unveiled or let loose until the end, in an ending which despite some outrageous touches, mirrors that films ending almost exactly, as well as repeating the very same climax almost scene for scene, of the original 1985 RE-ANIMATOR. The special effects are very well done, if not messy (but in a good way) in fact BRIDE OF RE-ANIMATOR has some of the best special effects artists on hand, that most horror movie film-makers would kill for, K.N.B./SCREAMING MAD GEORGE with some pretty impressive stop motion animation by the late David Allen. The special effects are really highlight here, with mismatched (& re-attached) severed fingers, arms & legs combinations, severed heads attached to bat wings & at it's most outrageous, an eye & finger attachment that roams all over the house the men are staying at. Not to mention a dead poodle with a severed human arm attached where it's missing paw should be & in my all time favourite sequence, Dr. West tickling the severed foot of a woman thats attached to a man's hand at the end of it, only for it to turn savage & attack him! Of course the remaining surviving zombies at the end of the first film & a whole cemetery of corpses that come to life crash the mansion the doctors are staying at to take part in the gory goods at the climax, roaming all over the place. The Brides dissected body is also shown in amazing detail. With Herbert pulling on the tendons, like one would with a pair of puppet strings, to get the fingers on the arm to work & Herbert severing the chest open in bloody detail in order to remove the heart of the now dead patient, who's body will be used for the grisly experiment. The acting is again a major helping hand to the films production & the direction by BRIAN YUZNA (who produced the first film) is superb. That said I did have a few things to pick on here. I think my main problem is with the late David Gale returning as the sinister mind controlling DR. HILL, having been rescued from a side show (ironically enough that's where Dr. West told his re-animated corpse that that would be a more fitting place for him in the first film) & his plot to destroy Dr. West for doing what he did to him in the first. I just thought the film could have done without him. Now don't get me wrong, I loved Gale's performance, he was a fantastic actor & is sorely missed, but this plot point is poorly fleshed out & could so easily have been written out of the script, simply because Gale is seen in the film very little & is mostly confined to a table before letting loose to confront West in two very brief sequences at the climax. The confrontation between the two is a major letdown & certainly not what the film was building it up to be. In fact, it's almost as if the film-makers had no idea where to take this plot thread & just quickly wrote down a couple of poorly done confrontations in the hopes that fans wouldn't notice. I was expecting something so much better than what we got here & the film never does answer as to how Dr. Hills severed head is now intact, considering it was squashed to pieces at the end of the last movie (here there's only a small crush at the side of the head), in fact they could have written this little subplot out of the movie & they would still have a movie! & the film never does answer the question to how West survived, when the corpses swarmed around him & looks to have killed him at the climax of the first film. The set design is good & eerie, but in truth the film never really does come alive (no pun intended) until the climax, which is where the film serves it's over the top gory goods. The film also has plenty of off the wall moments to satisfy horror movie geeks & those who enjoyed (& could stomach) the original blood fest should definitely check this out. It's not as over the top as it's predecessor, but this is an absolute must see! Followed by BEYOND RE-ANIMATOR**** stars "},{"Title":"Are you telling me they're not dead?","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great sequel to a great movie.The scenario in this movie is slightly different than the first one. The movie starts off 8 Months after the Miskatonic Massacre, the beginning takes place in Peru where a civil war is raging on. Herbert West and Dan Cain are volunteered medics there, helping wounded soldiers. It doesn't take long before West is back to his old tricks again. An allied soldier is on an operating table in a tent and Herbert and Dan are attempting to save him, he passes away but Herbert manages to bring him back right before shooting him in the face. As the allies retreat, Dan and Herbert are attacked by some soldiers but does that stop West? Hell noThey return to Miskatonic where Dan is treating a cancer patient, Gloria. And life seems to be going on normally despite a massacre occurring only months earlier. That is, until Lt. Leslie Chapham(played by Claude Earl Jones) arrives. Chapham informs Dr. Graves (another doctor who works at Miskatonic) that the investigation of the Miskatonic Massacre is still under investigation. He brings along with him the head of Dr. Carl Hill (who was found in a side-show, a reference to West's advice in the first movie Get a job in a side-show). Soon, an Italian woman who had assisted West and Cain in Peru, Fancesca Danelli shows up and falls in love with Dan. However, as we all know from the previous movie, Dan can never have anything good in his life without it being destroyed.Hill's head is soon re-animated and he is back to his old tricks again. And of course West is back to his tricks as well, experimenting re-animating various body-parts and whatnot. Lt. Chapham pays West a visit one night while Dan and Francesca are otherwise occupied and attempts to attack West, who informs him that he is suspected of killing his wife. West kills Chapham and brings him back...BIG MISTAKE.Hill is also given bat wings...another big mistake.West and Dan have used body parts of different people to create the perfect bride. Using Gloria's head, Meg Halsey's heart, and various other parts from other women.Soon another massacre takes place under the cemetery, the re-animated corpses, Chapham, the bride, Hill, and all of West's experiments are involved. Well, I wont give every every last thing that happensThis movie is a must for fans of the first one "},{"Title":"Underrated Follow-Up","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I did not start watching this with the highest of expectations. I am sure that many of you did not/will not as well. There were two main reasons for me1. Its a sequelGenerally, sequels are a bad re-hash of the first, or some misguided attempt to bring the story and characters to a new setting. This movie is neither, instead we get a (semi) natural continuation of the first film, which attempts to slip in more of the original Lovecraft Novella, which ultimately, neither film lives up to. Sure, characters that had little to no hope for life return with out a bat of the camera's eye, but this is a horror-comedy people, not The Godfather Part II type of sequel, and I'm willing to ignore this to an extent. it never got on my nerves, anyway. Escapes the horror movie sequel trap quite well.2. Bad ReviewsFor some reason, this has terrible reviews most places, while the first film is praised and given **** and ***** star ratings, this puppy is tossed into the worth a rental for genre fans bin, with nothing above a ** rating in any professional reviewers opinion. This is really a shame, although I do admit, if you are not a fan of the first film you probably may as well skip this one. I also strongly recommend that those of you who have not seen Re-Animator backtrack and watch it first, as it definitely would (or maybe I should say should) heighten your enjoyment level of this film.Bride of Re-Animator is an excellent chunk of horror-comedy, which gets over looked when standing next to its beefy pappy. Personally, I found that elements of the film surpassed the first, atmosphere and gore f/x being the most clear ones. I really have to hand it to the f/x design team, because this is currently one of my favorite horror films as far as creatures. The many experiments highlight the film when ever they appear, and the Bride herself is an excellent piece of gore design.As far as the atmosphere goes, it is surely darker then its predecessor in this respect. Perhaps only the climax of the film truly shows the best aspects, as for the most part it reflects a similar attitude to Re-Animator, if slightly watered down. However, at the end we are treated to multi-colored lighting, fantastic zombies, smoke and some well used gauze, used to invoke the dress of the Bride in Bride of Frankenstein. Not to mention the earlier stated creature effects.At any rate, this is a very worthy follow-up to a horror classic. Perhaps the script is not as strong, the quotable lines fewer and farer between and supporting characters more forgettable. But admit at least, nay-sayers, that if nothing else you loved it when Dr. West yelled My God! They're using tools!7/10 "},{"Title":"A little weak, but some novel moments.","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-animator was not a high-quality movie, but it didn't really have to be to be enjoyable. The sequel, however, feels substantially less inspired and the low production values aren't as charmingly forgivable.Dr. Hill is once again the villain, but there doesn't seem to be much of a threat and his interactions with Dr. Graves are pretty hokey and boring.Bride did have its moments, though. When I think of the term reanimation I think of bringing any old thing to life, not just raising corpses. Hopefully this isn't much of a plot point, but in this movie West can animate body parts, not just bodies, and that makes the horror science feel more fresh and freaky.Biggest Flaw Not providing any resolution or explanation for the previous film's ending (for both West and Meg). "},{"Title":"Poor re-animator...","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sick and bad! Only to satisfy meat-loversTRUE SPOILERS I've never been re-animator's fan, but after Stuart Gordon's masterpiece, Bride of re-animator is more than disappointing. There's no script and plot either at all. That's why Yuzna just uses endless bunch of special make-up as red herring. Have you ever compared Hellraiser 2 with 1st Hellraiser? This is just the same. Bad, really bad. West and Caine use the basement of a house by the cemetery as a lab. Nothing new really goes on the whole movie besides what we already expect to happen. Everything's too slow. In the end there's no culmination. Just an army of living dead raising as the beauty bride of re-animator breaks the capsule with reagent and it spreads to the other side of the wall between the lab and the crypt. Terror to watch! The only good part is the one shutting talking cut-off head with apple. 2 out of 10. Nothing to recommend! Third re-animator is much better than this one. And this is Yuzna's worst movie. Almost as bad as it gets! Sorry! "},{"Title":"A Fine Boy Gives Girl Life Flick","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This reworking of The Bride Of Frankenstein does not match the original Re-Animator, however it is still a very watchable film. Director Brian Yukuza gathered together most of the cast of the original to make this more gory sequel. The film, to its credit, has several storylines including Dan Cain's attempts to revive his old-girlfriend and Herbert West's desire to fuse body parts into new grotesque combinations. Both continue to use West's glowing green slime. Furthermore, a renegade cop is after this dynamic duo; suspecting them of the hospital massacre at the end of the first film. Oh ya, Dr. Hill is back too... he - predictably - wants revenge. Unfortunately the film's juggling of these various plots results in several shotgun blast sized plot holes. Oh well, the final 30 min. is really good, although the conclusion is somewhat weak. In the years following two similar themed, though better, films have been made Frankenhooker & The Bride Of Chucky. Skeeter says check them out - and gives Bride of the Re-Animator 7 for 10. Oh ya, by the way, in this one there is no head giving head.  "},{"Title":"And Then There Was a Sequel","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Doctors Herbert West and Dan Cain discover the secret to creating human life and proceed to create a perfect woman from dead tissue.You might think this sequel has nothing to do with the original story, but you would be wrong. The plot roughly follows episodes V. The Horror from the Shadows and VI. The Tomb-Legions of the original. You might wonder why actress Barbara Crampton did not come back for the sequel. She said in an interview that her agent convinced her not to take a cameo appearance, as he felt that it was beneath her to have such a small role.Now, beneath her or not, this is not a great film. Of the three Re-Animator films, you really only need to see the first. The second (this one) is a lot of rehash and seems thrown together. And the third one... well, what the heck? If you want to pretend no sequels exist, you might be better off.Despite this being a bit of a dud, Arrow Video has gone all out, releasing a double-disc blu-ray loaded with special features. And why not? Good or bad, it is always nice to hear from Jeffrey Combs and Brian Yuzna about the creation process. "},{"Title":"And God created woman...","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eight months after the medical facility massacre, the victims of that atrocity aren't quite dead. Neither are the perpetrators Dr Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) is still opportunistically snatching the recently-deceased for his experiments, while Dr Carl Hill (David Gale) is still a talking head, and he's looking for a spare set of bat-wings to sew to his temples so that he can fly.Welcome back to the unique world of Re-Animator, where Lovecraft meets splatterhouse. While dispensing with any sense of plot or character logic, this sequel retains much of the original's sense of humour, as well as that gaudy expressionist style. Brian Yuzna, producer on the first film, is promoted to director duties.Bride plays to the series' strengths imaginative gore, the madness of West, and the feeble reluctance of his partner in crime, Dr Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott). The latter is broken by grief and he's desperate to resurrect his expired ex-girlfriend. There's no replacement for that relationship. The subplot involving Francesca (Fabiana Udenio), Dan's new admirer, never rings true. Why she keeps coming back to him after witnessing such horrors is anyone's guess.But what magnificent horrors! Virtually every combination of a limb and organ is spliced in West's lab (situated directly adjacent to a crypt, naturally). My personal favourite is an eyeball connected to a set of scuttling fingers. The final sequence gives us a gobsmacking carnival of the grotesque where makeup maestro Screaming Mad George lets his deformed children literally run riot. The Bride herself is a fantastic, tragic FX creation.Does any of it make a lick of sense as a story? Hell no, but who the hell cares. This is the Jeffrey Combs show, and he's given a series of bonkers speeches where he espouses the value of creating life from the cast-off remnants of a meaningless existence. For West, humankind is so flawed, and life is so cheap, that meaning is only achievable through reconstruction.Clearly Bride of Re-Animator is essential viewing for fans of the original yearning for more of the same. Whether in its R-rated or Unrated guise (both 2K in the Arrow Video boxset), the movie is no revolution &#x96; it's barely an evolution &#x96; but it's full of humour and caricature and gruesome imagination. Recommended for gorehounds with a funny bone. "},{"Title":"Silly and badly made","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silly and badly made.The original Re-Animator was a mixed bag. It started well and was even plausible for a while. From a point, however, the plot lost focus and goes from silly to ridiculous and cheesy.Bride of Re-Animator pretty much picks up where Re-Animator left off. That is, plausible, focused plot has been dispensed with and it is in Stupid mode, from Minute 1. Production values are as bad as Re-Animator, if not worse. Bad sound quality, bad synching of sound with video, very cheap props.Really nothing to recommend about Bride of Re-Animator, except the appearance of Fabiana Udenio... "},{"Title":"I am fan","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first time saw ratings and reviews for Bride of Re-Animator I thought to myself I don't want to destroy my love for this movie, so better not watch it... But this movie have again and again coming back, that way or another...So I got excited more and more to watch it but still got mental aversion, that blocked me from watching it...until one day I got this realization ;  Why should I base my life on other people opinions which keep on changing anyway! What is nectar for some might be poison for someone else ! So with mind free from society programing I watched the movie and ..... saw absolutely no flaws ! Movie is more refined, more sophisticated if U want, than Re.Animator, but its certainly not inferior in any way. Its more mature, more colorful and more funny and actually I like more this movie.... Cain love interest is this time truly gorgeous and much more mature..... Dr. West is perfect as before ! I am not very good with words and reviews  This is actually all that I wanna to say/write  This movie ratings are very much underrated and I don't know why they don't give it same level praise or even more than first movie, I think we should ,we really should, we really really should, should...should.....shooould ! "}{"Title":"Another reanimated mess, miskatonic style","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those two delinquent doctors are back, the ever brilliant Herbert West and his promising protégé, Dan Cain where these two get bloody again, in the sequel to the 86 horror hit. This time Dan's suckered in again, by his bad influence of a partner (Combs, again relishing in the role he was born to play, and doesn't slack in his performance) to create a living bride out of body parts. Cain, poses an interesting and candid question of painful reality to West, Is this why we became doctors?. You might of kind of find yourself losing grips with the plot, not the clearest. Eye candy honey, Kathleen Kinmont is one patient that passes, early in the pic, so add the dots to what happens when she does, and she's not the first. There are too much happenings on, where we are clouded to the following of story, but we have some new faces, like a pushy and over curious cop, and a young nutty morgue attendant. There are surprisingly good performances by all and Combs again delivers some killer lines, brilliantly, where his head nemeses from the original is still very much alive, in part. This is actually more gorier than the original, but the violence here isn't graphic or intense, as in that first one, where the movie came with a cautioned warning for those with not the strongest of stomachs. You might think I have it in for the Re animator movies. I just think here plot wise, the story falls wearied, where in the original, there wasn't enough plot to carry the movie off, even though the crazed and nightmarish situations made the original fun. Though if you're a Re Animator fan, you'll like this one, of course like a lot of other people I gather, I'd rather opt for the first. Followed by another sequel, if you're interested. I bet you Re Animator fans are. "},{"Title":"just watch it for the effects","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sequel remind me a bit of what happened with The Evil Dead franchise. The first part was all about the horror and gore like Re-Animator (1985). What came after part one was more about black comedy and some stupid situations. And that's exactly what we get here. Still it's worth seeing for the effects used, but the story itself was a bit laughable and sometimes it's rather funny then horrific. But it's again the effects that raise this flick to a worth seeing. It surely isn't a classic for me. But when the 'bride' destroy itself this is a must see. The version I have seen was on Blu Ray and full uncut. It's clear that you can see were they used old VHS pieces to make it uncut but it didn't bother me because those parts were mostly the gory parts.Jeffery Combs is again convincing as Dr West and the severed head of Dr Hill (David Gale) is well done with to say the least, an easy effect. I'm more into Re-Animator then it's Bride version but it's again full of gore, a must see.Gore 2,5/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 4/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0,5/5 "},{"Title":"Watchable, though not necessary.","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a severe drop in quality in comparison to the first film. This one still has the gore and is essentially more of the same, just less interesting and little more boring. Jefferey Combs is a pleasure and he carries the movie when it starts to get tedious.The ending has an interesting scene but I just can't help but see this film as largely tedious and not near the classic that its predecessor remains to this day.Watch the original and then if you happen to have access to this, throw it in. I would suggest borrowing it from a friend because you probably won't watch it more than once. "},{"Title":"A great sequel and classic horror film!!!","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Granted, it wasn't as amazing as the first film (but few are), however, all-in-all it was an awesome movie! The Dr. West character is one of my favorite horror movie characters of all time! I love how maniacal and crazy he is while at the same time maintaining that intelligent and calm demeanor. He definitely makes the movie.There's just one thing that I will never understand about these movies Why do they keep re animating people when they know full well they are going to come back to life crazy and homicidal? I mean, Dr. West and Dan always seem so surprised after the re animated subject awakes in a violent rage and attacks them. It happens every time, so I don't quite get their reactions.That aside, these movies are great. "},{"Title":"Herbert West Is Back... And How!","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stuart Gordon's Re-Animator of 1985 is an absolute Horror/Gore/Satire classic that no Horror buff could possibly afford to miss. While Brian Yuzna's 1990 sequel Bride Of Re-Animator could not have possibly become as great a masterpiece as its predecessor, the film is doubtlessly a gory, weird, hilarious and downright great follow-up to what is quite possibly the greatest Horror-Comedy in the history of motion pictures. Ultra-gory, macabre, and hilarious as it gets, Bride Of Re-Animator is everything one could possibly desire in a sequel. The title, is, of course, a reference to James Whale's masterpiece Bride Of Frankenstein (1935), and the film can indeed be seen as a tribute to the Classic Universal Horror milestone. Bride Of Frankenstein is one of the greatest Horror films ever made - and one of the saddest. Re-Animator is doubtlessly one of the funniest Horror films ever made. A Re-Animator sequel which is, in many aspects, a tribute to Bride Of Frankenstein - can the premise of a film be more promising for a Horror fan? I think not.*** Warning! SPOILERS ahead!*** Several years have obviously gone by since the events in Re-Animator. Dr. Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) is more dedicated than ever to re-create life. And Dr. Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) is assisting his obsessed colleague - mainly with the intention to give new life to his beloved deceased girlfriend Meg (Barbara Crampton). The two have never stopped to re-animate the dead, and Herbert West has the idea to create a new human being out of dead tissue...What follows is extremely gory fun. The film is just as gory as its predecessor (if not gorier), and, once again, the gore is as brilliantly comical as possibly imaginable. Jeffrey Combs is once again outstanding in the role of Herbert West. Some actors are born to play a certain role, and while Combs is a great actor who has played many other great roles, the obsessed Dr. West is doubtlessly the role of his life. Nobody else could possibly have fit in the role as Combs does, nobody could have played it with such greatness. Bruce Abbott is back in the role of Dan Caine and David Gale (who died only one year later) is once again great as the (re-animated) evil scumbag Dr. Carl Hill. The female cast includes the sexy Fabiana Udeino who is probably best known for her role of Alotta Fagina in Austin Powers. Overall, I don't want to give away too much, but as the title implies, Dr. West creates a woman, and what a woman she is... Bride Of Re-Animator is not quite the masterpiece the original was, but it is doubtlessly a great sequel and a treat for every Horror fan. Do not miss! "},{"Title":"Frankenstein on laughing gasssssss","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Number 2 in the Re-animator series, in my collection called Re-animator 2 &#150; Bride of Re-animator, is a less cool, but cool follow up to its original with Herbert ' Re-animator ' West back in action.A little less strong direction is making this movie weaker than its original which had a feeling of non-stop hilarity. Despite the absurd storyline, keeps holding itself up by a unstoppable mixture of comedy and gore and the viewer entertained.Herbert West and his roommate Dan, have found a new location and trying to bring back Dan's big love Meg in a crazy doctor cellar by using a Frankenstein-rip-body-parts-from-the-hospital type of experiment.Of course, this isn't enough for West, who start to create various undead things calls them misfits and put them behind a wall.The excessive gore is present again for the lovers of blood and guts. The crazy creatures made by Herbert, look surrealistic cool.I really enjoy movies having a not-so-happy ending.Like the first part Meg dies ( cool ) and is injected with the ' neon-greenish Re-animator ' fluid guided by the highly recognizable Re-animator tune.Part 2 ending; Meg is coming back to ' life ', being a disappointment for herself and her creators, she and her lover ' Dan ' are going berserk. YEAH! "},{"Title":"Dr. Hill, the sex symbol","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admit it Between all those great movies with loads of depth, drama, philosophy and genius, I just need a sea of blood on the screen every once in a while. And damn, if the Re-Animator movies don't give me that, what does??? It starts bloody, goes on bloody and ends super-bloody. In fact, it's so bloody, I was laughing more in this film than I was in many comedies. Even tough I liked the first one better, there is this one scene I just couldn't stop guffawing till my voice sounded like a very horny mooseSPOILERWhen Hill has gotten his bat wings installed and became a new airborne terror. I mean, what do you have to smoke to invite such a character? I want letters to that subject! SPOILER HAS ENDEDIn the end, it is a appropriate sequel to the great original and I hope, they really make the House of Re-Animator. These movies found their place in the world of films. "},{"Title":"What a DEAD fit babe! CERT 18","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" YEAH!Here we go again..The door to the gore store is now open as hurbert west returns to create one slick chick.The movie involves all the back to basic sick humor that the original Re-animator charmed us with back in good old 85. I love the Re-animator series as it has a bit of everything in it, Gore, Blood, Sex and real dark characters.All the sick scenes are pulled off with a laugh by Geoffry combs to give you a sense of unease, As if to question yourself if you should really be watching this, But i can't help it as it's too much fun.Great Horror 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bloody as the first but this movie is way underrated!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why don't people think this is a great sequel?  I loved this movie and I know it's not quite as good as the first, it kicks much more ass than most sequels(Scream 2, I still know what you did last summer, Inferno(sequel to Suspiria) and umm... any Nightmare on Elmstreet not called New Nightmare) Go see this if you want to see Herbert West help bring his good friend down the road of madness.  Dr. West in this installment is more jealous than annoyed by his partner's suave ways with the ladies but this is most definitely hella fun.  Dr. Carl Hill is back in the gizame and having a blast... and he doesn't exactly keep his head on straight...  "},{"Title":"My God, they're using tools.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have loved the original Re-Animator since I first saw it as a demented little boy way back in 1986. So naturally, I was quite excited when I got the chance to see the sequel when it premiered on Cinemax in 90 or 91. Although I was satisfied with Bride of Re-Animator when I initially viewed, I some how managed to avoid seeing it again for the next decade. I am not quite sure why that is, especially considering I have been enjoying the original on dvd for quite some time now. Looking back I think it's because I had the realization that, as I have grown older and my tastes have matured, things that were great when I was kid are often terrible these days, rendering films that were merely oky even worse. In other words, I was afraid of watching Bride and just hating, thereby tarnishing the legacy created by the still fabulous original. To get to the point, I recently decided to take a chance and I broke down and bought Bride on dvd. Going into it with my expectations totally lowered (since I couldn't remember much from watching it 10 years prior), I was pleasantly surprised by this worthy sequel to one of my all time favorite horror flicks. Sure, Bride still somewhat pales by comparison, but it would be safe to say that it compares to the original the same way that the competent Halloween 2 stands up to it's classic predecessor. In other words, this isn't a great flick, but much of the magic that made the original work is still here, and the film has a few surprises of it's own. I won't go into the plot because everybody else on here has already explained it, and besides, I find the plot to be one of the areas where Bride is most lacking. I will instead try to concentrate on the things I like about this film, namely, some snappy (and extremely DRY) one-liners, hilariously over-the-top gore effects and another great turn by Jeffrey Combs as the titular re-animator. Bride relies on the mix of outrageous horror and dark comedy that defined the original, this time leaning just a little more towards the comedy side without becoming a parody of the first one. With stronger direction and more a more fleshed-out screenplay, I believe this one could have had the potential to be as good as the original-but who wants to see classic overshadowed? Bride of Re-Animator stands well on it's own and as a nice afterthought to the original it should please most fans. I also highly recommend the feature-loaded dvd release, and although some would argue this film  gets a slightly grander dvd treatment than it deserves, who can really complain about a plethora of special features? "}{"Title":"read the novella","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *spoilers*Bride of Reanimator is a continuation rather than sequel to Reanimator.  It concerns latter events from the Lovecraft story, although such links remain tenuous.  These include the reanimation of separate body parts, the house by the cemetery, and the failed experiments/freaks.  Subtler references are included in the dialogue i.e. keep that cloth away from me and the rats in the walls (the title of another Lovecraft story).Of course the other major literary/cinematic influence is Frankenstein. The doctors create the bride tissue by tissue as in the Shelley novel, not the usual sowing limbs together of most films.The relationship between the two protagonists, West and Cain, and is darker. There are hints of homosexuality and necrophilia.  In the first film West was completely asexual and devoted to science.  He was scornful of Hill's obsession with Megan.  Here the character is more sexually motivated, e.g. he is jealous of Cains success with women.Some of the scientific jargon used is ludicrous. E.g.extracting amniotic fluid from a lizard, which lays eggs and would not contain any.  Also Dr. Graves's lecture linking Creationism and bacterial epidemics.  No wonder Hill was not impressed.The films finale was disappointing in comparison to the book  where West is killed and reanimated by his victims/experiments.  Such an event would pave the way for a true sequel.  "},{"Title":"Great Follow-up to the original","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though Bride of Re-Animator does not match up to the original, it comes quite close. This one strays even more from Lovecraft's original short story, turning more toward Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. It also should be noted that Bride... actually out gores the original, making it a real treat for gore hounds.The plot is as follows Herbert West and Dan Cain have both recuperated from the chaos at the end of the first Re-Animator, and are doing experiments on the dead again. This time, rather than experimenting on whole bodies, they decide to mix and match individual parts, and eventually take on the task of building a women completely out of the parts of various corpses. Unfortunately for the heroes, Dr. Hill is resurrected as a talking head and eventually acquires bat wings to help him deal with mobility problems. There is also a new love interest for Cain (played by the same women who played Alotta Fagina Austin Powers) and a nosy detective who has an idea of what West and Cain are doing.Bride of Re-Animator is much more of a comedy than Re-Animator, which usually works in its favor, but is a detriment in some parts. The actors are mostly from the original and execute their parts nicely. It is the special effects that often times carry the film. These effects, done by the same crew who worked on Evil Dead 2, are really exceptional and help make the movie so enjoyable. Bride... also has a great plot, good directing, and great dialogue. On the down side, the movie does not really pick up until the end and there are too many subplots.Bride of Re-Animator is a great movie for all viewers who can stomach gore. My rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Sequel alert","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This follow-up to Stuart Gordon's cult classic, The Re-Animator pales in comparison.  While the film is certainly not without its moments, particularly during the final act, a muddled script, uninspired direction and some so-so performances all contribute to its downfall.Jeffrey Combs is back as Herbert West and does his usual credible job, but alas, has little to work with.  Fabiana Udenio replaces Barbara Crampton as the love interest and while she may be able to match Barb on the babe scale, her acting talents leave much to be desired.  David Gale rears his severed head once again, and the results are not nearly as satisfying as those infamous head shots in the original.  Worth checking out if you're a fan of the first film (which any horror lover worth his/her salt should be), but don't forget to lower your expectations.  "},{"Title":"top-notch sequel","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes Dr. West is at it again. A top notch sequel that will having you both laughing and going for the barf bags. Re-animator was a top notch horror flick that has everything you could ever ask for including Ah-nold Swartzahoweveryouspell's body-double as a zombie and Bride doesn't disappoint. This one goes for a more Frankenstein type theme - Herbert West discovers that he can revive parts so he decides to take re-animation a step further into creating a life ah yes a woman for the ever smitten Dan Cain using what else but Meg's heart. Dr.Hill reappears ala re-animated head which is a real treat...he even gains some bat wings. Yes thats right Hill's head survives the Miskatonic Massacre along with West- You see Dr.Hill didn't have the guts to kill him. "},{"Title":"&#133;and God created woman&#133;","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's murder! It's blasphemy! It's&#133;it's misogyny!! If ever a single line described an entire movie, that one describes Bride of Re-Animator. Not that it's a direct quote, but close. Dr. Herbert West is back and crazier than ever, having become less of a scientist desperately pursuing work that is highly unethical but which he truly believes can help mankind in the end and more of a mad scientist who just wants to see dead people walking around. In the original film he had a vicious intelligence that made you want to see him succeed in conquering death, but here all he really wants to do is piece pieces of dead people together, pour his chem-light juice on them and watch them walk around. When on earth else would he put some fingers together with an eyeball on top and animate the pieces into a grotesque walking spider?Not that that was entirely unappreciated. I always enjoy comic relief in horror movies, and this one is even campier than its predecessor, which is a camp classic. But when making a sequel to a camp classic, I think it is just a little bit dangerous to take the material even less seriously than the first movie. The zombies are smarter in this one (My god, they're using tools!) and the experiments more extreme, like piecing together a woman from a whole array of parts from half a dozen different people, but it is harder to take Dr. West seriously even as a horror movie scientist when he proudly points at his hideous monster of a creation and mocks what God or woman can produce.The music is still an unveiled rip-off of the Psycho soundtrack, but at least it is kept mostly to the very beginning and very end of the movie, rather than played almost nonstop like it was in the first movie. But what was most irritating was the severed head that kept popping up throughout the movie, talking in a raspy voice which I imagine was meant to be scary but comes off as ridiculous because of the lack of vocal cords, to say nothing of the lack of lungs to push air over them. The goofy, toothy performance was just too much for me. Man, that head would just not go away.The end of the movie turns into a reanimating free-for-all, where all intent on helping mankind by beating death is forgotten in favor of piecing together human body parts in as many different combinations as possible, resulting in things like a man who is nothing but a head, a right arm, a right leg backwards for a left arm, and a breast growing out of his shoulder. It's like a sick version of that head and shoulders thing that Chatterer had been reduced to in Hellraiser Inferno.Anyway, the movie has completely lost direction by this point and become little more than a gory mishmash of the premise that the series was originally based on. Gore fans may get a kick out of that, but I get the feeling that true Re-Animator fans would be offended that the original classic film was reduced to that level. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the first","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's rare that a sequel tops the original, but this one ties to come close.  It also uses the same whimsical music and opening titles of anatomy drawings as the original film did.Starts off 6 months after the first film ended with Drs. West and Cain (once again played by Jeffery Combs & Bruce Abbott) hiding out as medics during a war in South America.  West thinks this is a great place to lie low and continue his experiments after all the heat that was placed on them during the first film.After their quick little South American adventure, they return to Arkham Hospital as if nothing has ever happened.  I can suspend disbelief at this obvious plot hole in the script because it gets better.Gore highlights includeWest re-animating a corpse's eyeball with some fingers and watching it run around the house until a nosy Det. Chapman (Claude Earl Jones) splats it on the couch without realizing it.  Not bad.  Det. Chapman believes West has had something to do with his dead wife coming back to life.  Chapman knows because he's the one who beat her to death to begin with.Dr. Graves (Mel Stewart), Arkham Hospital's new chief pathologist, stumbles onto the purpose of West's green fluid and injects Dr. Hill's head (which has been exhibited for the last 6 months in a circus carnival) with some of the fluid thereby re-animating it.  Hill then gives Graves some instructions that Graves will later regret.Chapman goes down to the basement and after is struggle, is killed by West.  West then re-animates Chapman and Chapman goes wild.  He now looks a lot like his dead-alive wife and attacks West and then Cain, who has gone down there to see what's going on.  West then chops Chapman's arm off and in the process Chapman gets loose.  West then attaches Champan's arm to a dead dog.  Hilarious!West's big project is to sew various female body parts together and create a new 'bride' out of them.  A Frankenstein's monster.  Nice reconstruction scene as Cain and West sew the various body parts together.  It's all done with excellent special effects by Screaming Mad George, who also did the special creature effects for PREDATOR.  In the meantime, Hill instructs Graves to sew bat wings onto his head so he can fly around.  It's really funny and ridiculous as we see this head floating around with wings flapping underneath it.  The zombies from the hospital are then set loose and they go over to West's house and mayhem ensues as they crawl and stammer around all over the place.  The 'bride' comes to life and all kinds of freaky body parts from the graveyard next door come to life about the same time.  We even get some cool effects (again by Screaming Mad George) as the 'brides' body parts don't take and she falls apart with guts falling out of her torso as her head rolls off onto the floor.  Then there's a cave-in and everybody gets buried in the underground tomb.  Well...almost...  You'll have to see what happens next because this is some really over the top stuff!!This is a pretty surprising follow-up to the first film since I was expecting a disaster here, although the Artisan DVD is lacking the extras you'd expect from a sequel like this.  It's also full-screen, non anamorphic without any widescreen option.  Still it's a worthy follow-up to RE-ANINAMATOR that far surpasses the lame-o FRANKENHOOKER which dealt with the same theme and was released around the same time as this one.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Sequel to the great Re-Animator","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) and Dean Cain (Bruce Abbott) are up to their old tricks again--reanimating dead corpses and causing tons of gory fun to ensure.  And the evil, dead Dr. Hill (the late David Gale) is back again too...Strange sequel--for starters West and Hill were dead at the end of the first movie.  In the special DVD edition of this they show there WAS footage shot to explain how they were back--for some reason it never made it into the movie leaving some gaping plot holes.In terms of gore this equals the first one (despite the R rating) with some truly extreme sequences--especially the ending which is drenched in blood.  It also has the pitch black humor of the first...some of it very funny.  But this time around there's just not enough of a plot to fill 90 minutes.  Poor Combs says essentially the same speech about reanimation five times!  And there are just a lot of scenes not necessary to tell the story so the movie moves in fits and stops.Still, it is a lot of fun (if you have a very strong stomach) and Combs is having a whale of a time in his role.  Gale is very underused--but then he was written in at the last minute.So this is a definite must-see for horror fans--just don't expect anything as good as the original.Best line My God!  They're using tools! "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A disappointing followup to one of the very best 80s horror films. Still it's watchable. But you would do better to watch BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN on which it is all too obviously based. Or watch FRANKENHOOKER, which does much more with similar material.  "},{"Title":"Dead Fun (spoiler)","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An interesting film based on the original short story by H.P. Lovecraft and the part one film adaptation. Herbert West returns this time to attempt to create the ultimate super human female, manipulating Dan along the way, with Mel's heart. Herbert disregard's god's flawed creations, allowing no one to stop him, not even the authorities. He kills the living, creating lab rats, to protect his twisted experiments. When he does obtain his goal a certain head gets in the way.  Creative deserving a definite 10/10, the only flaw was the ending, though not enough to extract marks.  "},{"Title":"THE DOCTOR IS BACK...","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most of the original cast is back in this sequel to the cult favorite about re-animating dead tissue...and in this one Dr. West creates a bride of dead parts and tries to animate the parts as one being...with the usual gory and violent results.  Although not as good as the first film, this one is still highly entertaining with interesting effects like a crawling eyeball, and other bizarre delights...you'll just have to see for yourself.  If you liked the first film you'll probably dig this one as well, and I would also recommend this series to fans of THE EVIL DEAD movies, which are  similar in some ways to the two RE-ANIMATOR movies.  "}{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent sequel to the original Re-Animator finds the two guys from part one re-animating a terminally ill woman that they love with terrifying results. Fast paced flick with inventive special effects and a sharp sense of humor is full of original ideas and gruesome detailed death scenes. In some ways better then the original. Rated R; Nudity, Extreme Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Fun but unsatisfying...","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Such a hard act to follow. The original Re-Animator was amazing for two reasons it was a knockout horror flick smack in the middle of the 80's, and it was a knockout horror flick based on the writings of HP Lovecraft. Loaded with daring ideas and sexual energy, it took everyone by surprise. The sequel could have been more of a failure. After all, just the weight of trying to follow such a grand film as the original is daunting. Yuzna and his crew perform admirably, and much of the film is nicely twisted. I especially like Dr. West's couplings of various appendages and organs to make all sorts of weird ambulatory critters. Much of Lovecraft's pulp mechanations (he disliked the finished stories) remain, just as in the first film. Essentially, the grander the experiments West and his colleague contrive, the more costly (and gory)the failure. Screaming Mad George's effects certainly are the highlights. The film moves at a decent clip, but ultimately just can't come together. The humor is far more showy--a bit too much winking and nudging--and detracts from the horror. I would have liked to have seen more hunger in this film, more of a desire to really do a job on the audience. Yuzna and co. make a film that's just a bit too content for my tastes. If you see this flick, by all means check it out. It certainly doesn't fall on its face. The first film just had more of a swagger to it, is all. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but not as demented as the first","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now working for a local hospital, Herbert West and Dan continue their experiments on reanimating dead tissue in order to bring a patient back to life only to run into the same complications as before when the side effects appear.This here was a rather impressive and enjoyable sequel that holds up quite well. Among the better parts to this is the film continuing on nicely from the original in regards to the utterly crazy atmosphere present along the way, which gets plenty of enjoyable elements from that. The main element of their serum again causes this one a lot of fun in the fact that there's no accounting for the fact that the side- effects here are completely overlooked that again provide this one with an array of intriguing creatures and deformities, from the nimble finger-constructed creature, the still-alive disembodied head, numerous reanimated bodies and the flying bat-winged head that appears in the finale which makes for such a great time within this. They remain a heavy part of this up into the finale where it really lets them loose and gets a lot of enjoyable parts here, with the creatures taking on a rather enjoyable series of scenes up-front in selling the detectives' investigation into the two for what happened earlier while also making this one build the film up much as it did before with the crazy creatures getting out of hand and forcing him into a series of rather dubious mind-frames in order to keep it all under wraps as before while staying perfectly in-line with what becomes of the finale. This is where it really lets loose with the demented air of the Frankenstein-like quality of bringing the girlfriend back to life along with the frantic fight with the new girlfriend, a series of fine action set-pieces with the reanimated bodies coming back for revenge and the utter fun of the destruction of the lab caused by the newly revived creatures brought along by the spilled serum that gives this a truly outstanding finale that captures the fun, humor and glee of the original. This also extends to the graphic gore on display which doesn't throw it around as freely but certainly gets as creative with it as the original and along with the frequent nudity all gives this a great mark against the few flaws. The main issue here is that the film just feels too much like a retread of the original with everybody continually trying to bring that back into focus instead of letting the new story breathe. This could've been a lot more fun had it dropped off a lot of the investigation angle covering this, itself the other big issue here since that seems to be it's only purpose anyway other than throwing another body to mangle, and let that time be designated with the two down in the basement getting the creation to work which furthers what the original did and this would've been an even greater one than relying on the past to sell itself. Still, this one is a great deal of fun overall.Rated R Graphic Violence, Continuous Full Nudity, Language, mild drug use and comedic violence against animals. "},{"Title":"Rejects!","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I feel Bride of the Re-Animator gets a bum rap. Sure, it's not as good as it's predecessor, The Re-Animator, but it's a classic! Jeffery Combs as Herbert West, is black comedic genius! Black hearted & ambitiously delusional as ever! It is Combs who drives this film over the top, but he does have help along the way. Most of the great characters are back from the first film, even David Gale as Dr. Carl Hill, is back as a flying bat winged head, a real scene stealer, & a sure knee slapper! Bruce Abbot as Dan Cain plays the straight man again, getting sucked in to Herbet West's maniacal schemes. You'd thought he'd of learned by now, LOL! The special effects are great, as this film is another gorenaza! Especially funny is an eye ball with four fingers attached to it, crawling all over the place, well, until it meets it's demise. The ending is a slam bang freak show of the first order, as Herbert's creations rebel against him, as he screams, rejects at them! Funny stuff! If you have not seen this film, then by all means do so. If you have, but seen the Re-Animator first & thought this film was a waste, then watch this again with no expectations. You just might find this a great re-animation of the first film! "},{"Title":"Don't Revisit this Bride's Head","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where was I? Oh, yeah, 'Bride of Re-Animator' (1/5 Stars) sucked. I mildly was amused and entertained by the first one &#x96; I'd really like to see that one remade &#x96; but this one was a mess. If you're a bigger fan of the original one, I'm sure you'd be best served to end your tastes when the green goo faded out in the first chapter's final shot. Here, we're supposed to assume that the bad-mad West graduated medical school when on the lam from the events in part one and oh, yeah, he didn't die, even though we saw him. No explanation, just deal with that incoherent plot point and get ready for 50 more odd parts thrown together worse than the bride the two non-gay doctor-lovers are trying to make. Skip it. "},{"Title":"Need a doctor?  Call Herbert West","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Good ol' Dr. West (Jeffrey Combs) is at it again with his ever put-upon sidekick Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) re-animating the dead. But Herbert's work takes an odd avenue as he begins to build abnormalities with his famous serum. He ties a leg and arm together and gives life to the strong double appendage. With this new tinkering, Herbert believes he can create the perfect person by piecing together scraps. Dan, amazed by Herbert's brilliance but repulsed by his madness, assists with a high level of reluctance.Herbert is able to persuade Dan to help when he swipes Megan Halsey's (Barbara Crampton, who unfortunately isn't in this film) heart, Dan's long lost love, to be used for his patchwork woman. A couple monkeywrenchs are thrown into their plan when Dr. Hill's severed head (David Gale) seeks revenge on Herbert and Dan's new flame, the tasty Fabiana Udenio, enter the scene.STORY $$$$ (Just as off-the-wall as the original, without the famous severed head fondling Barbara Crampton scene. Herbert's tinkering makes for some unusual abnormalities in his lab. Adding Dr. Hill's head in a cameo was a stroke of brilliance while Dan, just like the original, has conflicts with the work of Dr. West. Good stuff here).ACTING $$$$ (Jeffrey Combs runs away with this role. I can't imagine anyone else in the role of Herbert West. Jeffrey has that bookish, nerdy look about him but he masterfully blends that with his quick-wit and dry sense of humor that makes Herbert West, a deplorable man, an terrific B-film antihero. Bruce Abbott has a little more to do in the first installment and his character isn't expanded upon. Fabiana Udenio is fine as the damsel in distress but her character wasn't nearly as fleshed out as Barbara Crampton's Megan Halsey in the original Re-Animator).NUDITY $$ (Not on the same level as the original either. The buxom Kathleen Kinmont bares her breasts but she plays a dying hospital patient and thus isn't that appealing in this role. Fabiana has a bedroom tryst with lucky Dr. Dan but her naughty bits are covered throughout). "},{"Title":"Everyone's favourite Reanimator is back","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Herbert West is back with long suffering partner in reanimation Doctor Cain.This time they are attempting to reanimate Cain's deceased girlfriend, from the first movie, by creating a 'Frankenstein' woman and inserting her heart into the carcass. By injecting the brain stem of the whole construct the plan is that she'll be brought miraculously back to life. Inevitably, it ain't as simple as that.Some great effects, more comedy than in the first one of the blackened variety - think Evil Dead 2 and you'll be in the right area tone wise - and a crazed finale.This is a fine sequel. "},{"Title":"At least it has a talking head","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie got a big chuckle out of me early on. Why the hell is Herbert West still working in the same hospital? You'd think doing highly illegal experiments and causing a gruesome bloodbath would be bad for your public relations, but no, all is forgiven. So naturally, after dodging that bullet, he starts doing the same experiments all over again. What a tool. So he creates more super-natural corpses, they want to kill people, and somehow our doctor seems surprised by that. Dude, the exact same thing happened in the first one. I know you changed the formula a tiny bit, but you still really suck for doing this. Anyway, Brian Yuzna is quite clearly not Stuart Gordon, but he does what he can. He even spoils us by bringing in a character that's essentially a head with bat wings attached to it. How cool is that guy? These effects are actually quite good I must say, considering the budget that was involved, they make some parts a lot of fun. One killjoy though is an annoying subplot involving West's trusty sidekick and his love interest who sadly sticks around because of importance to the plot. The ending isn't very satisfying either. That doesn't ruin the movie, but it doesn't help it either. It's a decent sequel I guess. "},{"Title":"Failed re-animation","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will not be shackled by the failures of your God. Thus says mad genius Dr. Herbert West, who is back along with partner Dan Cain - only this time, they're creating life.The story involves West (Jeffrey Combs) and Cain (Bruce Abbott) returning from war in Peru. After much research, West has finally discovered the secret to creating human life, and using Cain's lust for a mate as motivation, he proceeds to attempt to make Dan a bride from dead tissue. Naturally, there's also a few re-animated freaks who survived the first film, along with a suspicious detective (Claude Earl Jones) and West's nemesis, Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale), who's still a no-body. Get it? A-ha-ha-ha...First of all, let me say I was a serious fan of the original Re-Animator, thus I had no problem with buying a sequel that has a very bad reputation. Well, I can only say Bride lives up to its reputation. It has nothing whatsoever to do with any of H.P. Lovecraft's works, however it does borrow a few elements from his tale Herbert West -- Re-Animator which weren't used in the first film.The acting is fine, the effects are fine, the music is fine. The direction is okay, although it can't match Stuart Gordon's. There are a few funny moments in the film, but overall it has a very, very unpleasant feeling about it - which the first film did not have.Overall, this is only for serious Re-Animator/horror fans. Rent the first one instead. Bride of Re-Animator is nothing more than a failed re-animation. "},{"Title":"Not a movie to be a sequel","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a joke. A definite rip off of the original. The same characters but one lame storyline. I only hope the new reanimator movie will be decent. Too bad the guy that played Dr Carl Hill passed away sadly. "}{"Title":"Not a very good sequel...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** What the hell was the point of this movie?  I liked the first movie a lot, and I have always been a fan of Jeffrey Combs, but this movie was just a huge disapointment.  The opening was really inventive and got me really hooked, but soon after that, it lost its spark.  This time around, Dr. West and Dr. Cain are attempting to construct the 'perfect' human being out of body parts from various people, including the heart out of Dan's dead girlfriend's body.  There are a million subplots that one would believe would end up to a grand finale, well, they all do intermingle, but only in a chaotic and unevenly directed gorefest freakshow during the film's climax. Dr. Hill returns, but only to 'gain revenge' on West...now apparently he has a telekinetic link with other re-animated bodies and sends the horde en masse to West's house.  Anyway, at the end, they do re-animate 'The Bride', and for two mad scientists hell-bent on creating an uber-woman out of dead bodies parts for most of the movie, they both simply reject it for no apparent reason (other than the fact that it is hideous)when it awakens. So what was the point, I mean did they not expect the results to be gruesome? Then, ***SPOILERS AHEAD*** all of the zombies break into West's home, apparently kill him (in a hugely disapointing end for Dr. West, though I have read that another sequel is in the works for 2003), and Cain and his new girlfriend narrowly escape, but...what was the point of this movie?  I know a lot of people see this as an extension of the original, and rightly so.  It's one good quality is that is does continue the story for fans of the original, but it does not follow through, and does not even explain how Dr. West survived from the first one, and barely explains how the police bought whatever story he contrived.  ***END OF SPOILERS***  All, in all, a nice attempt as a sequel to a great cult classic, but, unfortunately, the first movie was not a film to be Re-Animated into a part two.  5/10 for Jeffrey Combs.     "},{"Title":"I had to give it a 7 because Jeffery Combs is in it but...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was too similar to FRANKENHOOKER.  If this was a coincidence, it's a really creepy one.  I have both the r-rated and unrated versions and can tell no difference.  Lacks the brilliant writing of the first movie though the cast does the best they can with the script.  Not a bad movie, just not a good movie either. "},{"Title":"Rather average homage to Bride of Frankenstein. I was extremely disappointed","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plot Summary Herbert West is back, and is ambitious & crazy as ever. This time he has his mind set on bringing the dead back to life with his vulnerable partner Dan Cain. Herbert West decides on creating the ultimate bride from dead tissue, and that's when things predictably go awry.Re-Animator is a favorite horror film of mine. For it's time it was extremely innovative and wild, and it still holds up very well today. Bride of Re-Animator tries to up the ante by making this bigger, and badder, but I felt it was nowhere near as fun as the original. The characters are not the problem, and the gore is laced on thick like the original, my problem was the overall entertainment was lacking. I didn't sense the passion or the wonderful humor from the first, it just felt there&#x85; That's a problem a lot of sequels have to be honest. Jeffrey Combs is fantastic as Herbert West once more, but he can't carry a movie. He gave it his best shot, and was one of the redeeming things about this sequel. Bruce Abbot is now slightly demented as Dan. He has never gotten over the death of his former love (Barbra Crampton) He manages to retain his likability, and I dug his chemistry with Combs. Fabiana Udenio is gorgeous to look at, and made for an average love interest. You may recognize her from Austin Powers International Man Of Mystery. David Gale returns as the headless, bombastic doctor. He was a hoot once more, but it didn't have the charm as it did in the original. (That goes for most of the characters) Kathleen Kimont is beautiful, but she looks appropriately horrendous as the bride. She doesn't have many lines. That wasn't her job Final Thoughts Far from horrible, but I was very unimpressed with it. It's gory, chaotic, but slightly boring in its approach. It's worth a look, but you may be a bit deflated when you finish it. Better, yet&#x85; Stick with the original. Disappointingly average stuff 5/10 "},{"Title":"Bride of Re-Animator","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Insane sequel to Stuart Gordon's RE-ANIMATOR is directed by Brian Yuzna who shelled out the cash needed to make the original. He stays close to the tone of Gordon's film while weaving a whole new nutty story, obviously and blatantly paying homage to BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN. In this film Dr. Herbert West(Jeffrey Combs)& Dan Cain(Bruce Abbott)return from the civil war of a Latin country experimenting of dead soldiers trying to perfect the power of his reagent serum for reanimating dead tissue and organs. West has decided that merely bringing the dead back to life isn't as fulfilling as creating a whole human being using variously deposited body parts from freshly dead corpses. The two doctors have returned somehow(I couldn't understand how they were able to get their jobs back because neither finished school..or perhaps they did, but when could they if they were in a foreign country? Plot holes galore..oh, well)to the Miskatonik Hospital with Dan simply wishing to do his job. But, Herbert is at his old tricks again splicing various parts together just seeing if his future plans were possible(his coolest creation is the crawling eye assembled with several fingers and an eyeball). When a patient Dan is close to dies, Herbert wishes to use her head(the beauty of her face and her brain)while also using Meg's heart(we know Meg, played by Barbara Crampton from the first film, is the lost love of Dan's life)to leverage his colleague into assisting him. What Herbert doesn't know is that a doctor at the hospital, Dr. Graves(Mel Stewart), has found some of his reagent and is reviving animals(such as the bat which breaks free flying at his face in attack-mode). When mere animals doesn't satisfy him, Graves revives the dead head of Doctor Hill(David Gale, sparingly used in this sequel)and all hell breaks loose. An inspector, Lt. Leslie Chapham(Claude Earl Jones)is constantly snooping around West and Cain seeking to find a false move to implicate them. His reasoning for doing this..Herbert experimented with the reagent on his wife for whom he had possibly beaten to death! Also, Francesca(Fabiana Udenio), a colleague in the warring country West and Cain escaped, shows up starting a relationship with Dan. Again, a woman has become a major thorn in the working relationship of Herbert and Dan which will lead to a maddening conclusion when re-animated dead, led by Hill, whose head now has bat wings(!)will lead an assault on their basement laboratory(located in their home which was once an old morgue).This sequel, while quite inferior to the first film, has enough wild gags going for it to hold interest. Sadly, it abandons the characters for the exception of Combs who has a field day with this crazy loon. The Bride's sequences are quite grotesque and macabre to say the least. I felt that Gale is quite underused in this flick..not quite the villain he was in the first film, only getting to impact Herbert's life at the end. Also disappointing is Abbott's Dan Cain who seems less a fixture in this film as he was in the first. Sure, themes within the story impact the character, but Abbott just doesn't seem as inspired or his character as strong as in Gordon's film. Hurting this flick is the lack of freshness the previous film had. There's still plenty of gore for the ones who crave it and has enough wackiness to probably at least gather a modicum of interest from fans of the first film. Perhaps easily forgettable, this flick still has it's moments and deserves at least a moment of the gorehound's time. "},{"Title":"a corpse bride who's hardly a head of her time...","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As he's so good at doing, Brian Yuzna takes a respectable title (in this case, Stuart Gordon's genre-bending Re-Animator) and whips it into an insufferably laborious hash of overstated performances and even more overstated special effects. While retaining the talents of original cast members Bruce Abbott, David Gale, and the irreplaceable Jeffrey Combs, Yuzna turns Bride of Re-Animator into a completely forgettable sequel that borrows generously from Bride of Frankenstein and the original Re-Animator. This time out, Herbert West (Combs) and Dan Cain (Abbott) piece together a female monstrosity with the use of Meg Halsey's heart; the typical side-effects and nail-through-the-foot hijinks ensue, though there's not a funny or inspired moment to be found (save for the cyclops finger-spider). The original Re-Animator pushed down walls of moral, sexual, and macabre convention to create something truly innovative; all this sequel has is a bunch of blood and guts masquerading for creativity. It's an absolute waste on all counts. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This time,Herbert West is aiming not just to restore life,but to create it from spare body parts.His twisted genius has given birth to hideous and disgusting combinations,both animal and human.Yet,still the ultimate triumph of rebuilding an entire woman from assorted limbs and organs eludes him...until now!Dr.Carl Hill is also back!Oh yeah,but it's just his head returning this time.As for the title Bride of Re-Animator,it takes its reference from James Whale's horror classic Bride of Frankenstein.The acting is far above average and there is plenty of gore.Overall,Bride of Re-Animator doesn't come as close to perfection as the original,but it does have some nice qualities that make it worth seeing.Recommended. "},{"Title":"I like it better than the first.","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember the end of the original? Dr. Herbert West was being strangled by a rampaging intestine. But don't worry, he's not dead. The zombie responsible didn't have the guts for it.Now, five years after the massacre at Miskatonic University, he's in some South American hell-hole in the middle of a civil war using his re-animation serum on dead or wounded soldiers. As soon as the conflict boils over into revolution he legs it out of there with the naive/loyal Dr. Cain and heads back to Arkham Hospital.Acting as if none of the previous carnage ever happened, they return to their normal jobs. Dr. Cain grows attached to a young girl dying of cancer and West is secretly stealing all the best body parts to make his own complete woman using the heart of Cains dead girlfriend.A nosy Detective interferes and starts poking around as well as delivering the head of long dead Dr. Hill to Dr. Graves, the new Chief Pathologist at Arkham (there sure are loads of Doctors in this film huh?). Graves reanimates the head of Hill but refuses to do his bidding and chucks it in the bucket. A move he will come to regret.The hokum goes into overdrive for this sequel. There's more atmosphere and more potential to be really scary. It's never fully realized as the film is too blackly funny to be frightening. But there's more going on in the climax as all the factions and body parts come together. The allusion to Frankenstein is much more apparent and the Freudian subtext of 2 men creating life without the use of a woman adds a curious depth to the mayhem.You could call Bride of Re-Animator lots of negative words like corny, cheesy, dumb etc. But you'd be missing the point. Yes, it's a bit too pulpy to truly echo H.P. Lovecraft's original work. But the numerous zombies, monsters and demons are something I reckon Howard Phillips would love.Gore fans will really dig the blood and make-up effects. There's loads of gruesomeness and severed limbs and guts spilled all over the place. It's the kind of thing Fangoria magazine would have an 8-page feature of. Plentiful amounts of puss and nastiness from the KNB Effects Group and Screaming Mad George respectively.If you like the first you will surely want this movie in your collection. There is yet to be a decent DVD of it but hunt it down and prove me right. I can only hope that Beyond Re-Animator will be just as good, if not better. "},{"Title":"weakest of the series","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved the another two movies in series, I thought they were both greatI felt this movie kind of a had different tone to and not sure what is was. The mad doctor is back and trying make a women out dead tissue, I found the most of the movie very boring I could not get into this movie at all, some of scenes drag on way to long and I didn't find this movie as gory as other movies in the series. The acting was really good in this movie, I didn't even end up seeing the whole movie, cause I was fallen in sleep. I going give this movie 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Where's the fun?","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has been ages since I have seen the first movie Re-Animator but what I can remember from it; it was absolutely one of the most fun horror experiences I ever had and I genuinely liked it much better than I had ever expected. This is really not something that I can say about this sequel.This was a pretty bad movie, plain and simple. It has a very weak story, that the film-makers don't even seem able to handle but what was mostly disappointing that this movie really wasn't much fun to watch. There really is no good comedy in this movie, which already is plenty of reason to just skip on this movie.Guess it has lots to do with the fact that this movie had a different director involved. And not a very good one! Brian Yuzna's directing is incredible lacking. The movie has an awful pace and it takes a long while for the story to actually kick in. But once it does it becomes all the more apparent what an incredible mess this movie actually is. Different story lines are hanging together, without really making an apparent connection. Lots of characters and actors from the first movie return in this one but you really should wonder why they are even in this. They don't really have a big impact on the story it seems and the movie could had so easily done without most of them. They just seemed to be thrown in all, in a desperate attempt to continue to the series. This still somewhat worked though, since there actually is one more sequel; Beyond Re-Animator, which got made 13(!) years later. I hope this doesn't mean that we can still expect more sequels to be made in the far future.Just like the first movie, it's deliberately trying to be B-movie like, with over-the-top moments and silly characters but by doing so this movie actually becomes a B-movie itself and just not a very good or enjoyable one.it's also a problem that this movie truly seems to be lacking creativity. Nothing surprising ever occurs and it's actually amazing that this project ever got green-lighted by the studios. It had been 5 years since the first and previous movie and this is all they could come up with? Extremely disappointing! Not even the gore is very good, while they could had done lots of awesome and crazy stuff with it really! All of the potential and ingredients were there. You know this once you have seen the first original movie but things went completely to waste in this lacking and disappointing sequel.It's also not like the movie is completely horrible but it's just that this movie is so incredibly lacking with its pace, story, character development, comedy, directing, music, creativity, acting and basically everything else in between, that this becomes a weak and disappointing. late, sequel.5/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"I actually prefer it to Bride of Frankenstein.","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After eight months in Peru experimenting on war victims, Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) and Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) return to the Miskatonic University Hospital where they continue working on their reagent, this time adding a new ingredient the amniotic fluid from an iguana. With their new batch of glowing green goop ready and waiting, the pair construct the body of a woman (from bits and pieces half-inched from work), into which West hopes to inject life (in more ways than one, or so it seems at one point).Bride of Reanimator, Brian Yuzna's sequel to Stuart Gordon's 1985 Lovecraftian gorefest Reanimator, sees the director striving hard to match the original in terms of sheer lunacy, invention, and style, and very nearly succeeding he certainly hits the mark on more than one occasion, delivering some delightfully silly scenes packed with splattery OTT effects (courtesy of Screaming Mad George and KNB FX) and blessed with a satisfying manic intensity; and even many of the more subdued moments prove highly effective, having a wonderful camp/Gothic atmosphere redolent of the classic monster movies of yesteryear&#x97;most obviously, James Whale's Frankenstein films.It's only towards the end, as matters come to head, that things spiral out of control; Yuzna ultimately loses his grip on proceedings, events become too chaotic, and the film falls apart almost as quickly as it's titular bride.Still, it's a fun ride and one I wholeheartedly recommend to fans of Reanimator, and Yuzna's work in general. The director ensures that everything moves at a brisk pace, the performances are solid (Jeffrey Combs is always watchable), the visuals are suitably absurd (amongst the weird treats Dr. Hill's bat-winged severed head, a creature consisting of an eyeball perched atop three severed fingers, and a reanimated dog with a policeman's arm), we get plenty of bright red blood squirting from arteries, and there is even time for a touch of female nudity courtesy of busty babes Fabiana Udenio and Kathleen Kinmont (just boobage, though; neither girl gives a 'full Crampton').7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "}{"Title":"Excellent sequel, almost as good as the original & a personal favourite of mine.","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bride of Re-Animator is set eight months after the events of the original Re-Animator that have become known as the 'Miskatonic Massacre', after returning from Peru as volunteer Doctor's in a bloody civil war Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) & Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) take an internship in Miskatonic Hospital. There Dan works as a caring doctor while Herbert continues with his experiments on re-animating the dead using all manner of body parts stolen from the Hospital. Dan is uninterested in helping him until Herbert finds Dan's dead girlfriend Megan's heart, Herbert convinces Dan to help him build an entirely new body around Megan's heart & re-animate it in order to create a new life to which he agrees. Meanwhile the police are suspicious of them & Herbert's old nemesis Dr. Carl Hill (David Hill) is back & wants revenge...Co-written, produced & directed by Brian Yuzna I remember watching this in the early 90's here in the UK where it was retitled to Re-Animator 2 & I loved it then & I still love it now. The sequel to Stuart Gordon's wonderful Re-Animator (1985) this had a lot to live up to & I think it does a great job at being sufficiently different & taking the story & character's in another direction yet still undeniably remaining a Re-Animator film & keeping the core ingredients which made the original the cult classic it is today. The script by Yuzna, Woody Keith & Rick Fry is basically just a modern retelling of Bride of Frakenstein (1935) the Re-Animator way with added gore, buckets of blood & West as a modern day scientific Frankenstein. Herbert West is still the cold manipulative singled minded scientist that he was in the original, Dan is still the one with the humanity & there are some well written scenes of West emotionally blackmailing Dan into helping him. I would say the character's are actually slightly better here, also returning is Dr. Hill but just as a decapitated head here which leads to some fun scenes. The film has a good pace & it doesn't feel like a near 100 minute film, there are some decent subplots like the the police investigation as well as leftovers from the original like the zombies from the end of that make a reappearance here. Anyway, how can you not love a film that features a living decapitated head with Bat wings surgically grafted onto it's side which lets it fly around!?Besides a good solid story that is often surprisingly well written & played what makes Bride of Re-Animator so much fun are the outstanding gore & special effects. The makers really go to town & let their imaginations run riot, there are no less than five separate Special Make-Up Effects By credits during the opening. From a bizarre little creature made up of four fingers stuck together with an eyeball on top to a lower leg & lower arm fused together to all sorts of weird creations made up of various body-parts to some truly impressive anatomically correct gore effects like cut off arms, severed feet, spinal columns, intestines, all manner of body parts, someones chest cut open & prised apart, the 'bride' as seen in various stages of development on the operating table including a great scene where West grabs the exposed tendons in the cadavers wrist pulling on them & making the fist clench, decapitated heads, cut open Bats, huge amounts of blood splatter & the climatic scenes at the end when the bride literally tears herself apart pulling her still beating heart out, her body ripping in half & her head tearing off her body. The special effects are of a very high standard (I watched this last night on an anamorphic DVD & the autopsy cadaver on Dr. Grave's table for instance has so much fine detail like the veins, the muscles & organs) & are a lot of fun for those with the stomach.Technically the film is pretty good, I liked the slightly reworked score & the special effects are generally very impressive but it does look a little cheap at times. There are times when Yuzna gets it just right, I love the little bit when Dr. Graves says 'who would want to steal body parts' & then it cuts to Herbert West cautiously poking his head around a door looking to do just that. The cast are good, Jeffrey Combs is one of my favourite genre actor's & I think he's terrific in this, Abbott puts in a good performance, David Gale is only ever seen as a decapitated head but has fun while Argentinian born Fabiana Udenio provides the love interest.Bride of Re-Animator is a film I have always had a soft spot for, I love the modern reworking of a very Gothic Frankenstein type story (if your going to steal, steal from the best), I love the blood gore & outrageous special effects & creatures & there's a good solid cast here too. What more do you want? Anyone with a slightly macabre & twisted sense of humour should like it. Followed by Beyond Re-Animator (2003) which is also well worth a watch & IMDb lists House of Re-Animator (2008) in production in which West is summoned to the White House to re-animate the President played by William H. Macy with George Wendt as the Vice President! "},{"Title":"Stupid and not scary","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe I was in the wrong mode when I saw this movie, but I couldn't help thinking it was only stupid. I don't mind when ghosts and monsters behave as they usually do, but when a doctor cuts a body in parts to reanimate it, it's sort of quasi-scientific, and I DO get disturbed when the head starts puffing out talk through its mouth without any lungs. Such crafts calls for at least a tiny little demon to first posses the doctor in question. And it wasn't a bit scary. All monsters were either cute or in some way something you'd sympathize strongly with, except they'd sometimes do very uncalled for evil things, which just made the move even more stupid. "},{"Title":"More blood and guts from the nice people who brought us Re-Animator!","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If Stuart Gordon's original Re-Animator was a world away from what H.P. Lovecraft intended when he wrote 'Herbert West - Re-Animator', then this sequel is a million miles further on from that world. Many sequels' titles start with the words 'Return of' or 'Revenge of', but Brian Yuzna, producer of the first film and director of this one has opted for the far more campy, and more classic, 'Bride of'. Lovecraft may be spinning in his grave - but in this sequel we see the insane doctor building himself a bride from the parts of various other women! Cue lots of bloodthirsty gore and a rather skewed sense of humour and we're on course for another splatter flick in the style of the first film! Both the leads have been re-recruited for this sequel, and so both Dan Cain and Herbert West are involved in this new set of experiments. In the aftermath of the events of the first film, West finds the heart of Cain's now deceased girlfriend. Meg, along with the head of Dr Carl Hill; the villainous doctor from the first film. West convinces Cain to help him build a new woman, with Meg's heart at the centre...meanwhile, Dr Hill plans his revenge; and the fact that he hasn't got a body isn't stopping him...Going into a film called 'Bride of Re-Animator', you cant expect anything resembling high quality - and it's a good job, because this film is anything but. The film has a real 'made for TV' feel to it (even though it wasn't) and the low quality cinematography blends well with the silly story, questionable acting, childish effects and buckets of blood and gore. In true sequel style, everything is done with more gore this time around, and in true Brian Yuzna style - it's all very disgusting. The bride itself is of particular note for being sickness inducing, while the rest of the effects aren't very nice either. Jeffrey Combs returns in the role that made him the cult star that he is, and he once again does well with it. Bruce Abbott stars opposite him, and the pair do basically what they did in the first film. David Gale also returns to the series, and he does well as a severed head. Having a severed head as the main villain is a very amusing idea, and the film really does make the best of it. Every moment that the head is on screen is funny, and it certainly sets it apart from most other horror movies! Overall, if you didn't like the first one; this is unlikely to do anything for you; but it's great fun for fans of the original! "},{"Title":"It's really worst sequel ever!","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sincerely want to believe that at the end of the first film did not die the hero played by Jeffrey Combs and producer Brian Yuzna the picture itself. At least in this case, nobody would have seen two sequels shot them and are purely for human well is not possible to look at.The second film begins in Peru, where Herbert West and Dan Cain are the nurses volunteered during the Civil War. For them, this is the right place. Soldiers are dying on the battlefield - their bodies a good place for new experiments to revive the dead flesh. At the same time the audience will think - as West could survive after the massacre in Miskatonik? He received no reply - in the film is simply not explained. Then something goes wrong with an animated corpses of soldiers attacking our heroes, a tent, where they conducted their experiments, covering heavy fire. All out of control and they have to go back to the U.S. in that same hospital, where they regain their jobs as doctors and continue the experiments already there.Dr. West, who successfully revived the dead in the first film, the second part is already experiencing difficulties. Those corpses that they, along with his friend steal from the morgue hospital, are not suitable for experiments. Dan Cain is going to get away from the West, but he manipulates them, and invites him to create a whole person, using the dead of heart and a dead girlfriend Megan Halsey Dan. At the same time it turns out that the head of Dr. Hill is not dead. It is alive, safe and even learned to fly thanks to the efforts of one of the doctors at the hospital, which found that very head, and that in turn it mesmerized. And nothing in the first film from the head of Dr. Hill made a pancake. Next, head to gather the dead and the army will attack the hero and all this nonsense will end all the same slaughter only been in the basement, where our heroes have been experimenting. Our West dies ... again, but appear in the third film in the same way. He will just live, without any explanation. In short Yuzna did not reinvent the wheel and copied all the stupid from the first film, calling it a sequel. But it is the most stupid sequel that I have ever seen. Like, how was the idea of ​​the film to sneer Robert Wise's The Bride of Frankenstein in the same way as the first film was a parody of the classic horror film Frankenstein, but it seems that the authors do not even try to continue and everything is reduced to pure trash where there is no logic or sense.Let's first film, and could not compete with such horror films as Something and Halloween, but it could easily be put right up there with films such as 'Escape from New York by John Carpenter. Reanimator has not been a brilliant representative of the genre, but, nevertheless, became a classic. The second film was almost as bad as all the other films Brian Yuzna, and Stuart Gordon, director of the first film, in the end he rolled to the trash, taking off one after another second-rate movies. However, a third rescuer, released 13 years later, was even worse ... "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first one","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Bride of Re-Animator' is okay, I guess, but it is certainly not as good as the first one, which is a horror classic ('Who's going to believe a talking head? Get a job in a sideshow!'). Jeffrey Combs reprises his role as the manic and dangerously driven Doctor Herbert West, and the actor has really made the role his own. He is marvellous to watch - completely over-the-top! Bruce Abbott also returns as Doctor Dan Cain; he is the straight man to West's innate craziness. Dan's love interest in the film is Francesca Danelli (Fabiana Udenio, who played the provocatively-named Alotta Fagina in the hilarious 'Austin Powers International Man of Mystery').In this sequel, the two doctors learn how to create human life, and subsequently attempt to make a 'perfect' woman using necrotic tissue. Their plan goes horribly wrong and, before you know it, they are once again up to their necks in reanimated corpses. David Gale makes a welcome reappearance as Doctor Carl Hill's severed reanimated head. With the assistance of bat wings, he is able to take flight; this makes for a pretty bizarre spectacle as you might imagine.One of the main reasons to watch this movie, aside from Combs' wonderfully deranged performance (his appetite for scenery is never sated!), is for the unbelievably good special makeup effects by the strangely-monikered Screaming Mad George. He sure lives up to his name!At the bloody climax of 'Bride of Re-Animator', a crazed and airborne Doctor Hill asks, 'Are we having fun yet?!'. I guess the answer is, 'Yeah... kind of'. "},{"Title":"BRIDE OF RE-ANIMATOR (Brian Yuzna, 1990) **","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an adequate if less enjoyable sequel to RE-ANIMATOR (1985), for which producer Yuzna also assumed the directorial reins. The characters played by Jeffrey Combs and David Gale (killed off at the end of the original) have inexplicably been revived for the second installment in the series (another entry &#150; BEYOND RE-ANIMATOR &#150; which I haven't watched, followed in 2003)&#133;though, in Gale's case, this re-appearance only extends to his disembodied head (subsequently fitted with a pair of bat wings)! Bruce Abbott's love interest, this time around, is played by Fabiana Udenio &#150; a different part than the one Barbara Crampton had in the preceding film; the latter's character is mentioned a lot here and, in fact, its heart beats in the assembled female creation our heroes are working on as I'm sure can be surmised from the title, the film has pretensions of being a variation on &#150; or, more precisely, an ultra-grisly update of &#150; BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935)! As with RE-ANIMATOR itself (in review of which I may not have made exceedingly clear), this is marked by an unrelenting gallows humor which makes the film palatable even while it goes overboard in the gore department. Combs is once more kinetic as the driven scientist; however, Gale &#150; whose confrontation scenes with the former were a highlight of the original &#150; doesn't get a lot to do (especially since Combs and Abbott's nemesis in this case is a dogged and burly cop, who's also turned into a zombie eventually!). Again, the script contrives to assemble a mass of living dead creatures for the busy climax &#150; in which the 'bride' is ultimately rejected by its maker (the unwilling Abbott, with Combs as the manipulative Praetorius figure). "}]