[{"Title":"Jackie Chan at his best in a very entertaining movie","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is Jackie Chan´s best movie. Already as a child I loved the scene with the wind machine (Superman!!!) and still today I have to say that Chan mixed a funny Indiana Jones plot with lots of unforgettable stunts and funny slapstick. Two woman join him on the search for tons of Nazi-gold. But they are not the only ones who try to find it, and so on their quest Jackie more than once has to bring himself and the girls (that always are in conflict) out of dangerous situations. Today chan´s fight scenes are still nicely planned but he begins to grow old, and his actions appear to be less fluid than in the past. In this piece, everything seems to be so easy, and there at least four stunts that you will dream of in the following night. (If I just could do things like that). One of my favorite pop-corn movies, very entertaining, a must see for newer Chan-fans who missed it. After seeing this film you will agree with me that Chan´s new films can not compete with the ones made around 1990 when he was not yet a star in the states. "},{"Title":"I can't say enough good things about this film...","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ...but I've only got 1000 words, so I'll keep it brief.  Okay, so some of the early exposition scenes are a little boring and some other parts are a little dumb, but otherwise, this is Chan...and he is DA MAN!  Wild, crazy, and ever-inventive martial arts and action sequences more than make up for the fact that the plot is only semi-existent.  The opening Indiana Jones parody...the innkeeper...the incompetent terrorists...the motorcycle chase...the native dance...the wind tunnel fight...and without a doubt the coolest car door ever seen (you'll know what I mean)...in summary, if you're a fan of slapstick humor mixed perfectly with Jackie's trademark martial arts, you can't go wrong with this film!  "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan does wonders with a big budget","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This may be the most entertaining Jackie Chan experience ever.  Filmed all over the world with a huge budget and abundance of energy, Armor of God 2 is a fast, funny, thrilling film.  Despite the obvious Indiana Jones plot, Chan amazes us once again by risking his life so we can be entertained for two hours.  Chan's directing skills are almost as exceptional as his physical skills in the way he captures the action from brilliant wide angles that display the danger of his action.  A scene where Chan flees on motorcycle from the villains through the cramped city streets is one of the most exciting chase scenes on film.  Chan gambles with his life in every stunt and action sequence making for an exuberant film that must be seen to fully appreciate Hong Kong action cinema. "},{"Title":"Action packed and fun","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Good movie for Jackie Chan, one of my favorites. Great fight scenes and not fluffy at all. Even the women were appealing. The stunts were also very clever, however I do cringe when I see that guy with the broom in the warehouse take a header when that car goes by him. OUCH! If you want some exciting action with a plot, see this movie! "},{"Title":"Funny Chan Film.","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rated PG-13 for martial arts action, some shootings, and sensuality Quebec RatingG Canadian Home Video Rating14AOperation Condor is a very funny Jackie Chan movie which is the sequel to the 1987 film Armor Of God.However when released in America they released this film first so the 1987 film Armor Of God is called Operation Condor 2 in America.I remember renting this film on VHS a very long time ago but I did see it about one year ago on UPN.This film has all the Jackie Chan charm.Great fight scenes,stunts and action but also lots of slapstick comedy to keep you happy.This film is about Jackie Chan and two other people who try to find hidden Nazi gold but others want it as well.Operation Condor is a funny and good film and I recommend it.Runtime92min 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Greatest Adventure of All Time","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Armour of God 2 destroys anything Indiana Jones ever did as it is the most accomplished action adventure film I have ever seen and I am not joking.  This has everything from bad villains, female leads, well three actually, great action, great adventure, plenty of explosions and some of the most funniest scenes you will ever see in adventure film like this.  Apart from Rush Hour you wouldn't usually associate Jackie Chan with doing much comedy only martial arts but he does it like a pro and it doesn't stop till the very end.   I can go on and on for years and years watching this and you never ever get bored as there is so much to take in and not enough time.  As soon as it is finished you'll be dying to go back for more and watch it on repeat viewings.Jackie Chan has made some of the best kick ass films in the world.  I rate his films much better than Bruce Lee's and if you want to challenge that then all you have to do is watch this, the first Amour of God and Project A and you will see how accomplished his films really are. "},{"Title":"Non-stop action fun!","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A treat! Overflows with energy, humor, excitement, and jaw-dropping stunts (especially the motorcycle chase scene, during which Jackie takes time out to rescue a runaway baby carriage!).  The climactic fight in the Nazi outpost is terrific. Just as much fun, though, are the comedy scenes, like those with the innocent waif (and her pet scorpion) Jackie's team encounters in the desert, or Jackie's impersonation of the folkloric Chinese hopping vampire - one of the funniest things I've ever seen in an action film. Didn't think much of First Strike but I recommend this one without reservation.  "},{"Title":"Best Chan movie in awhile...","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was disappointed by Supercop and Crime Story.  They didn't have any good fight scenes or anything funny.  This movie had humor and action.  I can't wait until I see Rush Hour! "},{"Title":"Classic Chan","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When reviewing a Jackie Chan movie, one must realize that it must be reviewed in a category of its own.  Jackie Chan is an icon of modern cinema, and quite frankly in a class of his own at this point.  So a Jackie Chan movie can only really be compared with other Jackie Chan movies!I really like Operation Condor, because of some scenes which are so refreshing in this world of rehashed Hollywood.  The wind tunnel scene has already been mentioned in other reviews, but it really is amazing to watch.I do miss the desert scene in the original version that was cut out of the US version, with the water bag and tube.  You get a glimpse of it in the outtakes at the end.  I thought the US version was very streamlined and definately flowed much better than the original version, and the dialogue was vastly superior.  However, for the sake of originality, it's always nice to have all the scenes intact.It really is too bad the Spanish actress Eva Cobo De Garcia doesn't have more roles in other movies - I quite enjoyed her presence in the movie.For lovers of adventure, this movie is a must.  It captures the thrill of travel and adventure much better than a James Bond movie, because somehow the adventuristic ambience is more strongly felt if that makes any sense. I feel it captures it better than even an Indiana Jones movie.  The reason being that unlike a Bond story, or Indiana Jones story - you really do get a feeling that Jackie is on a free and easy, whereas Bond/Jones is a package tour if you know what I mean.  All the whacky random stuff that happens in a Chan film helps to contribute to the free and easy feel. "},{"Title":"Chan is the man","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In this movie, Jackie Chan proves that he can do action and martial arts like no other. He deals with people well in this film, finds his way out of things, fights enemies, and performs stunts all while completing the mission. This is a must see Jackie Chan movie.      "}{"Title":"Widescreen thrills on a lavish budget","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ARMOUR OF GOD II OPERATION CONDOR (Fei Ying Ji Hua)Aspect ratio 2.391 (Technovision)Sound format MonoAsian Hawk (Jackie Chan) comes under fire from all sides whilst on a mission to retrieve Nazi treasure buried in the Sahara desert.One of the most popular films in Chan's extensive filmography, this superior sequel to ARMOUR OF GOD (1986) is clearly patterned after the success of RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK (1981), but Chan's movie celebrates its American influences whilst remaining defiantly Asian in concept and execution. It isn't perfect, by any means The female characters are rendered almost entirely subordinate (Carol Cheng, Eva Cobo De Garcia and Shoko Ikeda give OK performances under the circumstances), and some of the Arab stereotypes are borderline offensive (prompting protests by the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee when a re-edited version - OPERATION CONDOR - opened in US theaters), but viewers willing to overlook these conspicuous blunders will be treated to some of the most astonishing set-pieces of Chan's entire career.In fact, the entire movie is a showcase for world-class stuntwork, photographed in glorious widescreen by veteran cinematographer Arthur Wong. Chan is clearly doubled in a number of sequences (notably a car-and-motorcycle chase during the film's opening stretch), but there's no denying his participation in the show-stopping finale, where Good and Evil engage in mortal combat within a vast underground labyrinth, culminating in a spectacular wind-tunnel sequence which took *months* to film and sent the entire movie over-schedule and way over-budget. Released in the UK as OPERATION CONDOR ARMOUR OF GOD II.(Cantonese dialogue) "},{"Title":"Transitional Jackie","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the more popular of Jackie Chans early films and with good reason - its a blast. I call it transitional because those who enjoyed movies such as Shanghai Knights can enjoy this and so can the followers of Chan's earlier movies.Jackie is an Indiana Jones type character who, with the help of 3 attractive ladies, has to track down some hidden Nazi gold. Following him are two bumbling Muslim terrorist types who are entirely harmless, and later on a group of sheiks and ex-Nazis.With a healthy dose of Kung Fu action and kickass motorcycle chases, as well as gunfights and ample doses of comedy, Operation Condor is a must own for any Jackie fan.Also see Operation Condor 2 The Armor of the Gods, a prequel which is almost as entertaining. "},{"Title":"A Classic Chan Flick.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is probably Jackie's best movie after Project A. Not just fighting, but car chases and stunts galore make this a good choice for any action fan. Jackie was able to make a huge action epic for about 25 million US dollars. How he does it is anybody's guess. The best Chan movie released in the US so far. See it as soon as possible if you call yourself a Chan fan. You won't be sorry.  "},{"Title":"Decent concept, bad execution! 3/10","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Review This is yet another comedic film from Jackie Chan which sees him playing a Indiana Jones type role, in this, wannabe, action adventure. The storyline and acting seemed extremely amateur but the action scenes were half decent. In this film, Jackie Chan plays Condor, whose hired by government officials, to find some buried gold in the middle of the North African desert. With the help of a historian and a lady who is the granddaughter of a man that went missing whilst looking for the hidden treasure, Condor heads off to the desert whilst fighting off various hit men who want the map and key to the door behind the gold. Sounds exciting but it wasn't that great. It would have been an epic adventure if Jackie Chan took out the silly jokes because the concept wasn't bad. The whole look of the film was pretty bad as well, because it looked like they used a cheap camera with dodgy effects. Also, the two ladies that were helping Chan to find the treasure, we're really annoying and there constant screaming and bickering became extremely annoying. On the plus side, the action was quite good and it did amaze me how Chan done some of the stunts but it wasn't enough to save the movie. At the time of its release, I did find the whole Armor Of God franchise brilliant but I lost interest whilst watching it the second time around. Like a lot of Jackie Chan's movies, I'm still not getting the humour but the action is making them watchable. Anyway, most of Chan's earlier work is much better than the movies that he made in the latter part of his career but I can't fault him in the action/stunt department which still looks great in this day and age. Disappointing!Round-Up This is another movie directed by Jackie Chan, which must have been hard because he was the star of the film but I can't believe that he also wrote this awful script. For a man whose made over 100 movies, I have only seen a handful which I've actually enjoyed but I still have a lot of his films to watch so things can only get better! Budget HK$115,000,000 Worldwide Gross N/AI recommend this movie to people who are into their action/adventure/martial arts/comedies starring and directed by Jackie Chan. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Exciting, very funny","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For the second time in as many weeks, I saw a Jackie Chan movie which was apparently dubbed, since the movements of the actors' mouths didn't match what they were saying. And once again, the overall result was wonderful, as long as I ignored the quality of the dubbing itself.This was more of an action movie than the other one, and it included one spectacularly choreographed car chase in the city. One little mistake could have gotten someone killed, and yet everything appeared flawless. Perhaps some of it was CGI; it would be less risky. During that chase a baby was rescued, and this was pretty amazing in and of itself. Of course, the baby was obviously inserted at a different time and never had to be used in the action scenes. That baby was really cute.From the city we moved to the desert, with lots of action and comedy. And pretty girls. And one of those girls wearing only a towel and losing it twice. If this movie wasn't edited, nothing was seen that couldn't be used on broadcast TV. In one case, the girl had put on pants.A standout character was the man in charge of the hotel in Africa. He was very funny and very offensive. A lot of the humor was based on double meanings and misunderstandings, so it wasn't really dirty. Then there were the offensive stereotypes, which didn't bother me.Lots of good fights, bumbling villains, and some real suspense toward the end as our heroes get put in serious danger. Can they be rescued? Let's hope so. However it happens, it's going to be exciting. "},{"Title":"the chan movie that got me hooked, a classic","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this was the first jackie chan movie i ever saw, and i loved it, its full of breathetaking stunts, brilliant fight scenes and plenty of laughs, when i was a kid and i saw this i thought it was the best movie i ever seen, i don't any more of course, but its still one of my favourites and its a movie i can watch again and again, I've never see the cut us dubbed version, don't really want to but the uncut version i saw, is a classic and one of chsns best, the first one 'armour of god' is just as good. so all in all i highly recommend this action comedy, it delivers everything you want from a jackie chan movie and is highly entertaining, "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After the success of the first movie, a second part was created in 1991 and had a theatrical release in the US in 1997.The movie was better and more interesting than the previous part, the story line was more basic and straight forward, and the screenplay was humorous and thrilling. There were more stunts and more effects in this one. Armour of God one was a hit with one girl on Jackie's trail and another being saved.In this part we have two girls on his trail and another was met along the way, I guess the producers were, If two girls can make this much money, what will three girls bring&#x85; well they brought in the cash. Armour of God two was a success.There is a rumor that a part three was going to be made at one time but I guess that is what it is a rumor.The tale of this flick goes thus; Jackie is hired to find World War II Nazi gold hidden in the Sahara desert.He teams up with three misfit ladies and they head out to Africa to find it, on their way they stopped over at a hotel where the manager is more interested in cash than anything else, they are followed by two guys who could pass as the three stooges without a Moo.Then add to the twist mercenaries who are ready to kill anyone who gets in their way as they too want the gold.The movie is funny as the makers focused more on humor and the screenplay is one that is worth dipping the hat for.The cinematography is what kills me in this movie as I keep on wondering how many cameras were being used to shoot this movie. In the desert there are shots that are quite interesting to see, as this movie was shot in 1991 and all I can say is well done Jackie.All in all the two sets of Armour of God are movies that any Jackie Chan lover will enjoy so take a sip of it, and savor the taste. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedy adventure","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is rumored to been made to make up for the loss incurred on Jackie Chan's 1989 movie Miracles. Whether this is true or not, I'm glad that he decided to make this sequel to the Armour of god.Hawk or Jackie depending on which dubbed version you're watching (Jackie Chan) is asked to recover Nazi's gold hidden in the Sahara desert. Ada (Do Do Chen) who works for the government, tags along. Jackie also meets Elsa (Eva Cobo), and Momoko (Shoko Ikeda) along the way. There are gang of Arabs, and ex-Nazi group after the gold. They are each after the key that Jackie's entourage has. Comedy, and actions are pure Jackie Chan in this movie. Maybe this movie has the best mixture of them both. Casting is good, and I think Do Do Chen and Eva Cobo were spot on for their role. How Jackie got out of the mess in the end, I'll never know, but the adventures in the middle were one of the best I've seen. A movie that's entertaining for wide audiences, and I'm sure it will be the favorite of many fans in the future. "},{"Title":"More of what one would expect from Jackie Chan","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There really isn't much that I can really say about this movie except that it has nothing to do with any Armour of God, but hey, why let the plot get in the way of a perfectly good sequel (quoted from Des Mangan). I really feel that when I come to discuss a Jackie Chan movie, everything I can say about it I have already said and cannot really add anything new. His movies follow a formulae namely because the formulae is successful. It is funny, has daring stunts in it which he does, and lots of action. The daring stunt in this movie was riding a motorbike off a pile of crates, jumping from it and onto a load being lifted by a crane. Jackie Chan play Jackie, an adventurer. At first he is in a secret amazon temple where the tribesmen welcome him to take the gems. The thing they don't want him to touch is the holy water, and by drinking that you must stay and marry the chief's daughter. This is not the plot though, but just the opener. Jackie travels to Europe where he is commissioned by the UN to find a lost cache of Nazi gold hidden in the desert. As such Jackie must negotiate Nazi's, slavers, angry tribesmen, and a hidden and trapped vault. All in the typical days work for your standard Indiana Jones. The weird thing about this movie is that Jackie's henchmen from the previous movie has gone but he now has three female companions. One would say that he is a lucky guy. I am one of them. "},{"Title":"Plodding, but pays off.","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of Jackie Chan's best non-American-made endeavors. Most of his fans whine and moan about his American productions, but I have found each and every one of them to be great fun, and action-packed, which is of course, his intention. Some critics have called him a clown. He should be proud, as it takes years of study and hours of dedicated practice to become a good clown. These skills combined with his exceptional martial arts abilities makes his the unique style of a true virtuoso. I highly admire and enjoy Jackie Chan's drive, ambition, and productions.This time, Jackie is teamed up with the female equivalent of the Three Stooges, to find a cache of Nazi gold which was rumored to be hidden deep in the desert.While the first half of this movie is a bit slow, the time is used for great character development and to establish the plot line. The second half is classic Jackie Chan action, great plot, and many laughs.I was actually a bit impressed with this one, the first time I saw it.This was the production at which I declared that his work was finally beginning to get the investment capital which it deserved. If I'm not mistaken, this was the first high-budget production featuring his talents. The rest were way, WAY low budget.Get through the sometimes slow first half, with horrible dialog, and dubbed voices, to enjoy the action-packed fast-paced, all out rousing second half.It rates a 7/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"aka operation condor 2the armor of the gods","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  jackie chan.  what is there to say but that he is the actor's actor.  i really didn't know of his schooling until recently. but you have to admit he can make you laugh.  even in his older movies where the english is dubbed, he is funny. now comes a new side i didn't know about. at the end of this movie he sings a song,  high up, on high, the man has an easy voice to listen to.  i was just thrilled to hear him.  i am amazed that a broken ankle or stitches is all he may have had.  did you see him jump on top of the hot air balloon at the end.  breath taking and the song was right for it. the fight scene with the women  was imaginative. and the explosives on his body were used to help it to be not a harsh scene but a little comedy. i loved the car=cycle.  there is always something new and challenging is all his movies. most of his movies have pretty clean language and not a lot of nudity or sex. he more than makes up for it in acting ability. all these reasons are why i love the man and his movies. not the least but the last. even his outtakes are great. "},{"Title":"No one does action like Chan...","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Trying to relax during Operation Condor would be like trying to take a nap on airport runway.  This movie never quits, and Chan never stops challenging himself.  Not for the faint of heart, especially the motorcycle chase or the wind tunnel scenes.  Thanks, Jackie.The best commentary on the film, however, actually came from the guy sitting behind me in the theater who had never seen Jackie Chan before... unfortunately, most of his comments are unprintable.  Let's just say he was extremely enthusiastic and uninhibited in his vocabulary.  Hey, we were all thinking the same thing.    "},{"Title":"Great fun and hot stunts. But some cute stuff is clipped from the US version.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Though it borrows a few, shall we say, themes from the Armour of G-d movie, this film stands on it's own.The budget made for some really fun stunts and fights.My only real complaint is that some funny stuff was cut out of the US version (the desert scene(s) and others) that should have stayed. Since the funniest clipped scene involves a canteen that Jackie has early in the film the initial reference to the canteen makes no sense in the US version because you never see it again for the rest of the darn film.Oh yeah, and check out the Colonel's Daughters BMW with the automatic lowering doors.... Too cool. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan films have almost always been entertaining action flicks, but this is absolutely the greatest Jackie Chan movie. Sure the plot is a little thin, but who cares about that when there is great non-stop action and comedy. I wish all movies were like this... "},{"Title":"Jacky Chan takes up the mantle of Charlie Chaplin (& Harold Lloyd)","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Herein, Jacky Chan proves himself, beyond question, to be the direct  successor of those two masters of physical comedy ~ Charlie Chaplin &  Harold Lloyd.When I saw this movie in the Cinema, with a couple of friends, we literally  did the cliche'd 'laughing non-stop' gig, from start to finish.This & Jacky, are classic comedy.  For a miniscule fraction of the Budget of  Ishtar, Jacky did what Dustin & Warren, probably with help from their  script & direction, could not do; he made a very, very funny, desert ~adventure movie.  In this genre, it stands with Follow that Camel, the  British 'Carry-on' gang & Phil Silvers' Beau jest, and, anything the Marx  Brothers may have done ~ in this vein. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a decent high-budget international Jackie Chan film.Its about a couple of people who get stuck in the desert and are assigned to find treasure from world war 2.This has some good stunt sequences. And its high-budget so that always makes things better.Rated pg-13 for action violence , and mild nudity. "},{"Title":"8 out of 10","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I like this one a little more than I do the original. It is funnier, better choreographed, has great chemistry between the 3 main stars(even better than the original, which had great chemistry!) I do feel this films plot was a little better also, but that isnt saying much. This takes everything great about the first, and takes it up a notch. Now if only all sequels could do that! "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's best","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is Jackie Chan's best movie.  Awesome fight scenes.  Most seem very realistic.  The usual awesome Jackie Chan stunt scenes.  This is Chan's version of James Bond.  Also one of Chan's funniest.  Any Chan fan will like it.As a government agent, Chan is sent out with a female desert guide to search for the tons of lost gold in a buried WW2 Nazi base in North Africa.  Along the way, Chan picks up another female accomplice, the German granddaughter of a former base officer.Several other governments are also aware of the gold, but don't know its location.  They either fight Chan or try to follow him to the gold.  Good, believable story.  Great scenery. "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones With a Kick","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jackie is a talented special agent who is used for dangerous undercover work. The government employs him to try and find some gold that the Nazis allegedly left in Northern Africa 40 years ago. He soon discovers that he is not the only one searching for the gold; there are people willing to kill to get their hands on it.Compared to its predecessor, this film is more akin to the Indiana Jones film series in that it features Chan's character Jackie / Condor (Asian Hawk in the U.S. release) battling against a former Nazi to retrieve gold from an abandoned base deep in the Sahara Desert.I am still warming up to Jackie Chan. I much prefer Bruce lee or Donnie Yen. But Chan has a humor the other two lack, and I love the Indiana Jones theme going on in this film... well played. Maybe a few more films and Chan will win me over. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan action comedy","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jackie aka 'Asian Condor' (Jackie Chan) is an intrepid adventurer treasure hunter. Baron Bannon recruits Jackie to find Nazi gold that was hidden by German commander Hans von Katterling. Ada (Carol Cheng) is the UN liaison in the quest. Jackie goes looking into the German family home. He rescues German's granddaughter Elsa from two Arabs. They are also after the gold.It's got Jackie Chan's comedic takes and his action stunts. It's got exotic locations. It's a cross between a HK action movie and Indiana Jones. It's got a lot of stuff. I like the stunts like the wind tunnel stuff. I wouldn't call the acting good. Eva Cobo has the short blonde hair, a good body and not much else. Carol Cheng is trying very hard to be wacky. The broad comedy should be left to Jackie. This is a bit too silly so the tension is never that high. "}{"Title":"Operation Kick Ass.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Operation Condor (1991) Dir Jackie Chan / Cast Jackie Chan, Carol Cheng, Eva Cobo De Garcia, Shoko Ikeda, Daniel Mintz Two hours of stunts with little plot to be seen. It involves a hidden base that Jackie Chan is sent in search for gold. Equipped with a pass-way key he ventures to the desert accompanied by three women who cannot act. Predictable and dense with a screenplay where the heights of excitement is Chan kicking someone's face in. Chan is no better directing than he is acting. He is terrific at the stunts, which seem to be the point anyway. He has a likable sense of humour and an impressive physical disposition but the stunts are the norm. He seems to be in combat in nearly every scene but then again, people do not go into a Chan flick expecting dramatic payoff. Nonetheless the plot should be intriguing enough to be worthy the price of admission. The photography and production seem to be the only element that can cut in. He is joined by Carol Cheng, Eva Cobo De Garcia and Skoko Ikeda and they are an embarrassment. These three women give good indication as to why the divorce rate is so high. They overact to the max in every miserable scene we have to process. The purpose seems to be the stunts and how far Chan can slam his foot up someone's ass. It is an exercise in bad acting and three annoying women who should never be caught on film again. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Fun Adventure","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Also known as Operation Condor in America (while the first film in this series is called Operation Condor 2 The Armour of God...thanks for that confusion) Armour of God 2 is an attempt at making an Indiana Jones-esque adventure film but with Jackie Chan doing what he does best, kicking butt using martial arts.It's a hilarious film, one of his funnier ones, and also contains a lot of good slapstick action sequences. Jackie is hunting down a Nazi treasure with two girls who are both annoying, but provide for one of the best scenes in a Chan movie (the hilarious hotel scene). Along the way he fights Nazis and natives of the desert.The action of this film isn't as good as many of Chan's movies but it's a great movie for, as I said, the comedic aspect. This film is funny as hell. It's definitely an enjoyable way to spend an afternoon.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Action with Jackie Chan which will provide you with a lot of fun","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When whatever I want to relax, turn off brain and enjoy the movie, which will me laugh and have fun, Jackie Chan movies are among my first choice. They have a good formula that never fails Jackie Chan + plenty of hilarious action. Jackie is hired to find a lost Nazi gold, which disappeared during the Second World War, in the Sahara. The story is not original, nor did they really struggled with writing. But that's okay, because you for this movie and did not require more action, this will give you enough to hold your attention. The movie is a collection of all possible clichés. Dialogues, action everything is full of clichés, but they are nicely packaged in a movie and it works well. If you had a hard day, if you want to have fun highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan at his considerable best","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jackie Chan's hugely enjoyable romp Operation Condor - Armour of God 2 sees him on the trail of Nazi gold in the desert in a plot that's no more than an excuse for several spectacular stunts - and this contains some of Chan's most impressive stuntwork.In the past, Jackie Chan's plots have had enough holes to drive a Mack truck through this one could take their entire production line. This spectacular example of the just-one-damn-thing-after-another school of filmmaking insults your intelligence almost as much as a Michael Winner film. Characterisation is elementary at best, stereotyping runs rampant and logic frequently flies out the window, but who cares? This is still one of the best audience pictures of the 90s, with incredible stunts no western star in the world (or his stuntman) would attempt.Whereas Schwarzenegger or Stallone are pure brute force, Chan is the Buster Keaton or Donald O'Connor of action movies, with a slapstick acrobatic versatility that is astonishingly fluid. When did you last see them knock down a baddie then catch his gun in mid-air while doing a somersault over him, all in a single take? Like great dancing, it is not a series of choreographed moves in succession but appears to be one constant movement, and Chan knows how to place the camera to a stunt's best advantage.The most expensive movie ever made in Hong Kong up until that time ($100m Hong Kong), his take on the Raiders movies is pure knockabout stuff. The hook is a search for Nazi gold buried in the desert, but that's just an excuse for some great prolonged and imaginative setpieces that mix broad physical comedy with action to breathlessly entertaining effect - you'll constantly be hitting the rewind because you can't believe what you've just seen is physically possible, while he hyper-kinetic editing will make you hit the slo-mo too. Put your feet up, your brain on hold and you'll love it. It ain't art, but it is fun, and some of the stunts in the massive underground set have to be seen to be disbelieved.Unfortunately, the Western DVD releases are disappointing. The UK DVD from Entertainment is uncut (Miramax typically cut more than 20 mins for the USA version), but only offers the dubbed English soundtrack and, as well as having no extras, is a disappointing 2.351 widescreen transfer. A budget title in every sense of the word, you're better offseeking Fortune Star'ssuperior Hong Kong NTSC DVD. "},{"Title":"Just as good untranslated","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I recently went to a high school play cast party. Everyone was talking, and someone put in this movie. No one really stopped talking, and yet it was still entertaining, despite that we couldn't hear a single word of dialog. The stunts were hilarious to see when we were able to freely comment on them! Highly recommended for any time when a visual component is needed but little or no audio is available. The best group of stunts is the first, where he rushes in on a motorcycle, and saves a gurgling baby, who was obviously filmed outside of the stunt. He proceeds to explode his way through about nine hundred thousand completely random (and empty) cardboard boxes at a loading dock, and then jumps off of it. Very funny. "},{"Title":"A Jackie Chan style movie","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another great movie with Jackie and again he doesn't needs stuntmans. I admire is bravery couse in a single mistake he can put he's career on the line but that's what makes his movies amazing. Operation Condor is another good old Jackie style movie, i mean lots of fighting scenes, good comedy and a a great plot makes of Op. Condor another movie to all the fans of Jackie enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Terrific stuff here, the wind tunnel bit is fantastic....You get Kung Fu, stunts, car chases, silly humor, pretty girls, cartoonish villains...it's a good time!  The Underground base is a great setting for some really cool running battles amongst the moving machinery and it's hard not to be charmed by this one.  I recommend it highly! "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I seen this movie the first time when i was a teenager. After seeing this again i realised that the humour still inside the movie and the fighting sequence is also excellent.Mixtures of multi culture casts, this movie make it a worth watching and one of typical Chan's movie. "},{"Title":"Operation Condor soars, if just barely","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *** stars out of 4If there was ever a vote for some of Chan's most annoying supporting characters, Operation Condor could be the winner.  The film features some truly bothersome characters who just get on our nerves, mainly the two Arabic goldseekers, the hotel owner, and Chan's three female sidekicks. But I somehow managed to ignore them enough to enjoy the movie, and enjoyable it is.Once again, the plot is a mere shell for some great action sequences.  This time, Jackie Chan plays a secret agent code named Condor who has been assigned to search for Nazi gold in Egypt.  With the help of three female sidekicks, he must battle mercenaries and goons who are also searching for the lost treasure.Operation Condor is one of Chan's better movies, while not up to the heights of First Strike, Who Am I?, Police Story, or Drunken Master 2, it is infinitely superior to the awful mess that was its predecessor, Operation Condor 2 (it's really not a sequel).The action sequences shine through again as they feature some great martial arts fights.  The film comes off as mostly a fun adventure/comedy for the first hour until about 75% of the film's martial arts action blows through in the last thirty minutes.  During this half hour Jackie does some incredible stunts and extremely entertaining fights inside a large abandoned Nazi fort.  The best fight is saved for last, as it features Jackie fighting two mercenaries in a wind tunnel.  It's a real knockout and it truly defines the phrase breathtaking.As for the comedy, some of it's not bad.  The whole hotel sequence that involves Jackie fighting two mercenaries and one of his female partners trying to cover her nude self is quite comical.  The wind tunnel scene is also humorous.Some people might not be able to stand all the goofy dialogue and acting in the first half but I promise if you can stand that tiresome material you'll be rewarded with true Jackie Chan action. "},{"Title":"Chan Usually Fun To  Watch","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is so Grade B, cartoon-like with some unbelievably stupid dialog and action stunts.......BUT it's still fun to watch because of some great high-tech stunts, good photography and sound and corny-but-good humor with a likable hero played by the likable Jackie Chan.Made in Hong Kong, the film is dubbed in English so beware of that. Things may not always sound in sync. The humor is mostly slapstick so I would assume this film would appeal a lot more to men than women. There almost no profanity and no nudity so if some of the intense action scenes don't bother you, you might let your kids see this. They'd probably like it and get plenty of laughs.Chan always has a few unique action scenes. In this movie, the most memorable one is at the end involving huge fans, greatly affecting the combatants in a tunnel. Fun to watch. "}{"Title":"One of the lesser Jackie Chan flicks.","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a so-so movie from Jackie Chan, not on the level of Rumble in the Bronx, or First Strike. The script and dialogue are somewhat preposterous, and when Jackie isn't causing mayhem, the movie lags. Of course, any action movie with Jackie is much more comic and exciting than the other run-of-the-mill efforts being produced nowadays. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I saw Armour of God, I was disappointed. Why? Don't ask. Just see it. May be you will understand why. Armour of God fails as a Jackie Chan's movie. It fails as a kung fu movie. And it fails as an adventure movie. Armour of God is a pretty bad imitation of Indiana Jones movies. But Operation Condor is not bad. It is much better than the original. Why? First There are much more and much better fight scenes. In Armour of God there were only two or three fights and they wee not very good. Second there is much more adventure and more fun. The story is also better than the original, but it is not something special. But you don't need story in a Jackie Chan's movie, do you? You need fun and action. That is it. "},{"Title":"Too much of a good thing","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Operation Condor is an action comedy with Chan (who else?) in the spotlight leading three babes to Nazi gold buried in the Sahara with a small army of bad guys on his tail. A very busy flick which is chock full of the early and less sophisticated slap-happy Chan action, this flick is a benchmark in Chan's career; a sort of break-through flick for Chan in the international big-budget a al Hollywood film market. The flick features quantity over quality with nonstop blatantly silly comedy and countless contraptions and contrivances in a kind of Indiana Jones tomb raider desert milieu. Not for the jaded, Operation Condor is a must see for Chan fans and okay stuff for others into the Chan brand of action/adventure comedy. (B-) "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones Spoof?","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was the first Jackie Chan flick that I have seen, not counting the bit parts in the Burt Reynolds Cannonball Runs I and II, where Chan was a race car driver.  The entire film is a modern-day spoof of Raiders of the Lost Ark, beginning with a mission to an Amazon, and a plot involving Nazi treasure.  One thing that I noticed was that the scene in a warehouse (where Chan is being pursued by hoodlums in Fiat sedans) had empty boxes.  All of the boxes that were tossed around were empty, which was a shipment of bananas from South America, but the empty boxes made this particular scene too silly, like a Roger Moore 007 flick.  Maybe the boxes were empty, because of the possibility of having a stunt double injured on the set. Lots of laughs and Roger Moore-esque jive, but worth watching.  Chan is no Harrison Ford, when it comes to Nazi treasure hidden in the Sahara.   "},{"Title":"OK Chan but far from his best work","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Special agent and adventurer Jackie Condor is enlisted to help find a fortune in gold hidden by the Germans near the end of the second world war.  With his team and the granddaughter of the soldier who hid the gold, he travels out to the desert but finds that he is not the only one who is looking for the gold and comes up against several groups who will kill to find it.I have seen this before and have never fully understood the Western titles for this film or `Longxiong hudi'.  My understanding is that this film is a sort of sequel to `Longxiong hudi', yet in the dubbed versions, this film is called Operation Condor and `Longxiong hudi' is named as it's sequel (Operation Condor II &#150; the Armour of Gods!).  I still don't get it as one came several years before the other.  Anyway, aside from being a pendant, that really doesn't make any difference to the film itself.  The plot is a sort of Indiana Jones spin for Chan to work with and is pretty meaningless and hollow.  If you tried to apply logic to this film it would disappear in front of your eyes, so don't.  However suffice to say there is gold in the desert and Jackie must get it before two other groups do &#150; everything else is just detail.What covers this silly plot is a great run of comedy throughout.  Chan's comedy is well known and it is used well here.  The film itself is no great shakes and feels a little cheap and dated.  The lighting is often too dark for the shot and the film doesn't feel very professional &#150; but the comedy works well still.  Although there is no one standout fight scene, all the action is good and enjoyable making use of objects in ordinary ways &#150; it's hard to find fault with Chan, but he has set his own bar high meaning that stuff like this, which is good, often appears to be average for him.Chan does lead the film well though, he is funny and does everything he was supposed to.  The comedy is well handled by this female trio in support.  Cobo is funny but quite wooden and not very attractive, but I did find Cheng and Ikeda to be a lot better and also quite sexy (Cheng especially).  The bad guys are typical rent-a-thug types but the two Arabian types chasing the gold are quite good value comedy-wise.Overall this is an enjoyable film but is not near Chan at his best.  The fights are enjoyable but the film's saving grace is that the laughs runs right through the film like a stick of rock!  One word of advice is to look out for the subtitled version rather than the horrible dubbed version I had to suffer.  The voice actors are poor and sound like they are dubbing a cartoon &#150; certainly Chan's `voice' doesn't suit him at all.  It was still a good movie in this version but it did take me almost half the film just to get over how corny all the voices sounded. "},{"Title":"Poor sequel to Armour Of God","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, there were many positive reviews, on this. Some people even consider it one of the best Jackie movies ever. I must say I was really looking forward to this movie, but when I saw it I was quite disappointed. It's a sequel to the hit Armour Of God, so I expected quite a lot, because Armour Of God was perfect. The first cca 30 minutes are very entertaining, and I thought the rest of the movie will be great as well. Ahhh....was I wrong!! The main disaster are two women who join Jackie in his mission. Their acting is so terrible it's beyond belief and it's almost unbearable. They keep on screaming (they don't talk, they just scream and screaaaaaam) all the rest of the movie and it nearly caused me a headache. Some of the moments in this movie could have been really funny, but these two 'sirens' totally destroyed all of the comical scenes. The movie contains some fantastic stunts, beautiful scenery, but the fight scenes aren't as interesting as we are used to. Yeah, they are good, but they are edited with other scenes too much, so I didn't have that WOW feeling as I usually have in other Jackie Chan's movies. Overall this movie isn't bad, and if those two annoying actresses weren't present and some wannabefunny moments were cut, it could have been great. "},{"Title":"Sloppy, cartoonish fluff with great stunts.","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yet another extremely slapdash Jackie Chan film, redeemed only by his awesome stunts (watch the way he climbs over a gate) and some intricately choreographed fight scenes. Out of 4 stars, I would give this *** for the stunts and action and * (generously) for all the rest...rounding it off at **.    "},{"Title":"what a disappointment","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  they fooled me to think this is a sequel to the groovy operation condore! sadly this one was not funny or stunning as the original... and the dubbing and screenplay are truly corny in a bad way "},{"Title":"Not very flattering to women","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't think this movie was so great.  We take for granted a little something called the women's movement here in the US.  It obviously didn't hit Hong Kong around when this movie came out. The cast is overflowing with useless, screaming, childlike women who serve only to get into trouble, scream or in the worst cases be assaulted.  in the US we're used to seeing less violence against women (believe it or not!) than in some HK films.  it kind of spoiled the fun in places.When this stuff isn't happening the movie does shine as do most of these Jackie Chan stunt fests.  There is some decent humor but much of it at the expense of all the demeaning women characters.  Add the usual needlessly dangerous stuntwork and you may find something worthwhile.This is 1950's material, folks.  Instead, see Supercop with the incredible Michelle Yeoh (i think), who in this film is Chan's equal, not just an annoying distraction.  "},{"Title":"This film is for six year olds","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I don't mean to sound so ignorant but that's how I feel after watching this piece of crap. The humour is like something you'd find in a kids show. Incredibly cheesy and corny (mmmm...cheesecorn). The two women ruin the film. They're seriously annoying. All they do is is moan and run and slap men. One of them looks just like my cousin. Who ironically has made a habit of slapping my face and once made me lick her toes on the count of losing a bet. But, anyway, as I was saying...this film sucks. "}]