[{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Robbin Williams stars in this wickedly amusing and ocassionally hilarious film about a car salesman having the worst few days of his life. Williams plays Joey, a car salesman who is juggling 2 girlfriends, had to deal with his wife wanting more money, a ganster wanting payment on a gambling debt and a boss who wants him to seel 12 cars in two days or he will loose his job. On top of that We have Tom Robbins as the husband of an employee who breakes into the dealership with an automatic weapon demanding to know who has been sleeping with his wife. The film suffers from a boring first half that seems to be going nowhere fast and only has a few scattered laughs but then begins to succeed due to the great chemestry between Williams and Robbins. It may not be perfection but because of great performances from the two leads, many laughs and a heart felt ending this one is a winner in my books. "},{"Title":"interesting movie","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is funny, insightful, and alarming all at the same time. This is a synopsis of mostly Italian American life in working class burroughs of NY (Queens, Long Island, whatever). Joey (Robin Williams) is juggling two neurotic girlfriends and an ex-wife while struggling to keep his job as a smooth talking car salesman. The movie starts off with a shot of a cemetery in Queens, the biggest damn cemetery I have ever seen. It gives you the feeling of crowdedness, that even in death people are crowded and are probably still arguing over elbow room. Joey is desperate and even tries to sell a car to a widow as she is burying her husband. Eventually, a distraught and somewhat deranged husband of the car dealer's secretary takes over the dealership with a machine gun, convinced that somebody there is screwing with his sexy wife (which is true). It isn't Joey, but he takes the rap and tries to talk the guy down, doing a pretty good job. Car salesman becomes psychologist, and he does an amazingly good job, along with help from a phone call from both his wife and his mother to the distraught man. This is the best part of the movie. You see Joey and Larry (Robbins) play out this scene with both humor and fright. Larry is trying to prove his manhood to his wife. You understand his plight and feel his pain, and at the same time you see the mans compassion, especially with the phone calls from Joey's ex-wife and mother. There is something very real about this scene and I would think that someone who has to talk down a hostage situation might gain something from watching how Joey makes connections with Larry on a personal level. Eventually Larry sees what a mess Joey's life is and starts to see that actually his situation isn't that bad. This movie is as much about the alienation and frustration of modern life as anything else. The movie is loud and frantic and might put you off in that respect, but hang with it. "},{"Title":"cute","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not Robin Williams's greatest movie by any stretch, but still pretty funny, Cadillac Man casts him as car salesman Joey O'Brien, whose life is falling apart. His marriage is in the toilet and he has to sell 12 cars or he loses his job. Just when it seems that things couldn't get any worse, angry husband Larry (Tim Robbins) hijacks Joey's lot. From there, it's mostly a series of gags.This seems like the sort of movie that they just made for fun. And it is pretty fun. Don't expect any life-changing experiences from watching it (e.g., Williams doesn't launch into any wacky monologues); just sit back and enjoy. I don't understand how a previous reviewer thought that this movie relates to quantum mechanics (but then again, I don't know anything about quantum mechanics). Also starring Fran Drescher and Annabella Sciorra. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Thrill Ride","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Robin Williams gives yet another superb performance as an egotistical car salesman who is about to confront all of his demons (ex-wife, girlfriends, Mafia buddy) in one very long afternoon when Tim Robbins crashes into the door and holds him and the customers hostage. Incredibly funny, vividly life-like with an unpredictable ending. Not one to miss. "},{"Title":"Uneven comedy that isn't that funny and ends a bit mushy.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The comments contain SPOILERS, do not read if you haven't seen the movie.Set in NYC, Joey (Robin Williams) is the 'Cadillac Man', he is a car salesman who drives a black Caddy convertible with the license plate 'CAD-MAN.' The first half of this 93-minute movie sets up the characters. Joey is a natural salesman, has the gift of gab, tries unsuccessfully to sell a new car to a widow at her husband's funeral, because he is broke and also in debt $20,000 to a mob boss and he has to close 12 deals in the next two days to keep his job.  His ex-wife threw him out, his teen daughter is missing with her boyfriend, he has a girlfriend and a mistress, and is just in one big mess.Larry (Tim Robbins) isn't very smart, rides a motorcycle, he lost his job as an airplane mechanic a year ago, his wife works at the car dealership, and he suspects she is fooling around with someone, turns out to be 'Little Jack' the arrogant son of the dealership owner. The second half of the movie is pretty much a mess. In a very over-the-top performance, with lots of shooting and yelling, Larry crashes his motorcycle into the car showroom, with explosives strapped to the bike and with a machine gun. He starts shooting, wounds his wife, keeps staff and customers hostage. Joey decides to de-fuse the situation by claiming (falsely) that he and only he was the one banging Larry's wife. A swat team shows up, snipers, a negotiator, Joey gradually talks Larry into letting all the hostages go, and to give himself up, that he can claim he was 'crazy', and get a fancy lawyer to get him off, but the snipers shoot him and he is off to the hospital. The explosives on the bike were fake. Impressed by Joey's performance, and saving his son, the big boss gave Joey a job for life. Also having saved the mob boss's son who worked as a window washer there, forgave Joey's $20,000 debt. And, ex-wife and daughter decided to give Joey another try, hoping he learned his lesson. The median IMDb ratings of about '5' or '6' are about right. "},{"Title":"Too subtle for many","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is worth a watch, but only if you are willing to pay attention to the myriad subtle jokes in it.Those who think it only occasionally funny just weren't paying attention to EVERY scene with the hostage negotiation team in the restaurant, and lots of subtle jokes in the dialog between Williams and Robbins, and the phone calls out of the car dealership.This movie took a chance with 'intelligent humor'. Not that the humor is that intelligent, it just doesn't hit you over the head with obvious jokes. It is a take off on the 'real' 'cookie cutter' hostage dramas, and the fun it makes of them is subtle. (For example, the cops' reaction, after disbelieving that Larry has brought explosives taped to his bike, when it is 'revealed' to them that he obtained them in Jersey. There is no over the top joke, but it is VERY funny if you are paying attention and have enough common knowledge to get it).Unfortunately, there probably just aren't enough 'intelligent viewers' out there for this film to get its due. There certainly weren't among the others leaving comments about it! LOL "},{"Title":"better than I anticipated.","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's 6.5 out of 10 stars for me for this dramedy that should have stayed nearer to drama toward the end.What's great about it Williams' performance. I don't think people were ready, at this time of his career, for a nuanced performance, but that's what this is. He breaks into being the crazed Williams of talk shows only twice, and briefly, during this film. Otherwise he is convincing as a middle-aged car salesman with complicated relationships and the absence of a long-term plan. His excellence at sales isn't limited to cars; he can talk many women into bed, and that's his downfall.Robbins is also good as a stupid, jealous husband with a gun.What's not as good the supporting characters at the car dealership were under-written. The Chinese restaurant and police captain stuff was awful. I can't stand Fran Drescher, and I can't stand her here. (If you like her, you'll like her here.) The dog she's carrying was used too much, and I realize the yappiness was supposed to heighten the tension, but mostly it made me want to look for my own gun or consider shutting off the DVD. I never did see that his sacrifice during the hostage-taking was fully motivated. (Seems drastic to be willing to die just to avoid a stressful day.) I did like the character of the ex-wife and that of the wannabe awful clothes designer girlfriend #2, played well by Lori Petty. Also, I liked the bizarre opening scene which is in the middle of a funeral procession. There's a how-to writing book I once read that said, bring all your characters on stage with their (attributes) flying. This opening scene did just that, so kudos to Ken Friedman. "},{"Title":"I love to sell......","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Joe's a car salesman with a problem. He has two days to sell 12 cars or he loses his job.This would be a difficult task at the best of times but Joe has to contend with his girlfriends (he's two timing), a missing teenage daughter and an ex-wife.What more could go wrong ? Enter a crazy jealous husband with a machine gun..You would expect a film with Williams as a car salesman to be a zip zip one liner-thon, and while some of the film is very funny, it can lose itself within the confined setting and silly sub-plots.Williams is as watchable as ever, but this time, he is more of an anti-hero, as far away from Mork as you could imagine, but it makes the dark in this black comedy all the more delicious.Robbins and Williams have great chemistry together, and whenever they are on screen together, its unmissable stuff.Sadly, when the films narration turns to the girlfriends and the police, it becomes a chore, and the film has to rely on the comedy Chinese waitress for laughs.It's good for what it is, yuppie satire, but too many sub-plots have slightly spoiled the comedic broth. "},{"Title":"There is not a single believable moment here","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just didn't find Cadillac Man to be funny at all. Does Williams deliver as a car salesman? Not really, because basically the script just requires him to be goofy. And if this were actually intended as a plain comedy, then I might buy it. There's nobody really at stake, at least not in the first half of the movie. And the second half isn't much better. Unless you're curious to see Tim Robbins playing a killer or Robin Williams as a car salesman, then I suggest you look elsewhere. Remake Dog Day Afternoon if you will, but Cadillac Man never delivers on its promise.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Chaotic entertainment...","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Cadillac Man is an in-your-face type of comedy, as it is a fast paced, relentless and very chaotic type of comedy. You might think that to be too much, but even though it never slows down or backs down, you are in for some good fun and good entertainment.The story is about Joey (played by Robin Williams), a car salesman pressed hard on his luck. Things are stacked up above his head, and everything comes tumbling down when his coworker Donna's disgruntled boyfriend Larry (played by Tim Robbins) show up at the car lot with guns and explosives.While this comedy is not one that will leave you in tears from laughing, the comedy used is straight to the point and it matches the outrageous feel there is to the entire movie.Robin Williams and Tim Robbins are performing quite well in this movie, and they do compliment one another acting side by side. I had seen this movie before, but I didn't remember that Fran Drescher was in the movie too, and she did a good job with her role as well.If you enjoy the Robin Williams movies and comedy then Cadillac Man should be watched. It is fast paced fun and is filled with great characters and good dialogue. Well-worth spending about an hour and a half on watching. "}{"Title":"An underrated gem inside an implausible story","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Perhaps this film is a bit outdated now, but even the first time I saw it back in the early 1990s I thought it was pretty hysterical. The opening scene where Robin Williams (as the car salesman Joey) tries to sell a car to woman who is about to bury her husband cracks me up every time I see it. Its clever writing (or is Robin ad libbing?) and scene setting.For whatever reason, Robin is perfectly suited as a car salesman. As another reviewer noted, there are not many times when a car salesman gets to be a hero and Robin is terrific. He exudes the I love to sell line despite his nutty life as a quick witted womanizing salesman. He has two girlfriends, owes money to a Mafia character, and is about to lose his job. All this gets fixed by Tim Robbins (Larry) taking hostages inside the car dealership where Joey works. But the story itself is secondary to the fun the cast seems to have with the creation of the whole movie. The chemistry between Pamela Reed (who plays Robin's ex wife) and Robin make for some sizzlingly (if that's a word) funny interactions. Its almost as though there are little bits of truth hidden inside the lines. Another funny moment comes when the Chinese restaurant staff who serve the SWAT team thats situated across the street from the dealership insist that the police can only use the restaurant if they're going to order food. I've seen this movie many times and I never tire of it! "},{"Title":"Sold","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Cadillac Man is a Robin Williams movie, I can still come back to watching, like See No Evil Hear No Evil. Though not always funny, with Williams carrying it, you're guaranteed a good time. In another splendid performance, Williams plays a womanizing car salesman, who at the start, tries to sell an old woman a car who's present one has broken down. Emphasis on broken down here, as she was on way with her padres to a funeral, so her mood, like the others, isn't one that brightens. Williams is sort of a sleazebag on the side, never missing an opportunity. I really found this movie hugely entertaining, where the second half, intensifies, as Robin's infidelity finally catches up with him, as Robbins in a great performance, as a nutso, comes crashing through his place of work on his motorcycle. Here we really lose the laughs as things quickly become dramatic. Williams has supposedly been doing Robbin's girlfriend (Sciorra) so a hostage situation develops. Williams has some great lines, and again we see a bit of his own dialogue input. I loved the woman at the Chinese restaurant, where Williams and his co workers frequent, and where the police negotiator and his men set up base, oh On the condition they eat. Although people have found this disappointing, I really love this film, William's character too, Joey, having ties in with the mafia. The casting is great. Every actor delivers, but truthfully, Robbins is the acting force here, out performing Williams. Robbins is so riveting to watch, you don't know what he'll do next. Cadillac Man is definitely worth a view, even if it runs low in the laugh expectation ratio, but Robbins and Williams are great to watch. "},{"Title":"The salesman as Hero! Waytogo Robin (for a change)","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  it's my theory that following the success of Dead Poet's Society, Robin Williams began a personal crusade to produce the most cloying, annoying, politically-corrected, sickeningly sappy body of work of any star in the history of Hollywood Patch Adams, Centennial Man, Toys, Good Will Hunting, Mrs, Doubtfire, Jack, etcetera, ad nauseum, and the newest and most worthy contender to the body of dreck Death to Smootchy.  But lo and behold, one year after the turning point, when Robin changed from quick witted comic to pedantic instructor to the lessor informed than himself, this little gem is released.What other film has ever cast the salesman as the hero. Not a tragic failure, but a force of life. A hero, who sells the emotionally disturbed gunmen to surrender and not hurt anyone. The salesman who is the only possible hero to save this day!He sells cars to everybody. He sells himself to multiple girlfriends far more attractive than himself, because he is the consumate salesman. I dare anyone to name me one work of literature or film who's creators were incorrect enough to find good, not bad, in the salesman.  Contrast this with the very correct Glengarry Glen Ross, the result of David Mamet's never-ending search for the ugly underbellies ruining the world wherever he gazes.Salesman as force majeur!  And Robin Williams performance is perfect.  Oh Robin, the saddest words of kith and kin are surely these it might have been.  Thanks you for this gem of a film standing out from the horrid body of work you have left us. "},{"Title":"everything wacky and everybody loud and trying to be Dog Day Afternoon","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Joey O'Brien (Robin Williams) is a relentless car salesman. The car lot is moving and there will fewer sales jobs. He has two days to sell 12 cars to make an impression. He spends all of his money on the women in his life; ex-wife Tina (Pamela Reed), married woman Joy Munchack (Fran Drescher) and party girl Lila (Lori Petty). Then Larry (Tim Robbins) breaks in with a gun suspecting his wife Donna (Annabella Sciorra) is cheating with somebody in the car lot. Donna is grazed by a bullet. Joey tries to take the blame for an affair despite not sleeping with Donna. He tries to talk Larry down as the police surrounds them.Everything is wacky. Everybody is loud. They are all yelling. It is generally not funny except when Robin gets a few laughs with the help of Tim Robbins. I do not see Roger Donaldson as a funny director. It is trying to be Dog Day Afternoon but it does not have the gritty reality. Even the cops are deliberately loud. The police negotiator is one of the most antagonist negotiator in any movie. Everyone is deliberately set on edge and it does not make it funny. "},{"Title":"R.I.P. Robin Williams","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I miss Robin Williams and he's the brilliant guy. He's from Mork and Mindy and I saw The Tales of the Frog Prince from Faerie Tale Theatre with Shelley Duvall. I think he's the good person and I suppose he's the nice guy. Maybe, the friends to be asking of him. His family and friends is farewell to Robin Williams. In fact, Chris Diamantopoulos could do it on impersonating Robin Williams. I love it to hear it. I watched Jumanji and he's the good game player to roll the dice. Alan Parrish won the game. Sometimes, pretty fancy. It will be okay for his family. I hope you will miss him on the funeral and that is how it happened. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Who needs Prozac, when you have films like this now?","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was having a rubbish day... then I stuck this on, and come the ending I had perked up just a bit. For a Robin Williams film, I don't recall laughing a lot, and there were a few moments where I just wished people would stop talking and move on with the plot... But I loved the way the large cast interacted with each other the rest of the time, and while Mr Williams wasn't at his best, I certainly enjoyed his little asides and general performance.Then the final scenes started, and as one by one the myriad of problems Williams's character faced at the beginning of the movie evaporated, and I embarrassed myself by grinning like a gonad. Who'd have thought that being involved in a hostage situation would be the best thing that ever happened to the guy? It allowed him to prove his worth to those he'd wronged in his life, as well as take stock of himself to be a better person. Aaarrr! Usually I would have rolled my eyes at such a notion, but I guess I needed SOME kind of reassurance right now that the world isn't a totally crappy place. Even if my catharsis did come from an entirely fictitious sequence of events, that could never happen in real life...Whatever, that's all the opening up I'll be doing today. And don't think I'm going to start wearing garlands of flowers or playing the tambourine. But despite a few shortcomings, I did like Cadillac Man, and if I recommend accordingly. Damn my fluctuating moods... 6/10 "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This really is not one of Robin Williams' best films, in fact it is probably one of his worst ! The first half of the film just ambles along, leaving you hoping that it will get better - but it doesn't - it gets worse ! If you enjoy someone aimlessly shooting bullets into the ceiling whilst constantly shouting, then maybe this is for you. The shouting goes on for too long for no reason and you will do well to remain interested. There is very little humour in what is supposed to be a comedy . Robin Williams is better than this and so are most of his other films. A lot of the other reviewers seemed to enjoy it so I hope this review balances things. Watch it for yourself but don't be surprised if you switch off before it ends ! "},{"Title":"Cadillac Man","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I knew the leading star of this film, and had a vague idea of the second name in the cast, so I was looking forward to trying it, from director Roger Donaldson (Dante's Peak, The World's Fastest Indian). Basically Joey 'Joe' O'Brien (Robin Williams) - who talks to the audience a little - is a sleazy car salesman trying to sell a car in almost any situation he can find, even something like a funeral will do. He is having troubles, his ex-wife Tina (Bean's Pamela Reed) is demanding cash for maintenance, his daughter is missing and he has married Joy Munchack (Fran Drescher) and single Lila (Lori Petty) as two mistresses wanting him. But he also has work problems, he has two days left to sell twelve cars, or lose his job, oh, and apparently there's a Mob boss he owes or he'll lose his life (but I didn't hear that mentioned much). On the day of Joe's deadline, a big dealership car sale, the dealership is crashed into and off the motorbike comes Larry (The Shawshank Redemption's Tim Robbins) with an AK-47 and some bad marital issues. Larry believes his wife Donna (Annabella Sciorra) is having an affair, and Joe manages to convince him that he is the one doing it, and not to harm any of the other hostages. Then the police show up outside, guns pointing, and Larry being a pretty petrified assailant has no idea of what to say or do to get out of this situation he has put himself in. Joe however is reluctant to help him get him out of it, possibly for his own sake as well, but never mind, he is managing to keep Captain Mason (Anthony Powers) and the cops calm. Joe is starting to bond with Larry knowing he was pressured himself by so many problems, and slowly his persuasion gets the other hostages let out. Eventually, all the hostages are out of the dealership until just Joe and Larry are left, but the police believe the gun Larry has is still loaded, and they mistakenly wound him. In the end, Larry is fine and on his way to hospital, and Joe reunites with his wife and daughter, and drives away as the hero of the day, job intact, and passing his business card to Captain Mason. Also starring Zack Norman as Harry Munchack, Paul Guilfoyle as Little Jack Turgeon, Bill Nelson as Big Jack Turgeon, Eddie Jones as Benny, Mimi Cecchini as Ma, Tristine Skyler as Lisa and Judith Hoag as Molly. Williams with his comedic and acting skills manages to make his somewhat sly character very appealing in the situation he is placed, Robbins is also very good at being the inexperienced gunman, while this isn't hilarious, it's certainly a film with some good giggles. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What is it about Cadillac Man that has such a powerful psychological effect on the human mind? This structure is first a contrast to the structures that dominate our lives. Its shape whilst stable breaks with the perpendicular code of the normal structures that rule our lives. Difference attracts us. Its a physical summation of our place in the order of things. Without us knowing it, The Cadillac Man takes our thoughts to God.The plot thickens as I learn that Quantum Mechanics is based entirely on wave functions! I am studying Sanskrit to understand Quantum Mechanics. The equivalent of harmony (harmonics) in music is seen in matter in the form of Symmetry. Hence my connection to the protagonist (Robin Williams; how many times do you need to see him try to cackle and doubletalk his way through some serious situations in his lame attempts at humor?). Symmetry in turn will account for the multidimensional aspects of Quantum Mechanics. The more I look at this the more amazing it seems. The Cosmology of the Tantrics has a lot in common with modern physicists ideas today. Screwed up priorities of its screwed up cosmasphere (only to put those priorities and his very life in perspective with the insurgance of the Tim Robbin character into the mix).It is a great movie about rediscovering what is important when there is a gun to one's head --look at the movie Close Encounters (1982) - how communication was done. My angle is from Mantra. If only more films moved in that direction, daring to break with formula and introduce genuine anti-American dialogue while still managing to uplift the spirit by the end in a way that feels genuine, maybe we'd have more than one or two comedies worth watching every year. Plus, Tim Robbins and Robin Williams are perfect in their roles and there's always the pre-boob-job Fran Drescher to admire.Remade in Bollywood under the title Musafir (2002) Five stars for creativity and taking a big chance. Unfortunately it doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched it because I love Fran Drescher and she was okay in it..her dog Chester was better ) Robin Williams is a good actor and so is Tim Robins so it was okay. It just wasn't very entertaining. I guess it was supposed to be a big hit and I can see why people might think that when looking at the script but its just okay and pretty mediocre. Not terrible though. Robin Williams is great at drama which you wouldn't think, him being such a funny and wacky guy, but he pulled it off well. I didn't really get how the storyline with his daughter and ex-wife tied in but whatever. If there's nothing on and you're a fan of one of the actors its worth watching but really nothing special. "}{"Title":"This Cadillac Turned Into An Edsel","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here's yet another movie with dysfunctional lead characters who are totally amoral and, yet, we're supposed to root for them? Not me. No character in this film was worth a damn.Robin Williams plays car salesman Joey O'Brien. The man has no class, a loser in every moral sense and a guy who thinks he can talk his way out of anything. Knowing Williams' ability to talk, he was good for this role. The women in his life are driving him loony, too. Some of them aren't much better than him.Tim Robbins plays a similar low-life who starts the take over the film when he, fully loaded with explosives, crashes into a car dealership showroom and holds people, including his wife, hostage. Robbins, as in normal for him, plays a disturbed and ridiculous character. I guess these nut-case roles come easily to these two actors. Gee, I wonder why.There is so much yelling and screaming in this the movie that it will give you a headache. Combine those two screamers with the nasal voice of Fran Drescher and you really have an annoying over-the-top cast. This is like listening to chalk on a blackboard for an hour-and- a-half. This is comedy? No, this is lame. In fact, for a Robin Williams film to only have a dozen reviews posted here tells you something. It's a far cry from his best movie. "},{"Title":"Just not funny...","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  So-so comedy starring Robin Williams as a Cadillac dealer, whose shop is held hostage by maniac Tim Robbins. The film has a good premise, but takes over an hour to get to the hostage part, leaving about thirty minutes to squeeze in the actual humor. The rest of the movie is all about Williams' private life. Just not very funny, some very missed potential.2 of 5- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"If anyone in this film screams one more time.... A Scream Fest.","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is playing on TV right now and it is so annoying.It started out a bit interesting about a car salesman, but rest of the film seemed like it turned into a whole new genre; it's a mess -- all it ends up being is an annoying stress viewing experience about a hostage with everyone screaming CONSTANTLY that it will make your ears bleed.It will make you want to tell all the cast to just shut up. Thankfully, I did not have to pay for this.The mute button on the remote was invented for films like this.The film is a giant mess. If you want to stress yourself out on a film with everyone screaming and yelling, knock yourself out on this one. "},{"Title":"what the?","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" this movie wasted my time. i saw only part of it and i was crying about the wasted time that i could of spent doing something productive and useful towards this earth. for everyone that has watched this movie more than once, i am blaming them for global warming as the the amount of black balloons that got entered into the earth from this piece of crap were not needed and if they came from a different movie, i would have forgiven them. robin Williams lowered his standards to actually participate for more than 10 seconds in this film and Tim Robbins, how he went from this film to the shawhsank redemption, i have no idea. please do not watch this movie for the safety of the earth. stop releasing black balloons into the earth from a film that they should have never funded or released. please burn all copies before anyone else has to watch this crap. "},{"Title":"Tin Men meets Dog Day Afternoon","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jealous husband holds car dealership hostage while Williams burdens the viewer with his worn out Mork shtick at every turn. Yawn.Pay channel grist. An uncommonly bad script coupled with a less than convincing Robin Williams as a slick talking, philandering Queens car salesman caught up in a hostage workplace crisis. The laughs aren't there, the message(s) or morals are just all wrong, and the film cant ever decide on whether its a comedy or drama. Pretty good cast all acting pretty badly. When a movie ages so badly so quickly, you got yourself a stinker. Not much else to be said other than maybe, avoid at all costs. Textbook mediocre movies like this are actually more tedious, and less enjoyable than the over the top bombs. "},{"Title":"More of the same from Robin Williams","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is another of those fairly early Robin Williams vehicles that appeared to be tailor made for the star to show off his undoubted comic talent, and yet somehow failed to hit the mark.Williams is good as the car but the story never really goes anywhere, and the direction prolongs it even further.Avoid this one, there are plenty of better Robin Williams' films around. "}]