[{"Title":"Another Woman's Midwinter Night's Sex Comedy","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Alice Tate (Mia Farrow) is living in New York City, married to Doug (William Hurt), a man from a wealthy family. They have two kids, a lavish condo and domestic employees. Alice eats caviar, spends her days shopping, getting manicures and pedicures, and so on. However, she's not very happy. She's even been thinking about having an affair. When she finally goes to see an acupuncturist, Dr. Yang (Keye Luke), on several friends' advice because her back is bothering her, he tells her that her problem is in her head, not her back. Through his extremely unorthodox treatments, Alice gradually transforms her life.Although there is a fair amount of light humor in Alice, and it is relatively upbeat and hopeful, the bulk of this film is much more in the vein of director/writer Woody Allen's more serious straightforward dramas, ala Interiors (1978), September (1987) and Another Woman (1988). Interestingly, Allen has a strong fantastical thread running through Alice at the same time, and it references a number of literary classics--both thematically and occasionally in terms of more literal content-&#151;resulting in a kinship also with Allen's A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy (1982).At its heart, Alice is a film about awakening and then achieving authenticity. It is told with a nod to Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol (1843) (which is even supported by the appearance of O Tannenbaum/We Wish You A Merry Christmas by Liberace on the soundtrack at one point), with slight references also to Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865) and other fantasy literature, including J.M. Barrie's Peter Pan (1911).The catalyst through all of Alice's revelations is Dr. Yang, whose slightly rundown Chinatown office is symbolic of Alice periodically making trips to another world for enlightenment, or making repeated treks to pose questions to a metaphorical Oracle at Delphi. Dr. Yang's treatments are designed to address the various ways in which Alice needs to open up, the various emotional needs she must come to terms with.It is interesting to note, especially after Allen's The Curse of the Jade Scorpion (2001), that the initial spark for Alice's transformation is provided by hypnotism, as that device appears for the same ultimate purpose in Curse. This probably has some significance for Allen outside of his life in film, although it is difficult to say whether its because he's undergone hypnotic treatment himself or whether he just sees it as a metaphor for digging beneath public facades which one has fooled oneself into believing, too.Dr. Yang's treatments either result in encountering some important person or event from Alice's past and/or tapping into some unrealized potential. The encounters are often not with real persons. They can be memories made almost literal, ghosts, or hallucinations. These are the most direct parallel to A Christmas Carol. As in that story, eventually Dr. Yang's treatments lead Alice away from an embrace of materialism for its own sake to an appreciation of more humanist values. Of course, Allen makes it a bit more complex than this, so that the positive transformation also has an impact on personal relationships that could be seen as negative, as well.Alice is also remarkable for its cinematography, which is usually symbolic of the dramatic scenarios. Sometimes this is very overt, as when Dr. Yang's office transforms into an amusement park midway (the slowly strobing red light was particularly exquisite, with red also symbolizing caution), and often it is subtler, as with the tracking shots of Alice and Vicki (Judy Davis) seen through various glass-like surfaces, or Alice and Joe (Joe Mantegna) through a fence as prison bars, or Alice and Dr. Yang with a wall in between them as the camera pans from one to the other, and so on.Of course the performances are good--Allen can even get admirable performances out of actors whom I usually do not care for, such as William Hurt. Of course most of the dialogue can easily be imagined as emerging from Allen's mouth instead of whatever character happens to be on screen. And of course the music selection is a fine collection of mostly pre-bop classic jazz. In other words, this is a typical post-Annie Hall (1977) Allen film, so if you like his style, Alice is a safe bet, and if you already know you dislike his style, you're probably not even reading this far. "},{"Title":"I've done things I didn't know I had in me. ","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Less known that Allen's Annie Hall, Hannah and her Sisters, Crimes and Misdemeanors, and Manhattan, Alice is a charming and delightful film that can be viewed as Allen's remake of Juliet of Spirits with some obvious themes from Alice in Wonderland. Mia Farrow plays a wealthy New Yorker who one day feels that something is missing in her sheltered and comfortable life. She turns to a Chinese doctor whose magic herbs help her to reevaluate her life and her relationships with her husband, lover, mother, and sister. She may not find the answers for all the questions but she certainly learned a lot about herself. During the few days that film takes place, Alice experiences romance, finds spirituality, and even enjoys the power of invisibility. This film has one of the most optimistic endings in Woody's film. Mia Farrow is absolutely wonderful. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Charming","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Mia Farrow excels in this unexpectedly charming fable. I think if people happened upon this movie not knowing it was a Woody Allen film, they would be more than pleased with it. Knowing it is Woody, maybe many fans hold it to a higher standard. True, it's not anywhere near being his funniest or greatest film. But I think it is a well-cast, well-shot, well-produced, and even well-written tale. Knowing it's history, I was not expecting to like it nearly as much as I did. But I did, and I look forward to seeing it again. Mia really is underrated as an actress, isn't she? "},{"Title":"The Wood-man starts off the '90s in style","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was the first Woody Allen film I got to see in the theaters and -- since it has such strong fantasy elements -- it was truly a magical experience.  Compared to a film like Crimes and Misdemeanors it's a bit of a lightweight, but taken on its own terms Alice is an enjoyable portrait of a woman trying to find herself and her spiritual center.  And there are plenty of funny moments along the way, which I wouldn't dare spoil for you.  All I'll say is watch for Bob Balaban (the dead guy in Deconstructing Harry) in the party scene late in the film.This film also marked the first time Allen worked with the amazing Judy Davis, who would make more of an impression in Husbands and Wives two years later. "},{"Title":"One of Woody's best","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think Woody Allen's 'Alice' is one of his most under-rated creations. This movie comes from his glory days before the scandal with his adopted daughter eclipsed his U.S. career.Here is vintage Woody. A fecund imagination married to a masterful story-telling talent.Like 'The Purple Rose of Cairo' (his masterpiece in my estimation) this is pure fantasy and it is delightful. Mia Farrow has done nothing finer, equal to her portrayal in Polanski's 'Rosemary's Baby' though of a completely different genre.The little socio-political messages do not interfere with what is otherwise a nifty little love story between Alice and Joe Mantagna. Things don't quite work out in the end, as is usual in a Woody movie, but they are on the border of real-life possibility and add the bittersweet note that he is so good at.I love this movie. It is not one of his rocking comedies like 'Broadway Danny Rose' but is a sweet vignette. It has overtones of 'Diary of Mad Housewife' but with a happier ending, for the housewife anyway.The scenes with Keye Luke, Alice's magical Eastern physician are subtle and funny. The fantasy scenes with Alec Baldwin's dead lover and the wonderful Bernadette Peters' muse are enchanting. Peters' Bronx-like muse is especially funny.Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable romp","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Next to the Front, this contains Woody Allen's best ending. There's one striking visual image in the plot I still can't get out my head Mia is cheating on William Hurt with Joseph Mantegna and the 2 of them are over at Mantegna's apartment, while a glorious downpour crashes against a huge glass window behind them. The sound of the rain hitting the window compliments their nervous dialogue perfectly. One of Farrow's nicest performances (the Purple Rose of Cairo is her most heartbreaking). And where else are you going to see invisibility in the same story as Mother Theresa? One of Allen's better cast jobs, too. Even the smallest roles are exquisite. Gwen Vernon as Farrow's old time movie star mother is sublime. And Bernadette Peters makes a great wise cracking muse. "},{"Title":"Juliet Meets Penguins","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Woody is sometimes a challenge. He makes films for himself and sometimes leaves us out of it altogether. Sometimes he is cleverly sublime (`Sweet and Lowdown') and sometimes stupid (`Crimes and Misdemeanors,' `Small Time Crooks'). Here he does well. Actually, with this film, he enters that exclusive club of folks who know how to arrange the eye's field.The film is based on Fellini's `Juliet of the Spirits.' In that film, Fellini writes about his wife and her struggle with wealth and ideals mediated by supernatural forces. His wife stars. To this, Woody adds some `Alice in Wonderland' elements on a superficial level she takes substances and changes consciousness. He folds some of these into his tricksterisms on film narrativeShe wants to be a film (actually TeeVee) writer; We attend a writing class on the uniqueness of film narrative. By fits, we have hypnotic visions; are visited by the dead; become invisible (characters become viewers); have opium visions where she views her past Dickens-style; are visited by a `muse;' and become captured by a film (of Mother Theresa). This is all pretty intelligent and self-reflexive stuff.The most amazing scene is the visit to the circus, carefully copied from a Seurat painting. Probably his best painting (there were only a few) and the one most chocked with fractal echos of itself.Mia does here what Kenneth Branagh and Ed Norton were to do later in Allen films act the part as Woody, with the inflections and bodily movements.The engineering of the hair color interests me. Mia's is given a very tame reddish-blondness. Her young self is played by Rachel Minor, also a strawberry, and her mother (Gwen Verdon) is red. The adulterer's wife (Judy Davis) is also red. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Woody's film for non-fans","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is Mia Farrow's most magical moment.  She glows in this film and as Woody Allen doesn't appear in it, and the film is not a heavy drama like Interiors or Another Woman, it will appeal to most audiences.  The plot dabbles in mysticism and magic, similar to A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy and his segment in New York Stories, and is basically the story of a pampered woman in search of her identity.  As Farrow's Alice is onscreen nearly every moment, the film couldn't have a better title.  Alice begins to question her religious faith amidst an upper-class Manhattan setting and intellectual friends--in other words, she plays a female, Catholic version of the character Woody Allen has played in many other movies.  There are not a lot of laughs in the movie but it still remains a classy winner, and a good start to Allen's '90s career.  The big name cast (with the exception of William Hurt and Joe Mantegna) contribute cameo appearances, more or less; a casting move he would continue later in the decade.  Not a movie that lends itself to countless viewings, like Manhattan or The Purple Rose of Cairo, but a definite charmer. "},{"Title":"Willing to suspend disbelief","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Alice (9 out of 10)Woody took my disbelief and suspended it high above Manhattan, so I could peer down upon Mia's Chinese-herb-aided exploration of infidelity, family and Catholicism.Allen here is clearly more in touch with both yin and yang than Kubrick in Eyes Wide Shut.  A dream, not a nightmare; a trail, not a train track. "},{"Title":"Allen fails to really inject any spark into a rather unsympathetic tale","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Alice is a happily married, upper-east side NY mother who has children, a maid, a babysitter and so on.  She never thought she was unhappy until she meets a man at her children's school and begins thinking about having an affair with him.  She goes to an herbal doctor, Dr Yang, who gives her herbs that, in a variety of ways, help her in her voyage of self-discovery.I'm a keen fan of Woody Allen but hopefully not to the point where I can't call a dog a dog!  This film is not a dog, but it is certainly very lifeless and dull, despite the imaginative plot device of Dr Yang's herbs.  For one thing it is very difficult indeed to really care for Alice or her friends. Usually Allen manages to get over this by making them witty, deeper characters of just having his film move slickly.  Here he can't get the pace up nor does he manage to give Alice anything resembling a real problem - unless you live the self-obsessed type of life she lives, in which case you may disagree.  I struggled to really get into the story and it was only made harder by the fact that, although imaginative, the film wasn't really that funny.The dialogue lacked the sort of imaginative sparkle that Allen films can usually be relied upon to have and it seemed to rely more on character than anything - which was a mistake as they are a fairly unsympathetic lot with more money than problems.  Farrow tries her best to win the audience round but I never got more from Alice than a woman going through a midlife crisis of sorts.  Mantegna and Hurt are both good actors but here they have nothing really to do and appear hamstrung by their characters.  The only time I connected with Alice was when she danced with the ghost of her husband and we hear flashbacks to their marriage - at this point I saw a person.  This is mostly due to a good performance by Baldwin in a minor role.Overall this is typical Allen and I guess fans may love it for that.  For me, I really didn't feel the film had any life to it and that it came across as flat and listless.  The plot relies on characters who I couldn't either relate to or like, the dialogue isn't as funny as it should be even though the invisibility etc all make it seem more interesting.  It's an OK film but I couldn't help but feel disappointed with the whole thing. "}{"Title":"An Amazing Intelligent Comedy","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen's alice is one of my favorite comedies. Woody Allen has a great way of using his own theatrical language to show his view of the human psychic. The movie is full of refreshing originality and great Text. Woody Allen Prooves himself here as a true artist and a true master in writing scripts, and of course great dialogs. The cast is amazing and Mia Farrow plays a convincing and powerful role. The movie stands in the thin line between realistic and magical, Beetwin story and Fairytale. Woody did this touch of fantasy with much skill, as a writer and as a Director. The storytelling style touches Shakespeare. I personally think this movie is one of Woody Allen's greatest pieces along with The Purple Rose Of Cairo and Great Aphrodite. This movie is definitely a Must-See if you Enjoy real Intelligent Original Comedies, great storytelling and genius writing. "},{"Title":"very enjoyable","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mia Farrow is Alice in this 1990 Woody Allen film. Here, Allen borrows from Juliet of the Spirits and Alice in Wonderland to make a delightful movie about an unhappy woman trying to find herself.Alice (Farrow) married a wealthy man (William Hurt) and gave up a career in fashion. She has everything - a gorgeous New York apartment, two children, and servants. She spends her time shopping and having beauty treatments. At her kids' school, she meets a man (Joe Mantegna) and is shocked to realize that she's attracted to him. When she goes to a Dr. Yang (Keye Luke) for a back problem, Dr. Yang sees right away that Alice's pain is psychological. He gives her an herb to take.The herb has an amazing effect on Alice, who then openly flirts with the object of her affection, Joe. Dr. Yang keeps hitting Alice up with potions one makes her invisible, so she can watch Joe with his psychiatrist ex-wife (Judy Davis); another reunites her with the ghost of her first love (Alec Baldwin). Alice and Joe finally get together. But one of the potions helps her to find something out that she not only didn't know, but that changes her life.Mia Farrow does a good job as Alice; in my opinion, other than Rosemary's Baby, she did her best work with Allen. The rest of the cast is good and sail through this film about self-discovery, unrealized goals, and passion. An unsung film of Allen's that deserves more attention. "},{"Title":"A delightful Woody tale, sans-Woody","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Within 5 minutes of watching this film for the first time, I commented on how nice it was to see a Woody film without having to see or hear him. I love the man to death, but there is much more to his aesthetic than the four-eyed doomed, dreamer lamenting about death and mortality in an internal monologue along the streets of Manhattan. (This thought wasn't helped by my 10 Allen films in 3 days marathon).Case in point - Alice. I knew that something was up when a lovely version of La Cumparsita started playing in the background, teasing you with it's back-and-forth melody. Alice is a delightful tale that manipulates you with its pacing - lingering on seemingly mundane moments and whisking you away from deliberate flights of fancy (e.g. the afternoon of invisibility with Alec Baldwin) that leave you wanting much more. Allen repeats himself on that front with Vicky Christina Barcelona, but that's a tale for another thread.All in all, I'd take a chance on watching this film on more than one occasion. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Mild and gentle with some surprising insight.","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Not one of Woody Allen's best films, Alice is nonetheless far better than what he's been turning out lately. The structure seems too random and unfocused, but it's still full of Allen's wise observations and commentary on human nature and modern-day life &#150; the qualities that make Woody Allen movies so special. The biggest fault I find with this film is Mia Farrow. Her run of films with Woody Allen are among his best, and her contributions are immense. Here she just seems unconvincing as a wealthy upper-Eastsider. Yes, we meet her character while she's questioning her life, but somehow the hat, the hair, the shoes just aren't sophisticated enough for a woman who's been living that lifestyle. She lacks the hardboiled edge of a seasoned New Yorker. Because she's too soft right from the beginning, her transformation falls short. The film is helped by all the star cameos, and even though they're brief, the characters are well-defined. Alice is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen Masterpiece!","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Only Woody Allen can direct such a great film with fantastic actors from the 1940's to the present day STARS! Mia Farrow,(Alice),Angela Mooney,'96, was a mixed up Catholic gal who was struggling with herself and also her husband, William Hurt,(Doug),The Blue Butterfly,'04, who is very rich and spoiled his wife in every way possible except in BED! Alice visits a Dr. Yang,(Keye Luke),The Falcon's Brother,'42, who gives her all kinds of herbs which helps her find herself and at the same time Alice has some hot romance with Joe Mantegna on the way to becoming a normal, happy Gal. It was great seeing a former great veteran actor,Keye Luke, who use to play #1 Son to Charlie Chan back in the 40's and many other actors who appear in the picture from out of nowhere! If you love Woody films, this is one of his greatest!! "},{"Title":"A lovely, overlooked film from Woody Allen","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Made right after one of Woody Allen's most celebrated films, Crimes And Misdemeanors, Alice seems to be one of the forgotten entries in his filmography. In both of these films, Allen effortlessly walks a fine line between drama and comedy, and although Alice appears to be a smaller, simpler film compared to Crimes, the viewer gradually realizes that the central dilemma - will Mia Farrow cheat on her husband or not ? - is just a pretext the film seamlessly blends reality with fantasy (the fantasy touches are creative, though not unprecedented in Allen's cinema see, for example, Play It Again, Sam or The Purple Rose Of Cairo), and the present with the past, to paint the portrait of a woman at a crossroads in her life. And who better to play that woman than Mia Farrow, who does mousiness to sweet perfection? Many other fine actors appear as well; William Hurt is kind of boring as the husband - but that's the point! Blythe Danner shines as Mia's sister. Only the ending becomes a little too preachy. *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"light fun Woody Allen romp","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Upperclass NYC housewife Alice Tate (Mia Farrow) is married to Doug (William Hurt) with kids. She's concerned that she's falling for another parent Joe Ruffalo (Joe Mantegna) at her kid's school. She's referred to herbalist Dr. Yang who brings her out of her rut. When the herbs wear off, she returns to her old conflicted self. Then Mr. Yang gives her invisibility powder.Mia Farrow plays a neurotic romantic which is often Woody Allen's role. She's enjoyable in this light magic-adjacent romp. It has some fun moments. The floating payphone is funny. The movie needs more of those sight gags. The drift into a ghost of Christmas past doesn't pay off as well as I hope. The romance doesn't wow me. If he plays a bit more of a bad boy, I think his character could be quite appealing. It would heat up the relationship a bit more which would help the movie. It would also differentiate him from William Hurt. "},{"Title":"Alice Sweet Alice.","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" With a poll being held on IMDb's Classic Film board for the best titles of 1990,I decided to take a look at Woody Allen's IMDb page.Discovering that Allen had made a film which appears to have become almost forgotten about,I decided that it would be a good time to find out if Alice did live here anymore.The plotTaking her kids to school, socialite Alice Tate runs into a handsome man dropping his kid off at the school.With having been married to Doug for 16 years,Alice's life has become one that is focused on material possessions,partly related to the spark in her marriage having burnt out long ago.Talking to her friends about feeling attracted to someone other than Doug,Alice's friends advise her to a herbalist doctor called Yang.Meeting Yang,Alice starts to tell Yang about the sudden feeling that are developing.After getting Alice to reveal her inner feeling via hypnosis,Yang gives Alice a packet of herbs,which he claims will make her act on her impulsive feelings.Taking all the herbs,Alice soon enters a new & exciting wonderland.View on the filmStaying behind the camera,writer/director Woody Allen and cinematographer Carlo Di Palma use superbly-handled tracking shots to show all of the material possessions being at a distance from the real Alice.Sliding the movie into wonderful flights of fantasy,Allen dips into Alice's mind by startling infer red flashbacks,and a visit from a Ghost of Christmas Past-style character.Despite filming not being the easiest experience, (with Allen checking himself into hospital,shortly after finishing the films multiple re-shoots) the screenplay by Allen expertly cracks the shell of Alice's high-end,shallow life,thanks to Allen showing the riches to have drained any excitement from Alice's life.Enchanting Alice (and the audience) with the appearance of Dr.Yang,Allen reveals a real joy in taking advantage of the fantasy opportunity,as Allen uses Yang's herbs to take Alice from being invisible,to flying across a vast city.Made just before he passed away, Keye Luke gives a splendid performance as Yang,with Luke giving Yang a real sense of excitement,over helping Alice to peel away to her true self.Whilst her performance does contain some hints of being twee,Mia Farrow does very well at keeping Alice largely on the charming side,with Farrow giving Alice an excellent nervous energy,as Alice starts to turn away from her closed-in life,and begins to look into the looking glass. "},{"Title":"A bit of a let-down after Crimes and Misdemeanors but still a lovely film","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Alice is not Woody Allen at his best and admittedly I was expecting a little more from it after the brilliant Crimes and Misdemeanors(which is top 5 Allen) from the previous year. There are far better developed, more interesting and more identifiable characters in other Allen films, here some were underwritten and a couple like William Hurt's a touch irritating, the titular character was relatively well-developed though. Some of the actors are underused, like Hurt and Judy Davis and Mia Farrow does start off a little too stylised and soft which doesn't make her transformation quite as believable as it could have been. However, quite quickly she becomes very touching and her deadpan comic delivery really shines through, so while with not as strong a start it's actually a good performance. Joe Mantegna turns out good work too, although to a lesser extent he could have been better used, while Keye Luke, Cybill Shepherd and particularly Bernadette Peters and Alec Baldwin(in the most colourful supporting roles) make up an excellent supporting cast. Allen's direction is just right, the film looks beautiful with a dream-like quality at times and the soundtrack is hypnotic. The script and story are a mix of comedy, drama and fantasy, all three balanced well and all three work, with the comedy light-hearted and subtly witty, the drama affecting and not overwrought and the fantasy whimsical and nostalgic-feeling. Working out what was going on and what the film was trying to do and be wasn't a problem for me, and Alice ends cleverly and poignantly. All in all, a lovely film- if not as good as his late 70s-80s films- and a good start to Allen's 90s output though better was to come from that decade(Husbands and Wives, Manhattan Murder Mystery and Bullets Over Broadway). 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A highly palatable drama","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Alice (Mia Farrow) is a guileless rich New York housewife who shops looks beautiful for her husband Doug (William Hurt) and takes care of her kids from time to time.She encounter Joe Mantenga at her children's school and is smitten...through the help of a Chinese acupuncturist herbalist hypnotist she embarks on a magical odyssey and discovers what her real values are.It is a unique and creative movie where by Alice appears invisible is able to fly with ghosts and other things much like Alice in Wonderland.There are a couple funny lines but this is not a comedy...it treats with a light touch matters such as fidelity in a far more palatable manner (in my opinion) than the contemporary dreadfully serious (and lousy) film by Allen entitled Another Woman.Prepare to be entertained and left also with feelings a drama might leave as well... perfect.About the only reservations I have is Allen's constant dated use of upper middle class pseudo intellectual (for want of a better phrase) New Yorkers...you get the opinion he takes them as important social markers for his own prestige. But then one must remember that Allen was born in 1935 he is essentially of another generation one where divorce fidelity and upper middle class props were boiler plate and serious frameworks. "}{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I love a lot of Woody Allen's lesser-known works (Shadows and Fog, Stardust Memories) but being honest with myself, I can't find a lot to like in Alice. The one thing that kept me watching it the whole way through was Mia Farrow's phenomenal performance - she's really at her best here, and with no Woody around, she truly gets to shine. The script is also wonderful, as is almost everything Allen wrote (at least until the early 2000's). Unfortunately, the film is too uneven to really work. Farrow's one woman show controls most of it, but the rest of the cast can't keep up - especially the completely uncharismatic Joe Mantegna, who brings down every production he's in. Stylistically the film has some very interesting moments, but it, too, is too inconsistent and uneven. In particular, any scene of a supernatural nature comes off as indecisive and cynical. The film is probably worth it for devoted Woody Allen fans, some of them may like it, but I can't really recommend it for anybody else. "},{"Title":"Alice Wondering In New York","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen infuses elements of magic and fantasy into 'Alice' but at the same time the story stays human all the way. 'Alice' revolves around an upper class spoiled housewife who is not happy in her rich lifestyle and she reevaluates her life after an encounter with Dr. Yang. The treatment of the story is Woody Allen's signature style. It could be described as a typical Woody Allen-Mia Farrow film.'Alice' is whimsical and is a good mixture of comedy and drama. The humour is very subtle. The dialogues are poetic and delivered naturally by the actors. This is also a very well made film with exceptional cinematography and a great soundtrack.Mia Farrow has become one of my favourite actresses and her performance here only made me love her more as an actress. She plays the role with grace and immediately involves the viewer into Alice's world. Joe Mantegna, Judy Davies, Blythe Danner, William Hurt, Alec Baldwin, Keye Luke and Bernadette Peters provide great support.The elements of fantasy give 'Alice' a 'Christmas Carol', 'Alice in Wonderland' and 'Peter Fan' feel. But it remains very much a Woody Allen film that rounds up to a beautiful ending. I doubt one could go wrong with a Woody Allen-Mia Farrow collaboration, that is, if you like this style of film. "},{"Title":"A Toss Off Comedy from Woody Allen","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those lightweight Woody Allen comedies with magical realist overtones that he makes while treading water in between his more serious and better films. Mia Farrow plays a housewife who's reevaluating her life, and the movie is stuffed with a bunch of famous faces in small roles, playing the various people she comes in contact with during her modest little soul-discovery journey.Farrow is a very underrated actress, and she's very good here, but she suffers from what many an actor has suffered in Woody Allen movies -- too often his films feel like caprices and they're not developed enough to let any one actor really sink his/her teeth into the material. That's Alice. Grade B "},{"Title":"One of Woody's Most Creative and Uncategorizable Films","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Alice is one of Woody's most creative films and one of his most difficult to label or classify. It's a dramatic story but Woody pulls off some of his funniest bits. It's a realistic character study but it's a fantasy. And it yanks people into its story from straight off of any given New York City block, like the title character, played by Mia Farrow in her most becoming performance next to The Purple Rose of Cairo, the wife of a millionaire with two kids, but terribly unhappy. When she meets Joe Mantegna, playing a saxophonist at a school function, she sees an unattainable opportunity for happiness. Aggravated by physical pain, she consults her herbalist, a mystical Asian man, who uses magical herbs to take Alice out of her unhappy life and into an idealistic flight of fancy. She settles issues that are absorbingly genuine all the more because of their haphazard creativity.You can imagine Woody Allen observing millionaire housewives in his home town and thinking, God, they must be so bored. What do they do all day? And he's smart enough to present their problems as minor but in their exceptionally privileged eyes big, as they don't tend to have the overwhelming problems of others anywhere in sight throughout their daily lives, and that is what Alice comes to realize.Near the end, film presents us with a two-way street that includes a decision that would be logical but not so full of magic and vice versa, just as Dr. Yang tells her about the mind functioning without logic being full of romance but can have great pain as well, subtly presenting the stakes of the film's denouement. "},{"Title":"What is love?","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A married woman of the upper social class leads the life that usually those women lead her time time is divided between directing her servants' housework, her children, the hairdresser's and beauty parlour, the shopping, the social parties and events, the meeting with her female friends whose conversation is limited to gossip and the stories of who sleeps with whom now, etc.. Her husband is a nice man who treats her well but doesn't pay much importance to her and has not great regard for her abilities besides those mentioned. This begins to change first when she meets another man with him she falls in love (without stopping loving her husband in a different kind of love of course) and second when she enters in contact with oriental philosophy and medicine in the person of an oriental doctor who uses hypnotics, herbs and even magics to treat his patients. There she begins to loathe the life she has led till then and several episodes follow till she finds at last the solution in the end. I am a fan of Woody Allen's movies because he deals in an intelligent way with our daily problems chiefly with our marital and sentimental lives and is never dull or fastidious. He is the only movie director I know who can introduce philosophy in a movie without being tedious and on contrary doing it even with humour without falling into superficiality. All our bourgeois life problems are treated in his movies in a very clever humorous way which don't make them less serious. His female characters are almost always predominant. In this movie we can ask what is love after observing the behaviour of the woman (one of the best roles of Mia Farrow), her husband and her lover. In whom can a woman trust after all when she wants (and deserves) to be loved? This movie is very serious despite the humour and even the magic fantasy present at some of its scenes. And its values are very positive and true. "},{"Title":"A delightful romp","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen is a cockeyed genius. But he makes unique films. This is a fantasy, a fairy tale, a comedy,a drama, a social documentary. It is engaging and distinctive with Allen's creative fingerprints all over it. The banal chatter, the simple yet well plotted shots, the occasional flights of wild fantasy, the innate feel for New York City and its unique lifestyle of faux sophistication. These are all Woody Allen trademarks and when you're that good, you're entitled to some personality quirks. Nobody comes close to capturing New York the way Allen does. Mia Farrow excels as a naive, confused, inexperienced and (not so) innocent wife. But it's Allen's vision that makes the movie. A keeper! "},{"Title":"Not Allen's best, but still a strong film","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" While I still don't flat out love this film, I was surprised to find I liked it much more on a second viewing. While my original problem with it - thematically it's arguably a weaker, less original re-make of 'Purple Rose of Cairo' still stands, I found myself charmed, caught up and moved, off-setting those moments that are clunkier, too cute, or even borderline racist in their stereotypes. It will never be my favorite Allen film, but it's certainly still a strong effort and Mia Farrow may never have been better. There's enough movie magic here, that it's certainly worth seeing, and for myself, owning. "},{"Title":"a Woody Allen fariy tale, with mostly winning results","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" While Brian De Palma was in his part of the Park Avenue section of Manhattan making the curious disaster that was Bonfire of the Vanities, Woody Allen was in his section making something of a lighter story, satirical but less barbed and not quite as outrageous. It's about an upper-class housewife who has pretty much anything she could want, and is pampered high-rise apartment, high-paid massages and clothes and jewelry and whatever, but she also has a boring husband and a back that is aching. So she's sent to a sort of mystical Chinese doctor who gives her a hypnotizing trick, and starts to give her herbs. This spurs on a different way of thinking, or, at least, an affair with a musician, and she also revisits painful memories of her past a broken relationship with her older sister, and a her former lover who died when she was younger.The film addresses an interest that can be found in many of Allen's films, something one wouldn't expect from a filmmaker usually associated with therapist couches and satire on neurotics and intellectual New Yorkers, which is magic. One saw it in Purple Rose of Cairo, and one sees it here manifested in a fable structure. Alice (a charming and sometimes affecting Mia Farrow) has to change by her own accord, but is assisted by these 'herbs' that make her invisible, see her dead lover (Alec Baldwin in a great supporting role) in the same room with her, fly high in the sky, and speak with her sister at their old family home in her mind (whether that part is from the opium, if it even is opium, is hard to say), and a potion that will make any men fall desperately in love with her, which makes for the climax of the picture.Meanwhile, she tries to find herself, her creative spirit as a writer (if it's even there) and a possible lover in musician Joe Mantagna plays. There's some whimsy that Allen is dealing with here, and some intentionally obvious cinematic tricks (a spotlight on Baldwin, the choice in the music like out of a 40's escapist movie, the use of red tint when Alice is being hypnotized), but there's also a smart-serious undercurrent for Alice as a character. What will she do with herself? Will she stay with her husband in a complacent existence, or go with Joe, who may have his heart elsewhere? The resolution to this all is the kind of ending that wouldn't usually come in a fairy tale (I suspect it may have been inspired by Farrow herself, and her dedication to helping out third-world poverty-stricken children). But the film is satisfying as something light and fluffy, some satire of the rich and their petty concerns thrown in, and some existential 'Woody' angst thrown in for good measure.It's not a major work by any means, and I think Allen is content with it that way. It's also a fine showcase for Farrow (what films in the 80's weren't, i.e. Broadway Danny Rose) and her skills as a comedienne and as a serious actor, in equal measure. "},{"Title":"One of Woody's Best","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In one sense a movie about cheating couples, this is another of Woody Allen's great character studies but with the added fillip of a Chinese herb doctor (outstandingly played by Keye Luke) who understands just what Alice (Mia Farrow) needs for the various developments in her midlife crisis and has just the right herbal medicine that she needs. At first it seems that the medicines alter Alice's perception, but only in her mind. Spoiler Alert! If you don't want to know what happens stop reading now. But as the events progress we begin to get the impression that perhaps the magic is not just in her mind. In one particularly funny office Xmas Party scene, Alice is spying on her cheating husband (William Hurt) who is entwined with one of his romances. His girl friend says it feels as if they are being watched. Then Alice, who has used some herbal medicine that made her invisible, becomes visible and the paramour screams. Her husband's biggest concern at that point seems to be how Alice was able to sneak into the office. Another funny moment is the Xmas party at her sister's home. A love potion that Alice puts down temporarily because she hasn't yet decided on whether to use it on her unfaithful husband or on her divorced boy friend who wants to return to his ex-wife. After all the men at the party begin declaring their love for Alice, she finds out that a servant had added it to the eggnog thinking it was nutmeg. Maybe this is a somewhat stale situation-comedy bit, but Woody does it so much better than the others. In every Woody Allen film that I remember, with the possible exception of Purple Rose of Cairo, if Woody is not part of the cast then one of the characters has neurotic mannerisms that imitate Woody's screen persona. But those actors somehow miss what make those mannerisms funny. In Alice, Mia Farrow is given those Woodyish lines. She makes it work! She plays a female Woody Allen neurotic perfectly! "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's version of magic realism","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Alice can be seen as Woody Allen's version of magic realism. It makes use of magic, but does so not in the context of myth, fairy-tale or fantasy but in the context of contemporary real-life America. The title character, Alice Tate, is an upper-middle-class New York housewife. Alice is married with two children, but her marriage is not a happy one. Her husband Doug is wealthy and good-looking, but cold, dull and unresponsive to her needs. The film explores what happens two strangers come into Alice's life. The first is Joe Ruffalo, a handsome musician to whom she finds herself attracted. The second is the mysterious Chinese herbalist Dr Yang, who is treating her for backache. Dr Yang prescribes a series of herbal treatments for her, but it is clear that these are much more than just backache remedies. Indeed, these herbs have magical properties. One type takes away her inhibitions and make her act on her feelings towards Joe; another type makes her invisible, enabling her to watch both Joe and Doug unseen. A third enables her to communicate with the ghost of her now deceased first lover Ed. The film is very different in its overall tone to Woody's previous offering, Crimes and Misdemeanours made a year earlier. Yet there is also a similarity between the two films. Alice can be seen as continuing the debate about religion which began in the earlier film, Given that Woody is normally thought of as a religious sceptic, Crimes and Misdemeanours came as something of a surprise to me with its positive view of religion, especially the sympathetic view taken of Sam Waterston's Rabbi, a man whose religious faith enables him to bear the prospect of blindness with stoicism. Although physically he is losing his sight, morally he can see more clearly than any other character in that film. In Alice the religious debate takes place in the context of Catholicism rather than Judaism. Although she no longer practises her religion, Alice was raised as a Catholic. (As was Mia Farrow who plays her; Mia's original name was the very Catholic Maria de Lourdes Villiers-Farrow). The film's view of Catholicism is a mixed one. One the one hand, Alice's Catholic upbringing is seen as a source of sexual guilt. On the other hand, Catholicism is also seen as a source of humanitarian idealism. As a girl and young woman, Alice's was to help people like Mother Theresa, whom she greatly admired. As a middle-aged married woman she has lost sight of her idealistic goals and leads a luxurious, materialistic lifestyle, dominated by shopping, beauty treatments and gossip. Religion can therefore be seen as being the partial cause of Alice's problems in that it causes her to feel guilty about her feelings for Joe. (There is a suggestion that her backache is psychosomatically linked to these guilt feelings). It can, however, also be seen as part of the solution to those problems, as she eventually rediscovers her earlier idealism. Another link between this film and Crimes and Misdemeanours lies in their colour schemes. In the earlier film the predominant colours were browns, greys and dull yellows and oranges. Here similar colours predominate, except that they are also relieved by brighter oranges and reds. This may have been intended to symbolise the difference in tone between the two films. Crimes&#x85;.. is one of Woody's darker films, combining humorous and serious stories, although even the humour is often of a dark, cynical nature. Alice, by contrast, is generally lighter and more playful, a comedy raising serious issues as opposed to a serious film lightened by humour. Magical realism in the cinema is not always successful; Practical Magic, for example, which likewise tried to introduce magical elements into a modern-day realistic setting, is a hopeless mess of a film, one of my least-favourite movies of the nineties. Alice is a considerably better film than Practical Magic- it would be difficult to be worse- but I nevertheless got the feeling that Woody was never entirely happy with his supernatural subject-matter and does not handle it as deftly as he did in, for example, The Purple Rose of Cairo, another film of his which includes fantasy elements. Although this is not her best collaboration with Allen- that was probably Hannah and Her Sisters- Mia Farrow makes a likable heroine and there are also good performances from Alec Baldwin as the ghostly Ed and William Hurt as Doug. Overall, this is a generally enjoyable film, with some amusing scenes, but it does not really count as one of Allen's great works. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Mia Farrow in Wonderland","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I knew Alice wouldn't be great but it was definitely good.Mia Farrow plays a Manhattan housewife version of Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland. Visits to a Chinese herbal remedist are her rabbit hole. Her world becomes one of magical nonsense, Topsy turvy, but with Allen's usual Chekhovian dialogue and character relationships.It's also a moving account of one woman's journey to fulfillment. I always love the endings of Woody Allen movies and I found this one to be a particularly pleasant surprise while also being very encouraging and uplifting.William Hurt, Joe Montangea and Alec Baldwin are all good as the men in her life, and Bernadette Peters is especially great as the Muse.A must-see for Woody Allen fans who keep their expectations down. "},{"Title":"Herb-ie Farrow gets fully loaded.","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Another movie from the one-man movie-making factory known as Woody Allen, Alice tells the tale of Alice (funnily enough), a rather bored housewife who embarks on a series of magical adventures thanks to the medicines given to her by Dr. Yang. Each time she undergoes a different, strange transition she ends up learning a little something about those around her and/or herself. But where will that leave her at the end of things? A bizarre movie in the way that the grounded and banal alternates with the bizarre and fanciful, Alice is definitely far from the high standards set by my favourite Allen movies.Mia Farrow is good in the titular lead role (though one scene when she is supposed to be smoulderingly seductive simply fails massively), William Hurt isn't used that much as the husband who provides material things but not much else and Joe Mantegna does well as a man that Alice falls for. The supporting cast includes Blythe Danner, Judy Davis, Bernadette Peters, Bob Balaban and Cybill Shepherd, who all do well, and a memorable turn from Alec Baldwin.Others have enjoyed this as a layered, modern fantasy that packs as much in there with regards to psychology, beliefs and thoughts on life and love as any of Allen's other movies but it simply felt too shallow and simplistic for me with the fantastical moments not being quite fantastical enough and the more grounded moments not really featuring anyone I could care for or dilemmas that seemed worth spending too much time on. Oh well, nobody can please all of the people all of the time. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable though not Allen's best work....","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Alice (1990) One of those fantasy pictures that  Allen makes ever so often. Mia Farrow as another Allen-esque upscale Manhattan  housewife who accidentally discovers  an ancient Chinese potion that makes her  invisible. Oh and what she finds out then  about her husband and society friends  sets the story in motion. Not one of  Mr. Allen's best, but still better by  far than most romantic comedies out  there these days. Also starring William  Hurt and Joe Mantegna. "},{"Title":"Can it be?","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A Woody Allen film I actually like, besides MIGHTY APHRODITE? Why, so it is! Charming, clever, and oddly sentimental as opposed to the neurotic, annoying and appallingly sexist non-movies that Woody Allen usually churns out, ALICE ranks as my favorite Woody Allen film ever... Mia Farrow turns in her best performance ever (after voicing THE LAST UNICORN that is) and her supporting cast fleshes out this potentially not interesting assortment of Woody Allen types. William Hurt and Alec Baldwin, in particular give fine performances, and Bernadette Peters is a scream for the five minutes of screen time Allen gives her (I'd like to say something about both Blythe Danner and Judy Davis, who are two fine actresses, but it's hard when they basically do nothing in the movie). The re-enactment of Farrow and Hurt's first date is a brilliant, beautiful moment that actually makes it kind of sad they can't work things out in the end- and also makes Farrow's final achievment of emotional independence so much more satisfying. While I don't think the movie is a bold statement on feminism, I do think it's a surprisingly mature depiction of women as far as Woody Allen goes- at the very least, they're attracted to attractive men as opposed to well... people like him, or Michael Caine. Anyway, worth checking out if you're in the mood for a quiet little piece of light-hearted romantic fantasy.    "},{"Title":"Shows signs of an indecisive filmmaker","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't always find Woody Allen funny or stimulating, but I do think he's very smooth and efficient as a filmmaker, and that's why the stumbling Alice surprised me. It has bits and pieces of clever comedy and fantasy, but it's saddled with a script that seems made up of parts from different movies. Mia Farrow is charming (as usual) playing a New York City wife and mother whose visit to a Chinese herb doctor sets her on a journey of self-discovery. So far, so good. But I found nothing of interest in her sour marriage to William Hurt (their scenes are poor from all standpoints) and nothing good can be said for Alec Baldwin as a ghost. Keye Luke is perfectly cast as the unconventional medico who helps Alice change her outlook on life, and the film picks up a bit at the 60 minute mark with other nice turns by Bernadette Peters and Blythe Danner. But when Woody Allen veers back to the marriage stuff, his narrative becomes unhappily inconclusive. Alice plays very flat on television; perhaps in the theater--with an appreciative audience--it was somewhat more bearable. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Not Woody Allen's best but an adequate role for Mia Farrow","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Alice Tate (Mia Farrow) is living in New York City, married to Doug (William Hurt), a rich and successful businessman from a prosperous family. They have two children, a lavish condo and a large stable of servants. Alice spends her days shopping, getting manicures and pedicures, and so on. However, she's not very happy, and in searching for the reason for her unhappiness she has become a bit of a hypochondriac. When she finally goes to see an acupuncturist, Dr. Yang (Keye Luke), on several friends' advice because her back is bothering her, he tells her that her problem is in her head, not her back. Through his extremely unorthodox treatments, Alice gradually transforms her life.This is a Woody Allen film, but Woody doesn't appear in it. It focuses on Mia throughout, with various literary allusions, mostly to Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865), but also in ways to A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens (1843) in the way ghosts and memories from the past arrive to deliver their epiphanies. Alec Baldwin is a former lover with a brief turn as one such ghost. Though Woody isn't in the film, and it is all about Alice (or Mia Farrow, as the case may be) it is as if he is speaking through all of the characters, as the unseen scribe behind the scenes, the author of the drama. Alice considers writing, but is clearly not cut out for it. Nancy Brill (Cybill Shepherd), a supposed friend (frenemy?), has a job reading scripts for a television network, but even with the help of her own personal muse (Bernadette Peters) she can't get a break. The muse points out that she can't expect any help from Brill, who constantly glances at her watch at all their meetings. Her writing teacher says she has talent.Muse (explaining what the Professor means when he tells Alice she's 'deep') Very deep is exactly where he wants to put it.Bernadette Peters' muse is a mixture of creative juices, insight, and down-to-earth truth. I almost thought we had fast-forwarded to the Greek chorus of Mighty Aphrodite for a minute. It was like The Muse was inserted for Woody to tell Mia that she should stick to acting, and leave the writing to him.The main metaphor of the movie is Dr. Yang, and his office functions as the looking glass through which Alice enters her Wonderland. He uses hypnosis, herbs, and magic potions. At one point, she barges in on him in the midst of an opium session. Is he the hookah smoking caterpillar? Yang would also seem to stand for the male principal, the compliment to Yin. Her life is out of balance, with no Yang to offset her Yin. Dr. Yang Love is a very complex emotion. No rational thought... much romance, but much suffering.Her husband, Doug, wants her to just play the wife role, but offers her neither love nor understanding. Doug(trying to tell Alice why she'd be good working part-time in a sweater store) You have a nice personality and you know sweaters. Dr. Yang encourages her to speak to a man she sees while they are both dropping off their kids at school. The man is a jazz musician (Joe Mantegna), a tenor sax player who is working on a tribute to Duke Ellington. Though we never get to see or hear him actually play, he appears to be a solid professional on the New York jazz scene. Joe (explaining to Alice why he wants to have an affair with her) There's nothing sexier than a lapsed Catholic.Though she flirts with him, he isn't really the answer to her dilemma. She is almost going through Freudian analysis, searching her past for answers to her present.Alice But then when dad died you drank yourself to death with, with margaritas. Alice's Mother I couldn't help it darling. You know I couldn't resist the taste of salt around the rim of a glass.As in most of Allen's films, music plays a big part, especially jazz. At one point Alice, after hypnosis, is brazenly flirting with the jazz musician, asking astute questions about his reeds (he uses #3) and making references to the whole world of harmonics that opened up when John Coltrane switched from Tenor to Soprano Saxophone. Woody Allen is a clarinet player himself, and especially fond of traditional jazz. The opening song, used as an ongoing musical motif, is Lime House Blues. Though not technically a blues, this old-time jazz tune has stood the test of time, and was still being covered, for instance, by Coltrane, well into the post bop jazz era. It also works well as a bluegrass tune. Oh, Lime House Kid, Oh-oh-oh, Lime House Kid. Going the way that the rest of them did. Poor broken blossom, and nobody's child. Haunting and taunting, you're just kind of wild. And the lyrics fit because the song talks about going to China Town, such as Alice is going to Dr. Yang's. &#133;rings for your fingers and tears for your crown, that is the story of old China Town.After much soul searching, Alice leaves her husband, who is cheating on her anyway, and devotes herself to charity, adopting multiple orphans. Who (besides Madonna or Angelina Jolie) does that sound like? "},{"Title":"OK, ish","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Not one of Woody Allen's best. Has its moments but the plot is average. The whole upper-crustness and superficiality of all the characters was quite irritating. Mia Farrow was miscast as Alice. Woody Allen wrote the role for her, as he did many of his 80s movies (they were in a relationship, after all). However, she simply comes across as irritatingly mousy and neurotic. Typically Woody Allen would play the neurotic character, as that is all he knows (by his own admission) but as the part required a female, he probably thought Mia Farrow was his female equivalent.William Hurt nails the aloof, too-rich-to-care, stuck-up husband, though his character is quite irritating. Good support from Joe Mantegna, Alec Baldwin, Judy Davis and Cybill Shepherd.Overall, OK but certainly not a must-see, even if you are, like me, a Woody Allen fan. "},{"Title":"Alice takes you to Wonderland and back again","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The way I saw this film is telling. I decided to watch it one night because it was written and directed by Woody Allen, whose thoughtful work I have admired. But 45 minutes into the film, I decided I couldn't sympathize with Mia Farrow's character Alice, whom she portrayed as a timid, almost ditzy, blonde rich lady with two kids, a good-looking husband, a fabulous apartment in New York, and still enough money for househelp, spa time, and boutique shopping. So I turned off the tube and went to bed.A few days later I came back and finished watching the film. I couldn't stop wondering what would happen to Alice, and what choices she would ultimately make. I realized that even though she occupied a different social stratum than I, she was more like me than I had thought, and I wanted to know where that would take her.The movie is ultimately a clever psychological drama probing the reasons for Alice's discontent. She seems to have everything a woman could want. So why is she torn by fantasies of an illicit affair with an ordinary-looking single dad whom she meets picking up the kids after school one day? Allen introduces an old Chinese herb doctor into the story who treats Alice using an old-fashioned device to induce a hypnotic state, followed up by various packets of herbs which Alice dutifully takes throughout the movie. The effects of these herbs push the film from realism into fantasy, but enable us to learn about Alice's past, help us spy with her on her lover and husband, and (in one of the most entertaining scenes in the film) watch Alice become the object of passion for a half dozen quarreling men at a party who have unknowingly imbibed a Chinese herbal love potion with the party punch!In spite of the provocative story which Allen tries to tell in Alice, however, the film failed to delight or inspire me. Mia Farrow's Alice is trying to find herself, but when she finally does, the movie is over, and I don't really care anymore, because I've never liked her shallow, self-conscious character in the first place.Still, the movie is smart, thoughtful entertainment, with some witty one-liners, and if you can get over the Wonderland-weird stuff in Alice, you'll watch till the credits roll, just for the fun of it. "},{"Title":"A Hole, But Not Deep.","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mia Farrow is Alice, wife of well-to-do Manhattanite William Hurt. She's dissatisfied with her life. Her marriage is becoming a dull, humdrum affair, although Hurt is nice enough in every way. She's bored with her friends too. All they talk about is who's having an affair with whom, who got his or her latest nose job, where is the best Shaitsu massage parlor. She's always taking cabs, never the subway. And she seems always to be schlepping around a shopping bag from some ritzy boutique.She goes to an offbeat Chinese doctor for treatment. He has her drink a herbal tea that causes her to come on like a ton of bricks to saxophonist and nice guy Joe Montegna. He's divorced and responds readily when she sits next to him, stares at him like a predatory snake, and practically moans, Your eyes are -- really -- on fire. It isn't much of a scene but it's one of the two best. The other takes place after Doctor Yang gives her a herb that causes her to turn invisible. She witnesses Montegna making love to his ex wife for old times sake and later quizzes him about the act, spelling out all the details, to which he replies, Wow. You really are -- interesting. Now, neither of these are belly laughs. And I have to say I didn't find the story either gripping or particularly funny. Alice may be confused and unhappy but in a way that many of us might enjoy being. Should my next ensemble be frost pink? And, if so, how shall I accessorize it? Do I want to go to the Four Seasons tonight, or to Lutece? Allen made slapdash and often hilarious comedies until he hit gold with Annie Hall, a flavorsome mixture of amusement and sincere emotion. September was a bummer from beginning to end. And he's been struggling since then to find a place that represents a concordance between his native, evidently inexhaustible sense of the absurd, and his native, evidently inexhaustible ontological Angst. He seems to feel an element of fantasy will pep stories up -- A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy, New York Stories, Sleeper, and now Alice. Well, sometimes the old magic works and sometimes it doesn't. Here, it doesn't. He's still capable of generating spiffy movies -- no question about it -- Broadway Danny Rose and Hollywood Ending, for instance.For me, though, Alice isn't really too interesting and, at the end, collapses into itself as if the imagination behind it had been thoroughly depleted. "},{"Title":"Elitist Mysticism","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" By 1990 Woody Allen, my favorite director-writer-actor-comedian, had been a long time off the streets, and had clearly become quite comfortable living in expensive apartments and associating with well-bred society types of comparable income. This insulated world would serve as the location of many of his films to follow, and eventually become claustrophobic and counter-productive to their stories, and perhaps no more so obviously than in Alice. I found it simply impossible to relate to the repressed Alice Tate (Mia Farrow) and her invisible husband Doug (William Hurt) and their stiflingly antiseptic upper west-side existence. You can feel the Woodman's palpable anger here, and though he doesn't appear in the film there is a clear foreshadowing of he and Farrow's then-cancerous relationship which would explode onto the screen with Husbands & Wives. Woody doesn't like these people, and he doesn't like this world- the world in which he himself was living at the time.Alice is the society wife and mother who has everything but feels empty inside. Our director doesn't feel any sympathy for her, so why should we? He puts her through a variety of wacky Woodyisms (magical herbs of invisibility, meetings with both her Muse and long-dead first love) that seem more like scraps from his notebook than significant plot-points. Eventually Alice is liberated not by musician-Italian Joe Mantegna but by charity work with Mother Theresa, an idea Woody seems to find as appalling as he does inevitable.This is not to call Alice a bad movie; that wouldn't be fair... but you do get the feeling Woody made it for all the wrong reasons to fulfill a promise to wife-star Farrow, to atone for his infidel's guilt, to exorcise some loose story lines and possibly to urge Mia to leave him for that which would make her truly happy. I find it difficult to distinguish this film from the real-life goings-on at Chez Allen... that may be a flaw in Woody's artistry... or the ultimate compliment.Alice does feature a whimsical story and genuine laughs, but this is Woody in Transition, and the work suffers accordingly.GRADE C+ "}{"Title":"Magic","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After Crimes and Misdemeanours which was Woody Allen's Othello, this   plot, full of dream references and magic is his Midsummer Night's   Dream. It works supremely well as a comedy of magic and illusion. I   particularly liked the scene where the, formerly reticent Alice, played   by Mia Farrow, is picking up an attractive saxophone player at her   daughter's school. She puts just the right amount of innuendo into   eliciting that he plays a tenor and establishing the hardness of his   reed. Mia Farrow, in her best ever role for Woody Allen is attractive   and amusing as the scatter-brained Alice. Some of the early scenes, in   this respect resemble Annie Hall. There are also echoes of Play It   Again Sam in the way her dead lover of twenty years ago returns to   coach her in her wooing of the saxophone player.    Joe Mantagno is excellent as the musician and Blythe Danner turns in an   effective cameo as Alice's elder sister. William Hurt has to play one   of those cyphers that Allen sometimes writes as the unsatisfactory   spouse that has to be escaped from. Cybill Shepherd and Bernadette   Peters have small roles, as does Dylan O'Sullivan Farrow as Farrow's   daughter.    The only irritating note about the film is that it can be seen as yet   another in the Allen canon about the perfectibility of women. Usually   this is effected by the immature women being taken under the wing of a   mature man, played by Woody Allen, but in this case it is the Chinese   doctor who has the Svengali role as facilitator of Alice's process of   self-actualisation.    The music, as usual in Allen's films, is a continual joy, particularly   Jackie Gleeson's rendition of Limehouse Blues and, continuing the dream   references, Darn That Dream from Thelonius Monk's album Monk's Dream "},{"Title":"Disappointing Woody","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A spoiled Manhattan housewife (Mia Farrow) re-evaluates her life after visiting a Chinatown healer (Keye Luke).So, this film has the interesting historical footnote of being the first films for both June Squibb and Lisa Marie. This is about the best thing that can be said for the film. (Actually, the cast as a whole is pretty darn good.) This is supposed to be Woody Allen's take on Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. Well, yes, it certainly is that. But if the lead character was not named Alice, perhaps the viewer would never make that connection. There seems to be less Alice here than there ought to be.One has to wonder about the Mia Farrow years versus the Diane Keaton years. Maybe it is the writing, maybe the directing, but it seems that the Keaton years of Woody's work were so much stronger than the Farrow years. In some films, particularly A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy, Farrow is just downright awful. "},{"Title":"Could have been better! 4/10","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Review This is another movie from the Woody Allen camp, about a woman whose in a troubled relationship and looks for comfort from another man. The only difference in this movie is that Mia Farrow seeks help from a Chinese healer who gives her different powers which sends her into a fantasy world. One of her powers is to disappear, which is when she catches her husband doing the dirty on her, so she decides to leave her wealthy husband for a man who she meets whilst picking up her kids from school. Some of the fantasy scenes go a bit too far, like when she's flying with Alec Baldwin in the sky, but the storyline isn't as bad as some of the movies that I have seen from Woody Allen lately. The main problem that I found with the film was Mia Farrow, who I find emotionless and quite dry. She really can't deliver wit or warmth to her roles and her constant whining spoilt the movie for me. Apart from that, the movie is watchable, with many twists and turns throughout. Watchable!Round-Up I wonder if Woody Allen would have used Mia Farrow so much if he wasn't with her? For a writer and director who mostly makes comedies, she really would be the last actress who I would star in my movies. There are some good actors in this film, like William Hurt and Joe Mantegna, but it's mostly based around Farrow who was quite dull. I liked the moral of the story at the end, which was quite sweet, but the main character had to go through a hell of a journey to get there. Basically I have come to terms with the fact that a lot of Woody Allen movies would have been much better if he didn't cast Mia Farrow in the lead, but that's just my personal opinion.Budget $12million Worldwide Gross $7.3millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a woman in a troubled relationship and seeks help from a Chinese healer. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Mediocre and Vampiristic","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ALICE is a mediocre film that could have been a good film. This is because Woody Allen likes to dabble in themes such as self-discovery and the angst of relationships with others and with the self, but he frames everything in schtick, so that everything that happens is basically the setup for jokes. This works well when he sticks to comedy and satirizes wealthy Upper West Side New Yorkers, but you can't have a film about self-discovery when everything that is about to become serious deteriorates into schtick. Male directors have a long history of fetishizing actresses and trying to squeeze their female secrets out of them, and Allen is no exception. But Allen goes one further, and makes his actresses like ventriloquist dummies who adopt his own neurotic self-deprecating style. So rather than trying to get into an actress's soul, as Rosselini or Bergman did, he inserts his own soul into them and has them be him. It's a sort of vampirism. Psychologists have noted that compassion lies in the ability not to understand how YOU would feel in another person's situation, but to understand how THEY feel, as THEMSLVES, as a person who is NOT you. Allen lacks compassion in that sense, and that is a strange handicap for a writer who is attempting scripts that deal with issues of identity. His vampirism causes him to create a world where his own values predominate that is, where everyone has the hots for everyone else, and where the activity du jour is for people to jump in bed with one another. Mia Farrow's character Alice is originally drawn into this world, but in the end rejects it for higher spiritual needs (going to Calcutta, working with Mother Theresa, giving up her wealth and selfish lifestyle and servants, and doing her own cooking and cleaning). Female socialites gossip at the end of the film about her remarkable transformation, and include in the same breath the transformation of another friend who has had plastic surgery. While Allen seems to be making fun of these gossipy women, he is also shares their view of Alice that her transformation is as shallow as having a facelift. He always takes a tone of petulant jealousy in his films when women reject him in favor of something else. He seems to feel most abandoned when they are leaving him not another man, but a place where they can hide away from him in their own soul - to find themselves. His most famous films - Annie Hall, Manhattan, and others - all deal with this theme of being rejected by a woman when she goes into herself. He makes fun of women when they do this. They are seen as flaky, self-involved, being attracted to new-agey forms of self-discovery that are beneath him. For me what is really deflating about his movies is his jealousy of the spiritual center of women, and his attempt to trivialize and belittle them for having deeper souls than him. It's as if he doesn't want anyone to feel anything beautiful if he can't. For Allen, women are disappointing because they have to go on these spiritual journeys and won't just go with romance (which for him means that everyone gets to bed everyone at all times). Even where there are opportunities for something really interesting to happen - such as when characters are given a magic potion that allows them to be invisible for a time - the only way they take advantage of this is to watch other people having sex, voyeuristically gaze at models undressing, or listen to people engaging in gossip about love affairs. So nothing ever rises above the level of a sex comedy.Most viewers will miss the references in the mostly 1930s soundtrack. Over the opening credits Limehouse Blues plays, a song from the '20s about the ghetto in Chinatown In Limehouse, where Orientals love to play, In Limehouse, where you can hear those blues all day&#x85; This song is the setup for Alice's visit to the weird Chinese herbalist/ hypnotist doctor, and plays whenever Alice visits his exotic den in Chinatown. I Remember You plays when her dead husband pays her a visit. And Alice Blue Gown plays during Alice's moments of self-discovery and over the ending credits, and may even be the inspiration for the title and character name. This song is from around 1919, and is about a girl singing wistfully about a beautiful Alice blue gown that she used to have. Here are some of the lyrics In my sweet little Alice blue gown, When I first wandered down into town, I was so proud inside, As I felt every eye, And in every shop window I primped, passing by. This indeed is the way Allen looks at his Alice character as a sweet girl proud to wear a lovely gown, primping and trying to catch men's eyes. He plays this song when Alice is going on her spiritual journey, which would seem inappropriate. It's as if he is saying that she is not a grown woman with children and her own inner life, but only a lovely young girl in a gown, a girl who exists only to be loved and admired but who is stupid enough to reject love for her own silly pursuits.In the end Allen makes fun of Alice's purity and refusal to wallow in bereft values like the others with the song, and by framing her selfless actions as a form of fanaticism. This is actually how sociopaths feel jealous of people with real feelings and real love. Allen appears to have a voracious appetite for youth and innocence, which he merely tries to corrupt. "},{"Title":"Whimsical, yet serious account ...","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Whimsical, yet serious account of a bored wife who follows her fantasy of having an affair a little too far.  Mia Farrow does a good job in the role with a kind of Woody Allen-like obsessiveness at times and the story for the most part keeps you interested.  Cornyness takes over late in the story, but the rest is typical Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"Poor little rich girl..................","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Poor little rich girl takes revenge on her philandering husband with tenor saxophone player.It might have been more gripping if the tenor player had been Archie Shepp but no,it's that safe but rather boring Joe Mantegna. Alice is so rich that my sympathy for her is strictly limited,unlike Miss Farrow's not dissimilar role in the superior Purple Rose of Cairo where her options were far more restricted. Her husband is a pompous ass,but physical violence is not on his agenda. Advised by her equally rich but emotionally impoverished friends to visit the mysterious Dr Yang,she takes his magic powders and becomes what she wants to be rather than what she actually is.Miss Farrow's steely determination shows through her fragile exterior.Once she decides she seriously wants Joe she sets out to get him - no error. Blink and you'll miss the great Judy Davis in an appearance so brief as to be almost Hitchcockian. Eventually she ditches the tenor player and goes off to help Mother Teresa (the way you do). The music,as is often the case in his films,is sublime,the photography sumptuous and spartan by turns.I just can't work up a lot of enthusiasm for the project as a whole,which is a pity ,but it promises a lot more than it produces. "},{"Title":"Woody knows how to do it better...","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  *Warning Woody Allen is one of my idols, so don't you expect me to be much objective about him. Anyway, I'll try to...Woody Allen has made some superb movies (Hannah And Her Sisters, Annie Hall, Manhattan Murder Mistery...), some great movies (Other Woman, Sleeper, Broadway Danny Rose...), and some good movies (Celebrity, Deconstructing Harry, Everything You Wanted...). Well, Alice belongs to the third group (in my opinion). Alice is not a drama itself just like Other Woman or Interiors (the Bergman-influenced filmography from Mr. Allen), it's not a crazy comedy like Bananas, Sleeper, or Take The Money And Run, and defineteley it's not one of his well-known intelectual-high-class comedies just like Annie Hall, Manhattan, or Mighty Aphrodite etc... But it certainly has traces of each and every one of those. The main problem with Alice is that Woody doesn't appear in the movie and that's always bad news. Though he does not appear in a couple of his best movies (Bullets Over Broadway, Sweet and Lowdown), there's no doubt that Woody Allen's fans want him to be on the screen. He's just like Groucho Marx it doesn't matter that much what the story is about, nor if it's original or interesting, because if Woody is on the screen I don't care about the rest. Anyway, Alice is not as good as his best films simply because the dialogues are not as brilliant as usual, the story is a little bit hackneyed...which it wouldn't matter, as I said, if the dialogues were as sharp as always, and if Woody were on the film playing his usual character. But they aren't, a he is not.Ok, let's talk about Alice's story Alice (Mia Forrow) is an unsatisfied and bored woman married to a filthy rich man (William Hurt). Her life is quite simple pickin' her boys from the school, go shopping, hairdresser, masseur, etc.. So she meets this jazz player performed by Joe Mantegna and she falls in love with him. From that moment on we'll witness all her doubts, remorse, etc. She also visits a chinese acupuncturist in order to ease some kind of pain in her back (all psychosomatic, as we'll discover) who will prescribe her all kind of strange medicinal herbs (or not so medicinal -you'll see what I'm talking about if you watch the movie-). Those sequences at acunpuncturist's surgery are some of the more funny of the movie.  There're also some fantastic and paranormal passages (just like in Purple Rose From Cairo), most of them provoked (I guess) by the medicinal herbs.I don't like Mia Farrow that much, but she's ok playing her typical role of a shy-timid-submissive woman. Besides, she's the absolute starring here. Joe Mantegna and William Hurt are two of the best actors from their generation, so they're always fine (even if they work in a bad movie). And the music is just great (Woody's good taste for music is  beyond all doubt).My rate 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Script should have disappeared","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Alice contains a marvelous performance by Mia Farrow in the title role. Unfortunately, it can't save the movie, which suffers from some fatal mistakes in the writing and casting that ultimately cripples the entire experience.  The first part starts out well enough, as Farrow plays a rich bored housewife who goes to a sort of witch doctor to heal her.  She falls for an artist and the movie is basically about her self-discovery of how she strayed from the hopes of her youth.A little into it, there are some scenes of Alec Baldwin and Farrow, he a former flame she loved and is now a ghost.  The stars have no chemistry whatsoever and I don't think I ever went from interest to absolute boredom in so little time.  The scenes are very bad- luckily when he leaves, the film picks up again but stumbles right along to the end.Woody incorporates catholic angst in the movie and into Alice, but the scenes are incredibly false.  In the worst mistake of the movie, Farrow is talking about her memories of being a catholic and comments on how although she is no longer as religious as she was, she fondly recalls the music and rituals.  RITUALS?  What an incredibly shallow, detached word from someone who was so deeply into her faith.The music, too, is full of bad choices that detract from the film. Believe it or not, the background score sounds remarkably  like the music from A Charlie Brown Christmas.  It is SO out of place.  Woody was also very untrue to the characters he created- substituting a cheap joke or plot device instead of pursuing any depth that might out of the character. When Mia and her new lover become invisible, they take a cab and as they depart make the comment- Nothing fazes New York cab drivers.  In a matter of seconds, he cheapens the experience of the movie to grab a Bananas like laugh- he would do this later also in Everyone Says I Love You.  If Woody himself doesn't feel enough involvement in the characters he created to keep out jokes that have no bearing to the story as it is presented, then why should I sit through it at all?  I'm willing to rent and sit through the movie, don't insult me by thinking you can throw whatever you want in there without my involvement in the characters being impaired.The Joe Mantegna character is another poorly written choice.  Under the influence of Dr. Wang's herbs, Farrow comes on to him when it begins like she's Gypsy Rose Lee.  In subsequent meetings, she is the real timid Alice again.  Anyone else would have nothing to do with the schizo, but Woody doesn't care enough about any of the characters to draw them from any true responses.  Well, it's magical, it's fantasy, that's the point- well, that's bullcrap.  That's not magical, that's just bad writing.  The magic should be around the characters, not within the confines of the conversations!I feel sorry for Farrow- she gave it a good try and some of the best scenes are the result of her comic ability- there are laughs that Farrow herself gives the movie, like her smoking the pipe.  For her to even agree to do the role is something to give her credit for.  I mean, how many allusions to her mother being an ex-minor movie star lush can one person take?  I mean, c'mon!  She should have said, Look, we did the drunk movie star mother bit in Hannah-I can't believe you can't think of something else- especially considering it's a very minor character trait-  Maybe if she had, it would have been a better movie. "},{"Title":"another pale of nice","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The thing that comes to someone's mind, by seeing a Woody Allen movie is the word nice. As the naive art in painting, his work accomplished the same title in the world of cinema. Whichever movie of Allen you will see, it won't be great, it won't be bad, it will be a nice movie....and once again this movie is another pale of nice. If you want to spend 140 minutes without exhausting your mind, but nonetheless have a nice entertaining, than it's your movie. Particularly if you're at risk falling asleep and then waking up, because it won't matter! I mean, i don't think i will ever see an Allen piece of art, that surprises me, it will certainly be nice and smooth. Not more, not less. It's almost like an established brand in the cinema. And dear reader, this little text of mine i am writing right now, by watching this movie. That shows quite nice the character of it... And the ultimate question is will Allen finally struggle for excellence, and try to make a great movie? When judging his wife, you must notice that he hasn't done it yet with his women.... Not a good sign for his movies... "},{"Title":"One of Allen's most inconsequential works","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As a fan of Woody Allen I tend to see the better side of his works; a mediocre Allen movie is pretty good, in the larger scheme of things.  And a bad Allen movie... well, it's mediocre, in the long run.  This might well be described as a bad Woody Allen movie, so it might just as well be described as a mediocre film, overall.  The acting is pretty solid although not spectacular, the script is lightweight, there isn't much in the way of humor, and there isn't much in the way of drama... yet it isn't terrible, either.  I guess I would say that this is only for die-hard fans of Woody Allen, or of romances that have a twist of fantasy.   "}{"Title":"An excellent cast can't save this misfire of a film","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Having Woody Allen serve as the writer and director of this film and including a cast list that usually guarantees big box office success would initially lead one to believe that Orion's 1990 release, Alice would sound like the one that would resurrect Allen's somewhat flagging career. He has been having quite a bit of trouble repeating the massive success of Hannah And Her Sisters. Mia Farrow, great actress that she usually is, is a letdown in the title role. It's hard to believe that a supporting cast including William Hurt, Joe Mantegna, Keye Luke, Alec Baldwin, Cybill Shepherd, Blythe Danner, Gwen Verdon, Bernadette Peters, Judy Davis, Julie Kavner, Holland Taylor, Bob Balaban, and Elle Macpherson could come together and be reduced to their roles in a film like this. Allen can really deliver a good film when the right scripts get released. Hopefully, this major screenwriting talent can soon have another shot at the Hollywood success big time.    "},{"Title":"90 minutes of confusion and 12 minutes of good film","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Alice wanders aimlessly through the first half of the film. The setting is New York and the lifestyle of the wealthy. I was confused and had no idea where the movie was going. Then the film started giving some hints of what it was about. Life is not so pretty among the beautiful people. Finally Woody Allen crowns his confusing creation with a pretty good ending.Overall -- it is not worth your while.  "},{"Title":"confused effort which ultimately flops","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this recent Woody Allen film because I'm a fan of his work and I make it a point to try to see everything he does, though the reviews of this film led me to expect a disappointing effort. They were right. This is a confused movie that can't decide whether it wants to be a comedy, a romantic fantasy, or a drama about female mid-life crisis. It fails at all three.Alice (Mia Farrow) is a restless middle aged woman who has married into great wealth and leads a life of aimless luxury with her rather boring husband and their two small children. This rather mundane plot concept is livened up with such implausibilities as an old Chinese folk healer who makes her invisible with some magic herbs, and the ghost of a former lover (with whom she flies over Manhattan). If these additions sound too fantastic for you, how about something more prosaic, like an affair with a saxophone player?I was never quite sure of what this mixed up muddle was trying to say. There are only a handful of truly funny moments in the film, and the endingis a really preposterous touch of Pollyanna.Rent 'Crimes and Misdemeanors' instead, a superbly well-done film that suceeds in combining comedy with a serious consideration of ethics and morals. Or go back to Annie Hall or Manhattan. "},{"Title":"It's better than it seems.","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I gave this film a strong 7 and that was mostly for Allen's great script. The ensemble is mostly terrific, as in most of Allen's movies. Montegna seemed out of place for some reason. Another of his type-casted phone in performances. Had this script been even a small bit weaker, this film would have be awful due to it's lead. Farrow is the product of celebrities, that is how she became one herself, it was never due to any talent or acting ability. She has been extremely lucky to get amazing material to work with, thus many confuse the material for her ability to act. Had this part been given to a good (or even great) actress, this would have been one of those masterpieces that everyone speaks of often. Instead, her lack of ability or any natural talent brings the whole production to a much lower level. My advice, watch this with the closed captioning on your television or DVD player turned on, it's a much better movie when you can concentrate on the brilliance of Allen's script without having to be subjected to Farrow's, her acting (and I use that term loosely for what she does) is rudimentary at it's best and verges straight into horrendousness. She once again gets a gift of great writing and manages to turn it into garbage, just as she's done in Allen's other works in which she starred, September, The Purple Rose Of Cairo, A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy, Husbands and Wives (et al). When casting was being decided her name should have been on the list right after Lassie and Flipper, they could have done just as well. "}]