[{"Title":"This is what I call an honest movie.","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"90 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After reading a large number of negative reviews, it finally became clear to me why this movie is so widely hated - because it honestly depicts the modern biased race-based American society, in which uneducated crowds are ready to devour an honest person, and punish him for a crime he didn't commit. The acting is great, Tom Hanks does an admirable job, however,it isn't acting which makes the movie great. The superb directing, creating realistic and horrible scenes of dirty political games and black (literally) PR, capture my attention. So, to sum up, a brilliant political satire. The movie could make a laughable comedy, if it wasn't so terrifying... "},{"Title":"What  was wrong with this movie to get such bad reviews? I actually liked it.","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"60 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bonfire of the vanities. A movie that has the reputation of being awful. I didn't think so. I saw it a long time ago but liked it. I have heard so much about how bad this movie was and never understood why. It isn't the best movie definitely not but there are so many BAD movies-this movie had a message (a pretty sad one) and the story was Involving. My attention was captured. I wanted to see what would happen next.This movie is so true to life. There ARE people out there whose actions would be worse then some in this movie. People whose lives are motivated by greed. (The worst bad movie out there that I've seen that tells the story of truly horrendous people motivated by greed and power is in the company of men. Much more unpleasant then this movie.) This movie, I GUESS is controversial, not considered as good as the book and maybe it was ahead of its time. I think it's worth seeing though and would give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Under-rated","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"49 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film will probably be re-discovered in later years and be described as the classic--albeit flawed--that it really is.  The script is excellent in places and neatly captures the irreverence and cynicism that this kind of satire needs.  People have criticised this film merely on the basis of wanting to shoot down the successful careers of those working on it---but I suspect that Willis, Hanks, De Palma,et al, will be secretly pleased that they have this lost treasure in their back catalogues to be resurrected and discussed long after their  more popular films might be. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, under-rated movie","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (NB - I have not read the book.) Unfairly chastised by the press on release, and too easy to tar as a weak link in De Palma's ouevre, BOTV is better than Wall Street, Working Girl et al. and is still very relevant.This is an OTT opera where every character is a cynic trying to work an angle, and every action (in a complex story about contacts, smear campaigns, politics and pawns) has an obvious and (most of the time) greedy motivation. BOTV also confronts sex, racism and class clashes with a frankness that most Hollywood movies run a mile from - it is suprisingly frank in it's depiction of these (The exception being that the New York judge had to be, of course, black Morgan Freeman.  This is something dramatists do to make some of their social opinions seem less controversial since they are being spouted by a man of colour in a white forum.)On par with His Girl Friday and The Sweet Smell of Success, and possessing an oddball universe Preston Sturges would've been proud of creating, this film is all the more powerful when you actually live in a world kind of like this (and I meet these kinds of people all the time - this is REAL!).PS - Half an hour was lopped off by the studio after disasterous preview screenings.  This movie deserves a DVD director's cut release. "},{"Title":"sheer De Palma's brilliance!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"48 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Its a pity people don't get this film, but its a real shame most of the critics do not, either! This is the finest film I've ever seen, De Palma's best by far.What you need to realize about this film is its complex ironical code. If you cant get the irony, the movie will seem pointless to you.Stylistically, this is De Palma's most remarkable film, built on theatrical acting, pulling the limits of conventional movie acting to the very edge. The whole cast is just brilliant! Follow the camera, its angles and plans; the twisted camera perspective is the most significant technical instrument to produce ironical effect in this film. Everything which is said and done in this film can be observed not only in virtual, but also in metaphorical manner, and that is where rich political symbolics come from.This is the film which successfully unites political and aesthetic aspect in a lovely and inspired interplay, and it is highly recommended to anyone trying to cultivate his taste. "},{"Title":"This movie surely offended people but, forgetting PCness, is excellent and very funny.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a funny film that digs at people who do take advantage of race to further their own agenda.  It is not PC at all.  Frankly, it is every bit as good as the book.  See it with honest friends of more than one race and they will all be laughing out loud and naming one or more persons who might be portrayed.  The acting is generally outstanding and the cast is first rate.JHC "},{"Title":"Clever and interesting and not a little funny","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"41 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Too many people have slagged this film without good reason. Firstly Bruce Willis reprises the type of character we remember from moonlighting. Tom Hanks plays his part well and it's only Melanie Griffiths whiney southern accent that spoils her role.The story has plenty of irony and twists as well. This isn't action, this isn't slapstick, this is an American soap with humour, pathos and a reasonable story.It annoys me when you get dire twaddle like The Blair Witch Project being touted as genius and a decent film like this being panned. Take the time to watch this and I think you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"An excessive but funny American satire. De Palma tries to film his great masterpiece switching from Hitchcock to Kubrick. Perhaps, not wholly satisfactory but fascinating and one of the most interesting film","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After giving us two excellent films - The Untouchables and Casualties of War director and auteur Brian De Palma tried to get the masters degree on major filmmaking with the very complex best-selling novel by Tom Wolfe. Faced to the challenge of making a great satire of nowadays America, De Palma does not find his own voice as he did in his two previous films, and goes back to the copy-and-paste path. This time it is not an imaginative and talented personal version of Hitchcock obsessions, but an interesting approach to Kubrick's style in Dr Strangelove and even Lolita. After confessing that the director he admires in a most intimate way is Stanley Kubrick, Brian De Palma uses the witty Tom Wolfe novel as the story he needs to imitate one of his most admired masters.The result is an excessive but funny satire. It is certainly underwritten, overacted and overdirected but, still, De Palma shows once again a great visual style and a wild sense of humour which makes us laugh several times.Perhaps, De Palma should have remembered that such a witty and complex story has to be told seriously with the apparent simplicity and hidden complexity he reached in Casualties of War, without trying to underline with the direction that every scene is supposed to be funny. Those strange camera angles taken from Kubrick nuclear satire do not work here and the characters are too exaggerated  -Jean Renoir said that each character has some reasons and here,if De Palma had tried harder not only to criticize but to understand them, it would have been a much more effective film- and being both a Kubrick and a De Palma fan, I think that Kubrick influence was not good at all here. In this satire, as in his Vietnam drama, such a talented director as De Palma  could have given more importance to substance that to form, given that this was not one of his brilliant thrillers where form is essential, but an intelligent satire about people. In fact, in many moments of the film De Palma uses a not so mannered and much more effective style and shows a great talent in portraiting situations ironically, something which is not usual in films from the nineties.Overall this work remains as one of the most aggressive portraits of America ever filmed. Perhaps this is why the film was a flop in the Box ffice  -it was absurd to make it with such a expensive cast and budget, given that such an acid satire cannot be popular- and De Palma's career, which was on his best moment, did not recover completely even after the wonderful Carlito's Way, one of his best films. If you study Film direction it is absolutely necessary to see it, because of its risks, mistakes and achievements.In conclussion, one of those strange films which you will find fascinating both because of its values and its mistakes.Forget about the novel; the film is an excessive and wild satire which will make you both think and laugh. De Palma genius and talent are present in many scenes. Moments like the initial shot, Alan King's speech, Clifton James,Donald Moffat or Andre Gregory performances -even the Morgan Freeman final scene, which De Palma did not like and is really good, reminding me of Capra, something extremely difficult in such a cynical decade- are not easy to forget.It is not often to find such a complex and interesting film. I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Vastly Entertaining","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If ever there was a film that didn't deserve all the bad press it received, this is it. The Bonfire of the Vanities is actually an absorbing, slick-paced and well-acted piece of cinema that works on several levels. Tom Hanks is great as Sherman McCoy, a Wall Street hot shot whose life unravels because of one wrong turn into the Bronx. While behind the wheel of McCoy's Mercedes, his mistress accidentally strikes an intimidating young black man who approached the financial wizard. Enter Bruce Willis as Peter Fallow, a reporter eager to regain his reputation who sees the incident as just what the doctor ordered. The Bonfire of the Vanities is a fascinating look at how self interests trump decency, how public perception matters more than the truth, and how lies are sometimes necessary for the truth to surface. One of the reasons this film was so poorly received is that it isn't often laugh-out-loud funny. But Bonfire isn't really a comedy; it's a satire about contemporary society, and one that hits all too close to home. "},{"Title":"Deserves a better pitch and a better rating","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The back cover for the DVD calls this movie hilarious and the quintessential story of the go-for-it '80s.  In truth, it is neither.  The Bonfire of the Vanities is, however, funny in parts, poignant in parts, and entertaining throughout.The protagonist is Sherman McCoy, a man whose one fatal flaw (an affair we know of from the beginning) leads to the downfall from his envious position as a Master of the Universe.  Tom Hanks gives an excellent performance and shows real emotion in bringing this highly plausible character to life.  Unfortunately, his character is the only one with enough depth to be realistic.  Even Morgan Freeman's Judge White, representing a refreshing dose of intelligence and honesty in the film, is perhaps too good to be believed.  All of the other characters are mere caricatures, appearing too greedy, too pretentious, too self-absorbed, or too flighty to be believed.  Bruce Willis might have made himself an exception as well, but I feel he simply lacked enough screen time to flesh out the different faces he had to show.Nevertheless the story is very well told.  If the other characters appear less than convincing, accept them as colorful background for McCoy, who is the real focus anyway.  There are numerous laughs, and the other characters represent elements that are definitely present in society - even if not to the extent shown here. Wolfe's story is entertaining enough to make this movie worth seeing.  And it might even make you think twice about the names you see next time you open a newspaper.7 / 10 stars. "}{"Title":"Misfire full of inanities","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"46 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bonfires of the Vanities is a film drenched in flop sweat. I can recall no film that has tried so hard to be so unrelentingly outrageous, provocative and important, yet failed so consistently across the board. It is like a stand up comic who's not getting laughs, but can't leave the stage. The harder the film tries, the louder each attempt at a laugh results in a resounding thud. The desperation the film displays is so glaring it almost rouses pity for all those involved.The film achieves laugh-out-loud status only twice. Once is in the sight of Geraldo Rivera playing an obnoxious, arrogant and amoral TV tabloid journalist -- which is funny only because he apparently doesn't realize he is playing himself. The other scene that deserves to be laughed at is the film's final big moment, wherein the judge played by Morgan Freeman delivers the sanctimonious lecture about what morality is (it's what your mama taught ya!). The pomposity of the moment is insulting to the point of being absurd. Yet, one must admit it is a noble effort. It does have a good, if poorly cast, band of actors, who try to make characters out of cardboard thin caricatures. The film looks professionally made and the little cinematic flourishes that director Brian DePalma just loves are apparent, if not particularly effective. But the film, which apparently wishes to be a commentary on modern morals and ethics, never arises above the level of cartoon. Satire requires style. Farce requires energy. Even sitcom requires timing. But the best Bonfires can muster is desperation. In the end, you don't want to laugh, you just want to turn away. "},{"Title":"Excellent satire","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Profound exploration of the anatomy and course of a greedy, ambitious and self-centered life, in its various forms (through several characters with unique forms of greed and ambition and lust).  Various people get their just dues in humorous, often unexpected ways.  Really satisfying and clever movie. "},{"Title":"Well, I liked it...","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think this is a well-crafted movie. It is an intriguing story, nicely filmed with interesting NYC locations (you will even see the former WTC towers in a few shots, which now seem poignant yet oddly sobering).I LOVE the performances everyone comes across as quite compelling and convincing in their respective roles. (The only part that didn't work for me was when Tom Hank's character goes a little wacko with that shotgun in his apartment, but I guess I can forgive that minor deviation.)The story seems very much like a fable... and it brings to mind the old saying that every fable has its grain of truth.Go see it. It's better than critics would have you believe. (I haven't read the book, but I intend to shortly). "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie. I have read many reviews that people thought it was awful but in my opinion it was good. There was great casting. Bruce Willis was great as the almost always drunken reporter, Tom Hanks as the having an affair type husband that gets mixed up in a hit and run accident. Beth Broderick was good too even though this movie allowed her a small role it was a very crucial role.  Melanie Griffith was irritating at times but that was the way of her character, so she was great at that role. This is a movie I would recommend for teenagers and adults only considering that there is cussing and the overall moral of the movie. "},{"Title":"captivating start","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this film; rented it and watched it twice in 2 days. I was captivated by the titles (a 24-hour timelapse shot of the New York skyline taken from the top of the Chrysler Building!) and then by the first scene Bruce Willis's drunken peregrination with sycophantic handlers through the bowels of a hotel, leaving chaos in his wake. It may not have improved from that point, but I never lost interest. What did I miss that led so many people to dislike the film?  "},{"Title":"You just don't get it","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So many people have been getting down on this movie, and I for one think it is totally unjustified. Forget the book! This is nothing like the book! This is a movie, that has a very delicate dark humor, that just seems to whiz over peoples heads. Take a deep breath, and enjoy the light way every aspect of this movie treats it subject matter with. "},{"Title":"The Truth Will Set You.. On Fire !","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Save the terrible performance of (Melanie Griffith) and the too-idealistic-it's idiot speech of (Morgan Freeman) at the end, this is a truly wonderful satirical comedy.I'm the only one I know who loves this movie. It's strange, rather enigmatic, why it's that hated?!! Lately I watched (Gene Siskel) and (Roger Ebert) reviewing it in old episode of their show (At The Movies), saying endless illogical and untrue things, I couldn't believe how nonsense their talk was ! It's about lying while alleging being high and great. So how about that in a whole community (religious leaders, district attorney, journalists, rich people,.. with all the foundations they represent). It burns all of its damn hypocrisy, in big tableau of caricature. Sure this is the comedy that Oliver Stone didn't make !The script is smart; sneering at that decayed world by one accident which uncovers its many big ironies, while leading a tragic situation of an honest man in the middle of it, then a thrilling one to prove his innocence. It has a bitter sense of humor, enough to remember If you're going to live in a whorehouse, there's only one thing you can do be the best damn whore around., I'm leaving you! After the party... and now, if you will excuse me, we have guests., and the monologue of the lead's father I believe in the truth, so lie !, and using the narration of the journalist was great, now this is a truthful/lair character; that makes him the best expression of his reality, and a symbol of it too.(Brian De Palma) entertained us with simple style and no freaky tricks, tightening the pace by clever angles and wicked zoom-ins. I still recall the moment when all the reporters attack Hanks' car in front of the police station while the rain is falling, holding their black umbrellas while the camera is shooting them from above to look like many bats blockade and swoop the poor man to suck his blood.I love it. It's a classic for me, and a type of movies that Hollywood kind of lost interest in since years ago. Maybe it flopped because it faced the people with their ugly truth. I know that the bad reviews of it were totally dumb or liar themselves. However by fair viewing all of these blind opinions will burn !Bottom line  (De Palma) made his share of bad movies, (The Bonfire of the Vanities) isn't one of them or even close. "},{"Title":"splendid cartoon","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before I talk about the movie itself, I'd like to get ugly for a quick sec..I am sick and tired of people whining that a movie isn't as good as a book. First of all, we all already know that 99% of the time a book is  not equally rendered in film. How can it? The physiological experience of reading is totally different from that of taking in audio-video. Hello? A book often can't fit into a 90 minute movie anyway, and we all complain when a director tries to stretch our minute-rice attention span more than 2 hours, which would allow the space to capture more of the subtle nuances that we love in a book. If you want to read the book, do us all a favour, don't watch a movie, go read the #@%$ book. Does anyone think that a painting could represent each facet of a poem? They are two separate and distinct mediums. Sheesh.Now, book aside, this movie is trying to talk about an issue. And it does so quite fine. If you need the book to get the message, that's your business.Each character was a caricature, a spoof, hyperbolized to help drive home the message that truth is often irrelevant to the socio-political motives behind people's actions. From the assistant DA looking for recognition to the hymie racist angling for the office of mayor to the good reverend looking for sympathy for his people (and a payday) to Fallow trying to save his career to McCoy's lawyer who has to patiently deal with his naive client who doesn't grasp that his life is insignificant to all those who somehow have generated a vested interest in his demise...I got the message, it didn't take me the 6 hours or two days (or however long it would take me to make time to read the book), and I had some fun. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is absolutely the very BEST portrait of our current culture that I have ever seen. The writer was decades ahead of his time in seeing through all the saccharin sentimentality and superficial razor thin concern most people display for the eternal greed and vanity that drives them. Hell, now we have parents of murdered children bumping into each other to get their faces on Good Morning America. How tragically pathetic. Great movie. "},{"Title":"A Real Gem, Sometimes the Critics Are Just Plain Wrong","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Be thankful for movies on video, because this much maligned film wasn't in the theatres too long, thanks to critics (and a public that pays too much attention to them). This is a very funny, insightful film with fascinating plot and characters (thank you, novelist Tom Wolfe), beautifully filmed and edited. I read the novel after seeing the film, and I agree the book has some charms the movie doesn't catch, but Tom Hanks does a fine job as Sherman McCoy, the Wall Street whiz kid who suddenly decides to be a moral person and is caught up in the racial politics and journalistic mendacity of New York. Bruce Willis's narration as the drunken writer Peter Fallow is great fun, especially as we see him knowingly collaborating in a news story that is almost a complete lie. Melanie Griffith is good as the sluttish mistress Maria, although her Southern accent is variable. Catch this on TV sometime (with half the obscenities cut) and treat yourself to an unexpected pleasure. "}{"Title":"Movies as echos of reality (what a concept!)","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a perfect echo of what was going on in NY in the early nineties. The racism, the lies and the newspapers where a daily reminder of what was going on in our world at the time. Hanks and Willis pull off awesome parts as opposite parts of spectrum, one the wall street wiz-kid (nonetheless involved in the most trying time of his life), and the alchki reporter looking for something to save his own existence. Griffith plays an truly nasty villain and does get her come-uppance in the end. Freeman on the other hand, even though he's only on screen for all of about 5 minutes, deserves much more than he has gotten for his role as the tried and true and extremely wise judge. The movie is more than the diatribe way too many critics called it.and men of the cloth, men of god, take the prime cuts... is that justice? "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The actors in this film capture personalities laid out in painstaking detail by Tom Wolfe in his massive novel.  Could Tom Hanks be Sherman McCoy? the literatti asked.  Heck yes! There is so much subtlety in this movie that shows an appreciation for the original work.  But the movie context is scant, to be sure.  Sketchy.  Hinting at the missing details.  But for what it is, Bonfire is exquisite.  Accurate.  Melanie Griffith actually portrays an evil woman better than, say, Glenn Close has been able to in another film work not to be named here.  And Bruce Willis goes down in history with some charming comedy to his name.  Kim Cattrall is fascinating.  Donald Moffat as well.  All these people are on the edge of a doom clearly depicted by Tom Wolfe in his novel.  You get the sense in the movie that some people are indeed falling over the edge.  If possible, read the original.    "},{"Title":"c'mon people -","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i just voted and gave bonfire a 10.  not that i think it deserves that rating, but simply as a meager attempt to offset its current low rating. 4.8!!??  c'mon!this is a very good film, and i note that all of the comments i read here were either positive or not-too-negative.  so where did that rating come from?bruce willis was just fine in this character (a'la nobody's fool), tom hanks was his usual fine self, melanie griffith was excellent, morgan freeman very excellent, the supporting cast very supporting, the story line entertaining, good directing, excellent photography, it moved along nicely, and, of course, the morality component -- which is what it was all about in the first place.morgan freeman's speech alone is worth the price of admission.rent this movie and if you don't enjoy it, please rsvp that you will NOT be attending my next dinner parte'sometimes i think most of the folks who pen these tomes are either frustrated movie critics (comparing kubrick to you-name-him/her) or just frustrated homo sapiens.stuff a sock in it and get a life.  this was a fine movie and it's current rating is a disgrace to the species.  i'm embarrassed to admit i'm a member -- but at least i can say i gave it a 10.  even if it was a somewhat tainted 10. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy with a Zing...","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Bonfire of the Vanities is a damn good film - a comedy that deserves more attention.  It is well cast, well directed, and well photographed.It is a film that zeroes in on the false pretenses of do-gooders, exposing their hidden agendas for all to see.Brian DePalma deserves kudos for zinging all these hypocrites in such an entertaining fashion.  Don't believe the twaddle of naysayers who tell you to read the book; The message is in this movie. "},{"Title":"so-so adaptation of classic satire","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  De Palma's biggest (and worst) film to that date is blighted by its' broad comedy, which sits uncomfortably with the cynical tone of the book. Wolfe's view on society may be accurate, but it is certainly not populist - many people HATE this film. Bruce Willis is weak, Tom Hanks is somewhat flat as Sherman McCoy. De Palma was perhaps too ambitious to condense a large book into a slick film. Main themes such as race are clumsily handled and likely to cause offense to anyone unfamiliar with the source material. The funniest (and broadest) scenes are with F. Murray Abraham and Saul Rubinek and the film is almost saved by the solid (yet again) performance by Morgan Freeman. Worth watching, if only for the varied cast. "},{"Title":"A perfect commentary of today's culture","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very under-rated and under appreciated movie.No other movie out there quite captures the phony and insincere hypocrisy of today's media and advocacy groups better than this one.The only people who don't like this film are the ones who the film is satirizing. This movie, like Hollywood Shuffle, was way ahead of its time.Like most accurate and truthful books and films, they are rarely appreciated in their day because the brutal honesty and truthfulness of what they have to say is too painful to openly accept and admit. It is a classic satire and incredibly well-written and well-acted.I would recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"what is all the bitching about?","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From what I can tell all the negative comments about this movie stem from the fact the book is far superior and that the movie doesn't do it justice. I have not read this particular book but I have read many other Tom Wolfe novels and he writes some damn good yarns so it is not surprising the movie isn't as good. It can be hard to translate a good piece of fiction into a comparably good movie.All I can say is that I laughed out loud in a lot of parts and admired the movie for what it is. A very good piece of satire. This movie had all the main elements of a society in decay and shows the true nature of the majority of people. Mankind is ultimately out for themselves and people will do what they can to get ahead no matter who they have to step on to get there even if it means lying and causing grief to innocent people. The amount of pretentious prats in this movie reminds of many people I know. This movie had it down pat when it came to showing the exact nature of politicians. They really don't care. They just want to get re-elected so they can keep their snouts in the public trough.So don't listen to all the nay sayers on here this is a very good movie and will have you entertained for a couple of hours. In reality this movie is a 6.5 to 7.0 but I rated it an 8 to provide some compensation for all the harsh critics on here. "},{"Title":"Scathing Social Satire. A Much Better Screen Story Than Given Credit For.","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i'm always surprised at how many people rip into DePalma's 'Vanities'. i would like to assume that it's because of it's cynicism and uncomfortable message, but it could also be because i never read Wolfe's book and don't get the disparages.however incomplete the film adaptation is handled by Hollywood, the film still has the feel of a important work and a inherent desire for social commentary. a commentary that isn't always pretty and disdains both rich and poor, black and white together. it is also energetically funny as it merrily dissects and scorns contemporary urban lifestyles. it almost leaves the viewer on a madness line of giddy amusement and uncomfortable contempt.Tom Hanks gives one of his uptight and stuffy best as a Waspish Wall Street business broker who makes a unfortunate wrong turn into the ghetto and inadvertently hits a black dude with his Mercedes. Tom Hanks is a excellent actor but he also has kind of made a acting career playing uptight characters much the way Jack Lemmon and Dean Jones did. here his uptight, compulsiveness is classic and a real tour de force'. the very fussiness of his Wall Street broker is what gives him a indignation to be reckoned with.the other performances by Bruce Willis, Kim Catrall and Melaine Griffith are also very funny and very human in a fallible sort of way. each character is a series of let downs and narcissistic juggernauts to everyone who gets in their way. Griffith especially gives a performance that is self absorbed and pathological but also willfully funny.probably because of the subject matter, and unsympathetic approach most of this is given, especially in the wake of Rodney King's death and anniversary of the beatings and court trials, this film is definitely not for everyone. particularly the squeamish politically correct.Brian DePalma and the actors here give a much better showing than the film is usually credited. it is a brilliant satire on contemporary fallacies. as long as entertainment doesn't wallow in cynicism all the time, it's often healthy to explore and present the down side of humanity and it's sometimes dark and skewered intentions. "},{"Title":"Wacky black comedy. Mean-spirited yet kind of entertaining","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Millionaire Sherman McCoy and his mistress Maria are driving through New York at night, heading for their little hideout in a friends apartment. But they take a wrong turn and end up in the Bronx, where they accidentally hit a young man, who is knocked comatose. Sherman wants to talk to the police but his mistress wants to keep it secret. The hospitalization of the almost dead man, attracts a surprising amount of attention. Before long, McCoy has the whole city coming after him, the police, the press, the Baptist church, even the mayor. His only way out is to prove that it was not he who was driving the car but Maria....and she's gone.The Bonfire of the Vanities is one of those movies in which the presence of humanity serves one function only; to be laughed at. What we have here is satire of the media's effects on people's image, which despite being offencive and not very credible is funny and engaging enough, to make me say that it was worth my time.From the very beginning, Bonfire of the Vanities chooses to go as far over the top as possible. To put it lightly, the film is playful. The overall performance quality practically mirrors the exerted physical style of kabuki theatre. Much of the cast deliver their lines with funny/extreme faces and they throw their bodies up/down/around the frame to play drunk or angry or sexy with more flair. Some of this is enhanced by Brian de Palma's choice of extreme camera angles, and nice wide lenses.While there are times when the movie comes close to seeming obnoxious, I generally enjoyed Bonfire of the Vanities overwrought approach, something which I usually find a burden in movies. The movie is feisty for about ninety minutes, but the last half hour feels a bit draggy, and It seems to me like things could have been wrapped up faster. The ending, despite being the kind that we would like, feels stagy and a bit lame. I suppose it is easy enough to argue that the entire film is lame. I think a lot of critics have made that argument. Lame wouldn't quite be the word that I would choose. I would say that Bonfire of the Vanities is....goofy. For better or worse it is certainly watchable if you are an open minded viewer. It's not a very respectable motion picture, but it has entertainment value. "},{"Title":"great film, not a great movie","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a quality film, the problem with people is they are consumers who have no appreciation for quality films, not quality movies which are mere consumer products made like McDonald food; disposable. I see all kinds of nonsense winning awards that memoirs of a something, cardboard plot, shallow romance, you can see it coming, go and watch Oliver stones heaven and Earth anyway this film is amazing it keeps your interest it plays out all kinds of social issues on both sides, it isn't just an African American boy gets knocked down and goes down that old racist route, it shows the more complex instruments at work in our society where privilege and opportunity override all forms of morality across the board.I think film culture, current film culture, is sold as popular, but how do we judge films that satisfy the art criterion. Clearly films need audiences but this has no real weighting on their quality, we only need to look at the top ten films to understand this. The problem with this is the art gives way to profit, people are happy with junk the real talent needed to save the industry and develop the industry is being lost with every generation (of filmmakers). Just like music, we cant even name a new great in our era, in the 70's we have Mr Wonder, Prince, etc, the industry has got worst every 10 years, now 2000 have nobody, absolutely no popular artist have any credibility. This is the way film is going to become if we don't become sensitive to art over commercial culture. "}{"Title":"All bad","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Almost twenty years after its release I watched this movie. I impressed that he had a note so low by the participants that the IMDb. The movie is very good, I liked it so true. No is a film at first glance to be taken seriously but at this point is this point it is frightening. Since the film for me is a picture of what live today in our society. Although the film was set in the USA he serves as a glove to the Brazilian daily. Also did not realize discriminatory overtones in the movie, everything is a satire and a few situations were reversed, the lowness and want to take advantage well to deceive public opinion would give the same result. Perhaps many dislike at being in the wrong plot twist. But in Indeed all are wrong. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it even though I've read the book!","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Bonfire of the Vanities is one of those films which is widely supposed to be enjoyed by those who have not read the book on which it is based, and hated by those who have; other examples include Captain Corelli's Mandolin and the recent Brideshead Revisited, although in many people's eyes that film also suffered by comparison with the well-known television adaptation. So let me make my position clear from the start. I have read Tom Wolfe's novel, and loved it, and yet I quite enjoyed the film as well.The story concerns Sherman McCoy, a rich Wall Street financier, whose life collapses after his car is involved in an accident in which a black teenager is seriously injured. Sherman, in fact, was not driving at the time of the accident (the car was being driven by his mistress Maria Ruskin), but he is unable to reveal this fact as he does not want his wife Judy to discover his extra-marital affair. The case is taken up by Peter Fallow, a cynical alcoholic journalist, and The Reverend Bacon, a populist black preacher, and becomes a cause celebre. Sherman is arrested and put on trial, while being pilloried in the media as a greedy, heartless white banker who recklessly injured a black youth and then callously abandoned him. The film-makers have softened Wolfe's plot by giving it a happy, or at least a happier, ending and by making the characters of Sherman and Fallow more sympathetic. Unlike in the book, Fallow undergoes a change of heart and becomes Sherman's ally rather than one of his tormentors.There seem to be two, related, reasons why the film's detractors dislike it. The first lies in the changes made to the plot. The second lies in what they see as inappropriate casting, and I have some sympathy with them as far as Tom Hanks, who plays Sherman, is concerned. In the original novel, Sherman was in many ways an unattractive character, the sort of man who regarded himself as a Master of the Universe, whereas in the film his arrogance and financial greed are very much played down. Admittedly, he is cheating on his wife, but as Kim Cattrall plays Judy as cold, sarcastic, snobbish and self-centred, even his infidelity does not prejudice us against him. In the eighties Hanks was best known for playing the hero of light comedies such as Splash and Big, and The Bonfire of the Vanities was clearly an attempt to extend his range into more heavyweight material. Nevertheless, Sherman still comes across as a typical Hanks character, the genial, likable Mr Nice Guy. This may have been quite deliberate on the part of the film-makers, but I thought that it wasted one of Wolfe's major themes, his criticism of the materialistic greed is good culture of the eighties. Despite his reputation as a socially conservative writer, Wolfe is no great admirer of unrestricted capitalism, which is also satirised in his second novel, A Man in Full.I felt that those who complained about miscasting concentrated too much on Hanks, as most of the other roles are well played. Certainly, there are some changes. In the book the brunette Maria is rather more sophisticated than the blonde, gold-digging bimbo played by Melanie Griffith, and Peter Fallow is a louche Englishman rather than the hard-bitten New Yorker played by Bruce Willis. Yet I felt that, in the context of the film, these particular characterisations worked well, even if the characters were not quite the same as those created by Wolfe. I also liked Cattrall as Judy and F. Murray Abraham as district attorney Abe Weiss, the cynical careerist who makes a great play of being a concerned liberal. He is the sort of prosecutor who is more interested in his political future- he has ambitions to become mayor of New York- than he is in justice; he is obsessed with Sherman's case because he believes that obtaining a conviction against a wealthy white defendant will ingratiate himself with black voters. (A Time to Kill, made a few years later, features a very similar DA, played in that case by Kevin Spacey- exxcept that Spacey's character wanted to convict a black defendant to ingratiate himself with white voters).Wolfe's book was never going to be an easy one to transfer to the screen. It is a long, complex book, written in the style of the nineteenth century novelists whom the author admires. Dickens was one major influence, and the title (apart from its reference to Savonarola's burning of luxuries in the Florence of the 1490s) is an allusion to Thackeray's Vanity Fair. Its complexity meant that its full nuances could never be transferred to the screen in full, and any cinema adaptation would have to be very much simplified. The solution adopted by director Brian De Palma and scriptwriter Michael Cristofer was to make the film as a satirical black comedy, and I think that, on the whole, this approach works quite well. The film might tone down Wolfe's satire on capitalist excesses, but it keeps some of his other targets. The film takes potshots at muckraking journalism- Fallow's articles are inspired less by sympathy with the injured boy than by the need to find a good story to ingratiate himself with his editor- at clergymen who misuse religion for political ends, and at the legal system, here represented by Weiss. The film, for me, will never quite capture the excitement I felt reading Wolfe's great novel, but it makes a respectable attempt at capturing something of its spirit. 7/10 "},{"Title":"De Palma at his best","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a movie! Brian De Palma has done it again. In a film that is not De Palma's usual style, he manages to create a completely entertaining work. Every character is interesting and well played.Tom Hanks is especially likable as Sherman McCoy. Morgan Freeman plays the judge with sarcasm and wit, entertaining in this minor role. Support from Melanie Griffith, Bruce Willis, Kim Cattral and Saul Rubinek is a huge plus.The picture hilariously shows up the New York high life, and low life at times, with humour that is dark and sharp. Well done De Palma and team for bringing Tom Wolfe's huge novel to the screen.Friday, April 19, 1991 - Knox District CentreGreat plot and characters one can really get involved with (and enjoy watching) make De Palma's film enjoyable a second time. There are some hilarious moments and great performances all round.Thursday, January 16, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"80's snapshot + portrait of timeless venality = classic","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes, this movie is populated with caricatures but it still manages to make a definite statement about the repulsive way that we all act when money and/or power are involved.Bruce Willis plays Bruce Willis in a thankfully brief supporting role and provides one of the most monotone narratives in movie history. Despite Willis's expensive presence, the film is carried by Tom Hanks and the otherwise strong supporting cast. Hanks does what he does so well, going from ice-cool Wall Street trader to beaten-but-not-broken political pawn, taking us along for the ride.Brian De Palma's direction concentrates on faces at crucial moments, allowing good actors to dominate the screen. Morgan Freeman, Saul Rubinek, Donald Moffat (in a small but significant role) and the uncredited F Murray Abraham (as slimy DA Abe Weiss) make the most of this opportunity in Bonfire of the Vanities and they do not disappoint. Freeman is particularly impressive as Judge White, possibly the only major character in the entire movie with any integrity. Saul Rubinek's inept assistant DA and political stooge is a joy to watch, the epitome of the little man desperately trying to climb the greasy pole to wealth and power.Blackly funny and poignant in turns, the film wasn't a box-office success when it was originally released. Perhaps that was because 1990 wasn't that far removed from the 80's, the Decade of Greed that is satirised so well in Bonfire of the Vanities. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It could have been a masterpiece, but alas it became a disaster. Brian DePalma got something seriously wrong when he turned Tom Wolfe's brilliant satire on 1980's New York into a trivial comedy that barely warrants a drunken viewing on a lost Saturday night. Stay sober and read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Comedy","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never read the book but then I do not read fiction - and I don't care what changes were made in the script - although just today I ordered The Devil's Candy, a book about the making of the film - but I have never laughed so hard in my life throughout this masterpiece of a comedy especially the performance given by F. Murray Abraham which I understand was uncredited, something I do not understand at all. Melanie Griffith is smashing in this - the best thing she ever did aside from Working Girl - and Tom Hanks is perfect. But it is Bruce Willis' performance that holds everything together and he really shines here - in fact his performance is quite compassionate at a certain point showing a side of him I did not think existed -although I'm a great fan of his comedy work especially Death Becomes Her - for the life of me I will never understand why this film bombed as loudly as it did - maybe it ruffled too many of those bleeding heart liberal feathers in LaLaLand! "},{"Title":"great cast, great moods, great hidden meanings","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...Anyway...this movie is played on the borderline tragedy and comic. the result, in my opinion, is a very interesting mix of ironic situations. The first rate cast make the difference. all the actors are great. Of course the original novel is richest of details and has more pathos, but this movie can hold you on your seat without do nothing than to move your face and lips together the actors. The same story without this strong characterizations could be nothing.If you'll watch this movie more than once, you 'll love it ! Just one distract watching is definitely not enough for to appreciate the deep meaning of every scene, of every movement of camera, of every word spoken.... OK! you are thinking I am exaggerate, maybe I am, but , for sure it is a good movie.I barely can believe that someone can totally dislike it...lastly forgive my poor English ..I am Italian! "},{"Title":"All right by me","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Trust your own instincts and don't care what a bunch of so-called professional critics may say. I'm proud to say I haven't recently made the mistake of relying on poor critics. Otherwise I would've miss lots of excellent movies. Let's take The Bonfire Of The Vanities, for example. As far as I know, critics hate it. Why? I honestly can't tell. I like the damn flick very much!I have no idea what the book is all about but my brother says it's fantastic and since I'm too lazy to read it myself I'll just have to take his word for it. What I can tell is the movie rules. Maybe it isn't the same as book but why should it be? It's pleasing and great fun. Not among the best Brian De Palma films, though. Tom Hanks and Bruce Willis promise you quality acting and that's what we are having! I'm not saying this film is absolutely wonderful because that would be a dirty lie but it's plain fun and that's what it should be. I don't expect more, that's probably why I like it. "},{"Title":"Outrageously underrated","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film got one of the worst ratings, from the movie critics and sadly from the public. Certainly it didn't deserve it.I suspect reasons other than cinematographical to explain such an aberration. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not a popular film, but I loved it. Superb story, well acted, excellent dialogue. I thought it captured perfectly how many of us really feel and act. A must see. "}{"Title":"Come on, it's not that bad!!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was playing on A&E last night, and I looked at the cast and director ahead of time and decided to check the movie out. Many people refer to the movie as the last of Tom Hanks' string of flops, and it kind of was. The story was nothing special or anything, but the thing that I enjoyed about it was the cast, especially seeing Morgan Freeman's cameo as the judge, and Alan King's cameo as Melanie Griffith's ill-fated husband. If you like the actors in this movie, go ahead and watch it. "},{"Title":"A delightfully weird film","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Wolfe's cult bestselling novel of the same name comes to the big screen in this 1990 Warner Brothers release. An all star cast lends plenty of depth to the rather odd things going on during a long day in New York City. A fairly amusing and very weird film.   "},{"Title":"Notes From the Underground","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The point of Wolfe's original novel -- indeed the point of the whole story -- is that things take place because of a carefully calculated sense of expediency. The goal is survival within a particular kind of life style. The novel is full of malice. The only relationship that rings emotionally true is that between Sherman and his daughter, Campbell, and that's only touched upon. That aside, everyone is out for what he can get in the way of publicity, power, money or self aggrandizement.Wolfe was criticized for hitting every character and every social segment of New York City over the head. His response was a denial. After all, he lived in New York himself and belonged to a neighborhood improvement committee and other admirable organizations, exactly the qualifications one would want on his resume in order to deny that he disliked New Yorkers. (Wolfe has a PhD in American Studies from Yale and is no dummy.) Those supposed weaknesses are what made the novel memorable. Nobody was any good. And Sherman McCoy wound up broke, a professional protester for social justice. The movie throws all of that away and imposes a moral frame on the story that simply doesn't fit. Wolfe did his homework. The novel was rooted in reality. Every event was not only possible but thoroughly believable. Wolfe might have made a great cultural anthropologist -- he knows how to get inside a system and record its details.Yes, any of us might have found ourselves, as Sherman and his mistress do, stuck in the South Bronx, threatened by a couple of black kids, and making a getaway after bumping into one of them. That scene is transferred neatly from print to celluloid. But after that scene the movie seems not to trust its audience and at times become frantic in its attempt to spell out its message, however nebulous the message is. Sherman might accidentally hit some kid and be arrested for it as he is in the novel, but he would not immediately upon his release from jail go back to his phenomenally expensive condo, take out a shotgun, and start shooting into the ceiling with it, as he does in the movee. In what's supposed to be a funny scene, ceiling plaster falls all over the party guests and they scurry away, shrieking. It simply would not have happened. The movie has left the novel's unspeakably detailed reality in the dust. Wolfe's sensibility, the work he put into capturing the real, has been lost. What we get instead is a noisy, fantastic, and silly scene that doesn't do anything except wake the audience up. Similar empty scenes follow, screaming out for Wolfe's verisimilitude.The movie also fails because it thrusts a lot of sin and redemption into an entertaining story of moral nihilism. Here we see Don Juan in Hell at the opera. We get lectures on redemption from a poet with AIDs. We see a lot of guilt in Sherman. A black judge who preaches from the bench and gives one of those final speeches about how we all have to start behaving nicely again. A reporter who feels sorry for Sherman after turning him into a sacrificial lamb. And a happy ending in which Sherman gets off by breaking the law with an idiotic grin. The scene sits on the movie like a jester's cap on a circus elephant's head. The movie not only makes points that are already trite and unoriginal, it overstates them, as if the audience were incapable of absorbing any subtleties.It's not the acting or the direction that's poor. The film's not bad in those respects. And the photography is pretty good too, including two rather spectacular shots -- the gargoyles of the Chrysler building and the landing of the Concorde. It's the script that is thoroughly botched.The first half of the movie, roughly, is okay in conception and execution. It keeps some of the little details from the novel. Sherman and Judy's dog is named Marshall. Who the hell would name a dog Marshall? It loses its focus almost completely in the second half and on the whole is barely worth watching.Wolfe's cynical redneck right-wingism may be offensive to a lot of people, but he's got the cojones to lay his percepts out. Alas the writers and producers did not have the courage to pick them up and thus blew the chance to make a fascinating study of New Yorkers. "},{"Title":"A Different Take","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As someone who has both read the novel and seen the film, I have a different take on why the film was such a flop.  First, any comparisons between novel and film are purely superficial.  They are two different animals.The novel is probably intended as a satire, but it arrives as a cross between tragedy and polemic instead.  Any comedic elements such as those which later formed the stylistic basis of the film version are merely incidental to the author's uniformly cynical thrust.  And lest the omnipresent white suit of the author fool you into thinking this is another Mark Twain, think again.  A more apt literary precedent would be the spectre of Ambrose Bierce in a top hat and tails.  Tom Wolfe is equal parts clown and hack, more celebrity than author, always looking for new grist for his self-absorbed mill. It is therefore no wonder that the excellent production skills and direction lavished on the making of the film were doomed from the start.  Unlike true satire, which translates very well into film, polemics are grounded not in universally accessible observations on some form or other of human behavior, but in a single-minded attack on specific people -- whether real or fictional straw men -- who have somehow earned the wrath of the writer.  Any effort to create a successful filmed story or narrative from such a beginning must have a clean start, free of the writer's influence or interference.Having said that, I too find fault with the casting.  It is not merely that incompetents like Bruce Willis and Melanie Griffith fail to measure up, but that real talents like Tom Hanks, F. Murray Abraham, and Morgan Freeman are either totally wasted or given roles that are mere caricatures.There is enough topical material here for a truly great film satire, but it fails to come even close. "},{"Title":"Not As Awful As Some Claim","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Bonfire of the Vanities (1990)** (out of 4)Rich Wall Street hot shot Sherman McCoy (Tom Hanks) and his mistress (Melanie Griffith) are out for some fun when they take the wrong turn and end up in the ghetto of the Bronx. While Sherman is about to get robbed the mistress takes off in the car to save him and ends up running over one of the black men. Pretty soon a dirty D.A. and other conspire to turn the story into a race issue and reporter Peter Fallow (Bruce Willis) finds himself with a story.THE BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES will go down as one of the biggest bombs ever produced by Hollywood and also one of the most hated film. I say one of the most hated films and that group are fans of the novel because most of them will turn green and vomit pea soup whenever this film is mentioned. I've never read the novel that this is based on so I obviously can't compare the two but what the film did offer wasn't very much and it's easy to see why it just didn't take off.I've read about the troubled production of the movie and I think the biggest fault is in its casting. While there's some very talented people here, the casting just doesn't work. I had a major problem with Hanks because he was simply too nice and too much of a likable person to capture what I've read the book was trying to do. To make the lead character such a good guy really takes away any of the satire that the film is trying to go for and in the end it really makes for a rather boring story. Willis isn't much better as the reporter with his boring narration and he's just not fun. I'd say the same with Griffith who at least shows off her body but little else.A lot of the blame has to go to director Brian DePalma who was on an incredible streak of hits before running into this thing. Many people seem to think that this was the movie that killed his career. I'm not sure what he saw in the story or why he decided to change as much of it as he did but the final product is just lame, boring and just not very interesting. All three lead characters are complete bores and the supporting characters aren't much interesting. When you're watching a movie with a bunch of people you don't care about it's just hard to invest too much into the film.The film is pretty to look at and I'd argue that it's somewhat well-made but this means very little when there's just not enough entertainment. I honestly don't think the film meets its reputation as one of the worst ever made but I think I would have enjoyed it more had it really been that bad. As it is, THE BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES is just bland, which is the worst thing any movie could be. "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks wrong and other things too","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sherman McCoy (Tom Hanks) is a big time Wall Street trader and considers himself one of the Masters of the Universe. His wife Judy (Kim Cattrall) is angry with his cheating. He goes to pick up his mistress Maria Ruskin (Melanie Griffith) from JFK airport. They get lost in the Bronx. They get frightened by two black men and Maria drives over one of them. Drunken reporter Peter Fallow (Bruce Willis) writes up the hit-and-run. D.A. Abe Weiss (F. Murray Abraham) is facing re-election and needs a white man to convict. Judge Leonard White (Morgan Freeman) sees through it all. Jed Kramer (Saul Rubinek) is the assistant D.A. Reverend Bacon (John Hancock) is agitating.Tom Hanks is wrong. He's a boy scout. He's the every man. He's no Wall Street man. He's not Charlie Sheen and he's definitely not Michael Douglas. The movie works too hard to make him the good guy and it doesn't feel right. Brian De Palma does a lot of interesting camera moves. The start is an impressive tracking shot. There are the umbrellas. The sets and locations look terrific but it also feels fake. This should be grittier, darker and harder. Every character is a caricature. Lastly, the two black guys need to be more definitive. They should be bringing out their guns to rob them or be two younger kids looking to help them. It would make whatever the movie is trying to do that much sharper. With the central character being so wrong, it's hard to make this movie right. "},{"Title":"Read the book instead. No, the other one.","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've never read the source novel for Bonfire of the Vanities, so I can't view the film version in an adaptation context. But I can look at this as a movie that features a laundry list of capable actors and a skilled director and ask, What the hell is this? All this talent wasted on something so meandering, on-the-nose and comically unfunny? Sherman McCoy is supposed to be an unlikable character, and they go out and cast Tom Hanks? And Melanie Griffith over Uma Thurman? Honestly, this thing was doomed from the first step.On the plus side, Morgan Freeman steals the entire thing (although his percentage of screen time is woefully lacking). And F. Murray Abraham does have the one funny line. That's right, one. The satirical wit herein isn't rapier, but more plastic spoon, and it just makes the whole movie a grind. Some of the worst pacing I've seen in a while.If you do decide to suffer through this wretchedness, immediately go out and read Julie Salamon's The Devil's Candy, which is one of the most scintillating behind-the-scenes books out there.Unbelievably more rewarding than the movie.3/10 "},{"Title":"You can see that the screenwriter tried; he really did.","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In one sense, TBotV is The Wolf of Wall Street, done right the first time.There's a manic unhingedness about Wolff's writing, and the scenario/writing in the movie courageously tries to capture that. It's a broad and multi-dimensioned exposition on the excesses of success. Huzzah for that!But translating it to the screen is also a juggling act--and other balls get dropped in this flick.By way of one example, I cringed during each and every one of the the courtroom scenes. While I applaud the film's effort to show the multifarious tentacles of the monster of excess, the writer(s) overstepped--or perhaps just misapplied the tone--when they attempt to show what it looks like when one of those tentacles slithers into a courtroom.Y'know, the more I think about it, the more I come to the conclusion that part of what niggles at me about TBotV is its nonstop cavalcade of exposition. These expositional freight trains, in general, tend to be tiring; film needs to breathe a little. It reminds me of what Wolff says about Chomsky in Manufacturing Consent; academics seize upon politics as an opportunity to act like clergy. Well, TBotV sometimes comes off like a liturgical treatment of its subject matter. Perhaps Wolff didn't like Chomsky treading on his turf!Anyway, the film sometimes seems on the verge of drowning under the weight and viscosity of its own expressionism. But I still feel it's worth watching for how skillfully the actors acquit themselves to the task of hammering out that expressionism, as well as marveling at the dedication of the director to unstintingly wielding that hammer, and the courage of the producers for budgeting this off-kilter merry-go-'round. "},{"Title":"Horrendous adaptation; walked out on it.","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thanks to this film, I have now resolved to avoid film adaptations whenever possible. I saw the film on release and walked out of the theatre. Tom Hanks is passable. Melanie Griffith's awful Southern accent is distracting. Bruce Willis is horribly miscast as a wry British journalist. We should be thankful that he doesn't attempt a British accent, but without the outsider status and the subtlety that such a role demands, Willis falls flat. DePalma takes the novel's wry winks and turns them into desperate leers. It's like Steve Martin in character as The Jerk is sitting next to me in the theatre with a laser pointer saying say LOOK! HOW FUNNY!!!.If I could bring myself to watch the film again, I could go on and on pointing out particular moments that irked me into walking out on this film (something I very rarely do). Fat chance.I realize that many folks out there will have never read Wolfe's excellent book, and if you haven't, this film might work as passable farce. If you HAVE read the book, you will very likely hate this film. "},{"Title":"Fails to grasp the subtle satire of Tom Wolfe's novel","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tom Wolfe's sprawling novel about the aftershocks of a hit-and-run in 1980's New York set out to capture the corruption and self- promotion that seemed to dominate the decade, with every power player in the city, and every hanger-on trying to achieve personal triumph, latching on to the media and cultural frenzy to benefit their own personal agenda. It's a remarkable novel; bleakly hilarious but meticulously detailed. A movie adaptation was always going to be dangerous territory, and Brian De Palma's resulting film, that flopped both critically and commercially, is a confused mess. The complete failure of the film may be somewhat cruel and not wholly deserved, but De Palma goes for all-out comedy, failing to grasp Wolfe's subtle satire completely.Tom Hanks plays self-styled 'master of the universe' Sherman McCoy, a Wall Street broker who enjoys every material comfort that life can offer, living in his huge apartment with his ditsy wife Judy (Kim Cattrall). During an eventful night with his mistress Maria Ruskin (Melanie Griffith), they take a wrong turn while heading back to her apartment and end up in South Bronx. Sherman gets out of the car to clear the road when he is approach by two black youths, and a misunderstanding leads to Ruskin accidentally running one of them over. They flee the scene, but once the story of a rich white man almost killing a poor black kid breaks, the likes of Reverend Bacon (John Hancock), a Harlem religious and political leader, Jewish district attorney Abe Weiss (F. Murray Abraham) and hard-drinking journalist Peter Fallow (Bruce Willis) rear their heads to twist the ongoing s**t-storm to their own benefit.Despite some nice tracking shots and sets that really do capture the tacky glamour of the 80's, the movie's biggest downfall is the casting. The two leads, Hanks and Willis, are woefully miscast. McCoy is a loathsome character, a WASP-ish high-roller in an increasingly capitalist country, but Hanks is one of the most likable actors around. He looks visibly uncomfortable in a thinly- written role, and only takes control of his character in a scene in which he clears his apartment by unloading a shotgun played mainly for laughs, which at this stage of his career was Hanks's shtick. Fallow in the novel is a manipulative con-man, twisting the unravelling story through his newspaper in order to keep his job and make a nice paycheck along the way. But De Palma only seems to have picked up on his heavy drinking, meaning that Willis swings a bottle around and narrates the story, playing the role of spoon-feeder without playing an active role in story or convincing as someone who could get to his position.But then again, De Palma's movie doesn't exist in the real world. Arguably, the ensemble of characters in Wolfe's novel were caricatures, but they were well-rounded characters, and being inside their heads meant that we could understand their motives, something the movie entirely ignores. So we get the likes of Bacon, Weiss, lawyer Tom Killian (Kevin Dunn) and Assistant District Attorney Kramer (Saul Rubinek), all key players in the novel, reduced to scowling or bumbling onlookers, while McCoy squirms for our amusement and Fallow tells us what we're supposed to be thinking. Occasionally its an all-out pantomime, which would be forgivable it was funny or insightful. Yet when Wolfe calls for pantomime at the climax, the movie delivers a ridiculous speech spoken by Judge White (Morgan Freeman), informing us that decency is what your grandmother taught you.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"Pretentious and Bland, its Dense Layers of Indulgence Ruin the Core Message","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Self-absorbed, ridiculously carried-away trash that thinks it's way more edgy and pertinent than it actually is. An adaptation of a popular novel, it's clearly the victim of a studio mandate to swing hard, if not particularly accurately. It's loaded with starpower, with Tom Hanks, Bruce Willis, Melanie Griffith and Morgan Freeman sharing the spotlight, but none can help their sailing astronomically over the top with the material. Each character is more selfish and despicable than the last, even Freeman's grandstanding judge and Hanks's over-his-head bond trader on trial as political fodder. Lofty hunks of social commentary are swung around with all the subtlety of a war hammer, belaboring the point until we all lay bruised, bloodied and beaten on the floor. Potentially-pointed stereotypes get played like aces, but fail to register as more than a long series of cartoon characters with a big vocabulary. It's confused, sneering and wretched; no surprise it could only attract flies at the box office. "},{"Title":"Very but very underrated movie!","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember to see this movie in 1991 a year later when come out in theaters and see all the bad reviews and something only to discover that everything that critics says wasn't completely true.With a great great cast,great director,great music so i asked why the hell all the bad reviews? My only complain very little is that the parts of HANKS-WILLIS are change i mean the part of HANKS should be done by WILLIS and vice versa.Besides that the movie are very entertainment and all the characters all in they parts completely so i don't have any complain of this movie.Screw the critics and give this movie a chance...Believe me you won't be disappointment. "},{"Title":"Not a TOTAL bomb...","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have not read the Tom Wolfe novel that this movie is based on, so I can't say for certain how closely this cinematic adaptation follows its source. However, I am sure that the novel would be a more satisfying experience than this movie. I'm pretty sure that the novel got into the heads of the characters more, and spent more time attacking its various targets. Though there are plenty of targets in the movie, the attack on them seems kind of soft and not as savage as it should be. A bigger problem is how the characters are presented. The actors play their parts more often than not in a broad and funny manner, which is not that funny at all. The correct way to approach this material would be to play it straight. I don't blame the actors for this - I blame director Brian De Palma for directing his talented cast to act this wrongheaded way.Though the movie is misguided, I didn't find it totally bad as some have made it out to be. I have to admit that as misguided as the movie is, and having a running time of over two hours, I was never BORED while watching it. The core story does unfold in a way that makes you interested in how it will be resolved. So while the movie is definitely a miss, it's not completely awful. "},{"Title":"An Oddball Comedy of Sorts","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After his mistress (Melanie Griffith) runs over a young teen, a Wall Street hotshot (Tom Hanks) sees his life unravel in the spotlight, and attracting the interest of a down and out reporter (Bruce Willis).This film has a relatively low rating, especially when you consider the A-list cast and top-notch director. I can only suspect that is because there is no way to categorize this film. While it is clearly a comedy, it is both dark and satirical and yet just plain silly at times.Is it a commentary on the justice system? Or perhaps on Wall Street? Maybe even journalism? Maybe if I read the Tom Wolfe novel I would get a better sense of the message. Otherwise, I just have to think there is no message at all and this film is a big-fisted boxer who refuses to punch.Overall, the film was nominated for five Golden Raspberry Awards, including Worst Picture, Worst Director, Worst Actress (Melanie Griffith), Worst Supporting Actress (Kim Cattrall) and Worst Screenplay, but did not win any of those categories. A shame? "},{"Title":"Lost In Translation","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was one of the worst film adaptation of a book ever! Somehow a serious plot got turned into a buffoonish comedy. Why Tom Hanks allowed himself to be duped into this part is beyond me. This was a serious book, it capsulized all of the things that made the 1980's the decade that it was. From unbridled greed on Wall Street to slick race card players such as Al Sharpton, it was a tumultuous decade. Tom Wolfe captured all these things, especially for those who lived, worked and breathed in New York City during this time. This movie deliberately remakes the events of the book to fit the political perspective of the director. It completely shys away from the main social issue (class warfare) and delivers up a pathetic attempt at social engineering the film for the purposes of not offending anyone. Shame on you Brian De Palma. "},{"Title":"Mish + Mash = ?","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I see a lot written here to both agree and disagree with about this film, but i'm fairly convinced of a few things; 1. This is not a bad film. Critics love to pan adaptations of superior novels that don't make the grade, something which is true of this particular film. However, a failure to capture all (or even most) of the satire and biting social commentary of such prose as Tom Wolfe's does not a bad film make. 2. This not a very funny film. If you want the humour, read the book, which is very funny. 3. If you sling enough s***, some of it's bound to stick. Alternatively, if you employ enough good actors, one of them is bound to (even if only by the law of averages) put in a good performance. For Bonfire of the Vanities has a sumptuous cast list, and amongst the mis-casting (Hanks, Willis - there go your two main characters) and the simply bad (step forward Melanie Griffith), there was always going to be one who nailed down one of Wolfe's creations. And in my humble opinion Morgan Freeman owns the role of Judge White. 4. Brian De Palma (or should that be his DoP) does know how to use a crane to effect. This is a very nice looking film.I'll keep the criticisms short, so here goes; No film of reasonable length could do justice to the full scope of Wolfe's novel, particularly his withering but hilarious critiques of all ethnic/social/professional sections of the New York society of the 1980s. However, Michael Christofer's script ignores pretty much all of them. The failure to correctly cast Sherman McCoy handicaps this adaptation badly - where's the confidence, the prejudice, the arrogance? (telling us that McCoy is a Master of the Universe is no good if we are given no reason to believe it) Oh, and Hanks is at least ten years too young for the part.I was going to continue, but i realised i could perhaps go on and on, and thus end up in retrospect having a deep dislike for Bonfire of the Vanities. However, i feel this would do injustice to my enjoyment whilst actually watching it. And isn't that the point?Except Melanie Griffith. For that, there is no excuse. "},{"Title":"You need to have read the book","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'd like to ask all the people who have written positive reviews of this film - Have you read the book?Thought not.I saw this film on video in 1991 after being stunned by the vitriolic nature of its reviews.  I, at that time, hadn't read the book and concluded that the critics had totally over reacted.  A friend gave me their battered copy of the book in 1996, by which time I'd forgotten the basic plot of the film. I read the book and totally enjoyed it.  I then watched the film again and suddenly I fully understood why the reviews had been so hateful.The novel is a bitter satire on greed, racism and social values during the late eighties.  The key word here is - bitter - because the film was a much more sunny, almost happy, comedy on a similar theme.  De Palma through awful casting and, almost certainly, pressure from the studio managed to lose the whole spirit and integrity of Tom Wolfe's novel.  The influence and desires of Hollywood had conspired to take away everything that was edgy.  Instead they managed to Hollywood-ise Wolfe's brilliant novel - for example, in the novel Sherman McCoy is found guilty, in the film he is acquitted.  The critics, not surprisingly, decided to focus on this dumbing down and hence the over the top reviews.In cinematic terms, and with no knowledge of the subject matter, Bonfire of the Vanities is not a bad film, but with knowledge of the book it's unequivocally the worst adaptation ever made. "},{"Title":"Bonfire Of The Vanities (1990) is a brilliant movie well directed with great acting and killer set decoration...and great music, too!","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bonfire Of The Vanities (1990) is a brilliant movie well directed with great acting and killer set decoration...and great music, too!Three Best Actor Academy Award winners have major roles in the movie (F. Murray Abraham, Tom Hanks, and Morgan Freeman) and all three give breathtaking actor performances.....anyone who cares for fine movie actor work cannot afford to miss this great movie.The direction by Brian DiPalma is brilliant, starting with the camera panorama sweeping across nighttime Manhattan from the top of the Chrysler Building with closeups of it's gargoyles, and ending with great elegant tuxedo and gowns for the ladies crowd scene of astonishing elegance and pomp made even greater by the background music (the music in this film is one of it's many great assets).DiPalma's used of fish eye lenses for closeups of three of the movie's lovable villains (the best movies always have lovable villains, at least the best comedies do) in the final courtroom scene is inspired.....Brian DiPalma is one of the great directors of the 20th century in USA major movies.The set decoration is especially notable.The late Lillian Gish (1893 - 1993, an iconic movie star who lived to her 100th year, was the star of D. W Griffiths's Birth Of A Nation 1915 classic and later, at age 94, the star of The Whales Of August 1987 along with Bette Davis) opined during an interview seen in the documentary she was part of about the history of USA silent era movies (titled Hollywood The Silent Era 1980 written and directed by Kevin Brownlow) that The movies of the silent era during the 1920's 'age of motion picture palaces on Broadway NYC and elsewhere' taught people good manners, elegance and good taste....those movies did a world of good, socially. People who want to see what good taste looks like, and how well mannered people trained and disciplined in good etiquette behave under pressure should see Bonfire Of The Vanities (1990) again and again and again.The set decorations tell the good taste story in wonderful (and expensive) detail, and the script showing well educated, well mannered people speaking up and speaking out tells the good taste story verbally.The irony is that this brilliant movie was widely accounted a failure by many associated with it.Academy Award Winner actor F. Murray Abraham gives a brilliant performance worth seeing over and over again....certainly one of his best ever in any movie he ever appeared in. Yet he requested his name be removed from the credits list released for the movie, and his name does not appear either in the on-screen credits before and after the story, nor does it even appear on the WWW.IMDb.Com actor credits list part of the Bonfire Of The Vanities (1990) page offered by that important and justifiably respected website devoted to the movies.A book was written about the making of Bonfire Of The Vanities and the overall conclusion of the book is that the movie was a failure.The book referred to was titled The Devil's Candy The Anatomy Of A Hollywood Fiasco (1991) written by Julie Salamon.This movie was no fiasco.It was and is one of the greatest big budget Hollywood movies ever made, and deserves honor and congratulations it didn't get at the level it deserved.Bonfire Of Vanities (1990) is an example of a latter day Hollywood major studio movie which succeeds in all ways, except for the way it was sold, and for the unjustified defamation it got from people close to it.Some wonderful movies deserving of the label classic just don't get no respect. It happened to Citizen Kane (1941) and it happened to Bonfire Of The Vanities (1990).See both, own both, treasure both. You won't be sorry.------------------ Written by Tex (David) Allen, SAG Actor.Email Tex Allen at TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com Visit WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen for movie actor credits and biography.Visit David R. Allen Columbia PA Amazon.Com Profile for more than 80 reviews (books and movies) Tex Allen wrote. "},{"Title":"Motivation","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wish all Americans could sit down and watch this movie right now, in view of the recent events in Florida. Our news media manipulates the news to an extent that, even at this late date, most Americans just refuse to accept as possible.This movie is about what motivates people, both the good and the bad, and that in the end survival is the strongest motivator of all.As for the movie as a movie, Bruce Willis was not good at all. The list of other actors better for this role is almost as long as the list of other actors. Mr. W was clearly bored and didn't give a hoot about the quality of his performance.Hanks did a good job, as did Cattral, someone I generally don't like. Same for Griffith, she was good. Freeman did the wise old sage for the umpteenth time, but no one does it better. Alan King was good, Richard Belzer was bad. "},{"Title":"Classic book, average movie","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Inspired by but with a story and ending distinct from Tom Wolfe's novel by the same title &#150; The Bonfire of the Vanities - fails to attain the heights scaled by the book. This shortfall in quality is by no means a reflection on the quality of acting or script but a glaring manifestation of the fact that it is next to impossible to communicate in cinematic form the details that a book can capture. The audience that has not read the book is likely to find the movie more engrossing but the overwhelming reaction is of less than fulfilled expectations.Tom Hanks and Bruce Willis play their parts with candor but their characterization does not attain glory because of the limitations implicit in the attempt to convert a masterpiece into a movie. The protagonist of The Bonfire of the Vanities is a hero and a mere mortal and a villain in curious measures, a character so contrived that even an actor of Tom Hank's caliber fails to portray the complexity in an effective manner. Bruce Willis though has an easier task of enacting a drunkard, sometimes incompetent but finally lucky journalist and he plays his part with usual flair but no distinction.The script has been modified from the novel to provide an ending more becoming of a Hollywood production, with the hero not ending in the predicament where he found himself in the book. However while the novel had the readers dulled into realization of the death of the vanities, the movie lets the audience feel flattered by a Hollywood finish. The book's ending is too hard hitting, the movie's merely filmy. The eternal challenge of conforming reality to art while conforming art to reality again gets the better of both the artists - the director as well as the writer. "}{"Title":"Miscast Folly","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the twentieth century's great novels, turned into one of its worst films. Why? I suggest, firstly, that Tom Hanks and Bruce Willis both SHOULD have been in the film, but in each other's role. Bruce Willis should have played Sherman McCoy. Tom Hanks would have done nicely as Peter Fallow. I agree with the reviewer above who said that it was not a disaster, just limp. Melanie Griffith was OK, but the body of her role was cut out.I guess it was nice to see an American production rip the life out of American literature, rather than British literature (see Pan, the Beach, High Fidelity, Young Sherlock Holmes, etc etc etc...) "},{"Title":"Casting is a goof","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you've read the book, the obvious choice for Kramer and his constant flexing of sternomasteoclastoidwhatever muscles would have been Bruce Willis.  Kramer was not developed nearly as well in the movie.  Most disappointingly however is the compassion Fallow shows to McCoy that is almost entirely absent in the book.  Fallow is made out to be the villain so poignantly in the book, whoever wrote the ending to the movie missed the point entirely. "},{"Title":"Highly Disappointing","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Wolfe's vastly popular novel is a pure mess on the big screen.  The big name cast, which includes Tom Hanks, Melanie Griffith, Bruce Willis, and Morgan Freeman, does nothing special to keep the attention of the audience. The film deals with New York socialites bumping heads with the poorest people within the city.  Brian De Palma's direction is dull, overblown, and prodding.  In the end, Bonfire of the Vanities is easily one of the biggest, if not the biggest disappointment of the 1990s.  2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"An Okay movie, GREAT score","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie sticks out in my mind, and has for years.  Not because of the characters, or the story.  This movie flashes thru my brain a lot, because of the score, masterfully written and performed (somewhat), by Dave Grusin. This score for this movie was a lot of repetitive stuff, yet it was so powerful in my opinion.  Because of the music in this movie, sometimes subtle, sometimes overpowering, it lent a great deal to the film as a whole. A lot of people aren't hot on background music for a movie, but for this movie, I thought it made a great deal of difference.   "},{"Title":"why Bruce?","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe a use of Bruce Willis as the final writer seems to be unuseful, instead personally I see an actor that come from Swartzenegger, Stallone and Van Damme school of art and he finds himself very well in these type of role. Unbelievable cameraman who is he? "},{"Title":"De Palma, Wolfe, Vilmos, THIS?","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    De Palma....what the hell were you thinking. This movie, I don't think I liked well, because it was missing tone. The tone of the Wolfe. Let's start with a few positive things...Vilmos Zsigmond's photography looks great...Richard Sylbert designs lavishly....cool titles....NOW the bad things....Tom Hanks? Sherman McCoy? You've got to be kidding, right?...Melanie Griffith? a Southerner named Maria, with an unintentionally hilarious accent....Morgan Freeman, he is Black, and in the novel his character was discribed as a Puney Jewish guy.... John Hancock, three words Oh My God.......Bruce Willis, miscast. If I produced this movie, he would have been replaced by Michael Douglas, he can play and alcoholic(Basic Instinct) and a writer(Wonder Boys). The movie...is a mess..But, Peters probably said, Hey, it looks good, don't it?.I couldn't really cast a vote for this one, so I had my brother do it... it aint wroth anything above a 3, but 2 and 1 are too kind to recieve such torture....I hope this gave you a good idea about this movie or pretty mess. "},{"Title":"Lolita","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.dePalma, Wolfe, Fallows three men approach their art. In each case, their sponsoring environment presses in to perturb and pollute. In each case, they center the narrative on cartoonish drama, but the real art has nothing to do with the tokens. Rather, the art is in designing the distance between the reporter and the action.That is the whole of Wolfe's art, his placement of self to the world. His books are famously ghostwritten so far as the story -- to keep the tone and much of his language but have the story make sense. But the story doesn't matter, it is only an excuse for an abstract irony, a reverse voyeurism that readers like.This book is self-referential in that the author faces the same dilemma. The film was designed to also self-referentially encapsulate these two layers, forming a third. dePalma famously studies these problems and how they can be solved by the stance of the collective eye through his camera.So yes, the story in this film was destroyed by incessant meddling by the studio. Yes, the performances are way off as a result of rampant egos. Yes, the resulting story and characters are wholly unengaging. That's a plus, folks. Surely dePalma did not intend such a pool of muck, but it works for him just as is does for Wolfe and Fallows.dePalma's eye is cast here in the Nabokov mode another half step away from the action, commenting on itself but not quite sure where reality and fiction divide. The eye is ambiguous. We supposed to be subliminally aware of it note how few angles are ones a human would have, how few motions are ones an observer would make.The tone is indicated in the first shot where timelapse shows jets coming into Newark, turning into comets turning into the title. This is followed by a nearly five minute continuous traveling shot introducing Fallows as narrator, bringing him to us, the swarming crowd. It is only matched by that first scene in `The Player' (of the next year) which attempts the very same commented distance.Fallows as Hubert. A brilliant idea, latter annotated by making the annoying Melanie Dorothy's mother. This completed a trilogy where dePalma used here previously as the deceptive, meaningless focus in Body Double where the real meaning was elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful, Awful","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I finally saw this, having read the book and put off watching the movie. I should have kept putting it off. It honestly is one of the worst movies I have ever seen, in every sense of the word, in all departments. A rare achievement for a film. Both Tom and Bruce are woefully miscast and if there was a motivation in any of the characters, I am still digging for it. All the depth of the novel completely vanished from sight. Did anybody even remotely associated with the film READ the book??? I suspect Melanie Griffith might have come close, her character's greed, dishonesty and avarice shines through. Morgan Freeman (and I am a long time admirer) overacts to the point of nausea. Hanks is far too nice for the part of Sherman. He just about sinks under the weight of the part. I mean nice Tommy as a master of the universe? A brutal bond trader? I kept watching, I had no hope it would improve, it was akin to watching an accident at the side of the road. You want to drive away, you can't. You can't define what's keeping you there, the gore, the smashed and broken bodies, the pitiful moaning? 3 out of 10 for this absolute mess of a flick. "},{"Title":"The worst book adaptation ever.","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Most book adaptations are bad but this film left out key parts of the storyline and changed the description and some characters. They rewired the storyline and combined scenes and changed the order. They added ridiculous things into it that never happened in the book and would never happen.If i hadn't read the book beforehand it would have been an incredibly dull film, it didn't make you care about the characters, like them or dislike them. It turns the characters into jokes.Awful.Ridiculous.Waste of two hours of my life. "},{"Title":"You can't make a decent movie with just famous people","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember thinking when I first starting writing this review I hope I spelt that right. Actually I don't care it was rubbish Its like someone had an idea and just thought that was enough. It trys to be slick but just isn't.Im going to start with the biggest problem. WHY WHY WHY did they cast Bruce Willis. Miscast. He doesn't make sense in that role. That character doesn't even do anything remotely important to the story and at the end (**SPOILER**) he writes a book which is a bestseller and wins the Pulitzer prize.(**SPOILER end**) I cant see how anything he could of wrote (they tell you ZILCH) and I cant see what it could have been about. So basically the storyline that involves Bruce Willis is mainly useless.Tom Hanks is also a bit rubbish. But Morgan Freeman is good, did well in a poor film.The story seems to be neither comedy nor drama but does try to show message but thats all. Genre less.The last film I gave this rating (transformers 3) I didn't review due to what I call the WHAT DID YOU EXPECT policy. Rubbish acting stupidly cheesy and no plot oh but the billion dollar action scenes were decent 3/10 "}{"Title":"a textbook Hollywood flop","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Brian De Palma's over-hyped, over-expensive, would-be blockbuster was one of the more notorious flops of the decade a fifty million dollar write-off all but ignored by the movie-going public, and for good reason. The novel by Tom Wolfe may have been a blistering social satire highlighting everything wrong with the Reagan 1980s political corruption, corporate greed, media distortion, self-serving publicity, and so forth. But on the big screen it only served to illustrate everything wrong with modern American movie-making executive interference, artistic compromise, and the fatal miscasting of bankable stars in inappropriate roles. Asking nice guy Tom Hanks to portray an arrogant, insensitive Wall Street yuppie ruined by a hit-and-run accident in the Bronx was a bad enough decision, but rewriting characters just to accommodate Bruce Willis (a jaded English journalist?) and Morgan Freeman (a fiery Jewish judge?) renders most of Wolfe's intended satire meaningless. The film died a quiet death at the box office, but it at least succeeded as a textbook Hollywood literary adaptation dumbing down a controversial bestseller to make it more accessible to semi-literate filmgoers. "},{"Title":"A boobish picture...insufferable and vapid, and miscast into the bargain","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A married bonds trader on Wall Street, out for the evening with his equally-married mistress, takes a wrong turn and ends up in a scary section of the Bronx; after he's accosted by two black youths, the wealthy white couple take it on the lam, ending with one of the boys being struck by their Mercedes. One-part satire of yuppie mobility, the other half a cartoonish cause clbre, and neither half particularly interesting. Tom Wolfe's bestseller became a movie nobody went to see in 1990, partially due to the miscasting of Tom Hanks as the sales giant whose life is ruined after the story is broken by a newspaper journalist (Bruce Willis, also miscast) who writes his sordid tale before getting all the facts. Brian De Palma is obviously a good director who knows how to pump pizazz and style into a scenario, but this doesn't seem like material he would be in love with. The long opening shot (done in one seamless take, going up in an elevator and then down different hallways) is exceptional, but the behavior of Willis in the scene (acting like a drunken jackass) is immediately off-putting. Willis also narrates the movie in flashback; once we get to the finale (which started the picture), we are no closer to knowing how this writer got to be so smugly, decadently wealthy than we knew from the beginning. A painful experience. * from **** "},{"Title":"The Devil's Candy","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ok. I must say I've read a lot of bullshit about this movie since it's been made, and obviously by reading some of the reviews around here it's far from being over (even 10 years later at a time when people are supposed to be a little more educated on how movies are made). Seriously people, if you don't know what you're talking about, don't bother. Or at least do yourself a favor first and read this book  The Devil's Candy (http//www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0385308248/qid&#16;34946387/sr =8-1/ref=sr_8_1/002-1791154-4143255?v=glance&nP7846). Then you can come back here and blame who you wanna blame if you didn't like the movie. "},{"Title":"A Disaster","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If the estate of J.D. Salinger ever sells the movie rights to Catcher in the Rye, we can only pray that it doesn't fall into the hands of a director like this.  The Tom Wolfe novel of Bonfires had everything........this horrid movie has nothing.  How could this happen?  I sat in stunned disbelief at this picture.  I honestly don't understand how this story was so mishandled.  Tom Wolfe's work has been done quite well for the screen before (See the Right Stuff).  This movie takes all the wrong steps.  I won't go into all the specifics about the plot, etc.  The actors cannot be blamed for this flop......other than Bruce Willis, who is just painful to watch in this outing.  No, the blame rests completely on the shoulders of the director, Brian de Palma.  It's is almost incomprehensible that this is the same man that directed Body Double.  See THAT movie and skip this thing.  This is a story that will be filmed again because it is very interesting.  Just wait for that one.   "},{"Title":"I stayed almost awake for this. Why you ask?","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've never seen a movie like this. Like the Video Movie Guide said, the movie is filled with characters who come out of cartoons. Kim Cattrall's Judy McCoy might as well be Veronica Lodge from Archie. Bruce Willis' Peter Fallow might as well be Andy Capp. Tom Hanks might as well be named L'il Abner. Melanie Griffith, if she ever decides to quit movies and become part of an impersonation revue in Las Vegas, should mimic Dolly Parton (she sounds just like her). This is like some all-star comic book show, even Madeleine is here in the guise of Kirsten No one will see my body on celluloid... WHO CARES?!? Dunst as Campbell? McCoy. The story of a successful mover and shaker who makes an error at a phone booth that leads him to his doom is a silly, overwrought, ridiculously written bore that needs to be seen to be believed. This film would actually make the garbage coming out these days look good. What was Brian DePalma thinking?? "},{"Title":"Limp but not terrible","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As an adaption of Tom Wolfe's novel, this film is much too broad and limp-wristed when it comes to slapping about the Sherman McCoys of the world. Brian De Palma has done satire before, and better, but this particular sort of satire isn't his strong suit - it's not an escapist work, nor are the characters supposed to be all that likeable. The casting is wrongheaded, the script is amateurish, and the ending - while a potentially interesting one - is handled weakly. However, that's where the criticism ends. The rest of the movie attempts to make up for its losses, and end result comes off as being more than a little watchable. The minor roles are done very well, the cinematography is top-notch, and most significantly, the live-action cartoon aesthetic is weirdly engaging in a hypnotic sort of way. De Palma's own odd sense of humor is at odds with the written material - in a more perfect world, the producers would have ditched Cristofer's script and let De Palma just sit around and get down with his own wacky self - but that, too, makes it somewhat interesting. It's not the sort of thing I'd heartily recommend to everyone, but it's hardly the abomination people would lead you believe. So far as supposed turkeys go, it's a pretty engaging 2 hours. In fact, in light of the  novel's caustic nature, the movie's harmlessness has been its own worst enemy. If the book had never been written, I'm sure this movie would have gotten a better rep as simply a slight but spry black comedy; however, the novel has been written, and it made nine dollars at the box office, so failure it remains. Rent it if it sounds interesting to you, or catch it on TV if it plays. It's really not that bad. "},{"Title":"a case of the What Were They Thinking! mode Hollywood film-making","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's two kinds of people seeing the film of The Bonfire of the Vanities. Those who have read the book by Tom Wolfe, and those who have not. Some may know a little more about what the book is before seeing the movie, but in general at least the uninitiated have some idea. I read the book, and heard the backlash on the movie, and even began to read the book by Julie Salomon about the making of the movie, The Devil's Candy. It is a tremendous book, a razor-sharp satire and dark human tragic-comedy where everyone is unlikeable, and yet by a certain point the person who should be most unlikeable and unsympathetic, Sherman McCoy, the Wall-Street Bond Trader who is brought in on charges of reckless endangerment for his car running over a black honor student, ironically becomes a little more sympathetic (or just understandable and human, is perhaps the point).Seeing the movie with someone who hasn't read the book, however, is a valuable experience, and the friend I watched it with confirmed my own thoughts the movie isn't so terrible as to completely throw on the heap of directorial toxic-sludge (it doesn't come close to, say, Godard's King Lear as a cinematic cluster-f***), and some of the performances are actually good or at least decent- SOME being a key word here- but it's also confused and baffling, and not very funny most of the time. De Palma's inspiration in putting the characterizations forward was Dr. Strangelove, where characters are in a heightened reality and no one is really just a character but is larger-than-life. This was fine for Kubrick when taking his source material, which was quite serious as a Nuclear-war book, and making into a gaudy spectacle.De Palma should have asked himself something simple, which is why make something already so good into something else? Is The Bonfire of the Vanities, as a movie, a satire? Yes and no. Yes in that it takes on subjects like Wall Street bond traders and high society big shots and ne'er-do-wells and tabloid journalists and district attorneys (and assistant district attorneys) and an opportunistic reverend and gives them a skewering. It screams out YES, WE'RE SATIRE without going to an extreme like Spike Lee's Bamboozled did, though that's an apt comparison. But no in that De Palma, whether it was mostly himself second guessing in pre-production or by pressure of the studios, had to make things more 'likable' and 'sympathetic'. Mainstream was probably a key word between De Palma and the studio execs and people worried about such a controversial book as Wolfe's (one would like to think just the studio's fault but who knows the percentage of blame).And yet I would be lying if I said I thought it was a failure and totally horrible movie like so many other critics and viewers did. It's not, really. It's like an interesting fall on the face, and seeing the parts that are interesting get one through the running time. It's at least never boring; Tom Hanks, though just a few years shy young to play McCoy as written in the book, does have his moments where he gets to shine as an actor, and is even really funny a few times (my favorite scenes in the movie have him in it, one where he's interrogated by the detectives and bumbles it completely with the word 'routine', and the other when he unloads his twelve-gage rifle with total abandon around his bemused dinner guests, hilarious, perhaps, just seeing Hanks doing this). Other actors like Kim Cattral, (very sexy) Melanie Griffith, and Saul Rubinek do decently in supporting roles. F. Murray Abraham, for all of his over the top theatrics, actually gets perhaps most what De Palma's intention is with the material, and rolls with it (not to mention amazing bit parts for Andre Gregory and Richard Belzer).But the two big gaffs here, one of which a really huge one that brings the film down from interesting misfire to practical disaster, is the casting of the Judge and Peter Fallow. It's one thing to get a character totally wrong on paper, which does happen here, and it's another to cast it wrong. Morgan Freeman is a great actor, and has no real place here in the film. Even putting aside the intent of Wolfe with the Judge- that he was, by the way, and old Jewish man who, along with the D.A. Abe Weiss, meant to reflect the 'old guard' of judges from the Bronx- Freeman is given little to do except yell out like he's reprising the principal in Lean on Me, and give a totally ham-fisted, awfully written movie speech at the end. He does what he can with the material, but ultimately, for however few minutes he's on screen, it's a bust.And Peter Fallow. Holy hell this is a misfire on all counts. Watching Bruce Willis on screen one realizes the dark side of Hollywood, where casting a star for safety sake can completely backfire when it's not right. The writing by Michael Christofer doesn't do any favors, as the narration stinks mostly anyway, but Willis is a lump on screen, barely doing anything to make him interesting... and yet, unlike in the book, most egregiously, we're meant to side with him in some way, or find him kind of, you know, sympathetic in some way. The original choice for Peter Fallow- a sly, lackadaisical drunk- was John Cleese. The gulf between the two choices is wide enough to put a blue whale in. Even if everything else worked great in Bonfire of the Vanities, Willis, his acting and the character as a whole, would make the film flawed on its own. In other words What Were They Thinking? C- "},{"Title":"From high concept novel to movie trash can","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" About as bad an adaption of a great book that's ever been done.Fortunately we have the whole sad story of the slippery slope from concept to trash can as told by Julie Salamon in The Devil's Candy. She was writing an article on the movie during pre-production, saw where things were headed, and stuck around to document it.For those who want to see how money and self-hypnosis can corrupt the film-making process it's a worthwhile, if sad, read.Wisely, Tom Wolfe refrained from commenting on the whole sordid pile of stink that his novel had become. However, when asked about movie versions of books he could only say, Sometimes you just have to take the money and hold your nose. "},{"Title":"Why was dePalma hired for this?","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tom Wolfe's sprawling, brilliantly observed satiric novel of life among New York snobbery gets a glossy look here but is nevertheless not well served. The film suffers not merely from the miscasting of everyman Tom Hanks as an uncaring Yuppie, Kewpie-doll Melanie Griffith as a manipulative southern belle and Bruce Willis (?!) as the darling of New York's literati. The most serious miscasting was in the director's chair. Robert Altman might have breathed life into these unlikeable characters and made them interesting, but Brian De Palma, for all of his visual sophistication, has never had an eye for the nuances of the human experience. The resulting film looks good but seems blah toward its subject of dehumanization in favor of status. Honestly, if a satire does not make the viewer angry, what is the point? "},{"Title":"When I was really young, I thought that it had vampire in the title!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When The Bonfire of the Vanities came out at the end of 1990, it was slammed by the critics, and went up in smoke at the box office. Maybe some people thought that it was trying to capitalize on what Wall Street showed a few years earlier.When I saw it several years later, I thought that it was quite well done. Like Wall Street, it does show the decadence, cynicism, and greed inherent in the lives of rich New Yorkers. But this one has sort of a comedic tone. It portrays stock broker Sherman McCoy's (Tom Hanks) self-serving lifestyle getting thrown into flux when his mistress Maria Ruskin (Melanie Griffith) accidentally runs over a young African-American. This incident ignites people's emotions all over the board, which may be the title's implication Sherman's vain existence is crashing down, and he's getting exposed to groups whom he had never even considered earlier.Personally, I couldn't understand why the critics and public didn't like this movie (considering that we made the kitschy Home Alone a hit around the same time, we ought to be ashamed of ourselves for ignoring TBOTV). It looks at the various problems with our society greed, racism, and yellow journalism. Bruce Willis, whom I usually find obnoxious, does a really good job here as reporter Peter Fallow, out to make a few bucks by blowing the story up as much as possible. There's also a character based on Rev. Al Sharpton.All in all, this is a move worth seeing. It's definitive proof that Brian DePalma was a lot better before he got all Hollywood with Mission Impossible, Snake Eyes, etc. Also starring Morgan Freeman, a very young Kirsten Dunst, and several people (among them F. Murray Abraham and Andre Gregory) in small roles. Watch for Malachy McCourt (the brother of Angela's Ashes author Frank McCourt) as the doorman.And yes, I once thought that the title was something like Vampire of the Bonnies. You know, just one of those mispronunciations when you're really young. "}{"Title":"weird, just weird","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Uh, yes, what have we got here? An extremely weird title of what turns out to be an equally weird movie. If anyone can name just one logical or 'normal' scene from this movie, please do. Tom Hanks and Bruce Willis are in it, but both play extremely weird (did I just say 'weird'?) characters. Not to mention that weird (excusez-le-mot) priest. Wait, I think I recall one character who comes in the vicinity of 'normal' behaviour judge Morgan Freeman. But, at the other hand, he starts yelling at the audience in court. Not that normal, I suppose. Not to mention that lady Xeroxing her ...., uh, well, you can fill that in for yourself after having watched this strange motion picture that calls itself a movie.Rating from the Dutch judge 4 (out of 10).  "},{"Title":"I just don't see Bruce as Tom Wolfe.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie last night, and as always, the movie didn't do the book justice.  The underlying meaning of the book (in short perception of events by people of different races)was poorly addressed.  But Tom Wolfe was probably compensated quite well for this one, so I'm supposing he isn't crying too hard.This movie reminds me of another great book that was sullied by Bruce Willis Breakfast of Champions.  The similarity is the author (Creator of the Universe, Master of the Universe, eh?) of the story is in the story and actively affecting the marionettes.The film itself, was done pretty well.  The sets were fabulous (especially the apartments and Hank's office).  There were a lot a very stunning visual effects (my favorite the very beginning shot of the gargoyle).Of course the long tracking shot with Bruce in the beginning is sort of silly.And I hate to admit it, but the big stars are worth their salt as actors. Hanks played a good rich white guy, Bruce plays a pretty convincing lush, and I laughed pretty hard when I saw Melanie (her last movie that I saw was Cecil B Demented).Overall  See this movie at least once.   "},{"Title":"Another ambitious and sexy performance by Melanie Griffith.","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know that the 1988 movie Working Girl is the best and most well known Melanie Griffith movie and it should be as her underdog character works hard and with an open eye and ear goes from being a secretary to an executive, her acting was not only great she was very sexy in Working Girl also. The, Bonfire of the Vanities is the second movie that must be seen if your a Melanie fan she is as sexy as ever. I love the choices that Melanie makes in lingerie the scenes of her wearing a yellow-gold colored bra then the scene striping down to the black bra and panties, I say Melanie honey you just brighten my day. Griffith is great as a mistress to Wall Street tycoon Sherman McCoy (Tom Hanks) and yes this movie didn't win Tom anything but his performance was once again great. Bruce Willis is very funny as an alcoholic reporter who follows this New York scandal, I know we all like Bruce in action movies but he does this job good. Morgan Freeman really catches your attention as a honest but tough judge. Really the plot in this movie is odd but watch it you see how it develops and relates to the lifestyles of the characters. I know that Brian DePalma has done better than this but remember many times a novel doesn't do well on the big screen The, Bonfire of the Vanities was an '80s story based on a Tom Wolfe bestseller so don't blame Brian he done as good a job possible the cast had plenty of talent and that's why this movie is interesting. I suggest you watch this movie for Melanie Griffith she had a great chest and looked very sexy that should be a good enough reason. "},{"Title":"A mild correction and suggestion","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just wanted to say that unlike George Litman asserts, Tom Wolfe did not have anything to do with the screenplay - he just wrote the book. If you want to know more about the making of this film, I highly recommend 'The Devil's Candy' by Julie Salamon. Salamon hung around in the background from pre to post-production of 'The Bonfire of the Vanities' and detailed everything that happened. "},{"Title":"oh man","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Hanks.... There just HAS to be a reason he did this movie.  I am a great fan of Tom Hanks.  EVERY movie I have ever seen him in, I have liked.  Until this one rolled along.  This movie was based on the novel, now urban legend, by Tom Wolfe.  Trust me.  The book is better "},{"Title":"Crash Dive","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Brian De Palma's Bonfire of the Vanities is a terrible film. Far more interesting is The Devil's Candy, a book written by Julie Salamon, a Wall Street Journal film critic who was given unlimited access to the film's production. The book highlights De Palma's battles with producers, studio executives and actors, and the mood of overall futility that overcame the director toward the end of the production.For example, De Palma didn't want either actor Tom Hanks or Bruce Willis to star in the picture, but being big money magnets at the time, they were forced upon him. Willis and De Palma would also get into heated arguments, the star frequently turning up both drunk and late. The changing of the novel's subplot from Jewish to African American also irked the director, as well as studio imposed cuts (which removed almost half an hour of footage) and star Melanie Griffith ditching the shoot for breast enlargement.But hilariously, De Palma's big beef seems to be that he was not allowed to shoot in locations or buildings he found appealing. Generally speaking, De Palma is all about photographing space and careening through fine architecture. On Bonfire of The Vanities, however, he got saddled with locations which he says he simply had no desire to shoot. Indeed, some of the only memorable shots in the film were done by second unit photographers, De Palma abdicating duty to his crew.Beyond all this, Bonfire has vague allusions to a number of other De Palma films. It's tale, for example, of wealthy careerists who become pawns to corporate kings echo De Palma's Get To Know Your Rabbit, and of course De Palma's own career trajectory. There is some self-reference in the fact that the film's cast spins out of control, dancing to the tune of the money men, but this only makes for appropriate irony, not good cinema.Bonfire contains a number of flamboyant sequences, most notably the long take which opens the film, but they're all ugly and garish, shot in sterile back-room corridors or packed with grating dialogue. In interviews De Palma would insist that he always has final cut, a statement which is ironic considering the level of studio meddling his films garner. Most recently he claimed to have had final cut on Black Dahlia and Redacted, yet one film had its coda censored and the other lost almost an hour of footage. Regardless, no amount of restored or removed footage can help Bonfire of the Vanities. It's a poor film, of interest only to De Palma completists.3/10 - Worth no viewings. "},{"Title":"Horrific film, clumsy and superficial","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a truly terrible film about politics/ethics. I can only advise you to read the book, and not let the badness of this film to turn you off it. The film manages to take every nuanced and insightful moment in the book by Tom Wolfe (which was not without flaws) into a banally cynical statement which assumes that the viewer is dumber than a bag of hammers. What made the book interesting is that it did not have a pat ending. The film manages to have a couple.The cinematography is in fact amazing, but who cares, since this is the only thing going for a film filled with yuck. There are bad performances by everyone, as a result of bad writing and bad direction, since Brain De Palma was either entirely blind to the overacting going on constantly in the frame or actively encouraging the actors to be as broad as possible so as to drive home the utterly juvenile and excruciatingly clumsy observations of his satiric portrait. Considering the uneven (at best) quality of his work overall, one tends to think he ruined the possibility of Wolfe's insight into New York in the 80's, America, and human affairs in general from ever being shared with a larger audience than those who enjoy reading. "},{"Title":"Warner Brothers should Remake this","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie should of been made as a TV-Mini series (Like for HBO). This movie is one of the biggest bombs of all time. (Even on its release Heaven's Gate was still bigger). The book was raped by the people who adapted the screenplay, They didn't understand the book and the movie of course suffers from that. Mr Depalma is a heavy handed director and it show all to will in this movie. Their is moments of greatness but moments do not make a movie. The cast is good but the Bruce Willis part was written as an Englishing for the book. I think there is a great movie that can come from Bonfire of the Vanities Maybe one day we will get one. I think David Mament would wonders adapting and directing a remake of this. I wouldn't change the setting I will still have take place in New York in the 1980's. Mament could direct as well but I would look for a director that has a great touch of black humor. Maybe even Danny Boyle? "},{"Title":"This film was Low-rated by the critics because it isn't Politcally Correct","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a brilliant film that brings the true racial Politics of big cities to Life. That's why so many people give this film low ratings.It isn't Politically Correct.Hell it even has Geraldo Rivera in a few scenes promoting the Al Sharpton type character to further his Liberal Politics and news career.How more true-to-Life can you get?Tom Hanks did a very decent job in his role as the sheep being fed to the hungry wolves to get the Ultra-Liberal District Atty. elected.Melanie Griffith played her gold-digging role well too.Bruce Willis isn't my favorite actor but his characters side-storyline story mixed well with the main storyline.10 out of 10. I'd give it a 9 out of 10 if this movie hadn't been so poorly rated by so many others that didn't like the true-to-Life Politics it contained.This is a great movie for educated and Politically moderate, Conservative or apolitical people.But not for the far-Left types. "},{"Title":"Wretchedly bad","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite what previous commenters have said, Bonfire will not be rediscovered years from now as a classic, flawed or otherwise. It is a hack film made with a huge budget that wastes the resources of everyone in it who had any resources to waste (Melanie Griffith is an empty vessel with nothing to give or waste).Think about it the premised of this movie is that one of the richest most successful men in NY would risk everything to be with... Melanie Griffith? Her character is annoying, bossy, bitchy, and unsexy -- precisely all of the female characteristics McCoy is trying to get away from at home. On this fact alone, the movie is impossible to buy. Now throw in all the other things that make no sense a master of the universe (McCoy) who is played as a sniveling drip. A nobody writer (Fallow) who struts like the king of the world. A director (De Palma) who can technically shoot great shots but doesn't even understand the story he's telling.Look closer and you'll find all manner of things that make no sense Why would a judge allow an unruly mob of hundreds in his court? Why can McCoy barely move a tire one second and the next is swinging it at muggers? Why does a black spectator call the black judge racist? Why does master of the universe McCoy work in a sweatshop-style cubicle? Nothing fits together. "}{"Title":"Tom Hanks and Bruce Willis star in this badly done movie","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Based on Tom Wolfe's satirical novel that was praised by all (i have not read it yet) Tom Hanks stars as a wall streeter who accidentally kills a black boy while lost in a bad part of NYC Willis stars as the reporter who starts Hanks on his downward spiral.. The characters are very thin and there seems to be no empathy for anyone in this movie and for a comedy or a satire there arent a lot of laughs either..Melanie Griffith had her breasts done during filming so a fun thing to do is to see if her boobs change size during different parts of the film..This will keep your mind off other things like the lack of script or humor.. On a scale of one to ten..3 "},{"Title":"Truly Terrible...very, very, very bad.","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Bonfire of the Vanities' is quite possibly the worst movie that I have ever seen, devoid even of the camp good-nature of Ed Wood. Everybody involved from De Palma's psychedelic and incoherent imagining of the Woolf novel to the wildly erratic performances, the plain ugly production design to the garish made-for-TV photography. The whole thing comes across like the overindulgence of drug-fueled hacks.What is so genuinely mystifying is that the individual talent involved is really quite remarkable. Writer Michael Cristofer has won a Pulitzer and a Tony; Cinematographer Zsigmod is a multi-award winner who worked on 'Deliverance', 'Close Encounters...' and 'The Deer Hunter'; Production Designer Sylbert is a legend in the industry, having worked on 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?', 'Rosemary's Baby', and 'Chinatown', winning two Oscars along the way; Costume Designer Ann Roth is one of the most talented and celebrated around, having worked on everything from 'Midnight Cowboy' to 'Cold Mountain'; and the central cast has seven Oscar nominations and three wins between them.The blame, therefore, can only really be laid at the door of Brian De Palma, or else the producers (80s power players Guber and Peters) who were either too spineless or too coked up to reign him in. De Palma is a wildly inconsistent director at best, who possesses an almost pathological inability to suppress a natural inclination towards baroque and outlandish excess. Occasionally, this serves the story - 'Phantom of the Paradise', 'Carrie', 'Scarface', even the 'The Untouchables' require a certain degree of bog-eyed hysteria to work. But usually, such over-the-top theatrics are deadly, and nowhere is this more apparent than in 'The Bonfire of the Vanities' or the recent noir-fiasco, 'The Black Dahlia'.To repeat - 'The Bonfire of the Vanities' is one of the worst movies you are ever likely to see, and certainly the worst EVER made by talent of this caliber. Everyone involved must lie awake at night praying that every last copy will be consumed by fire, and though not usually an advocate of such wanton destruction, for this movie, I'd fan the flames myself. "},{"Title":"The worst casting decisions ever made","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a great book and the possibilities for a truly great film were definitely there. But the casting decisions completely wrecked the movie. Hanks is a great actor to be sure, but lacks the smarmy, morally ambivalent characteristics needed for the lead role. Jeff Daniels would have been my choice.Putting Melanie Griffiths in, for eye candy reasons, is understandable, but again, she did not portray the depth or ambivalence, so need to pull this off.This movie is a great example of how every decision, even those early on in the movie production can make or break a file. "},{"Title":"Toothless, witless, sleep-inducing drivel","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a nothing movie. It's not funny enough to be a comedy, not sharp enough to be a drama, and has no style. It's so laid-back, so under-stated, so plain boring, that I can't imagine anyone would actually sit all the way through it. I did, but very nearly fell asleep after an hour. However, I was determined to see it through in the hope that it might perk up a bit - sadly it didn't. It's a pointless exercise, it doesn't entertain and it has nothing to say.It claims to be some sort of satire about modern capitalist values, but it falls completely flat. There's no evidence of real poverty, nor of lavish lifestyles. Everyone seems to fit into a broad middle band between slightly poor and slightly rich. McCoy is supposed to be a wealthy and powerful man - but where's the evidence? He certainly isn't an immoral man. His 'victim' is supposed to be a poor, down-trodden, repressed black guy - again, no evidence of this.There is no evidence of corruption, merely some suggestion. Right across the plot this film fails to deliver, and to cap it all we're supposed to believe someone turned it into a successful novel?! It's not even good enough to be called pretentious. It's just boring. "},{"Title":"atrocious","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the most atrocious rewrites I've ever viewed. If they want to make a movie with a lousy story, they should refrain from giving it a title of a fine book. There is hardly a relation between Wolfe's book and this movie other than the title. I don't mind changes if they help a story flow on screen. At least the changes shouldn't hurt the final product. The last scene in the movie is painfully unconvincing. The actors are miscast. The director and/or screen writer obviously could not decide whether to make a lame comedy or preach an unconvincing sermon.If you've seen this movie and disliked it, try the book. If you've seen this movie and liked it, read the book. "},{"Title":"A wrong turn","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Recap Sherman McCoy is at the top of the world. A successful stock broker with a posh home and a beautiful wife and kid. But he is not satisfied, so he starts a off to the side relationship with Maria. After having picked her up at the airport they make a wrong turn and end up in the Bronx. There an attempted robbery goes wrong and Maria, who is driving now, runs over one of the thugs. But several persons try to profit from this accident, playing it up as a racist act. To prove it wrong both police and the district attorney, as well as the media, go after Sherman with a vengeance. Suddenly Sherman's life crumbles and everyone just seems to be out for themselves. No one really cares for either Sherman or the young man that got hit.Comments I guess the intent is to show that what really runs the society today (or the early nineties at least) is money, power and fame. All concern and compassion anyone shows is just that, a show to profit for themselves. This leads to a glossy and superficial society which leads to glossy and superficially acting. And it annoys me. It is too much, and far over the top. I think that the message had been more powerful, and the movie better, if this had been balanced and tuned down more.A stellar cast, maybe not so famous when it was released, but by today's standard. A cast spearheaded by Hanks, Willis and Freeman, supported by Griffith, Cattrall, Rubinek and Dunn is worth seeing in itself. But I don't think they act up to their ability. Hanks wasn't a proved serious actor then, and didn't accomplish much with this. Willis has a rather small (but for the story important) role but was mostly added to help the movie at the box office with his name. Griffith, and Rubinek only annoys me. The only actor that don't disappoint is Freeman, and his role is limited. Actually, there seem to be a more interesting story behind the casting of the movie than the movie itself. Check the trivia. For example Uma Thurman was considered for the character of Maria Ruskin, I wish they would have cast her instead.A interesting story that is driven over the top with a great but underachieving cast. What's most impressive perhaps is that many of the stars in this movie, made almost 20 years ago now, is still top names in the industry. Might be worth watching because of that, but I can't see any other reasons.5/10 "},{"Title":"I liked the book better","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recently got a chance to see 'Bonfire Of The Vanities' shortly after I read the book The Devil's Candy all about the making of this particular movie. And, while the movie does have some strong points, it TOTALLY pales to the book. And I'm not referring to the Tom Wolfe book, but 'The Devil's Candy', it's a riot. The film pales in comparison unfortunately. Tom Hanks plays a lawyer who has it all, trophy wife, great job, lovely mistress.. But a rather chance meeting with a couple of thugs in a seedier part of NYC sends his life spiraling, with help indirectly by a tabloid reporter (played surprisingly well by Bruce Willis). So, while I don't see this is the worst movie (it's OK, NOT BAD), it's a time-waster, if that "},{"Title":"Too bad...","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  that Hollywood bothered to make this movie. It was a predictable disaster. Well, perhaps not quite a disaster, if you've never read the book, but a major disappointment if you have. Predictable, because the central point of the book is a scathing indictment of contemporary urban liberalism--and who is Hollywood full of, but contemporary urban liberals? They just couldn't bring themselves to play it straight, and instead softened every blow by turning each complex, vivid character from the book into a caricature, a mere cartoon. The result is no biting satire, just pathetic farce.  "},{"Title":"I do not know if this film is a drama of cemedy","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler This film is diluted the viewer does not know what to make of it. Maybe, I miss the humor because I am not a New Yorker, but I understand it. It's a storie about how phoney people are, how platic there lives are, how the press, social activest grounps, and society lie to get ahead.  In the end, a good man Hanks is ask to tell the truth to hurt himself inorder for the liers to hurt him.  Of course he doesn't.  A good views of are society has evolved too!  Depalma kills this one with his directing. 5/10 "},{"Title":"What A Stinker!","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The book Bonfire of The Vanities is one of my favorite all-time novels. Of course, it is almost a given that a movie will rarely live up to the novel, but I think I would have rated this a stinker even had I not read the book.There is a frantic, hyper emery running throughout the movie, that just doesn't work. I think the scene where McCoy and the girlfriend are stopped and she yells out It's a dead tire? stands out in cinematic history as a scene where a joke falls so completely flat, that it's embarrassing. And the movie's one attempt to be sincere, right near the end, comes off as trite.The movie's cartoonish characters and outlandish turns of events (shooting at one's ceiling to get rid of one's dinner guests) all contribute to an unwatchable mess.To return to the book the book was brilliant in that it portrayed people and events realistically, and cleverly brought out the ridiculous aspects of everyday life. The film captured not one iota of this spirit. Just horrible. Really not worth your time, on any level.I hope that someone will redo this once as a miniseries, because it really could be excellent. "}{"Title":"One Train Wreck of a Movie","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, to declare my colours, I am not a great fan of Tom Wolfe's writing style but I thoroughly enjoyed Bonfire of the Vanities and consider it one of the better American novels of the end of the 20th century. It was well grounded in a time and place. I'll add too that I've never particularly liked Brian de Palma films (too stylized and in my view, there's no there, there).Sooooooo, anyway. This movie is a mess. And the question is why? (This is a fun game to play with monumental flops such as Waterworld, Heaven's Gate, Ishtar.) In the case of Bonfire of the Vanities, was it the casting? The script? Inappropriate music? I'd go with direction. If I can make a really dumb comparison, this movie is like receiving a Lamborghini but delivered as an IKEA kit. It winds up as beautiful parts lying on the garage floor.For anyone tempted to see this movie, I strongly suggest reading Julie Salamon's well-written Devil's Candy beforehand. (Check it out on Amazon; the book follows chronologically the film's production from the beginning to the end.) Since the movie is so bad, you're not going to enjoy watching it anyway. But Salamon's book is so good that watching the movie almost turns it into a documentary. Various scenes and small roles take on new meaning. I guarantee you'll rewind to watch again the shot of the Concorde landing and then realize that somehow, it's a metaphor of what went wrong. "},{"Title":"Decent, but not wholly effective.","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I couldn't get past the Tom Wolfe novel; but it can be said that the movie does it justice. Wolfe's writing is as sanctimonious as the movie it is based upon. If the critics and book fans hate it, it's because it's the adaptation that was intended! I am a die hard DePalma fan and I must say that the film makes it's points (however broad they may appear). There is hidden and overt racism in politics, there are corrupt people in politics and the clergy and yes, even poor people act worse than rich people. But honestly, Wolfe's book was not the --bleeping-- Bible and should not be as revered as it was. Adaptation from book to film always has a life of its own and everyone who sees and makes films should take this into account.Proof of this is the clever prologue and epilogue where they even lampoon the bull (ish) praise this book received! Honestly though, if the film was made today, I think it should be directed by Spike Jonze and written by Charlie Kaufman (the folks behind 2002's ADAPTATION.)C+ "},{"Title":"Liberals making conservative topics into films","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The ultra-liberal Brian de Palma made a liberal version of a wonderful book that exposes the excesses of the '90's as the true decade of greed.The problem here is that the whole cast was miscast. Tom Hanks as a hardcore Wall Street Trader?!! Come on. The guy couldn't get an online account let only be a Master of the Universe trader.Tom Wolfe sadly did not retain creative control over the film otherwise this could have been a film more closely tied to the book. As we know, the book was a massive best seller and the film was a massive bomb.Even so, it's good to see the racial establishment and the Al Sharpton look-a-like take a good punch to the stomach, as is well deserved. "},{"Title":"Utter piece of garbage","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's amazing that so much talent and money can be wasted on such an utter piece of garbage. The book is great, De Palma is occasionally great and the cast is pretty much respectable. Unfortunately, the movie is an unmitigated disaster that is incoherent, boring and embarrassing.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read the book and thought to be very good. I expected big things from this film but sad to say was very disappointing. Tom Hanks is one of my best actors. I do not understand why he took this role. I do not reccomend this film to any moviegoer. Please rent some other title instead. "},{"Title":"Disasters of the Universe","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was universally panned by the critics when it was first released theatrically in 1990. Although it may not be as horrible as the critics believed it was, it is still a poorly made movie. The many problems include the general miscasting of just about every lead and costarring role -- Tom Hanks as a WASP, Melanie Griffith as a southern-belle, Bruce Willis as himself, basically; all the actors overact and mug shamelessly, as if this is the key to comedy; and the cinematography and direction are handled in a very showy and self-conscious manner. But worst of all is the writing. It wasn't so much a problem with a book that was difficult to adapt to the screen, but the fact that the screenwriter contradicted what the book was all about. The satire and irony in the novel was gutted in favor of a broad, farcical type of comedy. The producers showed their cowardice by politically correcting certain characters (the judge played by Morgan Freeman), and changing the original downbeat ending of the book into a typical Hollywood happy ending. The reporter that Willis was cast to play was changed from a venal and unlikable character to one more in line with the ingratiating Willis persona. Most embarrassing of all, Freeman's character gives an idiotic, simple-minded uplifting speech near the end of the film (suddenly, Bonfire becomes a Frank Capra film). It's as if the filmmakers were frightened of the controversial book they decided to adapt that they turned it into a lighter and more inconsequential movie. One that audiences stayed away from in droves. "},{"Title":"Horrid","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love Brian De Palma's work and am saddened every time I see this. I own it as I am a completest, so I guess by paying for it I have helped it's cause but really it should be seen just because it shows where De Palma hit rock bottom. I don't think he has ever completely recovered from this flop. Mission Impossible came close but it is more famous for Tom Cruise than Brian De Palma. This movie, Bonfire of the Vanities, though is utter crap and the even sadder part is the large cast of good actors it has. Everyone on this must have been wasted not to see the jumble of crap they were making to sell to audiences. Their all lucky to still have jobs. Bruce Willis does nothing to make this story better and basically just sits through the whole movie. Tom Hanks whines through the whole movie, Meliannie Griffith just walks around and looks good, no acting. The only one who does some good with the piece is Morgan Freemen, he seems to be the only one awake and trying. Never watch this. "},{"Title":"Whats going on here?","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With the directing brilliance behind 'The Untouchables' and 'Carlitos Way' you expect a good solid movie, maybe mafia, but not necessarily. Now throw in Bruce Willis, and Tom Hanks,you expect a nice cosy film, which wont deviate from normality much. Enter Bonfire of the Vanities. From the offset the movie never showed signs of being normal. A slight comedic element should definitely have been don't better by Bruce Willis who demonstrated his funny edge in 'The Whole Nine Yards' while Tom Hanks shined in such classics as 'Forrest Gump' and more recently 'The Terminal'. So what went wrong? Well the story line, in which Tom Hanks rich person runs someone over and is discovered for it, could be concocted into a very descent story line, perhaps not comedy. But this script made no real sense from chapter one. Odd acting styles from both leads (Hanks, Willis). The movie would not be one for a vivid Wllis or Hanks fan. In order to enjoy this movie you must have read the novel (which i haven't) this'll give you a much better insight into whats happening here. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very disappointing movie, from a variety of angles. An opportunity here to take a horrible, real-life situation, and examine the forces at work, as well as the political, racial, and religious vulture community swoop in, as the movie of course touches on. But this is turned into such a broad, overblown comedy, you can't even take it seriously, on any level. It's almost slapstick. With a great cast as this, something a little more thoughtful was certainly achievable; some halfway intelligent examination could be made of the events and the aftermath. I suppose there is supposed to be some sort of point in making the movie in this way, but it's hard to see what it would be. It doesn't take long to become irritated with the movie. It's annoying and frustrating to watch. There isn't anything remotely funny about any of this. Tom Hanks is a great actor, but he has certainly made a few bad choices in roles. Bruce Willis just mails this in and Melanie Griffith is irritating as hell.A completely obnoxious, waste of a movie. "},{"Title":"what is going on here??","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  why was this movie ever made?? and what in heavens name posessed Bruce Willis and Tom Hanks and the other actors to do this terrible movie.. i watched the whole thing and to this day i still cant figure it out.. it just keeps jumping back and forth .. and it just adds to the confusion... nothing made sense.. Please toss this one into the fire and get rid of all the copies !! "}{"Title":"Was Kirsten Dunst the young daughter of the McCoy's?","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Did Kirsten Dunst play the young daughter of the McCoy's? The move was on during lunch in my husbands office. I only watched a few minutes, but I swear it was Kirsten Dunst as their young daughter. I had an argument with his co-workers - they were saying I was wrong. My husband told his young co-worker that he shouldn't argue with me because I am (rarely) NEVER wrong!! I remember seeing the movie a long time ago - it wasn't a bad movie. But I am almost 100 percent sure I am right on the young daughter. I did not see her listed in the credits. If anyone could research this and get back to me I would appreciate it! Wasn't she the girl that was in the Spider Man movies too, with Jake Guilleynhal? I am sure it was her... "},{"Title":"Interesting in concept but the delivery is simplistic and lacking wit or subtlety","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sherman McCoy is on top of his game and is the top dog in one of the top financial firms in the city. He has money in spades, a socialite wife, a Park Avenue apartment, a mistress and a very nice car. While out with that same mistress (Maria) in that same expensive car, Sherman takes a wrong turn and ends up in the Bronx where, in a moment of panic at being confronted by crowds of non-whites, Maria hits a black man and they drive off back to normal white society. Sadly for Sherman, this minor incident escalates when the boy goes into a coma and his car is identified as the one involved, Add to this a DA who desperately needs to win the ethnic vote by prosecuting a rich white person and a journalist who, desperate to get off skid row, talks up the story with a series of sensationalist headlines that twist the truth. As these factors all come into play, Sherman's tidy, rich, white world starts to crumble.Years after the critical kicking that the film got about 15 years ago, I decided to watch Bonfire for only the second time (the first being over a decade ago) to see it without the pressure of the dogs that were unleashed on it at the time of release. Watching it now, having never read the source material, what is evident is that it has some elements to it that make it worth seeing but ultimately make it a rather heavy handed affair that doesn't work that well in several regards. At its heart the film is a solid dig at the socialites of New York and the moral vacuum that exists within it and the business world that supports it; in fact it has digs at plenty of other of institutions and groups but this is at the centre of it. In essence you can see how this was a good idea but it all falls to bits in the delivery; the film doesn't trust us to understand this if it was done subtly and so it is all done in a heavy-handed manner that makes the same points over and over until you feel a bit browbeaten.The narrative is interesting in the concept but it is developed to extremes to the point where it seems overdone. This is best seen in the characters, who lose their sense of reality and become almost caricatures instead; in a way this helps because they can be recognised even by those not part of New York culture but it damages it in the long run because it is impossible to identify with or care for the characters. Perhaps that is why the actors appear to struggle as much as they do and deliver very poor performances. Willis hadn't shown himself then to be the actor I know believe him to be capable of being and thus he just delivers a smirking, one-note character that is very little use. Hanks is not a great deal better; he plays his character too wide-eyed and innocent to convince as part of the community that the film is attacking; when his collapse comes, it comes too quickly and in too much comedy style. Griffith has one joke to make and she makes it over and over again with nothing else behind it. Cattrall, Rubinek, Dunn, Murray and Freeman all do reasonably well in support but none have the characters to really make anything happen beyond the basics.Overall this is not the horror show that some critics made it out to be but it is a fairly poor film that turns an interesting concept and satirical goldmine into a messy, noisy affair that lacks a real cohesion and subtlety. The actors are adrift in the middle of all this and suffer as a result. The points it makes are OK but you have to wonder what sort of idiots De Palma takes us for because he keeps making them over and over again, but this was just one of many problems that the film had that it couldn't resolve. "},{"Title":"Mediocre, not awful.","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are a fan of Brian De Palma, you already know about The Bonfire of the Vanities. This is constantly referred to as his hugest flop and largest disappointment, probably for good reason. Its cast -- Tom Hanks, Melanie Griffith, Bruce Willis and Kim Cattrall -- are hardly unpopular and the material is fairly interesting.What, then, went wrong? In my opinion The Bonfire of the Vanities is just poorly executed. I saw this film years ago and lost interest in it almost immediately. The dark humor grows tiresome and isn't nearly as clever as it thinks it is. Tom Hanks isn't really believable in his role and the whole cast seem to be high on something; Bruce Willis in particular is giving a really odd performance, and I didn't have a clue what he was trying to accomplish with his character. He's supposed to be a drunk, but he came across as something more desperate.The film follows the events in the life of Hanks after he takes a wrong turn off an interstate highway and ends up in a rough area of the city. His girlfriend accidentally hits a black kid in the street, and they try to cover it up, fearing for their lives.What follows is a satire of something. I'm not sure exactly what because De Palma loses vision of his goal very early on. I didn't know whether to laugh, or gasp in horror. It's a very strange movie.That said, the critics are a bit TOO harsh on it. I would hardly call this the total waste of time some people made it out to be on release. It is widely considered one of the most infamous atrocities of cinema and I don't think it's quite deserving of that sort of reaction.It did push De Palma's career back a few years, though, didn't it? "},{"Title":"Bonfire of Inanities....","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's probably best that I never read the book; I'd probably be more at odds with the movie that way.As it is, Bonfire of the Vanities plays on its own like an unfinished work.  Certainly they could have made more of insider trading (Wall Street), infidelity (Fatal Attraction), the guts of newspaper reporting (All the President's Men) and courtroom intrigue (...And Justice for All) than what's been made of them here.  DePalma is a better director than this.  Hanks, Griffith and Willis are better actors than this.  Heck, even Kim Cattrall has done better than this.  It's not that Bonfire is so inherently bad, it's just that so little is done with it.  They had the whole '80s to work with.  And Tom Wolfe, of all people, even helped to work on the screenplay (from his own book).  Maybe he was too busy calculating his scripting fee?In fact, the only one who comes out of this mess relatively unscathed is Freeman as Judge White.  He's certainly the only one who can stand back and see that all that has transpired has come from greed and that both sides have been corrupted by their own wants and desires.  Now, why couldn't they have given that kind of insight to everyone else in this film?I understand that the book is infinitely better.  I hope so; I'd like to think that somewhere out there is a way that this same story makes more sense.Two stars.  One star for DePalma's scant contributions and another for no sequels. ...yet. "}]