[{"Title":"Richard Harris - Incredible!!!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"48 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   If you are interested in acting, do yourself a favor - see this movie. Richard Harris' performance is as good as film acting gets. His character, Bull McCabe, is not a man so much as a force of nature. In the opening sequence, he and his son, Tadgh, who is 30ish to Bull's  sixty-something, are carrying heavy loads of seaweed from the ocean back to their farm. Bull casually strolls along, seemingly without effort, while Tadgh struggles and stops periodically to rest. This scene sets the tone for the rest of the story. No one in the village ever opposes Bull - it would be futile, as well as unwise. But when the land his family has tended for generations as tenant farmers is purchased by an American bent on developing it, Bull must confront something he cannot defeat with will and sinew - progress.The Field is a study of a very specific time and place, with plot developments that seem lifted straight out of the Old Testament. Sheridan does an excellent job of opening up the story, which was adapted from a stage play. The action takes place all over the village and surrounding areas. The cast is composed of Irish and English actors (except for - ahem - 'The American'), which really gives the film a strong sense of authenticity. Each character has a story, and the gradual unfolding of the various conflicts and secrets builds an ominous sense of impending disaster.John Hurt gives another in a long line of outstanding performances, but this film belongs to Harris. The only thing that keeps it from becoming an all-time classic is Tom Berenger. We get no sense that he wants the field for any reason other than the script requires him to, and it seems that director Jim Sheridan knew it. When a central character (Berenger) in a film delivers his most important dialogue FACING AWAY FROM THE CAMERA (looking out a window), it is the directorial equivalent of punting. Even so, Berenger is not in enough scenes to ruin the movie. It is just that it could have been so much better if he brought something to the part that could match up with Harris' primal force. "},{"Title":"A true representation about the trials and tribulations of the Irish people.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"42 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While studying in Ireland, the subject of movies about - or filmed in - Ireland came up often with the locals. From Dublin to Galway, the movie mentioned most often was The Field. Controversial and yet considered to be one of the truest representations of the Irish people of that era. It's also one of the few stories told about those who stayed behind during the famine, and survived. If you're looking for a feel-good movie about leprechauns, this ain't it. If you're up for Gangs of New York or Legends of the Fall, you can handle it. Incredible performances by the late, Great Richard Harris and Sean Bean.  "},{"Title":"Compare with The Quiet Man","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's surprising that none of the comments about The Field make reference to one of the most popular films of all time, John Ford's The Quiet Man. The stories are almost identical.  An American of Irish descent returns to buy land wanted by a local farmer.  Both Irish farmers are brutish and readily prone to violence.  Both inspire fear in their neighbors.  In The Field, the farmer murders the American, but in The Quiet Man, the American is John Wayne, so you know who will prevail. John Ford's movie is one of remarkably beautiful scenery, of charming folk and peaches and cream complexions. Except for the land-owning farmer, there doesn't seem to be a calloused hand in the cast.  Hardly anyone works and drinking seems to be everyone's way of spending the day. Movie fans have spoken of seeing The Quiet Man dozens of times, as I have.  It's a feel good movie.  But The Field shows the true harshness of rural life in Ireland and how it brutalizes those poor who struggle for their daily existence.  It's an uncomfortable movie but a truthful one which gives the lie to The Quiet Man's sentimental view of 'the old country'.  It also shows the foolishness inherent in rosy nostalgia. Millions of Irish left their homes for good reason.  Unlike John Ford's nostalgia, The Field helps you understand why they left.  "},{"Title":"Thin Veneer of Christianity","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A powerful film.The story of an Irishman fighting to own and protect the land he and his family transformed from rock-strewn waste to verdant pasture from foreign encroachment and development. I won't recap the story line because it's so complex, but some thoughts occurred to me as I watchedBull McCabe perfectly symbolizes the heathen heart of Europe, untamed by Christianity (symbolized by the pasty-faced priest) or crass capitalism (symbolized by the bland Yank). Note how Bull carries a staff and wears cloak-like outfits throughout the film, looking very much like a Pagan high priest. He is, at heart, a savage who will cast off the artificial chains of foreign religions and phony social mores to defend one of the most primal concerns of man territory.The priest pointedly notes at one point that the people in this rocky Irish village are covered with only a thin veneer of Christianity, implying that their paganistic racial memory runs too deep and strong to be ignored. And only a few scenes later is the first, bloody climax of the film when that thin veneer is ripped off.An excellent film which deserved more praise than it got and should not be missed if the chance to see it arises. "},{"Title":"Tradition in the land","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bull McCabe is a proud man. All he lives for is to eke out a meager existence out of the green piece of land that has seen generations of his ancestors make something out of a small plot in rural Ireland. Like his forefathers, Bull is a tenant farmer who leases the farm from the young widow that is terrorized by Tadgh McCabe, Bull's son, who goes to her house every night to play tricks on her. This woman has had it and decides to put that land for sale in a public auction; let the higher bidder be the new owner.The McCabe family is not exactly a happy one. There is the ghost of a young boy that killed himself under mysterious circumstances. Bull and his wife Maggie, hardly ever speak. The only reason for Bull to stay is his desire to leave the field, as he calls the small farm, to his son. This way, the land will remain a part of the McCabe's history. Tadgh, on the other hand, is a man who doesn't share his father's desires for staying put and struggling to eke out a living out of this small farm.Into this mixture, a new man, an American, comes to visit the area and sees the possibilities of riches that no one has seen. The Yank notices how he can turn the area into commercial uses, something the locals would feel horrified about what this stranger wants to do. Everyone's loyalties lie with Bull McCabe.The Field points out to Ireland's unhappy past where lots of people died from famine and thousands had to abandon the country in order to survive. The ones that remained are proud, although impoverished, with deep roots to their country. How dare this foreigner come to take what they feel it's Bull's? Tragedy strikes with a confrontation between Bull and the Yank. He makes his son fight the man who wants their land. A freak accident occurs that changes everything. Bull is able to bid successfully for his field, but the main reason he has fought for, eludes him.The Field is based on a play by John B. Keane, which we never saw. The writer has a clear idea about what resonates with these folks in the rural setting where he places the action. Jim Sheridan, an Irish director was the right choice for bringing this story to the screen. Elmer Bernstein's evocative music plays well with the action of the movie. Jack Conroy's cinematography contributes to create the right mood for the story.Mr. Sheridan's biggest achievement was to give the leading role to Richard Harris, an actor that is the whole reason for watching this sad movie. Mr. Harris transforms himself into the Bull McCabe of the story. There are no false movements on his part; he is a man who will not be stopped in owning a place that has seen generations of McCabes that has worked that land. Mr. Harris dominates the film.The supporting players are fine also. Sean Bean is seen as Tadgh, the son that doesn't share his father's love for this desolate place. Brenda Fricker is also effective as Maggie McCabe. John Hurt is seen as 'Bird' O'Donnell, the man who seems to know all the secrets of the people in the town. Tom Berenger is the Yank, and although he has a minor role, his part is pivotal to the outcome of the story. Jenny Conroy is good as Katie, the tinker.The Field was Jim Sheridan's second directorial effort and it clearly showed to be the right man for showing Ireland and its people at their most proud. "},{"Title":"Stunning and unforgettable","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had never heard of The Field before, and I could hardly believe how good it is. What a shame that it is so little known. The story starts out slowly but builds up to a climax that is perfectly logical, totally based on character, and awesome in its intensity.The script is superb, particularly in that use of language at which the best Irish writers are unsurpassed. But the real strength of the movie lies in the amazing performance of Richard Harris, surely one of the all-time great movie performances. He should easily have won the Oscar over Jeremy Irons in Reversal of Fortune, brilliant though Irons is; perhaps Irons only won because too few people had seen The Field. Bull McCabe is a great character who is being torn apart by conflicting emotions his love for the land, his love for his son, his love for God and for the Church, and his frustration at never being able to achieve what is important to him. His devastation at the end reminded me a lot of King Lear, and indeed this movie has a power like one of the best of Shakespeare's tragedies. As one reviewer has already noted, the only weakness is the poorly-sketched character of the American and its lack of a believable motivation. Even with that weakness, it rises far above most of what passes for serious drama these days. "},{"Title":"A much overlooked classic","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Field is film which carries a universal message about the ongoing struggle between modernity and traditionalism. It is also a uniquely Irish film which may make some of the scenes lack relevance for an international audience. The meaning of such scenes as the American Wake, which was essentially a death wake which was held for young Irish people up until as recently as the 1960s on the night before they left for America never to be seen again, might be missed by non-Irish people. However the final scene where the Bull McCabe aka Richard Harris attempts to push back the incoming Atlantic tide speaks of the universal futility of man's attempts to control nature or indeed, inevitable progress.An excellent movie.  "},{"Title":"A rich adaption of an Irish stage classic","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" John B. Keane's critically acclaimed play The Field, is the one play that 90% of the population of Ireland will know. They will either know the plot or have studied it for state exams. My own grandmother is 80 years of age and she dislikes any kind of media and theater describing them as pure noise. But when she hears that The Field is playing she will instantly take an interest not because of it's fame but the themes that are produced in this play are very important to her and her generation and many generation that followed her up until the late 1980's when Ireland slowly began to change into a European union state, with it Irelands ethnic identity began to disappear. We may still have the accent but our lifestyles and attitudes are very different in some cases evidently for the better, but more often then not for the worst. In the early 90's two films documented the Ireland of old, these were The Commitments a joyous look at young Irish people using their musical talents to broaden their horizons and The Field an unforgiving bleak look at the life of a headstrong farmer whose life begins to falter when a stranger arrives in his village. Arrival of the stranger symbolizing change. A change that could disrupt the harmonious existence of life in the little village long after this stranger has gone.Bull McCabe is a poor Irish farmer that works a rented field. This Field represents everything that has happened in the Bulls life. His families blood is soaked in the field. He rents it from a local Irish Widow who the Field belonged to her late husband. All the Bull wants now is to own this precious land. He has worked this field for many years. He brings seaweed from the coast line every day and plants it on the grass to enhance it's fertility giving it the freshest looking grass. To look at the Bulls special field we know that it takes years to attain that result and what's more any dereliction in maintaining the field will result in the field acquiring the same unfertile status as the surrounding land. When The Bull speaks about the field there is no pride but it is replaced by a nostalgic tone. His nostalgic tones also produce a chilling portrait of a man who is willing to stop at nothing to protect the field that is dear to him. When the actions of his son lead to the widow selling the Bulls precious field at public auction. The Bull comes face to face with losing his field to an American. Jim Sheridan's direction is magnificent and his script (totally unlike the stage version) is also brilliant. Playing the Bull is legendary thespian Richard Harris whose fiery temperament and personal beliefs match that of The Bull. Harris's reputation of being difficult and uncompromising attitude nearly cost him role. A role that was originally going to the late great Ray McNally who unfortunately died before filming commenced. Today I cannot imagine The Bull being played by anyone other than Richard Harris. His portrayal of The Bull McCabe is that of being a brutally uncompromising farmer. A farmer despite his evident aggression had vision and respect for the earth he walked on. A farmer who would kill for you if it was needed or kill you if the tables were reversed. For me personally this is Harris's best role because with every word and action on screen I see that Harris is truly immersed in the role of the Bull.Sheridan is in my opinion is Irelands Best Director. He uses the theme of the relationships between Irish father and son in all his films. In this film we learn about a stubborn man whose materialistic desires and expectations of his surviving son lead to horrible catastrophic results that affect the a community. The son in this film is Tadgh who is played Sean Bean. Unfortunately with all Sheridans films the supporting cast who are always very strong are overshadowed by one performance. In this film Bean is very under rated. His portrayal of Tadgh is that of a loner who is uncomfortable with the expectations of his father The Bull. These expectations lead him to develop an eagerness to please his father and lift of some of the burden that these expectations place on his own life. Also in the cast is excellent Tom Berenger who portrays an eager yank whose only hope is for his ancestors town land to prosper with his investment in the Bulls field. Berenger's yank character is very similar to that of Tadgh. He has returned not only to see his ancestors home place prosper but he too is doing it to please his families expectations back in America. Both men are determined to succeed in their respective duties. Berenger captures exactly what we Irish dislike about Irish American's coming to Ireland and that is their naive approach to a country they know very little about. A mistake that Berenger's character makes with his airs and graces.As an Irish Film The Field is the best by a long shot. The script is good, the cast are excellent but most importantly it succeeds in drawing you into it but the strength of the story alone. It has not been bestowed the same commercial success as Sheridans other films for one reason. This reason is that the film contains a lot of Irish traits such as attitudes to strangers, the churches stance on suicide and many hidden references to Irish History. To me personally this is not a fault of the film, but a fault of peoples ignorance to ethnic film makers who want to tell stories from their ethnic back ground. All together a very fine film full of very fine performances. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"In Memory of John B.Keane","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am glad to see from the previous comments that there is much appreciation from around the world on this film. However there has been no comment on this site (that I have seen) about the writer, John B.Keane. John B (as he was more commonly known) is a legend in Irish literature and unlike so many others I had the pleasure of reading much of his work while he was still alive. John B lived all his life in Listowel, Co.Kerry where he ran a pub. He has been writing for many years mainly about the characters that he knew and grew up with. Much of his work was based on these people and adapted for fiction. If you walk into any good bookstore I am sure that you will come across plenty of his work. If you like The Field then I recommend that you read The High Meadow, Durango & Under The Sycamore Tree. John B wrote several plays along with The Field including Sieve and Sharons Grave These are fascinating novels and give a brillant insight into Ireland in the 1950's & 60's. But for those of you who know nothing of Ireland, it is not the Ireland of today. John B Keane died last year (summertime I think). May he rest in peace.Coincidentally, Richard Harris died last October. This film is a fitting tribute to him as it is in my humble opinion one of his finest performances and one of the finest in film history. Truly great actors show their colours in this film and what it means to be able to act. I am glad to say that Sean Bean gives an outstanding performance in a very unfamilar role as Tadhg. John Hurt is also outstanding in a difficult role. "},{"Title":"Terrific performances, scenery, tragic, tragic, tragic","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Riveting performances by Richard Harris, Sean Bean, and John Hurt (nearly unrecognizable!) in a dark, tragic tale of life in post-famine Ireland. This is the perfect film to launch a film discussion group with. There's plenty to talk about after viewing it, that's for sure. It's not what I'd call an intellectual film, but it's definitely memorable. If you're an American, like me, and you saw John Hurt as Caligula in the PBS series I, Claudius--you won't believe his performance in The Field. Amazing. (Note from my wife to Beanstalkers There are a couple of scenes...) Details? The horses pulling the gypsy wagons are the right breed. And in the pub scenes, you can almost taste the beer. "}{"Title":"A tour de force for Richard Harris","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This films greatness mostly comes from Richard Harris' performance as The Bull McCabe. Every moment he spends on the screen (and he is in most of the scenes of this film) literally vibrates with power and energy.Harris is most definitely the power behind this film, and the role of the Bull McCabe was made for him. The Bull is a powerful man driven by contradictory passions and haunted by dreams he refuses to admit to and isolation that he has imposed upon himself. He is a man who is feared and respected by the townsfolk, who openly mocks the church, who despises foreigners with what he considers righteous anger, and who hasn't spoken to his wife in 18 years. He has practically no real connection to his son who desperately craves his approval and attention but is also bitter towards his father for his neglect, and acts out by terrorizing the widow who owns the field that is his father's life. (Encouraged by the Bird who is little more than a petty thug and lackey of the Bull).What makes Bull such a compelling character is that while he is a powderkeg waiting to explode, he has certain morals that he clings to as dearly as he does to the land. At a critical point in the story, when the widow publicly sets a minimum reserve price on her field at a price that the Bull can not afford without gutting his own resources, he steps up to her defense when one of the townsfolk hurls a clump of mud at her. It is made clear that this is not a token gesture, but an expression of his deeply held belief that nothing justifies violence toward a woman. This and many other paradoxes in Bull's nature form the basis of what we eventually come to understand is his descent into madness. As strong as the Bull is in body, his mind has slowly eroded over a period of years torn down by isolation and guilt, and when he finally does break, the result is disastrous beyond all imagining.Richard Harris makes this film worth watching. Without him in it, the film would not be half as good as it is. While the supporting cast is very good, Richard Harris is the reason to see this film. "},{"Title":"A triumph for Richard Harris!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spectacular movie.  As tough as this movie is, it is completely engrossing. Each character (except that played by Berenger) is just so believable. The Tom Berenger part is just so shallow that it needs better writing or better acting.  The cinematography allows you to feel the ambience of the Irish countryside (cool, rainy, overcast, muddy, deep cold lakes).  Bull is hell bent on getting what he believes are his just rewards for a life of extremely hard work and hardships.  It just doesn't work out like Hollywood usually lets it work out (thank goodess!).  "},{"Title":"By Right Of Sweat","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Tenant farmers in Ireland and their problems accounts for some of the great political movements in that country. So it was interesting to learn that in The Field those problems have not gone away even though it's not British who are absentee landlords.Shot mostly in County Galway in Ireland, The Field certainly has the look and feel of The Quiet Man, but it's hardly in the same lighthearted spirit. In fact the priest in this film functions more like Karl Malden's priest of the docks in On The Waterfront.Richard Harris has been a tenant farmer working the land for widow Frances Tomelty for years and has raised his family there. It's pretty much accepted by the villagers that it's Harris's land by right of sweat so when the widow wants to sell no one bids against him except Harris's sidekick John Hurt. But American Tom Berenger doesn't know the rules around there and he does bid.But what Berenger wants to do is develop the place, put some Americanized shopping mall there. Imagine a strip mall on some of that beach-front property that John Ford so lovingly photographed in The Quiet Man and you can understand the feelings there. It all leads to a lot of tragedy.Originally Harris was supposed to play the priest role that Sean McGinley had and who played it well. The lead was to go to Ray McAnally who had done this role on stage. When McAnally died, Harris was moved up to the lead and responded with an Oscar nominated performance for Best Actor. Harris lost that year to Jeremy Irons in Reversal of Fortune.Also look for some nice performances here by Sean Bean as Harris's son and Brenda Fricker as his wife. All part of a very violent household.Religion specifically the Roman Catholic Church takes a beating and The Field does touch on the conservative role of the church in society. It's a generally accepted fact that the Church did its level best to discourage revolutionary activity during the 19th century after the Irish lost their parliament in the Wolfe Tone rebellion. Harris and others in the film comment about how no priests died during the potato famine that they don't know how the tenant farmers live. And Sean McGinley as the village priest is by no means portrayed as a bad man. There's also bad feelings towards Berenger who is seen as the descendant of people who cut and ran during the Irish troubles. Of course if a lot hadn't emigrated to all points of the globe, there would be a lot more trying to share the land that Harris wants to hold on to. The Field is a fine drama about Ireland and the problems there that may not have been totally resolved with independence. "},{"Title":"I am uncertain about the beard.","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Like JJ, I met John B. (Keane). And, like all good Irish publicans, he greeted all his customers like old friends. After the curtain came down, during Writers' Week in Listowel, there was only one place to be.The Field is generally regarded as Keane's greatest achievement. He was certainly aware of that fact and had denied it to The Southern Theatre Company (STC), who had opened all, or most, of his other works. But The Field was not Many Young Girls of Twenty and, for Keane, there was only one Bull McCabe - Ray McAnally. Keane was right to wait for McAnally. This was a portrayal of immense power and menace and McAnally literally terrified the audience, such was the intensity of his acting. One left the theater exhausted, yet exhilarated. Bad feeling followed between Keane & Jamas N Healy (Hayley as he was called), the leading actor in the STC. I knew him well & he told me that he could do Bull McCabe as well as any one. Maybe; I never saw him try it.But McAnally's performance - and I went back a second time - has been burned into my consciousness. He finally achieved the fame & honors that were long overdue and his portrayal of Harry Perkins - in A Very British Coup - must stand as one of the finest pieces of character-acting on record. But his Bull McCabe was incomparable; definitive - almost impossible to follow.I also met Richard (Dicky) Harris - a fine actor (This Sporting Life - a wonderful portrayal of macho tenderness)- and he was, perhaps fortunate that McAnally's performance had not transferred to film.But good an actor as Harris was, he missed the menace. And I am uncertain about that beard. In my experience, farmers of that period were always beardless; unshaven perhaps, but I felt that Harris looked a bit like Charlton Heston, hamming-up the division of the Red Sea on some back lot in Hollywood, & the performance lost credibility because of that. Maybe Jim Sheridan would disagree?Sorry, JJ; a good effort, but beards are for trade-union agitators; Fidel lookalikes & revivalist preachers.Not hard-working Kerry farmers. "},{"Title":"Stubborn Irishman's love of the land destroys his soul...","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A more simplistic view of the Irishmen and their love of the land was voiced by Gerald O'Hara in GONE WITH THE WIND Land is the only thing worth fighting for, worth dying for. And that is precisely what the theme of THE FIELD is, with RICHARD HARRIS giving a towering performance as Bull McCabe, who believes with all his heart that the land he covets cannot be taken away from him by anyone else, least of all an American he calls the Yank (TOM BERENGER in an underwritten role).Irish traditions and landscapes are beautifully captured by the camera in this picturesque tale, a grim tragedy that plays out like a twisted morality tale with the viewer hating what McCabe does with his strong beliefs, tainted by false values and his own uncompromising ways.As impressive as Harris is, JOHN HURT overplays his dimwitted brother to the point where his role seems like a parody of a clumsy character. SEAN BEAN is wonderfully restrained as the brother who is uneasy with his father's strong prejudices and beliefs and would rather not fight Berenger over a piece of land.The tale becomes a Greek tragedy once Harris allows his passionate love of the land to overcome all reason. The parish priest tells his stoic villagers that such love of the soil can destroy the soil and that's what happens here.There are some brilliant moments including the savagely staged fight scene by the sea on a misty night, but the story (based on a play) never quite achieves a meaningful conclusion with its very downbeat ending.Realism of most of the performances is unquestionable, but the main reason for seeing it has to be Richard Harris' unforgettable performance as an Irishman who lets the field destroy his reasoning to the point of madness. "},{"Title":"Great, if you have a good understanding of Irish history","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this movie before I had any real understanding of Irish history -- and came out of the movie theater totally unimpressed with the almost laughable ending. All that for THAT? When I heard it was one of the Irish's favorite movies, I was mystified, since it doesn't paint a very complimentary picture of any of its characters. Fifteen years later, I still think the ending is ridiculous, and Tom Berenger's performance is terribly wooden. But with a better knowledge of Irish history, this movie has transformed into one of my favorites. Bull McCabe's speech in the pub in response to the publican's statement The English are gone, Bull, is one of the greatest scenes in any movie, ever.Richard Harris and John Hurt give great performances, and the movie captures a lot of the agony and the glory of history's legacy in Ireland. For those who aren't Irish If you know the history, you'll appreciate it better. If not, you'll probably find it obtuse. "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful movies I've seen","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I checked this movie out of the library after reading an obituary of Mr. Harris. I was totally unfamiliar with it. After viewing it, I found and felt it to be one of the most powerful movies I think I've ever seen. I felt the characterizations were well-played, the metaphor of the field well enunciated without being overpowering, the pace relentless and the ending entirely in keeping with the story. The cinematography was first rate as it emphasized and delineated the brooding, lowering story. While it is for me a very disturbing and thought-provoking film, in the end I came away profoundly moved and touched by it. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant and Overlooked Minor Masterpiece","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film should not descend into the dustbin of obscurity.  It is a well woven tale of immobile stubbornness.  While some may read into it more of a global significance, I tend to take a more personal view.  The film demonstrates the problems and even madness of attempting to stop inevitable change. The consequences of becoming completely rigid are always self- destructive.  This movie with its rich symbols depicts this like no other film has achieved.  It's theme can best be summed up with the unforgettable scene of the father standing in the immense ocean attempting to push back the oncoming tide.  I will never forget that powerful image. "},{"Title":"When Bad Things Happen To Bad People","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watching this movie, I was put to mind of another film, Mel Brooks' classic Blazing Saddles. In it, there's a scene where Slim Pickens tells Harvey Korman they should attack a troublesome town by killing the first-born male in every household.Too Jewish, Harvey replies.The Field is a film that makes me think of that line, only this time the comment is Too Irish. The Field is a film in love with the earnest desperation of the Irish plight, of wet weather and the shadow of British tyranny, of being trod upon and subjected to every awful thing on God's green earth, to the point where you are numbed into not caring.It helps me not care that the protagonist of the film, one Bull McCabe (Richard Harris), is a rather nasty piece of work who takes out his hard life, and the choices he has made in service to it, on every person around him. Harris was a great actor, and his performance is remarkably poignant given the flimsy material he has to work with. Known for his raging on- and off-screen, Harris sucks you in with McCabe's quiet, sullen magnificence, even when he's just eating sandwiches or hammering a nail. Roger Ebert put it best in his 1990 review There is no doubting this is a good performance, but in the service of a hopeless cause.The key problems in this film include a fatally miscast Sean Bean as McCabe's son Tadhg (he's good at projecting hostility, but not of the stupid kind called for here), a pointless central conflict involving an opportunistic American (Tom Berenger, lost with some key lines obviously foleyed in), and a ridiculously ham-fisted conclusion in which Bull finally explodes in unreasoned fury after his criminal activities come a cropper.It's a shame, because the movie has something going for it early on, with Harris's galvanic performance and some killer visuals from cinematographer Jack Conroy that pull grim beauty from the bogs and rocks of this fictional patch of Ireland called Carraigthomond. I'm sure the original stage play by John B Keane had much going for it, as it seems something of a national treasure, but way too much of whatever was good in it is drowned out here in the overwrought acting and grim moodiness of Jim Sheridan's direction.Maybe if McCabe's situation was more sympathetic, the story would have more power. Instead, we are pushed into sharing McCabe's narrow viewpoint until it seems to be telling us the great shame we are witnessing is that Carraigthomond is subject to the same laws of man that shape the rest of the world, and that it would be a finer place if only Yanks, priests, widows, and tinkers weren't allowed to wreck their havoc upon it.There's another law, stronger than the common law, McCabe tells us. The law of the land.Commenters defending this film seem to be saying this is an Irish thing the rest of the world can't understand, that as McCabe would say, this is deep, very deep. But it's not, really. A guy wants something he can't have, for whatever reason, and reverts to some sloppy terrorism in his anger.That The Field is grim and angry isn't the problem. That it's so grim and angry over something so pointless as three acres of soggy land is. "},{"Title":"A man, his son and the land...","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is set in the early half of the 20th century in a small village in Ireland.  It begins and ends at the edge of a cliff overlooking the sea.Bull McCabe has rented and nurtured land from a widow that was once land owned by his forefathers.  Bull ties his identity up with the land, and cannot accept that his son does not.When the land is threatened with being covered over with concrete by an American, the story unravels... "}{"Title":"Great movie until last 20 minutes","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie riveting up until the last 20 minutes or so. After the priest closes the gates to the church, the rest of it degenerates into a poor attempt at Greek tragedy, with Bull having everything stripped from him. There was no need to destroy the man further after losing Tadgh to the Tinker girl and pushing away his wife's one last attempt at reconciliation. Nothing was gained artistically in my view, and that part of the plot made little sense.For example, the body of the American was picked up from a lake just outside Bull's house (the image of the American hanging from the hook and the echo with Shamey's hanging brilliantly suggests all the guilt Bull must be feeling). Along with the donkey's carcass even if it's not proof Bull did the murder, he should have been held for questioning given everything else. Instead, he is allowed to freely walk around and get himself into further trouble.Little things also got in the way for me. For one, the field was just too small, both to support Bull or to support a mill to grind limestone into roadbed. The herd of Bull's cattle he was driving at the end was just too large for the field to feed, and no single man on foot could have driven them a long distance over rocky ground to the edge of a cliff (not to mention previous scenes had shown the path between the field and the sea did not go through the village). Nobody who had ever grown up around cattle such as Tadgh would ever think to get in front of a stampede, even in grief. It would be like someone who grew up in a city jumping in front of a locomotive running at a high speed to stop someone on the train. It just isn't done unless you are suicidal and I don't think Tadgh was at that point. As someone who is actually familiar with that kind of life, director Sheridan's lack of attention to detail suggests someone who really didn't understand farming or who ultimately only really cared about the psychodrama at the story's center. As a result, he only did an adequate job of fleshing out the play into a movie.Still, the acting was excellent throughout as was Sheridan's direction of the actors. The dark layers underneath Bull's life and family were expertly stripped away as the movie progressed. It was a little like seeing the Irish version of Long Day's Journey into Night. As someone who grew up on a farm, I understand Bull's love/hate relationship with land that he has worked for decades. It really is like raising another member of the family, and no other movie I can think of has ever shown this better than the moving speech Bull gives at one point (I have to wonder if this speech is a carryover from the original play given Sheridan's missteps in showing farming). And the depiction of the grinding poverty of rural Ireland, the entanglement of ancient wrongs on current family lives, and the ambiguous relationship Bull had with the Church all were in accord with my readings of Irish history (and this is an area in which I'm sure Sheridan and playwright Keane are expert). "},{"Title":"The Field","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is simply a response to an earlier post was unclear about a point in the movie. The author mentioned a son Jamie. Actually the first sons name was Seamus or Shamey. Shamey evidently did himself in-probably so his younger brother would recieve the field. This is why the Catholic church would not give him a proper grave. Finally the Shamey is a clever pun on the word Shame...which is what the Bull felt.Thank you,;) "},{"Title":"The law of the land.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bull McCabe's family has farmed a field for generations, sacrificing endlessly for the sake of the land. And when the widow who owns the field decides to sell the field in a public auction, McCabe knows that he must own it. But while no one in the village would dare bid against him, an American with deep pockets decides that he needs the field to build a highway. The Bull and his son decide to convince the American to give up bidding on the field, but things go horribly wrong. The Field is a true representation about the trials and tribulations of the Irish people of that era. It for me is the greatest Irish film I have ever seen, it is truly that good. It is a truly overlooked and underrated masterpiece. The Field is truly an accurate depiction of the hardships of rural Ireland that was present in many communities. I would go so far as saying that it can be difficult viewing at times in terms of the unfortunate events that occur and it is because of these events that make the film a moving experience for the viewer. The Field while grim in its execution, it is ultimately essential viewing for the viewer to better understand the trials and tribulations of rural life in Ireland in that era. "},{"Title":"Turn in your neighbours to the state or the man says you will suffer","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The church and the state will steal your property and use it to enslave your neighbours. Praise them and pay them so that they can do this, otherwise you may feel a little bit bad about yourself because some stupid A$$hole told you to.Die so that the machine may build a civilization (an inherently unsustainable and catastrophically destructive series of blocks requiring the importation of resources) where taxation runs around 40% and nobody owns anything due to eminent domain laws. This is so much better than feudalism! I will only pay if you force all of my neighbours to pay as well, that way it's fair!F the world depicted in this movie but f the world we're living in now even more. I'll take 1000000 dead donkies over the life of a good, honest, hard working upstanding man. "},{"Title":"Fight for land","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Field is the second film directed by Jim Sheridan and falls among his brilliant early works such as My Left Foot and In the Name of the Father. The film, based on a play by John B. Keane, takes place in an Irish village in 1920s. It focuses on the life of Bull McCabe and his efforts to buy the field that he works on. His family has lived for generations in this village and he wants to leave the field as his legacy to his son, and his son after him, and so on. As a hardworking and honest man, we come to admire him. But things take a turn for worse when the field becomes more important than anything for him, even more important than himself. And he fights fiercely to get the field, without considering what this fight might cost him and his family. His traditional thinking is also challenged by the appearance of a rich American, who has returned to him homeland to buy the lands and begin a major industry there.Richard Harris, who plays Bull McCabe, was nominated for an Oscar while John Hurt was also nominated for BAFTA for playing Bird in the film. "},{"Title":"Almost perfect movie","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Does the work of our hands give us any right? A piece of paper says it doesn't. Generations of sacrifice says it does. A whole life dedicated to the patient creation of -in words of the peasant- a living thing, the field, bonds the man with the land. This question is the core of this excellent movie, located in a small Irish town, with the opposing characters of the catholic priest, the policeman, the proprietor and the wealthy man on one side, and the common people on the other. Richard Harris is enormous as the main character, and the cast is excellent. The only flaw of the movie is the ending, which is simply ridiculous, since it's capricious and it actually looks as if the priest of the story had written it, as a moralistic message, a cosmic punishment. Too bad, but you can skip the last minute. "},{"Title":"passion and tragedy","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having just directed My Left Foot, Jim Sheridan directed The Field, an adaptation of John B. Keane's 1965 play about a tough farmer trying to hold on to the land that he rents in 1930s Ireland. Richard Harris's Bull McCabe is a real bull in every sense; he's almost not the sort of person who should even have a family. When an American businessman (Tom Berenger) tries to buy the land, Bull takes drastic measures. Much of the story revolves around what we find out about what happened in Bull's family.At times, The Field is an unpleasant movie to watch. Of course, that shows what a good movie it is. We see the hardships faced by the Irish (while hearing stories of the Potato Famine) and also get to see some great shots of the Emerald Isle's countryside. This is one movie that I highly recommend.Also starring Sean Bean (Boromir in the Lord of the Rings trilogy), John Hurt, Brenda Fricker (Mrs. Brown in My Left Foot), Frances Tomelty (Sting's first wife), and brief appearances by Brendan Gleeson and Malachy McCourt (the brother of Angela's Ashes author Frank McCourt). "},{"Title":"Irish misfortune","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Richard Harris plays a crusty old Irish farmer, who after a lifetime spent tending a small plot of land for an English widow defies anyone to challenge his right to ownership when the property is offered for sale by public auction, but meets unexpected competition from a greedy American developer intent on paving it. How the Irishman finally acquires his precious field, and at what cost, makes for an often powerful drama, but everything after the auction itself is absurd anti-climax, piling tragedy upon tragedy for at least a full half hour of surplus screen time. The story is, of course, analogous to the much larger conflict between Ireland and Britain, suggesting that the Irish, with their near-obsessive attachment to the land, can at times be their own worst enemy. Tom Berenger's Ugly American is nothing more than a two-dimensional Yankee stereotype, and Elmer Bernstein's music score is all wrong, but the final, striking image of Harris trying in vain to hold back the tide aptly illustrates the futility of his challenging the inevitable. "},{"Title":"THE FIELD (Jim Sheridan, 1990) ***","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Being an avid follower of the Oscars ever since the 1984 ceremony has sometimes served to alert me about small movies which had nevertheless obtained at least one major accolade; this powerful Irish drama was just such a case and, appropriately enough, it has taken me all of 18 years to finally watch it! Richard Harris deservedly received his second personal Academy Award nomination (and the film's sole Oscar nod) for his riveting portrayal of an old farmer who is not about to let a visiting Irish-American (Tom Berenger) take away the titular plot of land which he has slaved for years over to breathe new life into. The colorful cast of characters is rounded up by John Hurt (as the mischievous village idiot), Brenda Fricker (as Harris' wife &#150; whom he has not spoken to for 18 years, since the accidental death of his son, despite still living under the same roof with her), Sean Bean (as Harris' immature other offspring) and Jenny Conroy (as the sultry village hussy whom Bean eventually takes up with over Harris' objections). The film &#150; which opens with the startling donkey disposal incident and closes with the mass suicide of a herd of cows that has tragic consequences &#150; is often beautiful to look and has a fine Elmer Bernstein score into the bargain but, truthfully, its real trump card remains, as I mentioned above, Harris' tour-de-force central performance. "},{"Title":"Completely misunderstood by the critics.","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was surprised that all the critics panned this film as overwrought and overacted. Granted, Richard Harris did seem to be playing King Lear, but if this had been a Japanese or some other foreign film the critics would have been kissing his feet.This is not about the Ireland of Ballykissangel, The Quiet Man, or any film with Barry Fitzgerald patronizing the local pub quaffing stout while quoting witty epigrams. This is the Ireland of unrelenting poverty, generational blood feuds, anger, bitter resentment, and miserable hard scrabble existence, where the most important thing in life is title to one's land. The famine is talked about as if it occurred last year, rather than 80 years before the story is set and the Irish who emigrated are resented by those left behind. Every injustice suffered by the Irish people since time began is remembered and nursed along as if remembrance of past injustice was passed along with the genes. Possible plot spoiler ahead.Bull McCabe is one of those whose family stayed on after the famine to work a tiny patch of barren rocky land which they built up over the years with hard physical labour. We assume that they lost their land during the famine, or perhaps during the time when catholics could not inherit land, even from their father, and they now rent from a widow. the fact that Bull has little time for the church and comments that priests did not starve in the famine, might mean that the family was persecuted for being catholic and lost their land. To Bull, the land is everything and he expects his son to inherit. Bull is a bully, pure and simple and never goes anywhere without his hangers on. No one in the village dare stand up to him, and he expects that his word is law. He wears his grudges like a comfortable cloak, enjoying his misery and hatred of both the English and the Irish who emigrated to America. Unfortunately, his son Tadgh does not share his father's obsession, and retaliates against his father by sneaky underhand tactics such as terrorizing the widow who owns the land, and sneaking off to be with the tinker girl. Even the choice of a wife is being made by his father, more on the basis of how much land she will inherit and whether she will be able to bear children. Considering that Bull has not spoken to his own wife for 18 years, it is doubtful that love might come into the relationship. When an Irish American shows up throwing his money around, with plans to develop the potential of the area, which includes paving over the hard won field, events take a tragic turn as Bull's domination is challenged. Everything Bull and his father and his father before him has worked for is now threatened. It may be easier to understand Bull's obsession is you know how scarce land is in Ireland and how difficult it is to obtain. Much of the land is rocky and unproductive. The famine was not the only reason for the emigration, the fact that the land could not support more than one family at a time, and sometimes not even that. Even the professions were closed to catholics, not that the peasants had the money to educate their children. There was a moving scene in the film where a wake was held for the young people who were emigrating. If you enjoyed Falling for a Dancer which had a similar theme, you will like this film, but be warned, while engrossing, it is a very dark and sometimes depressing tale. The performances by the late Richard Harris, Sean Bean and John Hurt are stupendous. It is a great shame that there are not more films of this type for them to show what they can really do. "}{"Title":"Gargantuan performance from Richard Harris","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a sublime piece of film making. The play by John B Keane is exceptional and is brought to life brilliantly by a gargantuan performance from Richard Harris. This is a story of life, of people and the choices that we have to make to achieve what we want for ourselves and what we believe we want for others. This is a film for passionate people, people with a real sense of pride and honour and is lost on imbeciles like dconnor above. Some comments have stated that this film is too depressing well folks I don't know what planet you are living on but for a lot of people life is depressing especially around the time of the Irish famine. When I watch a Drama I want so see the most realistic portrayal of people and the way they live at that particular period. I really do feel sorry for people who don't appreciate this film, IT IS A MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"Well, I don't even know what to think.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** You see, this movie was good.  It was a little confusing because you can't really understand the accents a lot of the time.  All in all, it was a fairly entertaining movie.  I rented it because of Sean Bean.  But then, really when I thought it was really good, he got trampled to death by cows. Can anyone tell me a movie he's in where he doesn't die?! "},{"Title":"An Extraordinary Film","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Richard Harris gives a towering performance as a farmer determined to prevent anyone else buying a piece of land. This is a moving and powerful film about obsession, stubbornness and a refusal to acknowledge another person's view and the self-destructiveness such traits can engender. "},{"Title":"Stereotypes galore","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" From my point of view this was an absolutely awful film. That is not saying that it wasn't executed competently and the stellar cast ceratinly perfromed well. However, what makes this film so bad is the scrrenplay. The author simply uses stereotypes from the classic Irish literature with its focus on rural life, tradition and poverty. From a certain point onwards that made Irish literature provincial and at times hardly bearable before the arrival of a modern Irish urban literature. So this film just adds stereotype to stereotype and strings it together to an uninspired story relying heavily on Irish foklore. All ingredients are there the dominant father, love of the lamd, immigration to America, family conflict and lots of landscape. "},{"Title":"Richard Harris's best!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a die hard Richard Harris fan, I feel the need to say that I feel this is his greatest role. He such such power on the screen, such intensity. And the fact that he's an Irish actor playing an Irish role in an Irish movie only heightens the mood. Sean Bean, another favourite of mine, is also fantastic in this role. Though the American character's acting seemed awkward, I'd say the acting, as a whole, was great.Enough has been said on the cultural and historical significance to warrant my reluctance to bore the reader with more of it. See the other reviews, for they did well enough.I'd've given the movie 10 stars, but the fact is, the movie is very dark, heavy, moody, and depressing. Definitely not a pick-you-up film. Though it's powerful, it always leaves me feeling depressed afterward, which explains the absence of the tenth star I half-feel it deserves.See it if your ready for it; I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare in Ireland","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Visually, this is a stunning movie, filmed on location in the west of Ireland. The scenery is breathtaking, even when viewed, as I did, on TV. It's the perfect backdrop for a story that focuses on the darker side of human nature. A man, Bull McCabe played by Richard Harris, tries to do what he believes to be right. And he IS right, in a certain sense, but he has become obsessed and gradually slips into madness. The field of the title is the tract of land he's worked all his life and which is now being sold to the highest bidder. He cannot accept this, nor that it is being bought by an outsider, an American with Irish roots. The film gives the viewer a powerful sense of the way Irish history (especially the double trauma of the famine and emigration) has shaped the emotions of a man like McCabe. It is as if he carries the whole tragedy of his people within, all the despair finally erupting in a fit of violence. This is where the film takes on an almost Shakespearian hue in the way events roll on like a juggernaut, beyond McCabe's control, deeper and deeper into tragedy. Richard Harris's performance is marvelous, playing McCabe as an Irish King Lear, proud, brutal, willful, but ultimately one of God's creatures powerless to control his and other peoples lives, and you cannot help but pity him. Among the supporting cast, John Hurt gives an excellent performance, and the rest are certainly adequate. But it seems to me as if their characters stay sketches compared to the full canvas painting of Harris's McCabe. Even Sean Bean as McCabe's son, is very pale, and the sub-plot concerning his involvement with a tinker girl seems a bit contrived, almost trivializing the tension between him and the old man. Also, there seems to me to be a little trouble with the pacing; events go wrong too fast. Maybe too much was lost in the cutting room, as there are some awkward shifts. It's a pity because it tends to turn tragedy into simple accident. Nevertheless, it is a movie well worth seeing, and the first five minutes with the old man and his son gathering sea-weed by the shore, then carrying it across the mountains, in that beautiful Irish landscape, is almost worth the price alone. "},{"Title":"Mutually Assured Destruction","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is The Field, land, territory, agriculture. There is 'Bull' McCabe (Richard Harris) the farmer who represents long standing tradition. He'd pass the land and the tradition to his son Tadgh McCabe (Sean Bean). There's Peter The Yank (Tom Berenger) who represents modernity. He'd develop the land, manufacture asphalt and pave the roads, blasphemy in Bull McCabe's view. There's wild Katie the Tinker Girl (Jenny Conroy) who represents the freedom and lure of the road. In between somewhere in this conflict stands the Church represented by Father Chris Doran (Sean McGinley) who acknowledges that Christian values are a tenuous veneer.We're running off like Tinkers, protests Tadgh McCabe. But we are Tinkers, declares wild Katie.The land is up for auction. Will they destroy each other and their own values with it?I read the many comments as to parallels with other cinematic literature produced by the Irish. Yet I found the movie that closely follows the type of clash of values and cultures is HOUSE OF SAND AND FOG, set entirely in an American venue with stock local characters. "},{"Title":"The Field","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" How does one born in the ghettos of NYC so love the Irish tale of the film called 'The Field?' Simple. The film contains a universal message of man's connection to the land, its fields, and his necessary survival. Something we can all relate to. The brilliance of Richard Harris' performance goes to the heart of any person who might dare to have loved once in their lives. His love was evident in the resurrection of an infertile field replete with stones and barren soil, of which he breathe new life into it. Through sweat and faith he brought the field back to its glory. Although the field was not technically his, as it was rented from the village widow some twenty years, he was nonetheless obsessed with its soul and wanted to leave as a legacy that same devotion and husbandry to his witless son. However, the real crisis arose in the interference of the field being sold through public auction by the widow, when an outsider from America - a cocky, arrogant and brash man, and a spiritually-constipated pastor, conspired to some degree to see it sold to the interest of big business. This of course was foreign to Bull McCabe's (Richard Harris) understanding, especially when cement was planned to be poured onto his field, that he felt the insult as sharply as a slap against his face, which prompted him to take the law into his own hands; namely, the law of the land. The climatic point for me came in his oratorical umbrage to them, that made swell the patriotism and soul of rare individuals. And one felt that whatever Bull McCabe's decision would be, would sit well with God, man, and the field. "},{"Title":"The grey winds, the cold  winds, are blowing where I go.","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's a small, taut, tragic story of Richard Harris, as Bull McCabe, a sclerotic Irish patriarch who plans on buying at auction the grassy field that he and his family have worked on (and died on) for many years. The land is owned by a widow, however, who has been harassed by Harris and his son, Sean Bean, and is determined to see that the McCabe's don't get it. When a wealthy American (Tom Berenger) shows up, interested in building a cement highway across the field, and harnessing the local waterfalls for hydroelectric power, it certainly looks like McCabe isn't going to get it.Well, McCabe gets it, but not before he accidentally beats Berenger to death and hides the body. It costs him everything he has -- whatever peace of mind he had, his money, his son, his status in the church, his friends, his cattle, and finally his sanity. He who has been virtually running the village, snarling out gruff orders to others, now runs wild, alone, stampeding his cattle over a cliff and onto the rocks below, ranting and screaming like Lear on the moor, driving his son over the cliff as well. After this, still bellowing, McCabe wades out into the sea to his death.Richard Harris does a bang-up, pretty much overwrought job in this role, which was his last. He looks like Michelangelo's sculpture of Pope Julius II, with his remaining gray hair like an unruly coxcomb atop his head and this beard of Biblical proportions. It's the kind of performance that cries out for an Academy Award nomination. Harris got the nomination but didn't win. It was a depressing story about the small-minded people of an Irish village in the 1930s, flailing about in the rain and mud. Not a big star in it. Who needed it? Though, come to think of it, James Coburn won an award for a similar dramatic role after a similar lifetime career playing support or leads in routine movies. Coburn was good in Affliction but Harris does a better job with a more complex role here.Well, I wasn't surprised that Harris didn't win, nor did I particularly care. Movies about feuds over a plot of land usually don't win Oscars. Usually the awards go to far better films, films with artistic content that illustrate the human condition, thoughtful and challenging films that carry a great deal of philosophical weight -- Titanic and Pearl Harbor, for instance.If nothing else, The Field is a corrective to fairyland presented to us in The Quiet Man. Having said that, can I still recommend seeing this movie? Not only is Richard Harris great in it, but so is just about everyone else, including John Hurt as a semi-retard, Sean Bean as the sensitive son, Tom Berenger as the not-insensitive rich American, and a host of nameless supporting players.Yes, it is a small movie about a small thing. But small things can carry stones of symbolic weight. A slap in the face is a small thing. "},{"Title":"Hugeness of Vision","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Field Starring 1990 Oscar Nominee for Best Actor Richard Harris, Sean Bean, John Hurt, Brenda Fricker, Frances Tomelty, and Tom Berenger. This is the stuff of the Epics. Think novels with the Hugeness of Vision by Thomas Hardy, John Steinbeck, or Herman Melville; the Tales of the Greeks or Shakespeare; and the operas of Wagner. HUGE visions. All of this is hidden in a little story about an Irishman who rents a 3 acre plot of land? It only stays hidden for so long. Richard Harris is fantastic as an aging man who feels disconnected to all but his beautiful, green, beloved (leased) plot of land, which was worked by his father before him and his father before him. Alas, his son (Sean Bean) seems hesitant to carry it on. If that isn't bad enough for a man who sees nothing as more important than tradition and love for the land, along comes an American (Tom Berenger) with a whole new idea for this property, and soon makes the legal owner an offer of purchase. The little story becomes bigger &#150; then Bigger &#150; and BIGGER &#150; all the way to HUGE. It has a straight-ahead, linear movement that not only seems to imply warnings, but unstoppable Karma. Like all good Epics, it is full of lessons &#150; about vice, virtue, evil, wisdom, warnings, tragedy, potential redemption, and reminders about what is good & bad, right & wrong, fair & unfair. You'll also love the landscapes. "}{"Title":"If you want Hollywood ...........","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" generated images of the Irish people and Ireland - Forget it! This film has made a bigger impression upon me than any other I have witnessed, i was mesmerised during and contemplative afterward, to the extent that visiting Ireland became a personal obsession (now thankfully realised.The film is dark & depressing and does not have a remotely happy ending, it delivers realism something Hollywood all too often fails to accomplish.The film discusses many, many issues (its a legitimate argument that there are too many) and makes few, if any judgements, thats left to you the viewer, apply your own morals and interpret the issues yourself.I guess i really enjoyed the rawness of the film's subject, whilst in contrast the filming and acting was anything but raw, it is simply superb. Harris, Frecker, Bean & Hurt are excellent, the atmosphere of Ireland is tangible. In short, this a film to experience not merely watch.Watch it if you want provoking, if your looking for simple light entertainment you'll likely be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Bad Faith The Attempt For Permanency In The Midst Of Transiency","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe scene that contains the entire message of Sheridan's treasure is the last we see of Bull. He is trying to drive the ocean back with his cane cursing and ordering it. This is the quintessential metaphor of existential Bad Faith trying to create permanency in the midst of transiency. He orders the waves which are a temporal metaphor backwards. Yes, he is insane but when you understand the entire movie you will see Sheridan's simile here. The whole project to perpetuate himself through that silly, little piece of land that is what this means. Jamie's ghost haunts the movie, Tadgh's eldest brother who committed suicide to escape existentially from this tyrants's domination. Bad Faith is an existential term that Sartre uses to refer to people who wish to lose themselves in their roles forgetting the ontological distance, always present, between the role and their being in the world. This gap, or nothingness, is where human freedom exists. Bull tells us this in that scene with the Yank and the priest. He recounts how he earned his father's admiration by leaving that corpse, dead in the field, so they could finish working on the land. He shows us why Jamie killed himself, he begins trying to find Tadgh a wife, behind his back, like you would a prized bull.Tadgh, until the very end, has not the heart to explain to this land lusting lunatic that he does not want the life Bull has already ordained for him. Bull orders this tiny village all about, bullying and even drowning the tinker's mule for daring to come onto his prized piece of rented land. When the Yank dares trying to buy it, Bull beats his head in and throws him in the bay. Sheridan speaks through the priest,What would you do to others to get this piece of land. Would you murder? Yes, it is about greed but much more. Bull is elderly and facing approaching death. He tries to perpetuate himself and cheat death by using Tadgh, like his father, to live forever. When Bull talks about the land, listen for the trans-generational language this is the existential failed project of Bad Faith. He wishes to lose his transient body within the land. He then needs Tadge, like dead Jamie, to be a slave to the land and repeat this process, with his children, ad infinitum. Poor Tadgh and Bird have to suffer through interminable lectures on their duty to this stupid piece of dirt. Why should you care? It goes beyond being anti-greed; the movie teaches you the insanity that is materialism quite well. The attempt to run away from death and one's existential transiency into material permanency. I love The Boxer, even though I hate both boxing and romance, but this is Sheridan's best film. Bull kills Tadgh, inadvertently, by stampeding the animals over him and they both fly off the cliff. If you wish to escape from the insane asylum that is consumerism, you could not watch a better movie. More than that, it teaches a old man's tragic quest to leap over death through his son's slavery to a piece of dirt. Harris never gave a better performance; I loved Wrestling Earnest Hemingway but this dwarfs it. One stopped heartbeat and it all belongs to another; Bull attempts to circumvent this by enslaving his village and his family to help him live forever through the land. A very dark tragedy, you will not be whistling after you finish watching it. It has great lessons to teach. One of the best depictions of the philosopher Jean Paul Sartre's concept of Bad Faith. One Powerful Movie. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, touching performances","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Highly under-rated movie which should have done better on its release, but failed to do so as it lost its way to the end.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Looks wonderful but ultimately frustrating","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I go back to this film again and again in order to answer those questions it throws out - the field itself is a symbol not only of the Bull's standing in his community, also of a famine-stricken Ireland, of the gulf between the members of the McCabe family, the suspicion of all 'outsiders', etc etc.  It is the towering performance of Richard Harris in the lead which keeps the interest in this enigmatic, absorbing but ultimately unresolved film.   "},{"Title":"Filled with interesting Irish cultural assertions but too many stereotypes","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I simply don't like cultural stereotypes -- it's lazy and emotionally stunted thinking. While we are given many extrapolations about the Irish (I'll leave it to the Irish to interpret them), we have a galling stereotype of an American. It's no more right than the stereotypes of the Irish seen in some Hollywood films (as a UK reviewer observed). You're insulting my people -- something that isn't right no matter whose people are being insulted. But then one person's bigotry is another's righteous opinion, it would seem.The film itself is about a half hour too long. Harris is wonderful but then he's always wonderful. The themes and ideas I'll leave to the Irish to judge.Now enjoy clicking No to the review. "},{"Title":"Depressing.","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not a movie to watch when you want to feel happy, when you want a movie to make you feel happy run as far away as you can from this movie. Even though a good movie, it is very depressing. Richard Harris plays a good job as the stubborn and slightly insane farmer who is obsessed with his land. I loved Jenny Conroy (Katie the Tinker), she was spunky and free lanced. Brenda Fricker was lovely as Maggie, Bull's wife. Sean Bean plays a good job as Bull's son Tadgh, a sort of slow boy who's living in the shadow of his dead older brother. I got this movie and only liked one scene. It was when Tadgh went to confront Katie. Just the arrogant, teenagerish looks he pulled off. And that was about it. This movie was just to sad and depressing for me. "},{"Title":"Closed-Captioned Needed Here!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you don't understand the Irish, this film will have you saying, What an idiot is that Bull McCabe! (Richard Harris in a stalwart role) He rents a plot of land cultivated with seaweed that he & his son drag over from the coast & lives for it! He's like the town bully (Thus his name, Bull McCabe) & no one crosses him. After 20 years of he & his wife not speaking (something to do with the death of Jaime, their other son at 13), she finally speaks up & tells him it's not his fault. But do we ever really understand what happened to him? Was he hung? Did he hang himself? The Irish accents are just too thick!Well, it's time for the English widow to sell her plot of land to the highest bidder in a public auction. Who wants to buy it? Bull McCabe, of course. And no one dares defy him! Until a handsome young American (Berenger)comes to town looking to upgrade the area. Peter, (the Yank) has plenty of funds to do what he likes with the land but McCabe won't back down! He lambasts the American yelling insults about how Peter's father deserted Ireland for America during the war, made his fortune there & now his son (Berenger) wants to come back with his American money & take what the Irish there have starved & worked hard for!? What that has to do with Peter is beyond me. He wasn't in the war himself. He's the son of someone who left but that should have no bearing on him. But Bull doesn't come to his senses & eventually kills him in a rage! What a waste! Actually, the only upbeat, comfortable times in this film are when Berenger is on the screen. He brings a warm presence of the future Ireland could have. He brings progress & a leveling of the old ways. Only Bull McCabe won't have it. And in the end, he loses his senses completely. "},{"Title":"A Real Bring-Me-Down","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We rented The Field because Richard Harris had been nominated for the 1990 Best Actor Oscar, and we were in the mood for a good drama.  What a bummer of a movie.  Sometimes I didn't know if it was being serious as some scenes played like Monty Python sketches.  It was as if the playwright was trying to cram as much depressing stuff into each scene (and the movie) as he could. Lot's of it seemingly snatched right out of the blue.  Madness, suicide, murder, harassment of poor widows, bullying....all in 107 minutes and a small cast.  The ending is a screamer.  The family awarded it a 5 out of respect for Richard Harris and John Hurt.   "},{"Title":"This movie was soooo bad!","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I decided to watch this film because I usually enjoy the performances of such actors as John Hurt, Richard Harris, and Sean Bean. But this movie is absolutely ridiculous and so far over the top it should have been rated as a comedy masquerading as a serious drama. Richard Harris should have won some kind of an award for overacting in this film. He spends a great deal of the movie either screaming at the top of his lungs or rambling on with some ludicrous noble diatribe that I'm not sure he even knows what he's talking about. If you want to see better performances with an Irish brogue attached, try watching an Irish Spring soap commercial, much more enjoyable and watchable than this disaster of a movie. Everyone in Ireland is portrayed as the most horrible, unclean, and insensitive dregs you would ever want to meet, which one wonders why anyone would consider relocating there in this film. This film is so completely bad, I won't even mention the smiling donkey. How can anyone take this film seriously with the incredible overacting? Wow... "},{"Title":"There are no words","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are no words to describe this movie. It was quite possibly the most horrible thing I have ever seen. The only reason I am recommending it to my friends is so they can laugh at it too. We watched it for a class, and everyone in the class was cracking up in scenes that were in no way intended to be funny. Such as the smiling donkey at the beginning and in the middle. Or the crazy dance where everyone freaks out and no one knows why, including the performers, probably. Or the end, where the kid tries to stop the cows and Bull gives the sea a whoppin'. It was all so incredibly ridiculous, but you should watch it to laugh. And then write a paper on it. 3 pages, apply it to Aristotle. "}]