[{"Title":"The weakest of the AMITYVILLE movies.","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Based on the book of the same name by HANS HOLZER, five people move into the infamous house of horror in Amityville long island after they purchase it at an incredibly cheap price completely unaware of it's terrifying past. While renovating the home (which is in bad need of repairs) they come under attack from supernatural forces, the lead heroine has terrifying nightmares & sees visions of a young man & a dog watching them from afar, only for them to disappear. Doors & windows pop open by themselves, as well as a strong supernatural wind that blows through the home, the house shakes, one of the friends wounded hand bleeds severely, a bathtub of water is turned into blood, markings appear on a steamed over mirror that later breaks & another member of the house suffers horrible headaches etc. After investigating the truth behind the hauntings, they comes to realize that the haunting maybe connected to the murder of a priest twelve years prior in his own confessional & that the man responsible for it may very well be a member of their group.The AMITYVILLE series is an interesting one, for a variety of reasons, but mainly because despite the Lutz claims that they were attacked by supernatural forces, it was later proved to be a hoax, but hoax or not, that did not stop Hollywood from churning out countless sequels on the subject, including this one which is (at the time of this review) the only entry in the series to be shot in Canada passing itself off as Long Island & also happens to bare the reputation of not only being the dreariest entry in the long running franchise, but also the series worst entry. The title Amityville cannot be copyrighted, mainly due to the fact that it is the name of a real town & therefore in the public domain, which means practically any film company can latch their trailer onto the title & make their own sequels. Only the fourth film bared the full title of the original THE AMITYVILLE HORROR PART 4 THE EVIL ESCAPES. The special effects are definitely cheap & below series par & some scenes in the film that could have & should have been suspenseful & eerie is so flatly directed & mishandled it all winds up disappointing. The acting is poor & the characters couldn't be less interesting. The direction by TOM BERRY also disappoints, though some camera angles are okay. The whole film looks dirt cheap, almost like a shot on tape production & bares a cheap ugly, cold look & there's none of that sense of dread or atmosphere of other entries & is thus far the only entry in the franchise that doesn't feature the original house. The house here is supposed to be the same one, but looks nothing like it & is half the size, in fact that's probably one of the most painful things about the film, trying to pass this house off as the infamous house of terror, would be like trying to pass off an old work shed as the White House!With all of that said, I will say that there were some things that I thought were okay with this entry, it most certainly has more plot than some of the other films & the score at least tries to capture that same kind of music the first two films had & also returns to an idea presented in AMITYVILLE II THE POSSESSION, by having one of the members get possessed & the films attempt to meld the supernatural going on's with a whodunit was a nice try, but you would have to be daft if you can't figure out who the killer is, since it's fairly obvious from the outset, in fact it's so obvious that while watching it you'll think to yourself Surely there must be some kind of twist, they wouldn't make the identity of the killer that obvious but there isn't! making the whodunit plot element ridiculous. What should be noted is how the film appears to be a prequel to AMIYTVILLE'S 3 & 4, simply because the house is well furnished & it's mentioned by one of the characters that the previous owners took off & left it all behind, which is exactly what the Lutz did in the original film when they fled their long island home meaning (in theory arguably) that the order of the Amityville series would go something like this 2, 1, 5, 4, 3, 6, 7, 8.In the end, THE AMITYVILLE CURSE is strictly for those who saw & loved at least some of the other entries in the AMITYVILLE series or if you saw all the others & wanted to claim you seen all of them, if you're not one of these people, I would avoid this one since it's not very good. Not the worst film I've ever seen (Take my word for it, in all my years as a film critic I have laid eyes on some really bad movies!) but not a film I would be interested in seeing again. Followed by a sequel, AMITYVILLE 1992 IT'S ABOUT TIME** stars "},{"Title":"Plodding and predictable.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all, this wasn't meant to be an Amityville sequel, it just tried to draw its audience by using that word in the title, but otherwise has little to do with what has happened before it in the series. That would be OK if they had come up with a good flick anyway - but they didn't. Do you find it a good idea for a horror movie to give away its own surprises halfway through? If not, then avoid this one.  (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Watch this movie and you'll be cursed!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I buy a movie (Usually a sequel) I expect that movie to be reasonably the same theme and plot to that of its predecessors Amityville curse is one of the worst sequels in the history of sequels. I am not joking. If you are curious about buying the movie becuause its the only Amityville Related Topic you haven't seen - Please dont let curiosity get the better of you! The only reason they called this movie Amityville curse was to attract the attention of the public into buying and watching the movie. The facts are plain - This is not Amityville. The infamous long island house which we see in many of the true Amityville movies and most strikingly Amityville horror is not present in this movie. The house is not amityville, just some other house in the town of amityville - Terrible!!! (I like the amityville movies becuase of the house - This decieved me into buying this trash!)The acting is so bad its not possible to comprehend and the script is awful. I still fail to see why the guy's who made this film went through the process to acquire permission to use the Amityville rights which would have cost money. (The book was a hans holzer novel) but when they got permission they did not use the amityville style house or anything for that matter! This movie is a disaster and is inconsistant with the others. If you have any sense you will take a look at the other reviews and follow their advice in AVOIDING this mess of a movie. (I bought it just to see if it was all true about it being a pile of junk and it was!!!!!!)Watch this movie and you will suffer the curse of boredom, terrible acting, stupid scripts, awful effects and a pompas storyline.The only way this movie could have worked is if they had seperated it from amityville franchise. Making this a seperate haunted house movie may have been OK, but as we all know its supposed to be amityville its laughable.well... what can I say...This is not Amityville 5... I suggest you watch Amityville dollhouse or Amityville 1992.They ALL beat this by miles!!!!!!***AVOID*** "},{"Title":"So true, its a curse all right!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Moviecritique USA rates this a 10/10 eh?  up there with LAWRENCE OF ARABIA, CITIZEN KANE, 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, MIDNIGHT COWBOY and LORD OF THE RINGS?  Let's pass on that one!This rates below PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE! It should not be confused with ANY Amityville sequel, or even a professionally made film come to that. THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT was the con-job of the last millennium but even IT is classic filmmaking besides this dreck!The ONLY reason to watch it is the last fifteen minutes. Never have I seen one person take so much laughable punishment....and keep going! Its a hoot!It starts...nothing sensible happens, then it stops. End of story! "},{"Title":"Welcome to friendly Amityville","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS** Another spin-off of the original 1979 movie the Amityville Horror which has really nothing to do with what made the house in Amityville famous, or infamous, in the first place! The 1974 murder of the family who resided there by their drugged up and satanically possessed son.In this film the movie has to do with the murder of a local priest,Jan Rubes,who had his brains blown out during confession by one of his church members! This all happened some 12 years earlier, in 1977, in the movie that we see in a long flashback. It's now 1989 and this group of friends, looking for a place to live in the country, from the big city end up spending the night at the dark and spooky house in Amityville.Warned by one of the local people the one-eyed Ms. Moriarty, Helen Hughes, that there's a curse on the house the people spending the night there laugh her off feeling that she's just an old eccentric looking for attention. It turns out that Mrs. Moriarty, whom we saw in the opening flashback sequence, is not as nutty as they think. She not only knows what the reason is for the priest's murder but who was the person who murdered him!The film slowly plays itself out in it going back to the murder of the priest whom we later find out was not as holy as he seemed to make himself out to be. it turned out that his alleged murderer, Ted A. Bohus, hung himself in police custody before he could make a confession to the priest's murder. The people staying in the house at first have no idea what the house, with all the books and movies written and released about it, represents Death and Horror to those who dare to either buy or spend the night in it. It's only after the truth comes out, which takes almost the entire film, to what the reasons were behind the priests murder and who in fact murdered him that the proverbial sh*t really hits the fan! It's then that the past that was so conveniently hidden by the killer, and Mrs. Moriarty, comes to the surface like a sudden blast out of a volcano.Unlike the previous Amityville Horror movies this one has really nothing at all to do with the supernatural or the cursed house itself. There's a subplot in the film involving one of the persons staying at the house Debbie, Dawna Wightman, who seems to be possessed by the place but it's never fully explained why. If Debbie is so in tuned with the horror, by who the killer is, awaiting her and her friends she in fact was one the last persons to realize it. The obvious unseen killer, by his own actions, could have been spotted almost as soon as he came on the scene but it took a murderous attack on Debbie by him for her to realize just who he is! So much for Debbie's, together with the help of Mrs. Moriarty, extrasensory perception and psychic powers! One of the better Amityville Horror sequels even though it was more like a whodunit-like murder mystery then a supernatural horror movie. "},{"Title":"One of the most worthless sequels ever made","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When you reach a certain point in a series of films it's time to call it quits. If there's no more story, if the quality level had dropped, or if people have lost interest then why not lay it to rest? The third 'Amityville' movie was the last one to get a theatrical release because it made less money than the two before it, but that didn't stop anyone from making another sequel. There have even been several sequels to Jay Anson's novel, but not many would be adapted into feature films. Personally I like the first four movies in the series, but where do you go from there? Like the first film, this installment is based on a book only in this case the movie has little to do with it's predecessors or the book on which it's based. But believe me, those are the least of it's problems.Pros Performances are adequate. Decent score. A couple good creepy moments. Finally comes to life in the finale.Cons Sluggish pacing. Virtually plot less. Forgettable. Not scary at all. Bland direction. Very drab looking. Several plot holes. Long stretches where nothing interesting happens. Failed attempt at mystery.Final thoughts No one asked for the other sequels either, but at least they provide some entertainment value. If you're going to make an unnecessary sequel the least you can do is make it entertaining and make it look like you cared about what you were doing. There are even worse sequels than 'The Amityville Curse,' but even if you're like me and you enjoyed the previous four you're better off skipping this one and checking out the ones that follow.My rating 1.5/5 "},{"Title":"Lots Of Fun Horror With A Good Story! Didn't Deserve The Criticism It Recieved.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Amityville Curse (1990)/(1989)First of all, I want to say that this was actually a good movie, and was definetely not a teen ghost/slasher movie. I've heard from others on IMDB of how bad it was, but I completely disagree. The Amityville Curse is about a group of friends who move into a dilapidated old mansion in the historical Amityville area. The house looks like an old Victorian home and the friends plan to refurbish the house as an investment, but soon are haunted by spirits in the house. They then discover that the home belonged to a priest, and that the confession booth that he was murdered in is stored in their basement cellar.... I thought this was a good premise, and the acting wasn't that bad actually. The movie had some scares, good effects for the time era, and was just plain good. The movie doesn't really belong in the Amityville series, because it doesn't involve the original Amityville house, but it stands perfectly on its own independently. I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Curse of the Amityville movies","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had to track this film down for four years in the UK, simply every video store and rental company refused to stock it. But was it worth it?The Amityville Curse is based around Hans Holtzer's impressive book which is a worthy competitor to Jay Ansons original work. Pretty much nothing in this film related to anything in the book which makes you wonder why they even bothered to use the Amityville name at all. I am quite sure this was for profitable reasons since the series has been so popular, despite some horrendously awful movies. The Amityville Curse is just another of these.The main focus of this movie centers around a murdered priest in a confession-booth. After getting blown away with a pistol we are taken to the `Amityville house' &#150; which by the way, looks nothing like it. A group of people buy it from the market at next to nothing, with no electricity which makes for some atmospheric lighting - at least they got this right. Marvin (Anthony Dean Rubes), is an Uncle Buck-style goof who has to carry the rest of the incompetent co-stars throughout ninety minutes of the usual Amityville outing, which includes such supernatural events as dogs barking and a wine glass being shattered. So chilling&#133;As is traditional in an Amityville film a psychic just happens to be among the group to make the rest of the cast paranoid. Debbie (Dawna Wightman) tries way too hard and ends up looking pretentious and embarrassing in the process. I wasn't surprised to hear this was the only film she starred in. The rest of the cast aren't even worth a mention apart from the bum in the bar who looks dead for ten minutes and then spouts; `You know something Mr, you don't know s***'. A lot of this time The Amityville Curse tries to be a comedy and has some really confusing characters. Mrs Moriarty, the freak with the glass eye is a third-rate Tangina from the Poltergeist films who thankfully gets demonised before long. One cannot help but cheer on the demons when it's her time. However in comic-book style she miraculously knocked over a video camera moments before so her death is witnessed and the killer is exposed &#150; as one of the members of the house.Later it is uncovered that the confession-booth, along with other holy items have been hidden in the basement. Quite how they got there is something which is never explained. I can only assume the demons come packaged with all the religious items, or something &#150; why would they be present in a basement of the supposed Amityville house with crosses, holy water, and a confession booth? Would this not deter them? This and many other events are never explained to us, which gives you an idea of how great the writers are.So another tradition lives as the possessed confession-booth killer becomes demonised for no other reason but to end the film, and then attempts to devour his former friends. Unfortunately the demons seem to be having an off-day and are exorcised from the house after a few dainty love-taps.Not a very impressive film and certainly not worth hunting down. Too much talking and unnecessary camera-work makes the ninety minutes drag. Also I would like to know what the BBFC are playing at giving this an 18 certificate since nothing in this film surpassed anything a 12 movie does today. Still we are waiting for the next sequel and whether it is going to require any intelligence to watch. 2/5 "},{"Title":"As bad as expected!","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's a cheap production sequel to AMITYVILLE series that has almost nothing to do with the original movie (or even the story!). The kind of plot used is the same which have been used so many times before. The production is much worse than the previous films (at least comparing with the first two movies). The soundtrack is very different too and it's terrible (it's between very poor pseudo-mysterious sounds and a cheap imitation of PSYCHO's tube scene track). But if the production and the soundtrack are really bad, the acting is not better; especially the performance of Dawna Wightman (who plays DEBBIE). It's incredibly awful! Is she a professional actress? I really don't think so! Anyway, this chapter doesn't add anything new to the series and it would be totally unnecessary! "},{"Title":"Watchable but rather dull, incoherent shocker.","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When a priest (Jan Rubes) was murdered years ago in a confession booth in his Church. The murderer was never found and the priest's personal stuff is been boarded up in the basement, where he used to live. Now in the present day, a group of five people (Kim Coates, Dawna Wrightman, David Stein, Anthony Dean Rubes and Cassandra Gava) are moving in the old priest's house. Which this house is supposed to be haunted and now the ground are experiencing strange things in the house. They been hearing noises, having nightmares, seeings visions and more. But one of them is the group of friends is not what he seems to be and they better get out of the house before it's too late.Directed by Tom Berry made an rather boring supernatural horror film that has nothing to do with the previous Amityville movies and even the house is different. The cast tries their best but the script is boring and very dumb at times. It is very obvious this one, it was made in Canada unlike the other pictures. This film is based on a book by Hans Holzer, who wrote the book Murder in Amityville. Which that book was turned into a picture titled Amityville 2The Possession. Also the movie is laughably bad, even the last act. Don't watch it, it's forgettable. (* ½/*****). "}{"Title":"The curse of the never ending series!","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Amityville Curse (1990) has very little to do with the series. Why did they call it this then. I guess nobody would want to rent a movie called The Spooky House or the The Curse of an Evil House. In their infinite wisdom, the producers probably sat around in a smoky room thinking up of ways they could market this film. Hey, how's about we make another Amityville Horror movie? Why asked the second Producer. They just made another one for T.V. So hears what we do, we finish the film and just loop in a mention of Amityville House. If we's have to, explained the Executive Producer. If that's too expensive we'll just make up a scary poster and video art and leave it at that.You know what? That's probably what happened. Bad movie that's nearly unwatchable. But it's fun to make fun of if you're in the right mood or if you're hanging with some friends. Other wise avoid it like the plague! "},{"Title":"Junk","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" THE AMITYVILLE CURSE is a junk addition to the AMITYVILLE HORROR franchise. It's an entirely forgettable production that looks and feels like any old low budget haunted house flick as there's no real connection to the other films in this series. What we have is a very typical horror film in which a group of friends move into a dilapidated old house in order to renovate it but instead find themselves menaced and then possessed by a gang of spooks.By all accounts this was an early straight-to-video film and that shows in its level of ineptitude. Absolutely nothing happens in this production that we haven't seen done better in other horror films and the various scare scenes are a joke. The direction is probably the worst thing about this, as he chooses to shoot most of his scenes in the dark so that the viewer is straining to see what's going on. The only familiar member of the cast for me was the lead, Kim Coates, who's gone on to appear in the likes of BLACK HAWK DOWN, but like the rest of the actors he gives an entirely undistinguished performance. "},{"Title":"Languid drivel that moves at a snail's pace","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This series has a few crappy STV sequels, but this one is the worst of the lot by a wide margin. It is cheap as hell, dreary looking, and extremely boring. NOTHING happens for the most part, aside from a bit of chaos in the finale, and even that was tame. I'm not an Amityville fan at all. There isn't one movie that stands out, not even the theatrical releases, except for Amityville Part II. This movie is approximately 87 minutes long. It honestly felt like two hours. I was pleading for the running time to move quicker. There isn't much gore and the makeup is terrible. We get a nasty cut on somebody's hand with broken glass, people get hit with nail guns. We get deformities on people's faces, and a little more. If I wasn't angered enough, they even play the start of the Psycho score during a lame Tarantula scene. It doesn't have much going for it, so it tries to use classic things. The house used in this one looks nothing like The Amityville house. It wasn't eerie in the slightest. There are far too many scenes of people wandering around the house with nothing happening. It was nothing but Talk, talk, talk, talk, and more talk Like most of these movies. I really question the motives. Why do they stay in the house so long, knowing very well something isn't right? Get out! it shouldn't take life threatening experiences to discern such a thing. The acting is awful. Kim Coates sleepwalks through most of it before waking up in the finale. He decides to ham it up. I didn't buy it at all. He also smokes way too much in scenes. Dawna Wightman (Debbie) is one of the most insufferable women I have ever had to endure a movie. Her constant sniveling and OTT hysterics made me wanna slap her silly. She over did it completely. Cassandra Giva is pretty sexy, but her character is stupid. I'm guessing Jan Rubes needed to pay some bills pretty badly, because it screams Paycheck role. The finale tries for controversy, to try to spice things up a bit, to no availFinal Thoughts I hated this movie. It is the worst STV sequel in the series. That is saying something, believe me. It has no suspense, no thrills, and you'll be bored to tears. Stay away! don't put yourself through unwarranted torture.DUD "},{"Title":"I LOVE THE AMITYVILES but not this one","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i have seen every amityville apart from amityville 4 and a new generation and all of the others were excerlent (especialy amityville 3) but this one was a real disarster it is extreamly slow unbeleviably boring right up untill the last five minutes so if you want to buy or rent this out only do so and fast forward to the last five minutesContains spoilers!!!! a woman is drawn to a house and moves in with lots of other people (does not make sense why) this house was home to a preist killed by his long lost son (drags on and on) the spirit of the son who hanged himself from a tree out side of the house is in the basement and takes over one of the people in the house, old woman dies and man gets sliced and diced by blades and acid etc (that was the last five minutes) and they all die apart from a nuty woman and her freind who for some reason is desprate for sexso this film is a must see no no so skip this and head for amityville 1992 its about time  "},{"Title":"only 12 minutes worth watching","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have said it a Thousand times and I will say it again. Another perfect example why horror was dead at the end of the eighties, early nineties. This has nothing to offer and has in fact nothing to do with the original one. It's just cashing in the money due the name Amityville.Only the last 12 minutes do offer horror but the other 75 minutes are a pure waist of time. There are things that should be scary but it's so cheesy that it isn't scary but laughable. It's so sad that a lot of franchises had to end this way...Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 1/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Dull, Canadian Rip-Off of The Amityville Horror","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hans Holzer was a paranormal investigator best known for his novel Murder In Amityville (adapted as Amityville II The Possession) and his theory as to the origin of the evil which drove the Lutz family from their home as documented in the largely debunked The Amityville Horror. This fifth instalment of the Amityville franchise is based on Holzers' novel The Amityville Curse although you'd never know it watching this dull, Canadian rip off even with the occasional reference to the DeFoe murders. A group of friends are terrorized by a ghost while renovating the house where a priest was murdered years before. Another contender for worst film in the series. "},{"Title":"It's Cursed, Alright","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Marvin and Debbie (David Stein, Dawna Wightman) buy the Amityville house. They are unaware of its past, having lived on the moon for the last decade. They bring some friends over to help renovate. Of course, bad stuff starts to go down. The fifth Amityville is a dreadful Canadian-produced direct-to-video movie that is quite possibly the worst in the series. It has little to do with the previous films. The entire thing looks cheap like it was filmed for fifty Canadian pesos. Dark, dreary mess with pathetic special effects, no scares, and a transparent story. Avoid unless you are desperate to complete the series. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I wish I could give it negative stars. If you are a fan of The Amityville series, or just movies in general, do not waste your time on this. You will be horribly disappointed. The plot and characters are poorly written., The writers obviously thought that riding the Amityville coat tales would be enough for a semi successful movie. They could not have been more wrong. This movie goes nowhere. It was like watching a poorly written sitcom weak ploy, weak acting, It is not to often than one comes across a movie this horrible. I tried watching just hoping it would get better but I could not get through 20 minutes before shutting it off. "},{"Title":"An Unnecessary Idea","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As a director, I've always wanted to put a new spin to the Batman series. This doesn't mean that I think the other Batman films lack quality, I just believe I have something to contribute to the series. In my mind, this is what Tom Berry and Michael Krueger were thinking. They had an idea for the series. Nay, not to make the series better or worse, it was just an idea for the series. This adaptation to the story completely lacks promise, and mind you this is an adaptation, not a continuance of the series. The characters are not the same, and the bloody house doesn't even resemble the iconic frame of our creepy anti-protagonist of a building. So in the end you will be sitting through what seems like an endless time capsule of bad 90's hair, and boring suspense scenes. Because in all, you're not watching Amityville. You're watching some people's idea of Amityville. And boy is that idea not scary at all. Pass this movie unless you are a die-hard Amityville-Nut. Well, because in order to enjoy this, you might just have to be one. "},{"Title":"'Things are usually cheap for a reason.' - Debbie, 'The Amityville Curse'","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A group of friends buy and move into an old Long Island house, where 12 years earlier, a priest was brutally murdered by a teenager who hanged himself before he could be tried by the police. Soon, the newcomers encounter strange and eventually fatal spectral visitations. Will any of them be intelligent enough to get out before the Amityville curse claims them?'The Amityville Curse' bears about as much resemblance to 'The Amityville Horror' as a polar bear with lipstick does to Marilyn Monroe. It's little more than a generic haunted house tale dressed up with the Amityville banner - and when I say 'dressed up', I mean with the same amount of effort put into making a Kalahari bushman pass for a diving instructor by giving him a snorkel. Setting the events in Amityville and one throwaway line from a yokel in a bar about a kid murdering his parents doesn't make an Amityville film.But, I reasoned with myself, what the hell - maybe it'll be like 'Halloween III Season Of The Witch', which had nothing whatsoever to do with Michael Myers, but was an enjoyable film in its own right. Unfortunately, a hackneyed and incoherent script, annoyingly drawn characters and torturous acting very quickly dashed that optimism against the rocks. Still, 'The Amityville Curse' does helpfully offer up suggestions on things you could be doing that would be less painful than watching it, like being menaced by domestic pets, playing with poisonous chemicals, or maybe having someone frisbee sharp cutting equipment into various parts of your body.Pretty much the only positive I can think of is the sultry presence of Cassandra Gava, who, unlike Kim Coates, seems to be putting some genuine effort into her part - possibly just to make the time go by quicker. There is some genuine acting talent in here, but they are unsurprisingly not inspired to prove this at any time by the script to hand, preferring to let Dawna Wightman crank up the hysterics to 10.Certainly, this isn't the first time I've asked myself why a film was made - I've seen 'Children Of The Corn VI', but 'The Amityville Curse' is definitely another head-scratcher. Its lazy, peripheral attempt to hang onto the coattails of the Amityville franchise only underscores a message we didn't need to learn - you can't staple a couple of Kraft singles to a tomato and call it a lasagne. Likewise, it isn't a decent horror film in its own right. If there truly is a curse here, it's brought to life every time someone decides to watch this thing. "}{"Title":"Standard","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I see that many viewers dislike this film, some intensely. I can understand that. But reading how this one is worse than the others? Not keen on that point. As far as I can tell, The Amityville Curse is no worse (or no better) than virtually any of the others in the series. This one is dull, inane, badly paced, sloppily rendered, (mostly) badly acted, silly, predictable and largely devoid of notable special effects. Except for the last descriptive, each of the above words can be applied to every one of the Amityville movies, and the special effects wasteland can be said for probably 3/4 of the others as well. So...the good points. ... Well, there is a decent feeling of creepiness somewhere towards the end of the film. Several others in the series lack even that. Otherwise, this is standard issue Amityville nonsense. Basically. "},{"Title":"Bland, boring and features very little good moments","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Amityville Curse is a less-than-spectacular entry in the series.**SPOILERS**Years after a brutal murder, Marvin, (David Stein) his wife Abigail, (Cassandra Gava) and Bill, (Anthony Dean Rubes) help friends Frank, (Kim Coates) and his wife Debbie, (Dawna Wightman) move into a new house in Amityville, New York. Waiting with them until the furniture arrives, they decide to spend the night as a house-warming gesture, and immediately start to experience strange events around the house. As the night wears on, she becomes even more convinced that something is going on in the house but no one is willing to take her seriously. As the events in the house soon reach more extreme behavior, they eventually learn that one of the previous inhabitants of the house had gone mad listening to voices that emanated from the house, and had turned him into a murderer believed to have been deceased. Realizing that something is amiss, they try to find out the truth about the house before more incidents drive them crazy.The Good News This here is a really hard film to get into, even for the series fans as there's so little right with it. One of the only things is that the stalking or haunting scenes in the beginning do get pretty good at times. The several bathtub scenes are pretty good, mainly for the nudity, but also due to the fact that there's some really nice spook scenes that come from them. There's some fun to be had with these, and it's some really great fun with these scenes coming in at the right moments. There's also some really nice stuff to come along from the ending chase, which is really nice, has a couple creepy scenes and the film's main gore stuff. Included in the chase is a couple of bloody stabbings, a circular saw blade to the knee and a pretty nifty manner of disposal. It's pretty nice, and remains one of the bright things about the film. The other thing is that the added plot points in here make it feel more than just a usual film entry that copies the formula of the past ad nausea. These here are the only good things about the film that work.The Bad News This here was a really disappointing entry that has a couple substantial flaws in it. The biggest one is easily the lack of the action in here. This one features only a select few scenes of any real action or excitement, and that means there's long segments of the film with nothing at all that happens and it feels really dull. That's the other major factor to come from this, is that it really feels dull, listless and poorly paced out. There's no need for it to be as lifeless as it is, with only a couple times with anything that will generate excitement. Otherwise, this one here is just punctuated with endless scene after endless scene of the group discussing what's gong on or what they think should be the next course of action. It generates no action, no suspense, nothing at all of interest and is just a method to eat up time that should've been better spent doing anything else, since this one fails at that. It's also hard to take the film as a haunted house film, since there's very little here that can actually be attributed to a haunted house. In fact, this one abandons that in favor of a murder mystery that is so easy to solve it can be done in five minutes and in using that as the crux for the later scenes, it just gets even more dreary, dull and boring. With that manner, it really makes for even worse viewing when there's just nothing in here that has nothing of interest in the way it pans out. These here are the really crippling flaws in the film, and are the ones that are most responsible for it's downfall.The Final Verdict Without a whole lot going for it but a few rather decent moments, this one is really hard to make it for fans of the series. They should really be the only ones giving this one a shot, as it feels like an entry, while those who haven't been into the series at this point should ignore this one completely.Rated R Violence, Language and Nudity "},{"Title":"You'd have to be a real hard-core fan.","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is most definitely the worst of the series, given the fact that it has almost nothing to do with Amityville... As a matter-of-fact, I can't remember anything that reminded me of the real horror of Amityville throughout the entire movie,except for two small things The very ending, of course.The ending contains a possession, and a similar run of the very original story of the dangers of the actual home in Amityville. That's probably, really, the only part of the film REALLY worth seeing.The second, is just personal to me, but I've always had my attention stolen from any news of anyone hanging dead. That is by far the scariest way to die to me- a hanging. Therefore, this immediately got my curiosity.Other than that, though... ...worthless. "},{"Title":"And the point of this movie was?","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After 4 decent installments in this now tired franchise, we are blessed with this strange and unrelated sequel that happens to take place in Amityville.!!!SPOILERS!!! This time a group of friends buy a house in Amityville(Not the one from the other films)that was home to a possessed killer many years ago. Debbie, discovers what's going on and tries to stop the evil. Some suspense, and an o.k. story, but slow-paced, and mediocre acting. ** out of *****. Just skip this one and go to Amityville 1992. "},{"Title":"The Amityville Curse","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The fifth Amityville movie. Oh boy where to begin....Well this one has nothing to do with Amityville except the fact that it is in the same town. The story is pretty much a murder mystery. Kinda like an episode of Matlock or Murder She wrote, except with no watchable qualities to it. The movie drags on and on. The plot is about a priest who was shot to death years ago during a confession. The confessional booth that the priest was killed in is brought to an old house. Twelve years later, a group of stuffy middle aged people move in and strange things start to happen. Broken mirrors, bad dreams, ghost sightings, etc.Now the funny thing is, the man who killed the priest in the beginning is shown smoking. Out of everyone in the movie, one person is a smoker. Gee, it doesn't take Perry Mason to put two and two together when it comes to naming the killer. The acting isn't the best either. Kim Coates appears bored with the whole experience. Unknown actress Dawna Wightman did okay portraying the innocent and sweet danger sensing lead character. The rest are practically meaningless to the movie. But the biggest problem with the movie is that it has nothing to do with Amityville.So we have a mixed up plot, poor acting, and a murder mystery that can be figured out in the opening twenty minutes. Not a very fun watch at all. I will say though, the confrontation with the killer in the last fifteen minutes is kind of fun. It's really the only watchable part of the whole thing.3/10 "},{"Title":"Another Cheap Sequel Among the Other Cheap Sequels.","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Amityville Curse is a seemingly misplaced installment in the Amityville series, which seems to consist of a whole slew of never ending, cheapie horror movies. This time around, it doesn't even have anything to do with the Amityville house, if I remember right the only relation is that the house in this film is in the same neighborhood. A group of adult friends decide to buy an old house with the plans of renovating it and selling it or something along those lines. Unbeknowst to them, a Catholic priest was murdered in a confession booth that is now stored in the basement, and the man who killed him hung himself because of guilt. So, the ghosts begin to appear to one of the friends who seems to be a little psychic, and it's up to her to put the curse to rest before her friends' lives are at stake.This film is nothing new, is fairly boring, and really has nothing to do with the rest of the Amityville movies. It's almost like Halloween III was in the Halloween series. The house isn't the same, so it's not really the Amityville Horror, the film isn't even really linked to the others if you don't count the title. The acting is so-so and the effects which are supposed to be substantially shocking look very cheap and unscary. The story itself is weak, even more so because of the series it was randomly placed in and the unrelation to the other films. I enjoyed Amityville Dollhouse, but this one is completely unrelated and failed to do much for me. Perhaps if it were it's own film and didn't have Amityville branded on it, it would've made more sense, but of course it isn't.If you like cheesy, low-budget haunted house films (which I normally do), then you might wanna give this a look. Although, it may just be a disappointment. I think I'll give it a four for trying, I tend to have a soft spot for films like this. But don't expect anything brilliant, after all, this is an Amityville sequel. 4/10. "},{"Title":"ho-hum","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There's not really much to say about this movie.  It does contain one good scene that has a couple of good scares but that's about it.  The rest of the movie is peppered with bad acting and boring dialogue.  This may be why the climax is entertaining...you've been waiting so long for something to happen!  This movie could have been a bit better if the house itself was more interesting.  Had the movie been shot better this may have been accomplished but as far as haunted houses goes this one is just dull. As far as the backing story goes...apparently there's a ghost wandering about the house but the reason for it is so flimsy that it almost becomes pointless...that and the fact that the ghost doesn't do very much.  The rest of the story involving the mystery of a priests murder is just as banal.  As it is the story just isn't interesting so you are left hoping to be scared a couple of times...well a couple of times is about all you'll get.Overall a flat story with a couple of scares in the first half and a moderately enjoyable ending will leave you wondering why you bothered with The Amityville Curse.  The Amityville Curse rates a 2 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"The three secrets about real estate; location, location, location.  Lack of the proper location;BAD","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is bad, it is so bad. It is a cheap (and I mean cheap) rip-off with no special effects and no Amityville house.  Instead, a group of friends live in a house in Amityville (as a fix-it-upper) and find themselves in deep do-do.  FIRST; the entire point of this series is location.  The group lives in another haunted house in Amityville, where a priests confessional was places 12 years previously (at a time around the real horror).  NO REAL house equals bomb of a movie.  (At least 1992, A New Generation, and Dollhouse make some sort of reference to the real-house (like timepieces, mirrors, and small replicas), but this movie feels like a Halloween movie without Michael Myers.    SECOND; Get a story-line. (they stop by the house because it is the first right not the second, huh?) The mundane plot they came up with is stupid.  Instead of picking up on the 1978/earlier date tie in, the plot follows strange behavior in the group (where all of them, predictably die and I don't remember seeing the ghoul). One of them is supposedly the murderer of the priest 12 years ago.  But is this another flashback or some-person you see who is not really there? Urgh.  Third; Stop pretending.  The haunted house is only filmed from one side.  So half the time I cannot tell if it is the real house.  "},{"Title":"AMITYVILLE BORE,","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this was pretty lousy. It does not even have the same house as the other Amityville movies did. A family that moves into a new house, only to be haunted by ghouls,giant spiders, and you know who........Demons!!!!!!!!! Even R.S.Cole's impressive make-up effects can't save this stinker.(**) "},{"Title":"This whole franchise is cursed.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Go back to the beginning and the Lutzes.could we have imagined back then what their hoax was going to do to the world .even to this day people keep trying to go to the house which has been remodeled and the address changed,hollywood still keeps churning out these stupid fictitous movies regarding the orginal hoax ..the owners who moved in after the lutzes never had any incidents and even sued hollywood and the lutzes for fabricating the whole thing. Makes me wanna go back in time and kidnap ronald defeo to avoid the whole thing. Crappy movie after crappy movie all because one family couldnt pay their bills so they had to concoct the most infamous paranormal hoax ever.  "}{"Title":"This movie was pathetic!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I could not believe how dumb and pointless this movie was. It almost made me sick to watch it. The acting was terrible accept maybe a couple of people who were worse than terrible. There was no direction in this movie, I don't think this should even be considered a movie. I just happened to stumble upon it and found that my grandma had taped it about ten years ago. I saw the Amityville name and figured it might be worth watching. I was wrong. One word describes it, and that word is pathetic! "},{"Title":"There's something evil in this house.","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This straight-to-video effort has somewhat of a terrible reputation, especially compared to the rest of the series. I haven't seen any of the other films to follow it, but the ones before; the theatrical releases (1, 2 & 3) and straight-to-TV (4) production were much better for entertainment. Were as the previous entry The Evil Escapes didn't feature the haunted house; The Amityville Curse goes go back to the earlier films formula, although the house has taken on a different transformation and the visual impact of that is less imposing. But that wasn't the main issue. This goes to the storytelling (which this plot has nothing do with the actual Amityville curse), pacing and performances. Especially the acting. David Stain and Dawna Wightman simply aggravate as the obnoxious leads, one being pompous and the other simply whining. An unbearable combination. Helen Hughes gives the usual batty old lady shtick. Then there are static turns by Kim Coates and Cassandra Cava. Only Anthony Dean Rubes showed any sort of spark. Father Parcaecus is brutally murdered in his own confessional by a mysterious assailant. After the murder, the church is closed and the belongings along with the confessional are sealed in a small room in the basement of Parcaecus' house. Years have passed when Debbie and Marvin come across the vacant house and decide to purchase it for their investment club. They invite a couple of friends up to help renovate the old house, but this weekend turns out be a nightmare with a wave of supernatural events occurring. Bog-standard shenanigans (disappearing ghostly figures) populate mostly an uneventful and tedious haunted house story spending plenty of time on filler (house in need of repairs) and non-existent chills. The story is uninteresting, plods and the final revelation you can see coming miles away. The stale script is terrible. It throws many different and hysterical ideas about, but never convincingly gels them together and leaves things rather unfulfilled. Like Debbie's baffling connection to the house. Loose and lazy work with mystery plot ties. Technically speaking it's solid, but mechanically tired and flat in its execution. Not much in the way of bumps in the night. The Curse is a real snooze. Things are usually cheap for a reason. "},{"Title":"worthless","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A unlikable middle-aged couple purchase a house that bears no resemblance to the Amityville house of previous films and have friends help them move in. Obviously things don't go well (for either them or the hapless viewer) as the house ahem houses the confessional booth that the previous owner/priest got killed in. Yeah I have no clue either.Doesn't really have anything to do with previous or later films in the diminutive series in the least and doesn't really have anything to recommend it at all. I was just waiting for the terrible thing (i refuse to call it a film lest i sully that term) to be over so i could wash the putrid stench from my body.My Grade F- "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Five people spend the night in an abandoned house, the Amityville haunted house, and soon find themselves terrorized by assorted ghosts, venomous insects and ghostly apparitions.The acting is terrible, it's not possible to comprehend and the script is awful. There was no direction in this movie, I don't think this should even be considered a movie. Poorly made, badly acted and completely pointless this makes the earlier Amityville films seem classic in comparison. If you have any sense you will take a look at the other reviews and follow their advice in AVOIDING this mess of a movie. Still, this is no reason to waste your money on this. A total bummer. "},{"Title":"An out of place haunted house","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all,this movie is Canadian-so why pick Amityville.The radio announcer is speaking pure Canadian (AY!) The movie can be summed up in one wordODD.Even in a land of misfits,it is a misfit.The characters are pure wierd.One is a psychic with bad dreams-another is a maker of painkillers.One seems to own a restaurant chain-but only the name is mentioned.I believe it is the BLUE GOOSE. A priest is killed by a deranged man,during confession,of all times.(sounds like Exorcist III).He then hangs himself the next day in guilt.The mysterious characters continue with a lady with a glass eye (Mrs.Morioriti)who tells the story about the priest. I won't go on any longer as the mystery continuesit looks like someone wrote a haunted house story and took advantage of the Amityville legend.It is not THE HOUSE,but a house on the way.The humor barely carries it. "},{"Title":"Skip this movie,","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie starts off in a church and someone is confessing their sins in the box and then we see that the priest as be shot in the Confessing box that end up being in the Amityville house.Then movies moves on to number of old adults moving into the house and then Marvin and Debbie buy the house and three friends Frank, Bill and Abigail come to stay for a while and the former housekeeper, Mrs Moriarty also stop by now and again.This movie did not feel like Amityville movie at all, as there were no Haunting scene in this movie at all saying that there were two haunting scenes in this movie made no sense what so ever and not even scary or creepy at all they were just pointless Dream scenes to waste time.This movie is more like a Who done movie and then near the end of the movie we find out who being killer is and turns that person as been possessed since start of movie, we never saw any signs of that person being possessed at all. (As to been one of the worst twist ever!) I have seen all the Amityville movies now, this movie is the most pointless Amityville sequel ever and there no need to see this movie at all, there is noT one second worth watching in this movie. If you don't want to waste 1 and half hours of your life Please!!!!! skip this movie and Carry on with the rest of the series they are better then this one (not great but better). "}]